Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/nyregion}{New York}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/nyregion}{New York}\textbar{}N.Y. Will Impose Quarantine
on Visitors From States With Big Outbreaks

\url{https://nyti.ms/31b7DL9}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/news-event/coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{The
Coronavirus Outbreak}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  live\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/04/world/coronavirus-cases.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Latest
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Maps
  and Cases}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Vaccine
  Tracker}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/02/us/covid-college-reopening.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{College
  Reopening}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/live/2020/08/04/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Economy}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{ny-will-impose-quarantine-on-visitors-from-states-with-big-outbreaks}{%
\section{N.Y. Will Impose Quarantine on Visitors From States With Big
Outbreaks}\label{ny-will-impose-quarantine-on-visitors-from-states-with-big-outbreaks}}

New Jersey and Connecticut will also require visitors to quarantine for
two weeks. The rule reflects a stark shift in the course of the
outbreak.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/06/24/us/24virus-briefing-NY/24virus-briefing-NY-videoSixteenByNine3000.jpg}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/j-david-goodman}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/07/18/nyregion/author-j-david-goodman/author-j-david-goodman-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/j-david-goodman}{J. David Goodman}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Published June 24, 2020Updated July 16, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

A few months ago,
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/14/nyregion/coronavirus-ny-travel-cuomo.html}{New
York} was suffering through the worst ravages of the
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/16/travel/virus-vacation.html}{coronavirus}
pandemic. Hospitals filled to near capacity. Hundreds of people died
each day, reaching a peak in mid-April.

The rest of the country recoiled at the sight of a New York license
plate.
\href{https://www.flgov.com/wp-content/uploads/orders/2020/EO_20-82.pdf}{Florida}
and
\href{https://www.democratandchronicle.com/story/news/politics/albany/2020/03/29/coronavirus-rhode-repeals-new-york-quarantine-order/2935388001/}{Rhode
Island} singled out
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/14/nyregion/ny-quarantine-rules.html}{New
York travelers}, who researchers now believe
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/05/07/us/new-york-city-coronavirus-outbreak.html}{helped
to seed the spread} of the virus in other states.

But as New York has largely controlled its outbreak, other states ---
especially in the Sun Belt and the West --- have seen virus cases surge,
leading to a table-turning moment: Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo on Wednesday
announced that anyone coming to
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/14/nyregion/ny-quarantine-rules.html}{New
York} from a state currently hard hit by the virus would have to
quarantine for two weeks.

The restrictions were based on specific health metrics related to the
coronavirus, Mr. Cuomo said. At the moment,
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/16/travel/virus-vacation.html}{travelers}
from eight states --- as well as New Yorkers returning from those states
--- would have to quarantine.

``We now have to make sure that the rate continues to drop,'' Mr. Cuomo
said. ``A lot of people come into this region and they could literally
bring the infection with them. It wouldn't be malicious or malevolent,
but it would still be real.''

\emph{{[}}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/10/travel/state-travel-restrictions.html}{\emph{Thinking
of traveling within the US? Here's where you can go}}\emph{.{]}}

Failure to quarantine in New York could result in thousand-dollar fines,
Mr. Cuomo said. Travelers to
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/29/nyregion/Coronavirus-restaurants-reopening-ny-nj.html}{New
Jersey} and Connecticut would also be told to quarantine, though
officials from both states said there was no enforcement mechanism at
the moment.

The order --- a ``joint travel advisory'' with the two other states ---
would take effect at midnight, Mr. Cuomo said on Wednesday. He said the
quick implementation was aimed at preventing a rush of travelers trying
to avoid the requirement, which currently applied to Alabama, Arizona,
Arkansas, Florida, North Carolina, South Carolina, Texas and Utah.

Washington State had originally been included, but after a further
review of the data, it was dropped from the list.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/06/24/nyregion/24nyvirus-quarantine-2/merlin_173646600_a71f5781-289b-4f57-9799-e6602c3dcf73-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

As businesses reopen and public life returns, the virus has been
spreading to areas that had mostly managed to initially evade the worst
of the outbreak.

In recent days, Texas has seen record-high levels of hospitalizations
for Covid-19, the disease caused by the coronavirus. Local hospitals,
particularly in Houston, have struggled to keep up with the rising
number
\href{https://www.texastribune.org/2020/06/23/texas-coronavirus-hospitalizations-icu-houston/}{patients
needing intensive care}. ``There is a massive outbreak of Covid-19
across the state of Texas,'' Gov. Greg Abbott said
\href{https://dfw.cbslocal.com/2020/06/24/gov-greg-abbott-says-texas-massive-covid-19-outbreak}{in
a television interview on Wednesday}.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-global-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/04/world/coronavirus-cases.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: Global Coronavirus
Outbreak}}{Latest Updates: Global Coronavirus Outbreak}}\label{latest-updates-global-coronavirus-outbreak}}

Updated 2020-08-04T20:57:54.346Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/04/world/coronavirus-cases.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-1228a480}{Novavax
  sees encouraging results from two studies of its experimental
  vaccine.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/04/world/coronavirus-cases.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-4825b93}{Public
  and private schools in Maryland and elsewhere are divided over
  in-person instruction.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/04/world/coronavirus-cases.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-50f7386d}{The
  United Nations calls on policymakers to `plan thoroughly for school
  reopenings.'}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/04/world/coronavirus-cases.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

More live coverage:
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/live/2020/08/04/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Markets}

Amid rising hospitalizations in North Carolina, Gov. Roy Cooper
\href{https://www.newsobserver.com/news/local/article243760267.html}{said
on Wednesday} that the state would ``pause'' its move into the next
phase of reopening and make masks required statewide in public when
distancing is not possible.

In Florida, more than 20,000 people tested positive for the virus over
the last five days ending Tuesday; in New York, where far more people
are being tested daily, roughly 3,100 tested positive over those same
five days.

Only a handful of states --- including Maine, Rhode Island and Hawaii
--- have required out-of-state travelers to quarantine. A larger number
have asked travelers to quarantine but do not mandate doing so. And a
few, such as Florida and Kansas, apply the requirement only to those
coming from certain states.

The new quarantine in New York, New Jersey and Connecticut would apply
to any person arriving from a state with a positive test rate higher
than 10 per 100,000 residents, or a state with a 10 percent or higher
rate over a seven-day rolling average.

Mr. Cuomo said that enforcement would be up to each of the three states.
In New York, he said, those violating the quarantine order could be
``subject to a judicial order and mandatory quarantine.'' A first
violation could result in a \$2,000 fine and could go up to \$10,000 for
subsequent violations.

Indeed, the effect of the order may be largely symbolic. Even in places
where out-of-state arrivals are already formally required to quarantine,
there has not been widespread enforcement to make sure the rules were
being followed.

A spokesman for Mr. Cuomo said that if a New Yorker believes that a
recent arrival --- or a returning neighbor --- has not been abiding by
the quarantine, then that person should start by reporting the possible
violation to the local health department.

``You could argue that every law is the honor system until you get
caught,'' Mr. Cuomo said. ``You can violate the quarantine until you get
caught,'' he added, then ``you're in mandatory quarantine and fined
thousands of dollars.''

Image

New York City entered Phase 2 this week, with safety precautions in
offices.Credit...Amr Alfiky/The New York Times

Players from the Mets and Yankees who have been in Florida but are
coming back to New York for an abbreviated and late spring training will
not be required to quarantine, Mr. Cuomo said. The state had been
working on separate ``health protocols'' with them since last week, he
said.

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/news-event/coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{}

\hypertarget{the-coronavirus-outbreak-}{%
\subsubsection{The Coronavirus Outbreak
›}\label{the-coronavirus-outbreak-}}

\hypertarget{frequently-asked-questions}{%
\paragraph{Frequently Asked
Questions}\label{frequently-asked-questions}}

Updated August 4, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{i-have-antibodies-am-i-now-immune}{%
  \paragraph{I have antibodies. Am I now
  immune?}\label{i-have-antibodies-am-i-now-immune}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    As of right
    now,\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/22/health/covid-antibodies-herd-immunity.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{that
    seems likely, for at least several months.} There have been
    frightening accounts of people suffering what seems to be a second
    bout of Covid-19. But experts say these patients may have a
    drawn-out course of infection, with the virus taking a slow toll
    weeks to months after initial exposure. People infected with the
    coronavirus typically
    \href{https://www.nature.com/articles/s41586-020-2456-9}{produce}
    immune molecules called antibodies, which are
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/05/07/health/coronavirus-antibody-prevalence.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{protective
    proteins made in response to an
    infection}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/05/07/health/coronavirus-antibody-prevalence.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{.
    These antibodies may} last in the body
    \href{https://www.nature.com/articles/s41591-020-0965-6}{only two to
    three months}, which may seem worrisome, but that's perfectly normal
    after an acute infection subsides, said Dr. Michael Mina, an
    immunologist at Harvard University. It may be possible to get the
    coronavirus again, but it's highly unlikely that it would be
    possible in a short window of time from initial infection or make
    people sicker the second time.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{im-a-small-business-owner-can-i-get-relief}{%
  \paragraph{I'm a small-business owner. Can I get
  relief?}\label{im-a-small-business-owner-can-i-get-relief}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    The
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/small-business-loans-stimulus-grants-freelancers-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{stimulus
    bills enacted in March} offer help for the millions of American
    small businesses. Those eligible for aid are businesses and
    nonprofit organizations with fewer than 500 workers, including sole
    proprietorships, independent contractors and freelancers. Some
    larger companies in some industries are also eligible. The help
    being offered, which is being managed by the Small Business
    Administration, includes the Paycheck Protection Program and the
    Economic Injury Disaster Loan program. But lots of folks have
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/05/07/business/small-business-loans-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{not
    yet seen payouts.} Even those who have received help are confused:
    The rules are draconian, and some are stuck sitting on
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/05/02/business/economy/loans-coronavirus-small-business.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{money
    they don't know how to use.} Many small-business owners are getting
    less than they expected or
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/10/business/Small-business-loans-ppp.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{not
    hearing anything at all.}
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{what-are-my-rights-if-i-am-worried-about-going-back-to-work}{%
  \paragraph{What are my rights if I am worried about going back to
  work?}\label{what-are-my-rights-if-i-am-worried-about-going-back-to-work}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Employers have to provide
    \href{https://www.osha.gov/SLTC/covid-19/standards.html}{a safe
    workplace} with policies that protect everyone equally.
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/coronavirus-money-unemployment.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{And
    if one of your co-workers tests positive for the coronavirus, the
    C.D.C.} has said that
    \href{https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/community/guidance-business-response.html}{employers
    should tell their employees} -\/- without giving you the sick
    employee's name -\/- that they may have been exposed to the virus.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{should-i-refinance-my-mortgage}{%
  \paragraph{Should I refinance my
  mortgage?}\label{should-i-refinance-my-mortgage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/coronavirus-money-unemployment.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{It
    could be a good idea,} because mortgage rates have
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/16/business/mortgage-rates-below-3-percent.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{never
    been lower.} Refinancing requests have pushed mortgage applications
    to some of the highest levels since 2008, so be prepared to get in
    line. But defaults are also up, so if you're thinking about buying a
    home, be aware that some lenders have tightened their standards.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{what-is-school-going-to-look-like-in-september}{%
  \paragraph{What is school going to look like in
  September?}\label{what-is-school-going-to-look-like-in-september}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    It is unlikely that many schools will return to a normal schedule
    this fall, requiring the grind of
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/05/us/coronavirus-education-lost-learning.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{online
    learning},
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/05/29/us/coronavirus-child-care-centers.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{makeshift
    child care} and
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/03/business/economy/coronavirus-working-women.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{stunted
    workdays} to continue. California's two largest public school
    districts --- Los Angeles and San Diego --- said on July 13, that
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/13/us/lausd-san-diego-school-reopening.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{instruction
    will be remote-only in the fall}, citing concerns that surging
    coronavirus infections in their areas pose too dire a risk for
    students and teachers. Together, the two districts enroll some
    825,000 students. They are the largest in the country so far to
    abandon plans for even a partial physical return to classrooms when
    they reopen in August. For other districts, the solution won't be an
    all-or-nothing approach.
    \href{https://bioethics.jhu.edu/research-and-outreach/projects/eschool-initiative/school-policy-tracker/}{Many
    systems}, including the nation's largest, New York City, are
    devising
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/26/us/coronavirus-schools-reopen-fall.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{hybrid
    plans} that involve spending some days in classrooms and other days
    online. There's no national policy on this yet, so check with your
    municipal school system regularly to see what is happening in your
    community.
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Mr. Cuomo, who hosted the news conference from New York City, was joined
via video link by Gov. Philip D. Murphy of New Jersey and Gov. Ned
Lamont of Connecticut, all three Democrats.

``This is a smart thing to do. We have taken our people, the three of
us, these three states, through hell and back,'' Mr. Murphy said. ``The
last thing we need to is subject our folks to another round.''

The goal, the governors said, was to maintain the hard-fought gains
against the virus that have been made, at great economic and human cost,
over the past three months. On Monday, for example, nearly 49,000 people
were tested for the virus in New York, with just shy of 600 coming back
positive.

Since the middle of March, New Yorkers have largely abided by the orders
to stay at home and wear masks in public, creating a new way of life in
the city and surrounding suburbs that helped to bring new infections
down to a manageable level.

At the same time, many New Yorkers with the means to do so fled, often
to
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/05/16/nyregion/nyc-coronavirus-moving-leaving.html}{out-of-state
locales.} By late March, Florida began requiring travelers from the New
York area to quarantine. Other states sought to restrict visitors.

Now, the virus appears to be spreading far more rapidly outside of New
York, with new infections surging in places like Arizona and Texas.
Those who left for other states, upon their return to New York, will
have to quarantine.

The city and state have begun a phased reopening of business that has
been more cautious than other areas of the country, and Mr. Cuomo as
well as other officials have been concerned about a resurgence of the
virus. The travel restrictions were an attempt at mitigating the risk of
new infections coming from outside the state.

``We now have the virus under control. Yeah, but Florida doesn't, Texas
doesn't, these other states don't,'' he said last week. ``And what
happens if they get on a plane and they come to J.F.K.? So, we get the
infection rate down and then because other states are high, we could
have a problem.''

Epidemiologists do not see a uniform coronavirus wave spreading across
the country, but multiple outbreaks that are out of sync with each
other. In that context, they said, quarantine requirements made sense.

They also cautioned that the outbreak remains active and that the
situation in any one state or region of the country could still change.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
