Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}Kamala Harris Says She's
Still `in This Fight,' but Out of the 2020 Race

\url{https://nyti.ms/2Pa5yaU}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Election
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/biden-vice-president-2020.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Biden's
  V.P. Search}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/07/24/us/politics/trump-biden-campaign-donors.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Map
  of Donations}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/elections/delegate-count-primary-results.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Delegate
  Count}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2019/us/politics/2020-presidential-candidates.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{The
  Candidates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Politics
  Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{kamala-harris-says-shes-still-in-this-fight-but-out-of-the-2020-race}{%
\section{Kamala Harris Says She's Still `in This Fight,' but Out of the
2020
Race}\label{kamala-harris-says-shes-still-in-this-fight-but-out-of-the-2020-race}}

The California senator broke barriers but ran out of money as she
struggled in polls. Her abrupt announcement is perhaps the most
surprising development to date in the 2020 race.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2019/12/03/us/politics/03harris/merlin_164769222_2e022c52-0386-416c-bcfd-724adb6ea721-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/astead-w-herndon}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/09/14/us/author-head-astead/author-head-astead-thumbLarge-v2.png}}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/shane-goldmacher}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/07/27/multimedia/author-shane-goldmacher/author-shane-goldmacher-thumbLarge.png}}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/jonathan-martin}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/11/06/multimedia/author-jonathan-martin/author-jonathan-martin-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/astead-w-herndon}{Astead W.
Herndon}, \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/shane-goldmacher}{Shane
Goldmacher} and
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/jonathan-martin}{Jonathan Martin}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Published Dec. 3, 2019Updated Dec. 6, 2019
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Senator
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/elections/kamala-harris.html}{Kamala
Harris} of California dropped out of the Democratic presidential race on
Tuesday after months of low poll numbers and a series of missteps that
crippled her campaign,
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/11/29/us/politics/kamala-harris-2020.html}{a
deflating comedown} for a barrier-breaking candidate who was seeking to
become the first black woman to win a major party's presidential
nomination.

The decision came after weeks of upheaval among Ms. Harris's staff,
including layoffs in New Hampshire and at her headquarters in Baltimore,
and disarray among her allies. She told supporters in an email on
Tuesday that she lacked the money needed to fully finance a competitive
campaign.

``My campaign for president simply doesn't have the financial resources
we need to continue,'' Ms. Harris wrote. ``But I want to be clear with
you: I am still very much in this fight.''

The announcement is perhaps the most surprising development to date in a
fluid Democratic presidential campaign where Ms. Harris began in the top
tier. Her departure removes a prominent woman of color from a field that
started as the most racially diverse ever in a Democratic primary, and
raises the prospect that this month's debate in Los Angeles will feature
no candidates who aren't white.

Ms. Harris
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/01/27/us/politics/kamala-harris-rally-2020.html}{opened
her campaign} on Martin Luther King's Birthday with a rousing speech in
her hometown, Oakland, Calif., before an audience of 20,000 people,
drawing comparisons to history-making black politicians like Barack
Obama and Shirley Chisholm.

The speech was a signal of the careful balance her campaign tried to
strike throughout the year: leaning on her personal story as a daughter
of Indian and Jamaican immigrants while offering policy preferences that
toggled between the party's moderate and progressive ideological wings.
Ms. Harris sought to focus on incremental and deliverable change rather
than the type of systemic upheaval popularized by rivals like Senators
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/elections/elizabeth-warren.html}{Elizabeth
Warren} of Massachusetts and
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/elections/bernie-sanders.html}{Bernie
Sanders} of Vermont.

But almost immediately after her campaign began, she faced questions
about her policy core that resulted in damaging news cycles. She
reversed her position on single-payer health care, removing herself from
the ``Medicare for all'' bill sponsored by Mr. Sanders. She struggled
with how to frame her record as a prosecutor, oscillating between
defending it against progressive criticism and embracing it in a play
for more moderate votes.

On a conference call with donors Tuesday, Ms. Harris said she arrived at
the decision after conferring with her family over the Thanksgiving
holiday. She stayed up meeting with advisers until 2 a.m. Tuesday,
before concluding she had ``no path'' forward in the race, a person on
the call said.

Ms. Harris said she would have needed to raise \$5 million in two weeks,
a goal she described as impossible. ``I just don't want to bullshit
you,'' she said.

Over the weekend, after a New York Times article detailed problems
within her campaign, Ms. Harris did a financial audit of her operation,
according to a senior aide. One of Ms. Harris's aides, who spoke with
her about her decision to drop out, said that her instinct was to keep
fighting but that she was told her campaign would have to go into debt
in order to continue.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-2020-election}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: 2020
Election}}{Latest Updates: 2020 Election}}\label{latest-updates-2020-election}}

Updated 2020-08-01T01:26:45.732Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-29fdff45}{Kamala
  Harris, a top vice-presidential contender, confronts double
  standards.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-13ec3d9c}{Karen
  Bass and Susan Rice are rising on Biden's vice-presidential
  shortlist.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-49e9a016}{Trump
  says Russian bounties to kill U.S. troops `never took place.'}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

In her announcement Tuesday, Ms. Harris reaffirmed her commitment to her
campaign's unifying ideals. She is likely to immediately become a
top-tier option for the party's vice-presidential nomination.

``Although I'm no longer running for president,'' she said, ``I will do
everything in my power to defeat Donald Trump and fight for the future
of our country and the best of who we are.''

Ms. Harris's withdrawal will set off an arms race between the remaining
presidential campaigns, as they try to lap up her top-tier roster of
endorsements and staff members. Some of her donors have already begun to
field calls from her rivals.

But it is unclear how much Ms. Harris's exit will aid any one candidate
in polling, considering how her standing had declined in recent months.
She and Ms. Warren were competing for many of the same voters earlier in
the year, but moderates like former Vice President
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/elections/joe-biden.html}{Joseph
R. Biden Jr.} and Mayor
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/elections/pete-buttigieg.html}{Pete
Buttigieg} of South Bend, Ind., may seek a boost from her supporters in
Iowa and New Hampshire.

Throughout her candidacy, Ms. Harris faced concerns about her political
strategy and her campaign's organizational structure. She relied on a
stable of California political strategists, led by the longtime
political operative Averell Smith, who did not heed warnings from
grass-roots organizers to invest more heavily in early voting states
like Iowa and New Hampshire. Instead, the campaign focused on later
primaries in states with more nonwhite voters, including South Carolina
and California.

Her campaign miscalculated. Mr. Biden remained popular with black
voters, preventing her campaign from making significant headway in South
Carolina. In California, Ms. Harris was increasingly boxed out, as
candidates like Mr. Sanders and Ms. Warren excited the state's liberal
wing and Mr. Biden persisted among moderates.

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2019/us/politics/2020-presidential-candidates.html}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2019/01/20/us/2020-presidential-candidates-promo-1548014688187/2020-presidential-candidates-promo-1548014688187-articleLarge-v68.png}

\hypertarget{whos-running-for-president-in-2020}{%
\subsection{Who's Running for President in
2020?}\label{whos-running-for-president-in-2020}}

The field of Democratic presidential candidates has been historically
large, but all have dropped out except Joe Biden, the presumptive
Democratic nominee to challenge President Trump.

Still, Ms. Harris had already qualified for the
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2019/us/politics/democratic-debate-lineup.html}{next
presidential debate}, scheduled for Dec. 19, the only nonwhite candidate
to do so thus far. Without her, Democrats may have an all-white debate
stage, though candidates like Representative
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/elections/tulsi-gabbard.html}{Tulsi
Gabbard} of Hawaii and the businessman
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/elections/andrew-yang.html}{Andrew
Yang} may still qualify in the coming days.

``No matter your candidate, you have to recognize that going from the
most diverse field ever in January to a potentially all-white debate
stage in December is catastrophic,'' wrote Leah Greenberg, a
co-executive director of Indivisible, a national progressive group,
\href{https://twitter.com/Leahgreenb/status/1201934660789510144}{on
Twitter}.

It was on an earlier debate stage in June when Ms. Harris
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/06/27/us/politics/kamala-harris-busing-joe-biden.html}{generated
one of the most electric moments} of the race so far, challenging Mr.
Biden over his record on race and busing. ``I do not believe you are a
racist,'' she began. Mr. Biden was so taken aback, he cut his own answer
short.

Money poured into her campaign and she spiked in the polls. But those
numbers declined steadily in the months that followed, beginning when
she had difficulty articulating her own position on mandated busing ---
undercutting her star turn.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2019/12/03/us/03harris-out-hq/merlin_165377913_d6329c79-aaf3-426e-a529-db06cd683ef2-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

``She really showed the importance of having different perspectives on
the debate stage,'' said Amanda Hunter, research and communications
director at the Barbara Lee Family Foundation, which supports women in
politics and studies double standards. ``Her personal story about being
bused to school was something that a historically typical older white
man would not bring to the conversation.''

But ``there is still a very entrenched stereotype of what a presidential
candidate looks like in this country,'' Ms. Hunter said. ``Simply by
running, Senator Harris challenged that and broke down stereotypes.''

Ms. Harris's online fund-raising slowed in recent months, and large
donors increasingly turned toward other candidates. In the third quarter
of the year, she
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2019/10/16/us/elections/democratic-q3-fundraising.html}{spent
more than \$1.41 for every dollar she raised}, burning through millions.
She stopped buying ads, both online and on television, slashed her staff
in New Hampshire and retrenched to Iowa, where she spent the
Thanksgiving holiday with her family.

In the days leading up to her withdrawal, as her campaign grew
increasingly desperate, she surprised one donor who is not a major
Democratic bundler by telephoning him to see if he could reach out to
his associates who had yet to give. Another donor recommended to her
that she leave the race.

Even as she struggled, Ms. Harris had assembled a coveted list of more
than 130 bundlers who had raised at least \$25,000 for her campaign,
more than half of whom were from her home state, California, one of the
deepest wells of Democratic cash. Ms. Harris canceled a scheduled
fund-raiser with some of her top bundlers in New York on Tuesday just
hours before the event. On Wednesday, she had been scheduled to attend
an event in Los Angeles at the home of Sean Parker, the billionaire tech
entrepreneur.

A pair of California-based Democratic strategists, Dan Newman and Brian
Brokaw, had just secured the money and the implicit signoff from Ms.
Harris's campaign to begin a ``super PAC'' in support of her candidacy.
The group, named People Standing Strong, was to begin
\href{https://m.youtube.com/watch?v=8YPgUVrEFsU\&feature=youtu.be}{a
million-dollar ad buy in Iowa} on Wednesday.

Image

Ms. Harris's departure removes a prominent black candidate from a field
that began as the most diverse ever in a Democratic
primaryCredit...Daniel Acker for The New York Times

But it was not enough, as her campaign determined that she did not have
the financial resources to continue. The group quickly began canceling
its reservations.

In addition to the financial troubles, some of Ms. Harris's supporters
worried that a poor showing once voting began, particularly in the
California primary, would leave Ms. Harris vulnerable to a Senate
primary challenge in 2022.

Presidential candidates have dropped out after running out of money for
decades, including Senator Kirsten Gillibrand and former Representative
Beto O'Rourke earlier this year. In 2015, Scott Walker, then the
governor of Wisconsin, famously flamed out of the Republican contest
months before balloting began because he was short on cash.

President Trump tweeted a farewell to Ms. Harris, saying, ``We will miss
you Kamala,'' to which she replied: ``Don't worry, Mr. President. I'll
see you at your trial.''

Ms. Harris's former rivals for the Democratic nomination quickly
expressed their admiration for her on Tuesday.

``Her campaign broke barriers and did it with joy,'' Senator
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/elections/cory-booker.html}{Cory
Booker} of New Jersey
\href{https://twitter.com/CoryBooker/status/1201930335501594624}{tweeted}.
``Love you, sister.''

Ms. Warren
\href{https://twitter.com/ewarren/status/1201939838410379265}{praised
her ``commitment} to fighting for the people, for justice, and to
holding Donald Trump accountable.'' The former housing secretary
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/elections/julian-castro.html}{Julián
Castro}
\href{https://twitter.com/JulianCastro/status/1201932059737903104}{called
her} ``a lifelong fighter for opportunity and justice for all
Americans.''

Mr. Biden, campaigning in Iowa, called Ms. Harris ``a first-rate
intellect, first-rate candidate, real competitor.'' He
\href{https://twitter.com/HowardMortman/status/1201929645073092608}{walked
away} when a reporter asked whether he would consider Ms. Harris as a
running mate.

Maggie Astor and Alexander Burns contributed reporting.

\hypertarget{our-2020-election-guide}{%
\section{Our 2020 Election Guide}\label{our-2020-election-guide}}

Updated July 31, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{the-latest}{%
  \subsection{The Latest}\label{the-latest}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    President Trump's assault on the Postal Service is intersecting with
    his attacks on mail-in voting.
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/politics/trump-usps-mail-delays.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Voting
    rights groups say it is a recipe for disaster.}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{bidens-vp-search}{%
  \subsection{Biden's V.P. Search}\label{bidens-vp-search}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/biden-vice-president-2020.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Here
    are 13 women} who have been under consideration to be Joe Biden's
    running mate, and why each might be chosen --- and might not be.
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{keep-up-with-our-coverage}{%
  \subsection{Keep Up With Our
  Coverage}\label{keep-up-with-our-coverage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Get an
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{email}
    recapping the day's news
  \end{itemize}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Download our mobile app on
    \href{https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nytimes/id284862083?ls=1\&mat_click_id=5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\&referrer=mat_click_id\%3D5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\%26link_click_id\%3D722930677036718082}{iOS}
    and
    \href{http://a.localytics.com/android?id=com.nytimes.android\&referrer=utm_source\%3Dother_nyt_mobile_web\%26utm_medium\%3DWeb\%2520page\%26utm_term\%3DGeneral\%2520Mobile\%2520Page\%26utm_campaign\%3DNYT\%2520Mobile\%2520General\%2520Page}{Android}
    and turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
