Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/opinion}{Opinion}\textbar{}Republican Convention: Best
and Worst Moments From Mike Pence Night

\url{https://nyti.ms/32vSuTW}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

\href{/section/opinion}{Opinion}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{republican-convention-best-and-worst-moments-from-mike-pence-night}{%
\section{Republican Convention: Best and Worst Moments From Mike Pence
Night}\label{republican-convention-best-and-worst-moments-from-mike-pence-night}}

Our columnists and contributors give their rankings.

By The New York Times Opinion

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Aug. 27, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/27/opinion/27scorecard-top/27scorecard-top-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Welcome to Opinion's commentary for Night 3 of the Republican National
Convention. In this special feature, Times Opinion writers rank the
evening on a scale of 1 to 10: 1 means the night was a disaster for
Republicans; 10 means it could lead to a big polling bump for the
Trump-Pence ticket. Here's what our columnists and contributors thought
of the event, which featured Richard Grenell, Lara Trump, Kellyanne
Conway and Vice President Mike Pence.

\hypertarget{best-moments}{%
\subsection{Best Moments}\label{best-moments}}

Image

The White House press secretary, Kayleigh McEnany, delivers remarks to
the Republican National Convention.Credit...Pete Marovich for The New
York Times

\textbf{Wajahat Ali} I just cannot rate this R.N.C. by any traditional
metric. There were fewer Hatch Act violations tonight, so there's that.

\textbf{Jamelle Bouie} Vice President Pence's speech. Not because it was
good --- it was, in style and content, the most generic speech I have
ever heard from a Republican politician --- but because Pence is such a
smooth speaker that it can sound, at times, like a parody of a
politician. This is especially true when he adopts this staccato.
rhythm. for. emphasis. It was very silly to me, and I was entertained.

\textbf{Elizabeth Bruenig} Trace Adkins's soulful rendition of ``The
Star-Spangled Banner.'' Sure, Adkins is no Jimi Hendrix, but neither was
this Woodstock. For the patriotic-bunting-draped, red-brick enclosure of
Fort McHenry, nothing less than the auteur of
``\href{https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Honky_Tonk_Badonkadonk}{Honky Tonk
Badonkadonk}'' would do.

\textbf{Frank Bruni} I can see why the rumor that Kristi Noem, the South
Dakota governor, would replace Mike Pence on the ticket got traction.
She's something else. Trump as Abe Lincoln? Martin Luther King Jr. as
the Republican Party's muse? She kept a straight face. Tom Cotton and
Nikki Haley just got very nervous about 2024.

\textbf{Linda Chavez} Karen Pence was the most relatable speaker of the
evening. She reminded me of the Republican women who stuffed envelopes
when I ran in 1986 as the G.O.P. nominee for U.S. Senate from Maryland.
She made her pitch for a second term by talking about small businesses
and military families, without attacking Democrats as radicals and
socialists, or trying to scare voters into thinking violent mobs control
our cities and will invade our suburbs if Democrats win in November.

\textbf{Michelle Cottle} Representative Dan Crenshaw. In a night short
on fresh moments or sparkle, this up-and-comer delivered a speech with a
dollop of inspiration and uplift.

\textbf{Nicole Hemmer} After detailing her harrowing experiences with
preventive mastectomy, Kayleigh McEnany delivered a fierce defense of
the Affordable Care Act, explaining how vital it is that insurance
companies cover pre-existing conditions. Weird that she did it at the
Republican Convention, though, given that Trump is still trying to gut
the A.C.A.

\textbf{Nicholas Kristof} Kayleigh McEnany spoke in a deeply personal
way that humanized President Trump in a way his children didn't.

\textbf{Matt Labash} I like to laugh at Trumpsters as much as the next
guy, just to stay in game-shape. But tonight's first hour-and-a-half was
as good as Republicans get. (Probably because Trump himself came nowhere
near it.) Lots of duty-honor-country talk. Talk that moves middle
Americans. And yet the best moments Republicans will have this entire
convention won't come in the arena, but outside of it, on the street.
With all the violence, arson and looting that have now plagued our
cities for three months, as feckless governors and mayors make excuses
for not restoring order, they are giving Trump his best and possibly
only shot at re-election. Even if he doesn't deserve it.

\textbf{Liz Mair} The video on women's suffrage was well done and
highlighted some great Republican history that unfortunately feels a bit
too distant and remote. That's probably why it, along with the other
stuff aimed at attracting suburban centrist women, won't end up working
as intended.

\textbf{Daniel McCarthy} Richard Grenell delivered a succinct and
compelling statement of the Trump doctrine: ``America First'' means
fewer wars, greater burden-sharing among allies and clearer recognition
of the economic and strategic threats posed by Communist China.

\textbf{Bret Stephens} The **** blind Chinese dissident Chen
Guangcheng's speech, calling on Americans to face up to the global
threat of the Chinese Communist Party. Amid partisan ranting, it was a
brief but sobering moment of moral and geopolitical seriousness.

\textbf{Mimi Swartz} This night was blessedly less hysterical than the
previous one. And thanks for the celebration of American heroes, like
health care workers and our hard-working military.

\textbf{HÃ©ctor Tobar} The first half of Kayleigh McEnany's speech, an
account of her battle to prevent breast cancer. Unfortunately, in the
second half, she placed this same story at the service of the G.O.P.'s
culture wars.

\textbf{Peter Wehner} Dan Crenshaw's speech, which was a moving tribute
to those he served with in war and an eloquent articulation of heroism.
He was also wise enough, in a speech about wartime sacrifice and
heroism, not to mention Donald Trump.

\textbf{Will Wilkinson} Mike Pence feels like he's an actor or an
undercover alien spy doing a low-key spoof of a Republican's idea of a
good Republican movie president. But he actually is vice president, so
that makes the fact that he reads as a slyly satirical, overly glossy
C.G.I. simulation of a Republican statesman both confusing and
disconcerting. You half expect him to pull off his face, reveal his true
Lizard Person self and bellow ``YOU UTTER GULLIBLE FOOLS!'' Anyway, his
performance was a masterful, pitch-perfect sendup of what I always
imagined fascism would look like when it came to America.

\hypertarget{worst-moments}{%
\subsection{Worst Moments}\label{worst-moments}}

Image

Vice President Mike Pence.Credit...Doug Mills/The New York Times

\textbf{Wajahat Ali} It takes a remarkable degree of chutzpah and
shamelessness to trot out Black speakers to attack Black Lives Matter
and promote Trump as the heir of Lincoln and steward of civil rights,
while a Trump supporter, Kyle Rittenhouse, was arrested and charged with
shooting and killing two people in Kenosha, Wis. People of color were
brought out to launder Trump's cruelty and racism and paint an
upside-down version of reality that I thought only existed in the
Twilight Zone.

\textbf{Jamelle Bouie} It makes sense that a party would want to feature
its rising stars, but they probably should have thought twice before
giving a platform to Madison Cawthorn, previously seen
\href{https://www.cnn.com/2020/08/13/politics/madison-cawthorn-social-media-post/index.html}{celebrating
his vacation} visit in 2017 to Adolf Hitler's summer home with three
photographs on Instagram. (``Seeing the Eagles Nest has been on my
bucket list for a while, it did not disappoint. Strange to hear so many
laughs and share such a good time with my brother where only 79 years
ago a supreme evil shared laughs and good times with his compatriots.'')

\textbf{Elizabeth Bruenig} It was a competitive night, but Lara Trump's
stilted, halting speech about herself (mainly) was the low point. Many
commentators turned their best elocution barbs on Kim Guilfoyle, who
spoke on Monday, but Lara really showed us how a lousy speech is done:
dull, drowsy and self-aggrandizing. Ms. Trump reminded all the ladies
listening that they, too, can do anything if they marry the son of a
billionaire.

\textbf{Frank Bruni} Does the Trump family have an initiation ritual
that tests the ability to sell total bunk as gospel truth? Lara Trump
passed! Her portrait of the Trumps as tender nurturers would be a
revelation to Mary Trump and Maryanne Trump Barry. And ``down to
earth?'' That's belied by every bauble Ivanka ever hawked and every
exotic animal Donald Jr. ever killed.

\textbf{Linda Chavez} Mike Pence's accusation that Biden has not said a
word about the violence in our cities over the last week was an outright
lie. After speaking with the mother of Jacob Blake, who was shot in the
back multiple times by the police in Kenosha, Wis., the campaign
released a video today, where he said: ``You know, as I said after
George Floyd's murder, protesting brutality is a right and absolutely
necessary. But burning down communities is not protest, it's needless
violence.''

\textbf{Michelle Cottle} Rabbi Aryeh Spero. At a political convention,
you expect a glut of spin, ideological meanness and general folderol.
What you don't expect is an opening prayer with all that. Spero even
slipped Trump's MAGA motto into his holy entreaty. Gross.

\textbf{Nicole Hemmer} Whitewashing far-right violence is a hallmark of
the Trump administration, so it's no surprise Mike Pence joined in. He
praised an officer ``who was shot and killed during the riots in
Oakland,'' failing to mention that the person charged with the crime was
part of a far-right extremist movement --- a notable omission after the
killings in Kenosha.

\textbf{Nicholas Kristof} Er, the worst three hours: the refusal even to
discuss climate change as Hurricane Laura bore down on the Gulf Coast.

\textbf{Matt Labash} Like most Americans, I lost sleep, staying up all
night waiting to receive the words of the electrifying Mike Pence. (JK!
I'd rather watch fingernails grow.) I wouldn't buy a used Hyundai from
this guy, let alone buy what he tells me about Donald Trump. He is the
perfect embodiment of insincere sincerity. He doesn't believe a word he
says, and I don't either. The only thing he believes in any longer is
how high D.J.T. tells him to jump --- over the shark, over the chasm of
respectability, etc. The greatest gift Donald Trump has given us, is
making Mike Pence completely unviable to be a future president of the
United States. For that, we owe him.

\textbf{Liz Mair} Pence was so exceedingly boring that he made me pine
for a second night of Kim Guilfoyle and her yelling and Donald Trump Jr.
and his weird eyes.

\textbf{Daniel McCarthy} Lara Trump was one Trump too many. There was
nothing wrong with her remarks, but adding another family member beyond
the nominee's wife and children was too much. Her prime-time slot could
have been better used by someone else.

\textbf{Bret Stephens} Mike Pence got in a few good shots at Joe Biden,
but his delivery and expression reminded me of the ``before'' scene in a
laxative commercial.

\textbf{Mimi Swartz} The **** former diplomat Richard Grenell's
straight-faced distortion of Trump's failed foreign policies. Let's
fact-check Trump's ``close'' personal friendship with Angela Merkel.
Runner-up: Pence's retreaded attack-dog speech. Loved his proud mom,
though.

\textbf{HÃ©ctor Tobar} The prerecorded speeches (and even the prayer)
attacking social justice protesters, airing not long after the nation
learned that social justice protesters were killed in Wisconsin.

\textbf{Peter Wehner} Senator Marsha Blackburn. Comparing Democrats to
Communist China is stupid even by the standards of this R.N.C. So was
her argument that Democrats want to ``destroy'' our heroes so
``government can control us.'' There are certainly valid reasons to
criticize Democrats, but this kind of witless attack is commonplace
among Republicans in the Trump era.

\textbf{Will Wilkinson} I'm still reeling from Kayleigh McEnany's claim
that Donald Trump ``stands by Americans with pre-existing conditions''
because she has a pre-existing genetic condition that led her to seek
preventive surgery, and afterward Trump gave her an encouraging phone
call. Look, Trump personally supporting a person who had surgery because
of a pre-existing medical condition is not the same thing as Trump
supporting access to affordable health insurance for people with
pre-existing conditions. He doesn't. But his press secretary's awkwardly
confessional bit of sophistry seems to be the best the campaign could do
to shore up one of his most grievous electoral liabilities.

\hypertarget{what-else-mattered}{%
\subsection{What Else Mattered}\label{what-else-mattered}}

Image

Vice President Mike Pence delivering his convention speech from Fort
McHenry in Baltimore.Credit...Doug Mills/The New York Times

\textbf{Wajahat Ali} Pence has debased himself to new lows. He told us
that he was not his mother's favorite person on the Trump-Pence ticket.
But he also had the audacity to lie and say that Biden presented no
platform when the Republicans didn't even bother to update their
platform from 2016. What would Jesus do? Not this.

\textbf{Jamelle Bouie} The entire play of the convention thus far has
been Morning in America Redux, presenting the United States as having
been made great again and well on the way to recovery. The problem is
that this isn't true. The country is facing multiple overlapping crises,
Americans feel anxious and stressed and the immediate future holds a lot
of pain for a lot of people. The convention barely gestured at these
facts, which made it feel false and, for this viewer, disingenuous.

\textbf{Elizabeth Bruenig} By far the snooziest installment of the
convention thus far. One wonders if the party meant to reassure
old-fashioned business conservatives or if nobody felt particularly
peppy with a hurricane flirting with Category 5 about to make landfall
along Texas's petrochemical corridor. Whatever the reason, it had the
uneasy, ominous air of the calm before a storm.

\textbf{Frank Bruni} Given the Democrats' lavish homage to Democratic
presidents and other party luminaries from the recent past, the
Republicans' erasure of analogous figures is striking. It's born partly
of necessity: Many of these missing Republicans deplore Trump. But it
also reflects his vanity and affirms the party's transformation into a
personality cult.

\textbf{Linda Chavez} Much of the night was spent portraying Donald
Trump as a pro-woman and pro-Black president. They paraded out female
speakers from the Trump family, the White House, Congress and even a
nun, while Black speakers tried to convince us that, despite his words
and actions, he is no racist.

\textbf{Michelle Cottle} A major theme was that Trump is a champion of
law enforcement while Joe Biden would abandon America to criminals and
radical mobs. Expect to hear much more of this as Team Trump tries to
blame Democrats for the mayhem that has attended some of the racial
justice protests in cities like Portland, Minneapolis and, now, Kenosha,
Wis.

\textbf{Nicole Hemmer} Some conventions celebrate the previous four
years, some work to explain them. This convention has tried to erase
them. Muslim ban? Kids in cages?
\href{https://www.vox.com/2020/6/23/21300332/trump-coronavirus-racism-asian-americans}{Racist
slurs}? Clearing out peaceful protesters outside the White House? Never
happened! Trump's administration is now one of diversity, inclusion and
lawfulness --- if you just forget the past four years.

\textbf{Nicholas Kristof} Impeding the messaging was the arrest of a
Trump supporter for the Wisconsin shootings, as well as the hurricane
bearing down on the Texas and Louisiana coasts. The G.O.P. has been
oblivious to threats from right-wing gun-toting terrorists and from
climate change.

\textbf{Matt Labash} You can accuse Trump of a lot of things, but never
of being boring. And yet, his convention has become kind of boring. A
protracted civics lesson. A tedious lecture. Where's the fun? Why not
break it up with a musical number? Say, Ted Nugent singing ``Cat Scratch
Fever,'' then biting the head off a live elk. He could either grill it
on the spot, medium-well, or if there's no time for that, he could just
serve it raw to Pam Bondi.

\textbf{Liz Mair} A lot of the program was prerecorded and speeches
finalized before news out of Kenosha, Wis., broke on Wednesday, so it's
not surprising that other than Mike Pence, the speakers couldn't and
didn't address the events there. But that will not make sense to average
Americans tuning in. A lot of people will conclude that the G.O.P. does
not care, when that may not be right --- but not being able to improvise
at all will make them look like the stereotypical scripted, poll-tested
politicians that everyone hates.

\textbf{Daniel McCarthy} The night successfully integrated optimism and
urgency, and the apparently risky choice of speakers like Jack Brewer
paid off. They gave the impression of a party whose populism is broad as
well as firmly conservative.

\textbf{Bret Stephens} A much less effective night than the first two.
The line that kept running through my head was
\href{https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lm8fYf53SMg}{the one} from
``Airplane'': ``Looks like I picked the wrong week to quit sniffing
glue.''

\textbf{Mimi Swartz} The talk of the Republican Party of the past served
only to underscore the failures of the Republican Party of the present.
And that much ballyhooed pardon of Susan B. Anthony begged a question:
How would Trump describe her if she were protesting today?

\textbf{HÃ©ctor Tobar} Did the production budget run out? Couldn't think
of any new White House stunts? On this third night, the G.O.P.
convention infomercial seemed to be running out of creative inspiration.
It was a series of talking heads, repeating the same attacks against a
mythical far-left menace. All this made for boring television. Only Mike
Pence's angry squint breathed any life into the evening.

\textbf{Peter Wehner} Republicans are trying to turn Joe Biden into an
anti-cop, anti-law-and-order, pro-violence-in-the-streets radical. Biden
has to push back hard against this narrative. (He wisely did that on
Wednesday.) One other thing struck me: Kellyanne Conway portrayed her
boss not just as a champion of women, but as a man who respects them.
Try again, Kellyanne. Donald Trump is a misogynist and sexual predator.
If Trump were a Democrat, women like Ms. Conway would relentlessly ---
and rightly --- criticize him for it.

\textbf{Will Wilkinson} Nearly every speech was a mind-numbing stream of
clichÃ©s, bromides and potted tropes. The lack of anything like a fresh
thought (or even a fresh angle on an old thought) and the total void of
creativity, eloquence and oratorical art are far from the most damning
things about the proceedings. But it's important to recognize that the
really damning stuff flies because of what we've seen of this party and
its convention: a hostility to thought and a tendency to mistake strings
of reflexive stock phrases for thinking.

\textbf{About the authors}

Jamelle Bouie, Frank Bruni, Nicholas Kristof and Bret Stephens are Times
columnists.

Wajahat Ali
(\href{https://twitter.com/WajahatAli?ref_src=twsrc\%5Egoogle\%7Ctwcamp\%5Eserp\%7Ctwgr\%5Eauthor}{@WajahatAli})
is a playwright, lawyer and contributing opinion writer.

Elizabeth Bruenig (\href{https://twitter.com/ebruenig}{@ebruenig}) is a
Times opinion writer.

Linda Chavez, a former Reagan White House director of public liaison, is
a political commentator.

Michelle Cottle (\href{https://twitter.com/mcottle}{@mcottle}) is a
member of the Times editorial board.

Nicole Hemmer
(\href{https://twitter.com/pastpunditry?ref_src=twsrc\%5Egoogle\%7Ctwcamp\%5Eserp\%7Ctwgr\%5Eauthor}{@pastpunditry})
is an associate research scholar at Columbia University and the author
of ``Messengers of the Right: Conservative Media and the Transformation
of American Politics.''

Matt Labash, a former national correspondent at The Weekly Standard, is
the author of
``\href{https://www.simonandschuster.com/books/Fly-Fishing-with-Darth-Vader/Matt-Labash/9781439159989}{Fly
Fishing With Darth Vader}.''

Liz Mair (\href{https://twitter.com/LizMair}{@LizMair}), a strategist
for campaigns by Scott Walker, Roy Blunt, Rand Paul, Carly Fiorina and
Rick Perry, is the founder and president of Mair Strategies.

Daniel McCarthy
(\href{https://twitter.com/ToryAnarchist}{@ToryAnarchist}) is the editor
of \href{https://home.isi.org/modern-age}{Modern Age: A Conservative
Quarterly}.

Mimi Swartz (\href{https://twitter.com/mimiswartz}{@mimiswartz}), an
executive editor at Texas Monthly, is a contributing opinion writer.

HÃ©ctor Tobar
(\href{https://twitter.com/TobarWriter?ref_src=twsrc\%5Egoogle\%7Ctwcamp\%5Eserp\%7Ctwgr\%5Eauthor}{@TobarWriter}),
an associate professor at the University of California, Irvine, is the
author of ``Deep Down Dark: The Untold Stories of 33 Men Buried in a
Chilean Mine, and the Miracle That Set Them Free'' and a contributing
opinion writer.

Peter Wehner
(\href{https://twitter.com/Peter_Wehner?ref_src=twsrc\%5Egoogle\%7Ctwcamp\%5Eserp\%7Ctwgr\%5Eauthor}{@Peter\_Wehner}),
a senior fellow at the Ethics and Public Policy Center who served in the
previous three Republican administrations, is a contributing opinion
writer and the author of
``\href{https://www.harpercollins.com/9780062820792/the-death-of-politics/}{The
Death of Politics}: How to Heal Our Frayed Republic After Trump.''

Will Wilkinson
(\href{https://twitter.com/willwilkinson}{@willwilkinson}), the vice
president for research at the Niskanen Center, is a contributing opinion
writer.

\emph{The Times is committed to publishing}
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/01/31/opinion/letters/letters-to-editor-new-york-times-women.html}{\emph{a
diversity of letters}} \emph{to the editor. We'd like to hear what you
think about this or any of our articles. Here are some}
\href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014925288-How-to-submit-a-letter-to-the-editor}{\emph{tips}}\emph{.
And here's our email:}
\href{mailto:letters@NYTimes.com}{\emph{letters@NYTimes.com}}\emph{.}

\emph{Follow The New York Times Opinion section on}
\href{https://www.facebookcorewwwi.onion/nytopinion}{\emph{Facebook}}\emph{,}
\href{http://twitter.com/NYTOpinion}{\emph{Twitter (@NYTopinion)}}
\emph{and}
\href{https://www.instagram.com/nytopinion/}{\emph{Instagram}}\emph{.}

\emph{The Times is committed to publishing}
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/01/31/opinion/letters/letters-to-editor-new-york-times-women.html}{\emph{a
diversity of letters}} \emph{to the editor. We'd like to hear what you
think about this or any of our articles. Here are some}
\href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014925288-How-to-submit-a-letter-to-the-editor}{\emph{tips}}\emph{.
And here's our email:}
\href{mailto:letters@NYTimes.com}{\emph{letters@NYTimes.com}}\emph{.}

\emph{Follow The New York Times Opinion section on}
\href{https://www.facebookcorewwwi.onion/nytopinion}{\emph{Facebook}}\emph{,}
\href{http://twitter.com/NYTOpinion}{\emph{Twitter (@NYTopinion)}}
\emph{and}
\href{https://www.instagram.com/nytopinion/}{\emph{Instagram}}\emph{.}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{Â©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
