Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/opinion}{Opinion}\textbar{}Welcome to the R.N.C.'s
Alternate Universe

\url{https://nyti.ms/3lyeKoW}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

\href{/section/opinion}{Opinion}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{welcome-to-the-rncs-alternate-universe}{%
\section{Welcome to the R.N.C.'s Alternate
Universe}\label{welcome-to-the-rncs-alternate-universe}}

A meaningful percentage of Americans are living in a collaborative
fiction, built one conspiracy theory at a time.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/charlie-warzel}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2019/03/15/opinion/charlie-warzel/charlie-warzel-thumbLarge-v3.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/charlie-warzel}{Charlie
Warzel}

Mr. Warzel is an Opinion writer at large.

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Aug. 27, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/27/opinion/27Warzel-OpinionToday/merlin_176137953_af6c7b19-2527-4368-a013-4204cee48e06-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\emph{This article is part of the Opinion Today free newsletter. You
can}
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/opinion-todaynl}{\emph{sign
up here}} \emph{to receive it every weekday.}

One of the biggest lessons I've learned covering the daily information
wars of the Trump era is that a meaningful percentage of Americans
\href{https://www.buzzfeednews.com/article/charliewarzel/2017-year-the-internet-destroyed-shared-reality}{live
in an alternate reality} powered by a completely separate universe of
news and information.

Some are armed with their own completely fabricated facts about the
world while others, as the journalist Joshua Green
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2017/07/15/opinion/sunday/no-one-cares-about-russia-in-the-world-breitbart-made.html}{wrote
in this section in 2017}, rearrange our shared facts ``to compose an
entirely different narrative.'' There is little consensus on the top
story of the day or the major threats facing the country. You will have
noticed this if you've ever watched a congressional hearing and flipped
between CNN or MSNBC and Fox News. The video feed is the same but the
\href{https://twitter.com/oliverdarcy/status/872848804977836033?ref_src=twsrc\%5Etfw\%7Ctwcamp\%5Etweetembed\%7Ctwterm\%5E872848804977836033\%7Ctwgr\%5E\&ref_url=https\%3A\%2F\%2Fwww.buzzfeednews.com\%2Farticle\%2Fcharliewarzel\%2F2017-year-the-internet-destroyed-shared-reality}{interpretation
of events} is radically different.

Personally, I've never seen a clearer demonstration of the Two Universes
phenomenon than this week's
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/27/us/rnc-convention-election}{Republican
National Convention}.

For three nights, in a shameless display of loyalty to President Trump,
the party has conjured up what my colleague
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/26/opinion/trump-melania-rnc.html?action=click\&module=Opinion\&pgtype=Homepage}{Frank
Bruni described as} an ``upside-down vision'' of the world. Theirs is a
universe in which the coronavirus pandemic is largely in the rear view
(on Aug. 25, 1,136 Americans died from the virus) and where, according
to Representative Matt Gaetz, radical Democrats threaten to ``disarm
you, empty the prisons, lock you in your home and invite MS-13 to live
next door.'' A universe where the existential dangers of climate change
pale in comparison to those of cancel culture --- even as the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/26/opinion/california-wildfires-blackouts.html?action=click\&module=Opinion\&pgtype=Homepage}{West
is ravaged by blackouts and wildfires} and the Gulf Coast is slammed by
a
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/27/us/hurricane-laura-update.html?action=click\&module=Top\%20Stories\&pgtype=Homepage}{devastating
hurricane}.

This week, my colleague
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/25/opinion/trump-convention-platform.html}{Jamelle
Bouie described} some of what we're seeing as the ``Fox Newsification of
the Republicans'' by ``a president who rose to political power via the
cable news channel and who exists in a codependent relationship with the
network.''

The comparison is apt, as Fox News has been extremely successful in
crafting and selling an alternate reality to its viewers each night for
well over a decade. The trick is to evoke two dueling emotions --- fear
and devotion --- one conspiracy theory at a time. Fox News has mastered
this and so has the R.N.C.

It's why the convention paraded out Patricia McCloskey --- one half of
the St. Louis couple who went viral for wielding guns at Black Lives
Matter protesters. Her message was designed to provoke feelings of
victimhood and racial fear.

``What you saw happen to us could just as easily happen to any of you
who are watching from quiet neighborhoods around our country,'' she
said. ``Make no mistake: No matter where you live, your family will not
be safe in the radical Democrats' America.''

That threat is far more potent when it's paired with a second alternate
reality: that Donald Trump is the one and only competent protector, the
``bodyguard of Western civilization,'' as the R.N.C. speaker Charlie
Kirk put it on Monday evening.

The power of a conspiracy theory is to offer an easy explanation for
something uncomfortable, which is why conspiracy theories thrive during
times of alienation or social change. But while one conspiracy theory
can be dangerous on its own, it is not a worldview. It's when you stitch
enough of them together that an alternate reality forms.

This same convergence phenomenon is also behind the alarming growth of
the QAnon movement, which now acts as a big tent for conspiracies ---
actively courting and
\href{https://www.vice.com/en_us/article/v7gz53/the-conspiracy-singularity-has-arrived}{absorbing
other fringe theories} into its sprawling narrative. Adrian Hon, a
developer who designs alternate reality games,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/04/opinion/qanon-conspiracy-theory-arg.html}{told
me recently} that QAnon's dynamics remind him of the worlds he's helped
create, calling it ``a collaborative fiction built on wild speculation
that hardens into reality.''

My colleague Paul Krugman
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/24/opinion/trump-qanon-convention.html}{recently
pointed out similarities} between the conspiracy movement and Mr.
Trump's campaign effort, though he doesn't think the ``desperate
strategy'' will work.

Having reported on the pull of these alternate realities up close, I
don't feel certain about any outcome anymore. It's hard to see things
clearly or make predictions in such a fractured information ecosystem.
And as The Times contributor
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/26/opinion/trump-republican-convention-racism.html?action=click\&module=Opinion\&pgtype=Homepage}{Thomas
Edsall notes}, we'll be stuck here for a while --- Mr. Trump's
rhetorical strategy ``will have long term consequences for the
Republican Party.''

If you'd like more analysis on how that strategy played out in Night 3
of the R.N.C., my colleagues offer their views on
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/27/opinion/rnc-best-worst-night-3.html}{the
highs and lows here}. My only prediction is that, no matter the outcome
in November, I doubt we'll be returning to shared reality anytime soon.

\emph{The Times is committed to publishing}
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/01/31/opinion/letters/letters-to-editor-new-york-times-women.html}{\emph{a
diversity of letters}} \emph{to the editor. We'd like to hear what you
think about this or any of our articles. Here are some}
\href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014925288-How-to-submit-a-letter-to-the-editor}{\emph{tips}}\emph{.
And here's our
email:}\href{mailto:letters@NYTimes.com}{\emph{letters@NYTimes.com}}\emph{.}

\emph{Follow The New York Times Opinion section on}
\href{https://www.facebookcorewwwi.onion/nytopinion}{\emph{Facebook}}\emph{,}
\href{http://twitter.com/NYTOpinion}{\emph{Twitter (@NYTopinion)}}
\emph{and}
\href{https://www.instagram.com/nytopinion/}{\emph{Instagram}}\emph{.}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{Â©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
