Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/arts/television}{Television}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/arts/television}{Television}\textbar{}Review: `Pose'
Demands to Be Seen

\url{https://nyti.ms/2LRJv6m}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{review-pose-demands-to-be-seen}{%
\section{Review: `Pose' Demands to Be
Seen}\label{review-pose-demands-to-be-seen}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/06/02/arts/02pose/merlin_138537249_b9b78edc-9c96-40d5-b8c5-3afcfb2bf57c-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/james-poniewozik}{James
Poniewozik}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  June 1, 2018
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Each competition in ``Pose,'' the boisterous, resplendent drama of the
1980s ball scene on FX, begins with a ritual phrase from Pray Tell
(Billy Porter), the M.C.: ``The category is \ldots{}''

That category --- the theme to which teams dress, strut and, yes, pose
--- might be royalty, or the military or ``Dynasty.'' The categories are
both a competitive challenge and a way of claiming social spaces from
which the catwalking combatants, gay and transgender, black and
Hispanic, have been excluded.

``Pose,'' which begins Sunday, is itself a space-claiming project.
Viewers today might recognize the ``category is'' phrase from ``RuPaul's
Drag Race'' or
\href{https://www.wired.com/story/rupauls-drag-race-slang/}{know the
slang}, if not its provenance. But ``Pose'' puts its characters,
subculture and history stage center. It stands, bold and plumed, and
demands attention.

Ryan Murphy (the co-creator, with Brad Falchuk and Steven Canals), in
his last FX series before
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/02/13/business/media/netflix-ryan-murphy.html}{founding
his Netflix empire}, was also assiduous about hiring transgender actors
and creative staff, including the author Janet Mock and Our Lady J
(``Transparent'') as producers and writers.

``Pose'' wears its purpose confidently but lightly. Yes, it's a story of
struggle --- the AIDS crisis is a constant shadow --- but it spotlights
its characters' aspirations. It's sincere, buoyant and fun, stunningly
designed, mindful that a show about balls should be capable of having
one.

At its heart is an underdog story. Blanca (Mj Rodriguez) breaks away
from the imperious ball legend Elektra (Dominique Jackson), mother of
the House of Abundance, to form her own house, which she christens the
House of Evangelista. (``Game of Thrones'' has nothing on the regal
nomenclature here.)

A ``house'' is both a team and, literally, a home, and Blanca assembles
a crew of misfits and castoffs in her apartment. She forms an especially
maternal bond with Damon (Ryan Jamaal Swain), a gay teenager and
aspiring classical dancer from Pennsylvania who was kicked out of his
home.

The pilot, kinetically directed by Mr. Murphy, introduces a world ---
familiar from the 1990 documentary ``Paris Is Burning'' but never
detailed like this in series TV --- without feeling mechanical or
overexpository. The vogue battles, choreographed by Leiomy Maldonado and
Danielle Polanco, are thrilling, art-as-combat duels. Mr. Porter
(``Kinky Boots'') makes Pray Tell a wry guide to both the balls and the
larger community around them.

The series feels, like
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/03/25/theater/angels-in-america-review-nathan-lane-andrew-garfield.html}{the
``Angels in America'' revival} on Broadway or even (from a different
'80s subculture)
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2017/06/22/arts/television/glow-netflix-tv-review.html}{the
women's-wrestling comedy ``GLOW,''}like an attempt to better understand
the present by re-examining the 1980s as an origin story.

At its periphery is a more familiar, heavy-handed story of
greed-is-good-era New York City, with a ubiquitous 2018 hook. Stan (Evan
Peters), a social-climbing young businessman from New Jersey, lands a
job with, yep, the Trump Organization.

The company's celebrity leader is spoken of but not seen. Stan's boss,
Matt (James Van Der Beek), personifies the age's conspicuous consumption
and velociraptor aggression. Mr. Van Der Beek has a gift for playing
this kind of cocky boor, but when the show introduces him saying, ``God
Bless Ronald Reagan'' while hoovering lines of coke, it manages to be
both on and up the nose.

The two worlds connect when Stan falls for Angel (Indya Moore), a
prostitute and house member. (The series' casting in general is a coup;
Ms. Moore, a model, is a relative newcomer to acting but you wouldn't
know it from her presence and shaded performance.) They begin a
long-term affair even as he and his wife, Patty (Kate Mara), build an
overspent life in the suburbs; his life, too, is about the cultivation
of appearances.

``Realness'' is a recurring theme in ``Pose,'' which is nuanced about
the conscious and unconscious assumptions the term can involve. Elektra
uses authenticity as a cudgel with Blanca, whom she insults for not
``passing'' well enough; a gay-bar manager ejects Blanca, saying, ``I'm
not throwing a costume party.'' A later episode deals with the pressure
to get often-dangerous augmentations and injections.

But ``Pose'' is broadly empathetic and nonjudgmental. Each character is
making complicated decisions about how to define her- or himself,
including Elektra, who presents herself as unbreakable but is wrestling
with getting gender-confirmation surgery that her lover (Chris Meloni)
is vehemently against.

The series is not afraid of melodrama, the first four episodes suffer
peak-TV bloat (at a full hour and up) and the scripts veer into the kind
of speechy dialogue that comes across as read more than spoken. But the
rough patches are lofted by its vitality and refusal to draw its
characters in terms of tragedy. As a sometimes-competitor to Elektra
puts it: ``How lucky are we? We create ourselves.''

Like its characters, who sift through a larger culture's looks and
iconography to create a custom-fit expression, ``Pose'' at its best
produces a hybrid --- an old-fashioned story of surrogate family and
putting on a show, remixed into something novel. It is not flawless, but
it defines its own category.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{Â©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
