Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/nyregion}{New York}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/nyregion}{New York}\textbar{}8 Years of Trump Tax Returns
Are Subpoenaed by Manhattan D.A.

\url{https://nyti.ms/2V3kFVZ}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{8-years-of-trump-tax-returns-are-subpoenaed-by-manhattan-da}{%
\section{8 Years of Trump Tax Returns Are Subpoenaed by Manhattan
D.A.}\label{8-years-of-trump-tax-returns-are-subpoenaed-by-manhattan-da}}

Investigators demanded the president's personal and corporate tax
returns as they examine hush money paid to Stormy Daniels.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2019/09/17/nyregion/17trumporg-print/merlin_160685718_b2844980-bc86-4c6e-8edd-a91dba7ecc67-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/william-k-rashbaum}{William
K. Rashbaum} and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/ben-protess}{Ben Protess}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Published Sept. 16, 2019Updated July 15, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

State prosecutors in Manhattan have subpoenaed
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/10/nyregion/donald-trump-taxes-cy-vance.html}{President
Trump's} accounting firm to demand eight years of his personal and
corporate tax returns, according to several people with knowledge of the
matter.

The subpoena opens a new front in a wide-ranging effort to obtain copies
of the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/15/nyregion/donald-trump-taxes-cyrus-vance.html}{president's
tax returns}, which Mr. Trump initially said he would make public during
the 2016 campaign but has since refused to disclose.

The subpoena was issued by the Manhattan district attorney's office late
last month, soon after it opened a criminal investigation **** into the
role that the president and his family business played in hush-money
payments made in the run-up to the election.

Both Mr. Trump and his company reimbursed Michael D. Cohen, the
president's former lawyer and fixer, for money Mr. Cohen paid to buy the
silence of Stormy Daniels, a pornographic film actress who said she had
an affair with Mr. Trump. The president has denied the affair.

It was unclear if the broad scope of the subpoena indicated that the
office had expanded its investigation beyond actions taken during the
2016 campaign. A spokesman for the Manhattan district attorney,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/10/nyregion/donald-trump-taxes-cy-vance.html}{Cyrus
R. Vance Jr}., declined to comment.

The state prosecutors are seeking a range of tax documents from the
accounting firm, Mazars USA, including Mr. Trump's personal returns and
those of his business, the Trump Organization. The subpoena seeks
federal and state returns for both the president and the company dating
back to 2011, the people said.

The investigation by Mr. Vance has been focused on \$130,000 that Mr.
Cohen paid Ms. Daniels, whose legal name is Stephanie Clifford, just
before the election.
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/08/21/nyregion/michael-cohen-plea-deal-trump.html}{Mr.
Cohen pleaded guilty last year} to breaking federal campaign finance
laws and received a
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/12/12/nyregion/michael-cohen-sentence-trump.html}{three-year
prison sentence}.

While the federal prosecutors who charged Mr. Cohen stated in a court
filing in July that they had ``effectively concluded'' their inquiry
into possible crimes committed by the company or its executives, Mr.
Vance's office is exploring whether the reimbursements violated any New
York state laws.

In particular, the state prosecutors are examining whether the company
falsely accounted for the reimbursements as a legal expense. In New
York, filing a false business record can be a crime.

But it becomes a felony only if prosecutors can prove that the false
filing was made to commit or conceal another crime, such as tax
violations or bank fraud. The tax returns and other documents sought
from Mazars could shed light on whether any state laws were broken. Such
subpoenas also routinely request related documents in connection with
the returns.

Democrats have insisted for years that Mr. Trump release his tax
returns, which every modern presidential nominee has done before him.
They contend that the president may be trying to conceal details of his
actual financial worth, the source of his wealth and possible conflicts
of interest involving his business partners.

Congressional Democrats have taken an aggressive approach, subpoenaing
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/04/03/us/politics/mueller-report-subpoena-house.html}{six
years of Mr. Trump's tax returns} from the Treasury Department, as well
as
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/05/22/business/deutsche-bank-trump-subpoena.html}{personal
and corporate financial records from Deutsche Bank, Capital One} and
Mazars USA.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/08/13/us/politics/trump-house-lawsuits.html}{The
president has fought back} to keep his finances under wraps, challenging
the subpoenas in federal court. He has also sued to block a New York
State law, passed this year, that authorized state officials to provide
his state tax returns in response to certain congressional inquiries. By
tying up the requests in court, Mr. Trump's team has made it
diminishingly likely that Democrats in Washington will get the chance to
review them before the election next year. ****

But it may be more difficult to fend off a subpoena in a criminal
investigation with a sitting grand jury, as there is in Manhattan. It is
possible the Trump Organization could try to negotiate with the district
attorney's office to narrow the scope of the subpoena.

Jay Sekulow, a lawyer for Mr. Trump, and Marc L. Mukasey, a lawyer for
the Trump Organization, both declined to comment.

Asked whether the company would seek to quash the subpoena, Mazars USA
said in a statement that it ``will respect the legal process and fully
comply with its legal obligations,'' adding that the company was
prohibited by its policy and professional rules from commenting on its
work. The statement, however, did not directly address whether the
company might take any legal action to block the subpoena.

Even if the Manhattan district attorney's office is successful in
obtaining the president's tax returns, the documents would be covered by
secrecy rules governing grand juries, meaning they would not become
public unless they were used as evidence in a criminal case.

At the beginning of August, the state prosecutors also subpoenaed the
Trump Organization, seeking documents related to the payment to Ms.
Daniels and the reimbursement to Mr. Cohen. With few legal options, the
Trump Organization **** has been complying with that subpoena.

Still, the company has derided the investigation by Mr. Vance, a
Democrat, as politically motivated.

``It's just harassment of the president, his family and his business,
using subpoenas as weapons,'' Mr. Mukasey said last month.

As part of its investigation, prosecutors from Mr. Vance's office
visited Mr. Cohen in prison in Otisville, N.Y., to seek assistance with
their investigation, according to people briefed on the meeting, which
was first reported by CNN.

Mr. Cohen also helped arrange for American Media Inc., the publisher of
The National Enquirer, to pay Karen McDougal, a Playboy model who also
said she had an affair with the president. Prosecutors in the district
attorney's office subpoenaed American Media in early August, as well as
at least one bank.

The investigation is not the first time Mr. Vance's office has focused
on members of the Trump family or its business. In 2012, his office
declined to charge two of Mr. Trump's children, Ivanka Trump and Donald
Trump Jr., in an investigation into whether they misled buyers
interested in the Trump SoHo hotel-condominium project, a decision that
resulted in criticism of Mr. Vance.

Maggie Haberman contributed reporting.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{Â©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
