Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/nyregion}{New York}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/nyregion}{New York}\textbar{}N.Y. Planned Parenthood's
C.E.O. Is Ousted After Staff Complaints

\url{https://nyti.ms/2ZgupyX}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{ny-planned-parenthoods-ceo-is-ousted-after-staff-complaints}{%
\section{N.Y. Planned Parenthood's C.E.O. Is Ousted After Staff
Complaints}\label{ny-planned-parenthoods-ceo-is-ousted-after-staff-complaints}}

Laura McQuade was accused of berating employees and treating black
workers unfairly as she guided the organization through a merger.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/06/23/nyregion/23nyplannedparenthood/merlin_154278018_4e282f36-5587-41e0-9ff9-ad3c527e324c-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/sharon-otterman}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/06/14/multimedia/author-sharon-otterman/author-sharon-otterman-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/sharon-otterman}{Sharon
Otterman}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  June 23, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Facing mounting complaints about abusive behavior and unfair treatment
of black staff members, the chief executive of
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/21/nyregion/planned-parenthood-margaret-sanger-eugenics.html}{Planned
Parenthood of Greater New York}, Laura McQuade, has been ousted from her
job.

The organization's board of directors had supported Ms. McQuade as
recently as
\href{https://saveppgny.files.wordpress.com/2020/06/ppgny-board-statement-6-19-20.pdf}{last
week}. On Tuesday, however, the group reversed course, sending an email
to staff members saying the board had ``parted ways'' with her the
previous day.

The move came after hundreds of former and current employees signed
\href{https://saveppgny.wordpress.com/}{a series of public letters} over
the past week faulting Ms. McQuade for what they said was an autocratic,
abusive leadership style ill-suited to any organization, let alone one
known for its progressive credentials.

The letters accused Ms. McQuade of berating and humiliating employees;
presiding over a system that paid black staff members unequally and kept
them from advancing in their careers; and supporting layoffs and
furloughs for nearly a third of the organization's employees amid the
Covid-19 crisis without cutting her own pay or that of other top
officials.

Writing under the name Save Planned Parenthood Greater New York, the
current and former employees also accused Ms. McQuade of squandering a
financial surplus and steering a call-center contract to a former
Planned Parenthood executive whom the group described as a friend of Ms.
McQuade's.

``We reject what we view as McQuade's Trumpian leadership style,'' one
of the letters said, comparing Ms. McQuade to the president, ``and
envision a Planned Parenthood where all our staff, in particular our
black and other staff of color, are honored for their expertise and
included in the decision-making process.''

Ms. McQuade, in an interview on Tuesday, called the allegations against
her false, but she said that ``this is not the time to refute them.''

``I feel nothing but good will toward the organization and I want them
to succeed,'' she said. ``The work that we have undertaken over the last
three years together has been some of the most important work of my
life.''

A statement from the organization sought both to acknowledge Ms.
McQuade's efforts and to move on.

``During Laura's tenure, PPGNY made some important operational
changes,'' the organization said in the statement. ``But growing
concerns raised by our staff made her continued leadership untenable.''

''Our employees are on the front lines of some of the most critical
health care work in the country,'' the statement continued, ``and we
recognize we must make some changes to ensure our clinicians and center
staff continue to feel supported in meeting the needs of all patients.''

Planned Parenthood of Greater New York, which formed in January when
five chapters in the state merged, had around 900 employees as of early
this year, making it the largest affiliate of Planned Parenthood, the
national reproductive rights, abortion provider and service
organization.

In the email to staff members, the organization said it would be run by
a group of senior officials while it conducted a search for a new
leader.

Before the merger, Ms. McQuade was the chief executive of Planned
Parenthood of New York City, a job she took in 2017 after
\href{https://www.columbiamissourian.com/news/local/head-of-planned-parenthood-great-plains-leaving-job-for-new-york-city-position/article_6adb5a52-4c91-11e7-bbbf-436af5c66724.html}{leading
Planned Parenthood Great Plains}, an affiliate that served Arkansas,
Kansas, Missouri, and Oklahoma.

The open letters, signed by at least 350 current and former employees,
included a litany of concerns. Topping the list were complaints about
the harsh way that Ms. McQuade interacted with employees.

``Dozens of staff members have witnessed McQuade yell, berate, slam her
fists, verbally abuse, humiliate, and bully employees, often brutally
shaming staff members in internal meetings in front of their
colleagues,'' one letter stated.

``People could hear her down the hallway screaming and berating
people,'' said a current New York staff member, who, like nearly all of
those who signed the letters, did so using initials and spoke
anonymously for fear of retaliation.

The complaints about Ms. McQuade came during a period of consolidation
for the organization that included changes some staff members opposed
strongly.

After she was hired in 2017, Ms. McQuade spearheaded multiple changes,
including lengthening clinic hours to 9 p.m., ending a popular practice
of giving employees who work on Saturday the day off on holiday weekends
and demanding higher patient-visit numbers and greater efficiency,
according to
\href{https://saveppgny.files.wordpress.com/2020/06/march-2019-staff-to-board.pdf}{letters}sent
to the board last year.

In a setting where sensitive sexual issues are discussed and abortions
are conducted, the pressure being exerted by Ms. McQuade was pushing
clinical staff ``to rush through what is, at the end of the day, a very
sensitive clinical experience,'' one letter stated.

To increase bargaining power with insurance companies and to streamline
the organization's operations, she oversaw the merger of Planned
Parenthood New York City with the Nassau County, Mid-Hudson Valley,
Mohawk Hudson and the Southern Finger Lakes chapters.

But employees said she squandered a healthy surplus and made poor
financial decisions, including laying off all of the employees at the
organization's internal call center, and giving the work to a group run
by another former Planned Parenthood executive, said the staff member
who spoke on the condition of anonymity.

The coronavirus outbreak brought matters to a head. In April, Ms.
McQuade announced layoffs and furloughs affecting 250 employees, and she
closed health centers in Queens and the Bronx even as they served
minority women who were disproportionately affected by the disease,
according to another
\href{https://saveppgny.wordpress.com/equity/}{public letter} outlining
staff members' concerns about equity.

Ms. McQuade, the letter
\href{https://saveppgny.wordpress.com/}{recounted}, said at a staff
meeting in May that she did not support reducing her salary or those of
other senior staff members because **** ``it would not have let us keep
the strongest people with us moving forward.''

In 2018, the most recent tax year available, Ms. McQuade received
\$428,000 in total compensation, public tax filings show.

Building on the push for organizations across the United States to
address issues of systemic racism, one of the letters said that racism
at the organization went well beyond Ms. McQuade, though it stated
things had worsened under her tenure.

``White and non-black employees are still given more pay and more
advancement opportunities than their black colleagues,'' the letter
said.

While the board defended Ms. McQuade and her record on racial equity in
a June 19 response, it appeared to rethink that stance after other
Planned Parenthood leaders took notice of the outrage.

\href{https://saveppgny.files.wordpress.com/2020/06/ppesa-letter.jpeg}{Robin
Chappelle Golston}, the president and chief executive of Planned
Parenthood Empire State Acts, the lobbying organization for the state's
Planned Parenthood chapters, said in a letter of support that she had
``witnessed the aggressive and disrespectful attitude of PPGNY
leadership toward my colleagues and experienced it myself.''

In a
\href{https://www.plannedparenthood.org/about-us/newsroom/press-releases/ppfa-statement-on-open-letters-from-affiliate-staff}{separate
statement}, Alexis McGill Johnson, the acting president and chief
executive of Planned Parenthood Federation of America, expressed her
support for the staff uprising.

``The allegations are serious,'' she wrote, ``and we expect the Planned
Parenthood Greater New York board of directors to hold themselves
accountable to their mission and values.''

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
