<div class="user-msg">

<div class="user-msg--container">

<div class="user-msg--header">

<div class="user-msg--header-text js-user-msg--header-text">

</div>

<div class="user-msg--close js-user-msg--close">

</div>

</div>

<div class="user-msg--body">

<div class="user-msg--body-text js-user-msg--body-text">

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div id="header-wrap">

<div id="sticky-ad-wrap">

</div>

</div>

<div id="nav__plain-header" class="nav--plain-header">

<div data-react-id="1">

<div id="nav">

<div class="Text-sc-1amvtpj-0 sc-gisBJw hqigRP">

<div class="Grid-sc-1kcyc0j-0 sc-kjoXOD cxcFax">

<div class="Cell-i0zvfi-0 sc-cHGsZl durQSY">

<div class="Flex-sc-1sqrs56-0 sc-iwsKbI YyuVL" size="40">

</div>

<div class="Flex-sc-1sqrs56-0 sc-hmzhuo dvGbRo">

  - [World](/world "visit the World section")
  - [US Politics](/politics "visit the US Politics section")
  - [Business](/business "visit the Business section")
  - [Health](/health "visit the Health section")
  - [Entertainment](/entertainment "visit the Entertainment section")
  - [Style](/style "visit the Style section")
  - [Travel](/travel "visit the Travel section")
  - [Sports](/sport "visit the Sports section")
  - [Videos](/videos "visit the Videos section")

</div>

<div class="Box-sc-1fet97o-0 kcHWkA">

</div>

<div class="Flex-sc-1sqrs56-0 sc-hmzhuo lazpcj">

<div id="edition-picker-desktop" class="Box-sc-1fet97o-0 sc-jDwBTQ jCsxPa" open="false" tabindex="-1" data-zjs="click" data-zjs-campaign="header-edition-picker">

<div id="edition-picker-toggle-desktop" class="Flex-sc-1sqrs56-0 sc-Rmtcm kmquNA" role="button" tabindex="0" style="outline:0">

<span class="Text-sc-1amvtpj-0-span sc-bRBYWo eZeWxx">Edition</span>

</div>

<div class="Box-sc-1fet97o-0 sc-iRbamj fpjSSx">

  - [U.S.](//us.cnn.com?hpt=header_edition-picker)
  - [International](//edition.cnn.com?hpt=header_edition-picker)
  - [Arabic](//arabic.cnn.com?hpt=header_edition-picker)
  - [Español](//cnnespanol.cnn.com?hpt=header_edition-picker)

</div>

</div>

Search CNN

</div>

Open Menu

</div>

</div>

<div class="Grid-sc-1kcyc0j-0 sc-kjoXOD sc-TOsTZ fAGMeR" style="false:unset">

<div class="Cell-i0zvfi-0 sc-kgAjT hVTiUA">

<div class="Box-sc-1fet97o-0 iKQPmQ">

<div class="Text-sc-1amvtpj-0 gYetWy">

Search

</div>

<div class="Box-sc-1fet97o-0 bQmsQJ">

</div>

<div class="Box-sc-1fet97o-0 fyifOt">

</div>

</div>

<div class="Box-sc-1fet97o-0 sc-ksYbfQ dvhTeQ">

<div id="edition-picker-mobile" class="Box-sc-1fet97o-0 sc-jDwBTQ jCsxPa" open="false" tabindex="-1" data-zjs="click" data-zjs-campaign="header-edition-picker">

<div id="edition-picker-toggle-mobile" class="Flex-sc-1sqrs56-0 sc-Rmtcm kmquNA" role="button" tabindex="0" style="outline:0">

<span class="Text-sc-1amvtpj-0-span sc-bRBYWo eZeWxx">Edition</span>

</div>

<div class="Box-sc-1fet97o-0 sc-iRbamj fpjSSx">

  - [U.S.](//us.cnn.com?hpt=header_edition-picker)
  - [International](//edition.cnn.com?hpt=header_edition-picker)
  - [Arabic](//arabic.cnn.com?hpt=header_edition-picker)
  - [Español](//cnnespanol.cnn.com?hpt=header_edition-picker)

</div>

</div>

-----

</div>

<div class="Box-sc-1fet97o-0 jSTOdN">

  - [World](/world "visit the World section")
      - [Africa](/africa "visit the Africa section")
      - [Americas](/americas "visit the Americas section")
      - [Asia](/asia "visit the Asia section")
      - [Australia](/australia "visit the Australia section")
      - [China](/china "visit the China section")
      - [Europe](/europe "visit the Europe section")
      - [India](/india "visit the India section")
      - [Middle East](/middle-east "visit the Middle East section")
      - [United Kingdom](/uk "visit the United Kingdom section")
  - [US Politics](/politics "visit the US Politics section")
      - [2020
        Election](/election/2020 "visit the 2020 Election section")
      - [Donald
        Trump](/specials/politics/president-donald-trump-45 "visit the Donald Trump section")
      - [Supreme
        Court](/specials/politics/supreme-court-nine "visit the Supreme Court section")
      - [Congress](/specials/politics/congress "visit the Congress section")
      - [Facts
        First](/specials/politics/fact-check-politics "visit the Facts First section")
  - [Business](/business "visit the Business section")
      - [Markets](https://money.cnn.com/data/markets/ "visit the Markets section")
      - [Tech](/business/tech "visit the Tech section")
      - [Media](/business/media "visit the Media section")
      - [Success](/business/success "visit the Success section")
      - [Perspectives](/business/perspectives "visit the Perspectives section")
      - [Videos](/business/videos "visit the Videos section")
  - [Health](/health "visit the Health section")
      - [Food](/specials/health/food-diet "visit the Food section")
      - [Fitness](/specials/health/fitness-excercise "visit the Fitness section")
      - [Wellness](/specials/health/wellness "visit the Wellness section")
      - [Parenting](/specials/health/parenting "visit the Parenting section")
      - [Vital
        Signs](/specials/health/vital-signs "visit the Vital Signs section")
  - [Entertainment](/entertainment "visit the Entertainment section")
      - [Stars](/entertainment/celebrities "visit the Stars section")
      - [Screen](/entertainment/movies "visit the Screen section")
      - [Binge](/entertainment/tv-shows "visit the Binge section")
      - [Culture](/entertainment/culture "visit the Culture section")
      - [Media](/business/media "visit the Media section")
  - [Tech](/business/tech "visit the Tech section")
      - [Innovate](/specials/tech/innovate "visit the Innovate section")
      - [Gadget](/specials/tech/gadget "visit the Gadget section")
      - [Foreseeable
        Future](/specials/tech/foreseeable-future "visit the Foreseeable Future section")
      - [Mission:
        Ahead](/specials/tech/mission-ahead "visit the Mission: Ahead section")
      - [Upstarts](/specials/tech/upstarts "visit the Upstarts section")
      - [Work
        Transformed](/specials/tech/work-transformed "visit the Work Transformed section")
      - [Innovative
        Cities](/specials/tech/innovative-cities "visit the Innovative Cities section")
  - [Style](/style "visit the Style section")
      - [Arts](/style/arts "visit the Arts section")
      - [Design](/style/design "visit the Design section")
      - [Fashion](/style/fashion "visit the Fashion section")
      - [Architecture](/style/architecture "visit the Architecture section")
      - [Luxury](/style/luxury "visit the Luxury section")
      - [Beauty](/style/beauty "visit the Beauty section")
      - [Video](/style/videos "visit the Video section")
  - [Travel](/travel "visit the Travel section")
      - [Destinations](/travel/destinations "visit the Destinations section")
      - [Food and
        Drink](/travel/food-and-drink "visit the Food and Drink section")
      - [Stay](/travel/stay "visit the Stay section")
      - [News](/travel/news "visit the News section")
      - [Videos](/travel/videos "visit the Videos section")
  - [Sports](/sport "visit the Sports section")
      - [Football](/sport/football "visit the Football section")
      - [Tennis](/sport/tennis "visit the Tennis section")
      - [Equestrian](/sport/equestrian "visit the Equestrian section")
      - [Golf](/sport/golf "visit the Golf section")
      - [Skiing](/sport/skiing "visit the Skiing section")
      - [Horse
        Racing](/sport/horse-racing "visit the Horse Racing section")
      - [Motorsport](/sport/motorsport "visit the Motorsport section")
      - [Formula
        E](/specials/sport/formula-e "visit the Formula E section")
      - [Esports](/specials/esports "visit the Esports section")
  - [Videos](/videos "visit the Videos section")
      - [Live TV](//cnn.it/go2 "visit the Live TV  section")
      - [Digital
        Studios](/specials/digital-studios "visit the Digital Studios section")
      - [CNN
        Films](/specials/videos/digital-shorts "visit the CNN Films section")
      - [HLN](/specials/videos/hln "visit the HLN section")
      - [TV Schedule](/tv/schedule/cnn "visit the TV Schedule section")
      - [TV Shows
        A-Z](/specials/tv/all-shows "visit the TV Shows A-Z section")
      - [CNNVR](/vr "visit the CNNVR section")
  - [Features](/specials "visit the Features section")
      - [Call to
        Earth](/interactive/call-to-earth "visit the Call to Earth section")
      - [Freedom
        Project](/specials/world/freedom-project "visit the Freedom Project section")
      - [Impact Your
        World](/specials/impact-your-world "visit the Impact Your World section")
      - [Inside
        Africa](/specials/africa/inside-africa "visit the Inside Africa section")
      - [2
        Degrees](/specials/opinions/two-degrees "visit the 2 Degrees section")
      - [CNN
        Heroes](/specials/cnn-heroes "visit the CNN Heroes section")
      - [All Features](/specials "visit the All Features section")
  - [More](/more "visit the More section")
      - [Photos](/specials/photos "visit the Photos section")
      - [Longform](/specials/cnn-longform "visit the Longform section")
      - [Investigations](/specials/cnn-investigates "visit the Investigations section")
      - [CNN
        Profiles](/specials/profiles "visit the CNN Profiles section")
      - [CNN
        Leadership](/specials/more/cnn-leadership "visit the CNN Leadership section")
      - [CNN
        Newsletters](/email/subscription "visit the CNN Newsletters section")
      - [Work for
        CNN](https://www.turnerjobs.com/search-jobs?orgIds=1174&ac=19299 "visit the Work for CNN section")
  - [Weather](/weather "visit the Weather section")
      - [Climate](/specials/world/cnn-climate "visit the Climate section")
      - [Storm
        Tracker](/interactive/2020/weather/gonzalo-storm-path-tracker/index.html "visit the Storm Tracker section")
      - [Video](/specials/weather/weather-video "visit the Video section")

</div>

<div class="Flex-sc-1sqrs56-0 sc-frDJqD cTNfLQ">

-----

<div class="Flex-sc-1sqrs56-0 sc-hMqMXs fzvMEX" data-test="social-follow-bar">

<span class="Text-sc-1amvtpj-0-span jKFEoX" data-font-weight="bold" data-test="follow-text" data-font-size="12" data-letter-spacing="1.5">Follow
CNN </span>

<div class="Box-sc-1fet97o-0 sc-kkGfuU kRmIJP" data-mode="dark">

</div>

  - 
  - 
  - 

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div data-react-id="2">

<div id="breaking-news-wrapper" style="position:relative;z-index:5">

</div>

</div>

<div class="pg-right-rail-tall pg-wrapper">

<div class="pg__background__image_wrapper">

</div>

<div class="l-container">

<div class="m-share m-share__rail js-share-rail m-share__bar js-share-bar">

<div class="share-bar-whatsapp-container gigya-sharebar-element gig-bar-container gig-share-bar-container" data-social-media-name="whatsapp" data-url="whatsapp://send?text=CNN story:" title="Modern Slavery Act Statement" data-storyurl="https://cnn.it/2sr5ERc">

<div class="gig-button-container gig-button-container-count-none gig-button-container-whatsapp gig-share-button-container gig-button-container-horizontal">

<div class="gig-button gig-share-button gig-button-up gig-button-count-none cnn-icon">

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="js-gigya-sharebar gigya-sharebar" title="Modern Slavery Act Statement" data-subtitle="" data-description="WarnerMedia is committed to conducting global business with high ethical and legal standards.  " data-link="https://cnn.it/2sr5ERc" data-isshorturl="true" data-twitter-account="CNNI" data-image-src="//cdn.cnn.com/cnn/.e/img/4.0/logos/cnn_logo_social.jpg">

</div>

<div class="sharebar-video-embed-container sharebar-video-embed-element gig-bar-container gig-share-bar-container">

<div class="gig-button-container gig-button-container-count-none gig-button-container-video-embed gig-share-button-container gig-button-container-horizontal">

<div class="gig-button gig-share-button gig-button-up gig-button-count-none cnn-icon">

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

# Modern Slavery Act Statement for Cable News International Limited, a U.K. subsidiary of Warner Media, LLC

<div class="metadata">

<div class="metadata__info js-byline-images" data-bundle="byline">

Updated 1816 GMT (0216 HKT) April 29, 2019
<span id="js-pagetop_video_source" class="video__source top_source"></span>

</div>

<div class="fb-send-to-messenger-container">

<div class="top-bar">

<div class="close-button">

</div>

</div>

<div class="messenger-content">

Chat with us in Facebook Messenger. Find out what's happening in the
world as it unfolds.

<div class="fb-send-to-messenger" data-messenger_app_id="989591237802489" data-page_id="5550296508" data-ref="hi" color="blue" size="xlarge">

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="m-share m-share__rail-top js-share-rail-top m-share__bar js-share-bar">

<div class="share-bar-whatsapp-container gigya-sharebar-element gig-bar-container gig-share-bar-container" data-social-media-name="whatsapp" data-url="whatsapp://send?text=CNN story:" title="Modern Slavery Act Statement" data-storyurl="https://cnn.it/2sr5ERc">

<div class="gig-button-container gig-button-container-count-none gig-button-container-whatsapp gig-share-button-container gig-button-container-horizontal">

<div class="gig-button gig-share-button gig-button-up gig-button-count-none cnn-icon">

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="js-gigya-sharebar gigya-sharebar" title="Modern Slavery Act Statement" data-subtitle="" data-description="WarnerMedia is committed to conducting global business with high ethical and legal standards.  " data-link="https://cnn.it/2sr5ERc" data-isshorturl="true" data-twitter-account="CNNI" data-image-src="//cdn.cnn.com/cnn/.e/img/4.0/logos/cnn_logo_social.jpg">

</div>

<div class="sharebar-video-embed-container sharebar-video-embed-element gig-bar-container gig-share-bar-container">

<div class="gig-button-container gig-button-container-count-none gig-button-container-video-embed gig-share-button-container gig-button-container-horizontal">

<div class="gig-button gig-share-button gig-button-up gig-button-count-none cnn-icon">

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="pg-rail-tall__wrapper">

<div class="pg-side-of-rail pg-rail-tall__side">

<div class="pg-rail-tall__head js-pg-rail-tall__head">

</div>

<div class="pg-rail-tall__body" itemprop="articleBody">

<div id="body-text" class="section zn zn-body-text zn-body zn--idx-0 zn--ordinary zn-has-multiple-containers zn-has-25-containers" data-eq-pts="xsmall: 0, medium: 460, large: 780, full16x9: 1100" data-vr-zone="zone-1-0" data-zone-label="bodyText" data-containers="25" data-zn-id="body-text">

<div class="l-container">

<div class="el__embedded el__embedded--standard">

<div class="element-raw appearance-standard">

</div>

</div>

<div class="el__leafmedia el__leafmedia--sourced-paragraph">

</div>

<div class="zn-body__paragraph speakable">

**<span class="underline">Warner Media, LLC</span>**

</div>

<div class="zn-body__paragraph speakable">

Warner Media, LLC ("WarnerMedia" or the "Company"), a leading media and
entertainment company with businesses in television networks and film
and TV entertainment, is formed and headquartered in the United States.
WarnerMedia and its operating segments -- Turner Broadcasting System,
Inc., Home Box Office, Inc., and Warner Bros. Entertainment Inc. -- have
operations in the United States and, through subsidiaries,
internationally, including in the United Kingdom. For more information
on the Company's structure and business, please visit the Company's
website at <http://www.warnermediagroup.com/>

</div>

<div class="zn-body__paragraph speakable">

This statement has been made and adopted by Cable News International
Limited (CNI Ltd) pursuant to Section 54 of the Modern Slavery Act of
2015 (the "Act"). CNI Ltd is a WarnerMedia subsidiary with operations in
the U.K. that meet the criteria set forth in the Act. This statement has
been approved by the CNI Ltd Board of Directors in respect of its
business activities for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2019, and
also applies to all subsidiaries of CNI Ltd which meet the criteria set
forth in the Act.

</div>

<div class="zn-body__paragraph">

**<span class="underline">Standards of Business Conduct</span>**

</div>

<div class="zn-body__paragraph">

WarnerMedia is committed to conducting global business with high ethical
and legal standards. That commitment begins with WarnerMedia's Standards
of Business Conduct (SBC), available at
<https://www.warnermediagroup.com/company/corporate-responsibility/leading-responsibly/ethics-and-compliance>.
The SBC apply to all Company employees and serve as a model for
comparable codes of conduct that have been adopted at each of
WarnerMedia's businesses, including offices outside the U.S. The SBC
stress the importance of abiding by the law, being truthful, being
transparent in our business dealings, putting the needs of our
shareholders and customers first, and avoiding excesses and ethical
lapses.

</div>

<div class="zn-body__read-more">

<div class="read-more-gradient">

</div>

<div class="read-more-button" data-zjs="click" data-zjs-campaign="readmore-btn-mobile">

<div id="js-body-read-more" class="read-more-link">

Read More

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="zn-body__read-all">

<div class="zn-body__paragraph">

**<span class="underline">Ethical Sourcing and Supply Chain</span>**

</div>

<div class="zn-body__paragraph">

In addition to the SBC, WarnerMedia has policies on specific topics to
provide guidance to employees. For example, the Company has adopted
ethical sourcing guidelines ("Guidelines"), which apply to vendors from
whom WarnerMedia purchases directly and to whom the Company's
subsidiaries license images, brands and characters. The Guidelines
establish expectations for the vendors' business operations as they
relate to WarnerMedia and its businesses and reflect our commitment to
conduct business in an ethical manner and in compliance with applicable
laws and regulations. More specifically, the Guidelines set forth the
Company's expectations with respect to, among other areas: (1) child
labor, (2) involuntary labor, (3) coercion, abuse and harassment of
supplier employees, (4) working hours and compensation, and (5) worker
health and safety.

</div>

<div class="zn-body__paragraph">

</div>

<div class="zn-body__paragraph">

WarnerMedia reserves the right to take any actions it deems appropriate
to monitor and promote adherence to the Guidelines. Contracts with
vendors are periodically reviewed to confirm whether the Guidelines have
been incorporated.

</div>

<div class="zn-body__paragraph">

For more information, please visit
<https://www.warnermediagroup.com/company/corporate-responsibility/creating-responsibly-and-sustainably/ethical-sourcing-and-supply-chain/ethical-sourcing-guidelines>

</div>

<div class="zn-body__paragraph">

</div>

<div class="zn-body__paragraph">

WarnerMedia believes in the value of collaborating and sharing
information to improve responsible sourcing efforts across the globe.
WarnerMedia's businesses are members of various industry working groups,
including the International Licensing Industry Merchandisers'
Association (LIMA) and the Toy Industry Association (TIA).

</div>

<div class="zn-body__paragraph">

**<span class="underline">Training</span>**

</div>

<div class="zn-body__paragraph">

WarnerMedia understands that a key component of an effective compliance
environment is employee training and education regarding the rules and
policies that apply to their business activities, as well as
WarnerMedia's commitment to ethical business conduct. Employees receive
training on the SBC when they join the Company, as well as regular
ethics and compliance training on laws that apply to our business
activities. These training initiatives reinforce the Company's
commitment to compliance with laws and ethical behavior.

</div>

<div class="zn-body__paragraph">

**<span class="underline">Reporting and Monitoring Misconduct</span>**

</div>

<div class="zn-body__paragraph">

Employees are encouraged to report any misconduct or unethical behavior.
WarnerMedia and its businesses provide multiple means of reporting
concerns, including a HelpLine monitored 24-7, which enables anonymous
reporting where permitted by local law. Third parties can also report
concerns, including through the HelpLine (where permitted by local law).
These various means of reporting are listed in the SBC and publicized to
employees and business partners. WarnerMedia and its businesses
encourage anyone to report in good faith issues about potential ethical,
legal, regulatory, or human rights violations. WarnerMedia will
investigate allegations and take appropriate remedial actions.

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="zn-body__read-more-outbrain">

  - 
    
    <div class="OB_HOP_25 conditionalremove">
    
    <div class="OUTBRAIN js-m-outbrain m-outbrain" src="https://edition.cnn.com/2017/06/21/cnn-info/modern-slavery-act-statement/index.html" data-widget-id="HOP_25" data-ob-template="cnn">
    
    </div>
    
    </div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="pg-body__social">

<div class="m-share m-share__rail-bottom js-share-rail-bottom m-share__bar js-share-bar">

<div class="share-bar-whatsapp-container gigya-sharebar-element gig-bar-container gig-share-bar-container" data-social-media-name="whatsapp" data-url="whatsapp://send?text=CNN story:" title="Modern Slavery Act Statement" data-storyurl="https://cnn.it/2sr5ERc">

<div class="gig-button-container gig-button-container-count-none gig-button-container-whatsapp gig-share-button-container gig-button-container-horizontal">

<div class="gig-button gig-share-button gig-button-up gig-button-count-none cnn-icon">

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="js-gigya-sharebar gigya-sharebar" title="Modern Slavery Act Statement" data-subtitle="" data-description="WarnerMedia is committed to conducting global business with high ethical and legal standards.  " data-link="https://cnn.it/2sr5ERc" data-isshorturl="true" data-twitter-account="CNNI" data-image-src="//cdn.cnn.com/cnn/.e/img/4.0/logos/cnn_logo_social.jpg">

</div>

<div class="sharebar-video-embed-container sharebar-video-embed-element gig-bar-container gig-share-bar-container">

<div class="gig-button-container gig-button-container-count-none gig-button-container-video-embed gig-share-button-container gig-button-container-horizontal">

<div class="gig-button gig-share-button gig-button-up gig-button-count-none cnn-icon">

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div id="story-bottom" class="section zn zn-story-bottom zn-single-column zn--idx-1 zn--ordinary zn-has-multiple-containers zn-has-3-containers" data-eq-pts="xsmall: 0, medium: 460, large: 780, full16x9: 1100" data-vr-zone="zone-1-1" data-zone-label="storyBottom">

<div class="zn-top">

<div class="zn-top__background">

</div>

</div>

<div class="l-container zn__background--content-relative">

<div class="zn__containers">

<div class="column zn__column--idx-0">

  - 
    
    <div class="OB_AR_36">
    
    <div class="OUTBRAIN js-m-outbrain m-outbrain" src="https://edition.cnn.com/2017/06/21/cnn-info/modern-slavery-act-statement/index.html" data-widget-id="AR_36" data-ob-template="cnn">
    
    </div>
    
    </div>

</div>

<div class="column zn__column--idx-1">

  - 
    
    <div class="OB_AR_13">
    
    <div class="OUTBRAIN js-m-outbrain m-outbrain" src="https://edition.cnn.com/2017/06/21/cnn-info/modern-slavery-act-statement/index.html" data-widget-id="AR_13" data-ob-template="cnn">
    
    </div>
    
    </div>

</div>

<div class="column zn__column--idx-2">

  - 
    
    <div class="OB_AR_39">
    
    <div class="OUTBRAIN js-m-outbrain m-outbrain" src="https://edition.cnn.com/2017/06/21/cnn-info/modern-slavery-act-statement/index.html" data-widget-id="AR_39" data-ob-template="cnn">
    
    </div>
    
    </div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="pg-rail pg-rail-tall__rail" data-bundle="adzones">

<div id="sponsored-outbrain-1" class="section zn zn-sponsored-outbrain-1 zn-balanced zn--idx-0 zn--ordinary zn-has-one-container" data-eq-pts="xsmall: 0, medium: 460, large: 780, full16x9: 1100" data-vr-zone="zone-2-0" data-zone-label="rail-zone-1" data-containers="1" data-zn-id="sponsored-outbrain-1">

<div class="zn-top">

<div class="zn-top__background">

</div>

</div>

<div class="l-container zn__background--content-relative">

<div class="zn__containers">

<div class="column zn__column--idx-0">

  - 
    
    <div class="OB_AR_38">
    
    <div class="OUTBRAIN js-m-outbrain m-outbrain" src="https://edition.cnn.com/2017/06/21/cnn-info/modern-slavery-act-statement/index.html" data-widget-id="AR_38" data-ob-template="cnn">
    
    </div>
    
    </div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div id="sponsored-outbrain-2" class="section zn zn-sponsored-outbrain-2 zn-balanced zn--idx-1 zn--ordinary zn-has-one-container" data-eq-pts="xsmall: 0, medium: 460, large: 780, full16x9: 1100" data-vr-zone="zone-2-1" data-zone-label="rail-zone-2" data-containers="1" data-zn-id="sponsored-outbrain-2">

<div class="zn-top">

<div class="zn-top__background">

</div>

</div>

<div class="l-container zn__background--content-relative">

<div class="zn__containers">

<div class="column zn__column--idx-0">

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div id="sponsored-outbrain-3" class="section zn zn-sponsored-outbrain-3 zn-balanced zn--idx-2 zn--ordinary zn-has-two-containers" data-eq-pts="xsmall: 0, medium: 460, large: 780, full16x9: 1100" data-vr-zone="zone-2-2" data-zone-label="rail-zone-3" data-containers="2" data-zn-id="sponsored-outbrain-3">

<div class="zn-top">

<div class="zn-top__background">

</div>

</div>

<div class="l-container zn__background--content-relative">

<div class="zn__containers">

<div class="column zn__column--idx-0">

  - 
    
    <div class="OB_AR_18">
    
    <div class="OUTBRAIN js-m-outbrain m-outbrain" src="https://edition.cnn.com/2017/06/21/cnn-info/modern-slavery-act-statement/index.html" data-widget-id="AR_18" data-ob-template="cnn">
    
    </div>
    
    </div>

</div>

<div class="column zn__column--idx-1">

  - 
    
    <div class="OB_AR_14">
    
    <div class="OUTBRAIN js-m-outbrain m-outbrain" src="https://edition.cnn.com/2017/06/21/cnn-info/modern-slavery-act-statement/index.html" data-widget-id="AR_14" data-ob-template="cnn">
    
    </div>
    
    </div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="section zn zn- zn-body zn--idx-4 zn--ordinary zn-has-one-container" data-eq-pts="xsmall: 0, medium: 460, large: 780, full16x9: 1100" data-vr-zone="zone-2-4" data-containers="1">

<div class="l-container">

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="pg-comments pg-rail-tall__comments">

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="pg-below-rail">

</div>

</div>

<div data-react-id="3">

<div id="footer-wrap" data-zjs-campaign="footer-wrapper">

<div class="Grid-sc-1kcyc0j-0 hFujui">

<div class="Cell-i0zvfi-0 laaVcq">

<div class="Text-sc-1amvtpj-0 gYetWy">

Search

</div>

<div class="Box-sc-1fet97o-0 bQmsQJ">

</div>

<div class="Box-sc-1fet97o-0 fyifOt">

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="Grid-sc-1kcyc0j-0 hFujui">

<div class="Cell-i0zvfi-0 dxrNOP">

<div class="Box-sc-1fet97o-0 sc-jAaTju hXAjRB">

  - [World](/world "visit the World section")
      - [Africa](/africa "visit the Africa section")
      - [Americas](/americas "visit the Americas section")
      - [Asia](/asia "visit the Asia section")
      - [Australia](/australia "visit the Australia section")
      - [China](/china "visit the China section")
      - [Europe](/europe "visit the Europe section")
      - [India](/india "visit the India section")
      - [Middle East](/middle-east "visit the Middle East section")
      - [United Kingdom](/uk "visit the United Kingdom section")
  - [US Politics](/politics "visit the US Politics section")
      - [2020
        Election](/election/2020 "visit the 2020 Election section")
      - [Donald
        Trump](/specials/politics/president-donald-trump-45 "visit the Donald Trump section")
      - [Supreme
        Court](/specials/politics/supreme-court-nine "visit the Supreme Court section")
      - [Congress](/specials/politics/congress "visit the Congress section")
      - [Facts
        First](/specials/politics/fact-check-politics "visit the Facts First section")
  - [Business](/business "visit the Business section")
      - [Markets](https://money.cnn.com/data/markets/ "visit the Markets section")
      - [Tech](/business/tech "visit the Tech section")
      - [Media](/business/media "visit the Media section")
      - [Success](/business/success "visit the Success section")
      - [Perspectives](/business/perspectives "visit the Perspectives section")
      - [Videos](/business/videos "visit the Videos section")
  - [Health](/health "visit the Health section")
      - [Food](/specials/health/food-diet "visit the Food section")
      - [Fitness](/specials/health/fitness-excercise "visit the Fitness section")
      - [Wellness](/specials/health/wellness "visit the Wellness section")
      - [Parenting](/specials/health/parenting "visit the Parenting section")
      - [Vital
        Signs](/specials/health/vital-signs "visit the Vital Signs section")
  - [Entertainment](/entertainment "visit the Entertainment section")
      - [Stars](/entertainment/celebrities "visit the Stars section")
      - [Screen](/entertainment/movies "visit the Screen section")
      - [Binge](/entertainment/tv-shows "visit the Binge section")
      - [Culture](/entertainment/culture "visit the Culture section")
      - [Media](/business/media "visit the Media section")
  - [Tech](/business/tech "visit the Tech section")
      - [Innovate](/specials/tech/innovate "visit the Innovate section")
      - [Gadget](/specials/tech/gadget "visit the Gadget section")
      - [Foreseeable
        Future](/specials/tech/foreseeable-future "visit the Foreseeable Future section")
      - [Mission:
        Ahead](/specials/tech/mission-ahead "visit the Mission: Ahead section")
      - [Upstarts](/specials/tech/upstarts "visit the Upstarts section")
      - [Work
        Transformed](/specials/tech/work-transformed "visit the Work Transformed section")
      - [Innovative
        Cities](/specials/tech/innovative-cities "visit the Innovative Cities section")
  - [Style](/style "visit the Style section")
      - [Arts](/style/arts "visit the Arts section")
      - [Design](/style/design "visit the Design section")
      - [Fashion](/style/fashion "visit the Fashion section")
      - [Architecture](/style/architecture "visit the Architecture section")
      - [Luxury](/style/luxury "visit the Luxury section")
      - [Beauty](/style/beauty "visit the Beauty section")
      - [Video](/style/videos "visit the Video section")
  - [Travel](/travel "visit the Travel section")
      - [Destinations](/travel/destinations "visit the Destinations section")
      - [Food and
        Drink](/travel/food-and-drink "visit the Food and Drink section")
      - [Stay](/travel/stay "visit the Stay section")
      - [News](/travel/news "visit the News section")
      - [Videos](/travel/videos "visit the Videos section")
  - [Sports](/sport "visit the Sports section")
      - [Football](/sport/football "visit the Football section")
      - [Tennis](/sport/tennis "visit the Tennis section")
      - [Equestrian](/sport/equestrian "visit the Equestrian section")
      - [Golf](/sport/golf "visit the Golf section")
      - [Skiing](/sport/skiing "visit the Skiing section")
      - [Horse
        Racing](/sport/horse-racing "visit the Horse Racing section")
      - [Motorsport](/sport/motorsport "visit the Motorsport section")
      - [Formula
        E](/specials/sport/formula-e "visit the Formula E section")
      - [Esports](/specials/esports "visit the Esports section")
  - [Videos](/videos "visit the Videos section")
      - [Live TV](//cnn.it/go2 "visit the Live TV  section")
      - [Digital
        Studios](/specials/digital-studios "visit the Digital Studios section")
      - [CNN
        Films](/specials/videos/digital-shorts "visit the CNN Films section")
      - [HLN](/specials/videos/hln "visit the HLN section")
      - [TV Schedule](/tv/schedule/cnn "visit the TV Schedule section")
      - [TV Shows
        A-Z](/specials/tv/all-shows "visit the TV Shows A-Z section")
      - [CNNVR](/vr "visit the CNNVR section")
  - [Features](/specials "visit the Features section")
      - [Call to
        Earth](/interactive/call-to-earth "visit the Call to Earth section")
      - [Freedom
        Project](/specials/world/freedom-project "visit the Freedom Project section")
      - [Impact Your
        World](/specials/impact-your-world "visit the Impact Your World section")
      - [Inside
        Africa](/specials/africa/inside-africa "visit the Inside Africa section")
      - [2
        Degrees](/specials/opinions/two-degrees "visit the 2 Degrees section")
      - [CNN
        Heroes](/specials/cnn-heroes "visit the CNN Heroes section")
      - [All Features](/specials "visit the All Features section")
  - [More](/more "visit the More section")
      - [Photos](/specials/photos "visit the Photos section")
      - [Longform](/specials/cnn-longform "visit the Longform section")
      - [Investigations](/specials/cnn-investigates "visit the Investigations section")
      - [CNN
        Profiles](/specials/profiles "visit the CNN Profiles section")
      - [CNN
        Leadership](/specials/more/cnn-leadership "visit the CNN Leadership section")
      - [CNN
        Newsletters](/email/subscription "visit the CNN Newsletters section")
      - [Work for
        CNN](https://www.turnerjobs.com/search-jobs?orgIds=1174&ac=19299 "visit the Work for CNN section")
  - [Weather](/weather "visit the Weather section")
      - [Climate](/specials/world/cnn-climate "visit the Climate section")
      - [Storm
        Tracker](/interactive/2020/weather/gonzalo-storm-path-tracker/index.html "visit the Storm Tracker section")
      - [Video](/specials/weather/weather-video "visit the Video section")

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="Box-sc-1fet97o-0 sc-brqgnP bfuntA">

-----

</div>

<div class="Grid-sc-1kcyc0j-0 hFujui">

<div class="Cell-i0zvfi-0 dxrNOP">

<div class="Flex-sc-1sqrs56-0 drTWbY">

<div class="Flex-sc-1sqrs56-0 sc-cvbbAY kUsmhc">

<div class="Flex-sc-1sqrs56-0 sc-iwsKbI YyuVL" size="40">

</div>

</div>

<div class="Flex-sc-1sqrs56-0 sc-eHgmQL gQsCWR">

<div class="Flex-sc-1sqrs56-0 sc-hMqMXs fzvMEX" data-test="social-follow-bar">

<span class="Text-sc-1amvtpj-0-span jKFEoX" data-font-weight="bold" data-test="follow-text" data-font-size="12" data-letter-spacing="1.5">Follow
CNN </span>

<div class="Box-sc-1fet97o-0 sc-kkGfuU kRmIJP" data-mode="dark">

</div>

  - 
  - 
  - 

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="Grid-sc-1kcyc0j-0 hFujui">

<div class="Cell-i0zvfi-0 dxrNOP">

<div class="Box-sc-1fet97o-0 sc-cMljjf hjNMTX">

-----

</div>

<div class="Box-sc-1fet97o-0 cApVqV">

  - [Terms of Use](/terms "visit the Terms of Use section")
  - [Privacy Policy](/privacy "visit the Privacy Policy section")
  - [Accessibility &
    CC](/accessibility "visit the Accessibility & CC section")
  - [AdChoices](# "visit the AdChoices section")
  - [About Us](/about "visit the About Us section")
  - [Modern Slavery Act
    Statement](/msa "visit the Modern Slavery Act Statement section")
  - [Advertise with
    us](https://commercial.cnn.com "visit the Advertise with us section")
  - [CNN Store](//store.cnn.com "visit the CNN Store section")
  - [Newsletters](/newsletters "visit the Newsletters section")
  - [Transcripts](/transcripts "visit the Transcripts section")
  - [License Footage](/collection "visit the License Footage section")
  - [CNN
    Newsource](http://cnnnewsource.com "visit the CNN Newsource section")
  - [Sitemap](https://www.cnn.com/sitemap.html "visit the Sitemap section")

</div>

<div class="Box-sc-1fet97o-0 sc-jTzLTM bitkPG" data-mode="dark" data-component="copyright">

<span class="Text-sc-1amvtpj-0-span sc-gqjmRU kdebMl" data-area="copyright-CNN">©
2020 Cable News Network.</span>[Turner Broadcasting System,
Inc.](//www.turner.com "Turner Broadcasting System, Inc.")<span class="Text-sc-1amvtpj-0-span sc-gqjmRU kdebMl">All
Rights
Reserved.</span><span class="Text-sc-1amvtpj-0-span sc-gqjmRU sc-fjdhpX cnzuFN">CNN
Sans ™ & © 2016 Cable News Network.</span>

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="OUTBRAIN" src="" data-widget-id="TR_1" data-ob-template="cnnedition">

</div>

![Quantcast](//pixel.quantserve.com/pixel/p-D1yc5zQgjmqr5.gif?labels=noscript%3ANo%20Labels%20Set)
