Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/us}{U.S.}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/us}{U.S.}\textbar{}Red vs. Red in Texas, With Republicans
Battling One Another After Mask Order

\url{https://nyti.ms/32LAhDn}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/news-event/coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{The
Coronavirus Outbreak}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  live\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/01/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Latest
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Maps
  and Cases}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Vaccine
  Tracker}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/07/29/us/schools-reopening-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{What
  School May Look Like}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/live/2020/07/31/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Economy}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{red-vs-red-in-texas-with-republicans-battling-one-another-after-mask-order}{%
\section{Red vs. Red in Texas, With Republicans Battling One Another
After Mask
Order}\label{red-vs-red-in-texas-with-republicans-battling-one-another-after-mask-order}}

The virus has heightened long-simmering friction in the largest
Republican-led state in the country, with Gov. Greg Abbott under attack
from within his own party.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/07/23/us/23VIRUS-DALLAS-abbott/merlin_173598360_df2009ed-98a4-4165-99a4-9bea7575c166-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/manny-fernandez}{Manny Fernandez}
and \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/j-david-goodman}{J. David Goodman}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Published July 23, 2020Updated July 26, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

DALLAS ---
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/26/us/coronavirus-family-houston-masks.html}{Texas}
Republicans have long sparred with one another, with feisty internal
disputes in recent years over gun rights, bathroom bills and other
culture-war issues. But since the spring, as
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/news-event/coronavirus}{the coronavirus}
began to take hold across the state, it has been an all-out battle of
red versus red.

This month, Republican groups in eight counties censured the Republican
governor after he issued a statewide mask order, saying that it
infringed on their rights and followed the lead of Houston, San Antonio
and other Democratic-led cities and counties that already required masks
in businesses.

And on Monday, party activists ousted the chairman of the state party in
favor of an outspoken firebrand conservative who called for President
Barack Obama's impeachment in 2014 and whose ascension to the top party
post received a
\href{https://twitter.com/realdonaldtrump/status/1285196013020610562}{congratulatory
tweet from President Trump}.

In Texas, the virus has heightened long-simmering friction in the
largest Republican-led state in the country, and for the first time Gov.
Greg Abbott has come under serious attack from within his own party. The
conflict in many ways is not unique to Texas. The rifts in the party run
along some of the same establishment-versus-insurgent fault lines that
years ago defined the rise of the Tea Party and of Mr. Trump.

``This has been building for a long, long time,'' said State Senator Kel
Seliger, a former mayor of Amarillo who is the second-most senior
Republican in the Texas Senate and has served more than 16 years in
office. ``When a party dominates, it also becomes sort of arrogant and
exclusive. It used to be back in the '80s and '90s, let's all get
together in this big Republican tent and be a majority. Increasingly,
we've been ushering people out of the tent.''

Indeed, the clash is about more than conservative anger over the
governor's mask order, and has its roots in the ideological divide
between the right and the far-right in Texas. Some of that same energy
and tension in 2012 helped a lawyer named Ted Cruz who had never held
elected office defeat a powerful Republican lieutenant governor to win a
seat in the U.S. Senate.

As Democrats continue to make gains statewide, archconservatives have
tried pushing Texas further to the right, while more moderate
Republicans try to steer it closer to the center.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/07/23/us/23VIRUS-DALLAS-testing/merlin_174171453_003ea86e-1952-4bb3-ba58-e408031c49c6-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

More than 130 local Republican leaders in eight counties publicly
rebelled against Mr. Abbott and voted to formally censure him, a
stunning rebuke for a politician who easily won re-election in 2018 and
who until now has been the most popular Republican in the state. The
\href{https://www.facebook.com/EctorCountyGOP/posts/3251377961614048}{censure
votes} were symbolic expressions of disapproval, largely over his
statewide mask order. An effort to stiffen the punishment for being
censured and to pass a statewide Republican resolution condemning the
governor remains in the works.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-global-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/01/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: Global Coronavirus
Outbreak}}{Latest Updates: Global Coronavirus Outbreak}}\label{latest-updates-global-coronavirus-outbreak}}

Updated 2020-08-02T07:42:09.613Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/01/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-34047410}{The
  U.S. reels as July cases more than double the total of any other
  month.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/01/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-780ec966}{Top
  U.S. officials work to break an impasse over the federal jobless
  benefit.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/01/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-2bc8948}{Its
  outbreak untamed, Melbourne goes into even greater lockdown.}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/01/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

More live coverage:
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/live/2020/07/31/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Markets}

Mr. Abbott, who faces re-election in 2022, was the first Republican
governor of Texas in modern time to be officially reprimanded by a group
of Republican county leaders.

``We feel that Abbott is going overboard in shutting down the economy,''
said Lee Lester, the chairman of the Harrison County Republican Party in
East Texas, one of the eight counties that censured the governor.

Mr. Lester, a retired insurance salesman who lives near the Louisiana
border in a county that has recorded more than 500 coronavirus cases and
nearly 70 deaths, said Mr. Abbott needed to ``start acting like we think
he should act, and that is looking at the overall picture --- following
the facts, not fear tactics.''

The divide has been evident in and around Fort Worth, the largest
conservative-led city in Texas. Republicans in urban, suburban and rural
Texas disagree on how the government should respond to the virus, and on
whether masks cross a line.

Mayor Betsy Price of Fort Worth, which has seen an explosion of cases in
recent days, expressed empathy rather than criticism for the governor
and was as pro-mask as the Democratic mayors of Houston and other major
cities. ``Y'all wear a mask,'' Ms. Price, a Republican, said in a recent
public service announcement, through a white mask decorated with the
silhouette of a Texas longhorn, the logo of a city whose nickname is
Cowtown.

``It's been a very measured approach in Fort Worth, not much knee-jerk
reaction,'' she said in an interview. ``People are very much afraid, and
when they're afraid, they tend to be very critical of things.''

But nearby in the same county, in the affluent suburb of Colleyville,
Mayor Richard Newton took a more aggressive approach. In April, he
opened restaurants before state rules allowed it, and last month, he
bucked a county mask order. ``We just choose not to participate,'' Mr.
Newton told reporters at the time.

And in two counties, one to the northeast and one to the southwest of
Fort Worth and Colleyville, the tenor is even more rebellious.
Republican leaders in suburban Denton County and rural Hood County were
among those who passed resolutions against the governor.

The disarray was on full display last weekend at the Republican state
convention, typically a time of unity, networking and chest-thumping
speeches for the dominant party in Texas. In a back-and-forth that
lasted weeks, top Republican elected officials supported meeting
virtually --- as the Democrats did earlier this summer --- while the
party leadership voted to meet as planned in person in Houston, a
Democrat-led city.

After losing a legal battle, the party gathered for a virtual convention
that was delayed by technical problems. After it resumed, those who were
fed up with the party's chairman, James Dickey, helped push him out.

The party elected a new chairman, Allen B. West, a former Florida
congressman who was chosen in part by appealing to the anti-Abbott
sentiments over the statewide mask order.
\href{https://youtu.be/cqlkCX1VWUc}{In a video message} to delegates at
the San Jacinto Monument outside Houston, a revered site commemorating
the Texas battle for independence in 1836, he called the moment a ``new
battleground.''

Image

Former Representative Allen B. West spoke to protesters during a ``Free
Texas'' rally at the State Capitol in Austin in May.Credit...Jeff
Newman/dpa, via Associated Press Images

``There's a new battlefield,'' he said in the video, ``and it's really
not too much different from what they faced --- the despotism, the
tyranny, that we see in the great state of Texas, where we have
executive orders and mandates, people telling us what we can and cannot
do, who is essential and who is not essential. It is time for us to
stand up, and it is time for us to fight.''

In his own video address to delegates, Mr. Abbott acknowledged the
criticisms over his mask mandate, but defended his actions, his
authority to issue executive orders in emergencies and his dedication to
conservative principles*.*

``I know that many of you do not like the mask requirement,'' Mr. Abbott
said
\href{https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0DM1SCP8vwU\&feature=youtu.be}{in
his remarks}. ``I don't either. It is the last thing I wanted to do.
Actually, the next to last. The last thing that any of us want is to
lock Texas back down again. We must do all that we can to prevent
that.''

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/news-event/coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{}

\hypertarget{the-coronavirus-outbreak-}{%
\subsubsection{The Coronavirus Outbreak
›}\label{the-coronavirus-outbreak-}}

\hypertarget{frequently-asked-questions}{%
\paragraph{Frequently Asked
Questions}\label{frequently-asked-questions}}

Updated July 27, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{should-i-refinance-my-mortgage}{%
  \paragraph{Should I refinance my
  mortgage?}\label{should-i-refinance-my-mortgage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/coronavirus-money-unemployment.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{It
    could be a good idea,} because mortgage rates have
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/16/business/mortgage-rates-below-3-percent.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{never
    been lower.} Refinancing requests have pushed mortgage applications
    to some of the highest levels since 2008, so be prepared to get in
    line. But defaults are also up, so if you're thinking about buying a
    home, be aware that some lenders have tightened their standards.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{what-is-school-going-to-look-like-in-september}{%
  \paragraph{What is school going to look like in
  September?}\label{what-is-school-going-to-look-like-in-september}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    It is unlikely that many schools will return to a normal schedule
    this fall, requiring the grind of
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/05/us/coronavirus-education-lost-learning.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{online
    learning},
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/05/29/us/coronavirus-child-care-centers.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{makeshift
    child care} and
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/03/business/economy/coronavirus-working-women.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{stunted
    workdays} to continue. California's two largest public school
    districts --- Los Angeles and San Diego --- said on July 13, that
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/13/us/lausd-san-diego-school-reopening.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{instruction
    will be remote-only in the fall}, citing concerns that surging
    coronavirus infections in their areas pose too dire a risk for
    students and teachers. Together, the two districts enroll some
    825,000 students. They are the largest in the country so far to
    abandon plans for even a partial physical return to classrooms when
    they reopen in August. For other districts, the solution won't be an
    all-or-nothing approach.
    \href{https://bioethics.jhu.edu/research-and-outreach/projects/eschool-initiative/school-policy-tracker/}{Many
    systems}, including the nation's largest, New York City, are
    devising
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/26/us/coronavirus-schools-reopen-fall.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{hybrid
    plans} that involve spending some days in classrooms and other days
    online. There's no national policy on this yet, so check with your
    municipal school system regularly to see what is happening in your
    community.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{is-the-coronavirus-airborne}{%
  \paragraph{Is the coronavirus
  airborne?}\label{is-the-coronavirus-airborne}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    The coronavirus
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/04/health/239-experts-with-one-big-claim-the-coronavirus-is-airborne.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{can
    stay aloft for hours in tiny droplets in stagnant air}, infecting
    people as they inhale, mounting scientific evidence suggests. This
    risk is highest in crowded indoor spaces with poor ventilation, and
    may help explain super-spreading events reported in meatpacking
    plants, churches and restaurants.
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/06/health/coronavirus-airborne-aerosols.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{It's
    unclear how often the virus is spread} via these tiny droplets, or
    aerosols, compared with larger droplets that are expelled when a
    sick person coughs or sneezes, or transmitted through contact with
    contaminated surfaces, said Linsey Marr, an aerosol expert at
    Virginia Tech. Aerosols are released even when a person without
    symptoms exhales, talks or sings, according to Dr. Marr and more
    than 200 other experts, who
    \href{https://academic.oup.com/cid/article/doi/10.1093/cid/ciaa939/5867798}{have
    outlined the evidence in an open letter to the World Health
    Organization}.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{what-are-the-symptoms-of-coronavirus}{%
  \paragraph{What are the symptoms of
  coronavirus?}\label{what-are-the-symptoms-of-coronavirus}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Common symptoms
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/symptoms-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{include
    fever, a dry cough, fatigue and difficulty breathing or shortness of
    breath.} Some of these symptoms overlap with those of the flu,
    making detection difficult, but runny noses and stuffy sinuses are
    less common.
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/04/27/health/coronavirus-symptoms-cdc.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{The
    C.D.C. has also} added chills, muscle pain, sore throat, headache
    and a new loss of the sense of taste or smell as symptoms to look
    out for. Most people fall ill five to seven days after exposure, but
    symptoms may appear in as few as two days or as many as 14 days.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{does-asymptomatic-transmission-of-covid-19-happen}{%
  \paragraph{Does asymptomatic transmission of Covid-19
  happen?}\label{does-asymptomatic-transmission-of-covid-19-happen}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    So far, the evidence seems to show it does. A widely cited
    \href{https://www.nature.com/articles/s41591-020-0869-5}{paper}
    published in April suggests that people are most infectious about
    two days before the onset of coronavirus symptoms and estimated that
    44 percent of new infections were a result of transmission from
    people who were not yet showing symptoms. Recently, a top expert at
    the World Health Organization stated that transmission of the
    coronavirus by people who did not have symptoms was ``very rare,''
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/09/world/coronavirus-updates.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq\#link-1f302e21}{but
    she later walked back that statement.}
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Mr. Abbott, who did not respond to a request for an interview, remains
popular with a number of Republican lawmakers and business leaders, and
his supporters say the criticisms are coming from a small but loud wing
of the party and will not amount to a threat to his re-election.

Even so, a Quinnipiac poll released on Wednesday showed that his support
among Republicans, while still strong, had slipped as the spread of the
virus intensified: A quarter of respondents said they disapproved of Mr.
Abbott's handling of the virus, up from about 10 percent in early June.

At the same time, the governor has faced pressure from many public
health officials and Democratic leaders to do more to stop the rising
tide of infections, hospitalizations and deaths across the state.

``I told the governor's people this: The virus will force you to take
action, eventually,'' said Clay Jenkins, a Democrat who is the top
elected official in Dallas County and who has clashed with Mr. Abbott
over the state response. ``The challenge is when the doctors ask you to
take action, go ahead and do it then.'' He urged the closure of indoor
dining and a delay in opening schools for in-person instruction.

Image

A screen showed a person wearing a mask in downtown Fort Worth on
Monday. Before the Fourth of July weekend, Mr. Abbott put in place a
mask order for most Texans.Credit...Valerie Macon/Agence France-Presse
--- Getty Images

Texas has become one of the largest coronavirus hot spots in the
country, and Mr. Abbott, who began opening the state for business on May
1, has struggled to find the best approach to control it. Some
Republicans had urged him to go faster in reopening businesses, and have
pushed him to keep them open despite the spread of the virus.

``There's just a division between what politically your base is wanting
you to do, and what is the right thing to do,'' said Mari Woodlief, a
Republican political consultant in Dallas who worked on the Fort Worth
mayor's first campaign. ``He did the right thing, but it was not what
his base wanted him to do.''

After cases related to bars began to spike, Mr. Abbott ordered them
closed in late June. For weeks, he said the government should not
mandate mask-wearing, and then he reversed course before the Fourth of
July weekend and put in place an order for most Texans.

Among the 25 American counties with the most cases per capita over the
past week, nine are in Texas. That includes not just the populous
counties that include Houston and Dallas, but also smaller counties that
include San Angelo and Corpus Christi. The average daily case total has
exploded to more than 10,000 statewide. In early July, Texas was
averaging about 6,500 new cases daily. At the start of June, the figure
hovered around 1,400.

Leaders in major cities, mostly Democrats, have asked for the power to
impose county or city-specific stay-at-home orders; Mr. Abbott has so
far refused, arguing that such measures should be voluntary. That stance
is common among conservatives in the state, wary of government
intrusions on personal liberty.

Sam Bryant, an Army veteran and Republican from Waxahachie, a solidly
conservative suburb 30 miles south of Dallas, accused Mr. Abbott of
doing the very thing the governor built his political career fighting
against --- government overreach.

Mr. Bryant, 38, a member of the governing board of the Republican Party
of Texas until he left in frustration a few days ago, said he had
already decided not to run for another term because the board was full
of ``a lot of establishment do-nothings.''

``I just think what's happened is the party has lost its ability to
deliver its message,'' said Mr. Bryant, who cheered Mr. West's takeover
as chairman. ``Why don't we just disband the whole thing and start from
scratch?''

Mitch Smith contributed reporting from Chicago, and David Montgomery
from Austin.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
