<div id="app">

<div id="standalone-header">

<div class="interactive-masthead NYTAppHideMasthead css-xuu3c2 e1suatyy0">

<div class="section css-133zg39 e1suatyy2">

<div class="css-eph4ug er09x8g0">

<div class="css-6n7j50">

</div>

<span class="css-1dv1kvn">Sections</span>

<div class="css-10488qs">

<span class="css-1dv1kvn">SEARCH</span>

</div>

[Skip to content](#site-content)[Skip to site index](#site-index)

</div>

<div class="css-10698na e1huz5gh0">

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div id="site-content" data-role="main">

# Answers to Your New Coronavirus Questions

<div class="css-1vegfwe interactive-byline-container">

By <span class="css-1baulvz last-byline" itemprop="name">The New York
Times</span>Updated July 27,
2020

</div>

<div id="interactive-standalone-sharetools" class="css-wkcogx">

<div>

<div class="interactive-sharetools css-9z2bwm" data-role="toolbar" data-aria-label="Social Media Share buttons, Save button, and Comments Panel with current comment count" data-testid="share-tools">

  - 
  - 
  - 
  - 
    
    <div class="css-6n7j50">
    
    </div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div id="coronavirus-tips-advice" class="section css-l08pwh interactive-minimal interactive-content interactive-size-medium" data-id="100000007040285">

<div class="css-17ih8de interactive-body">

<div class="g-story g-freebird g-max-limit" itemscope="" itemtype="https://schema.org/FAQPage" data-preview-slug="2020-03-11-faq-coronavirus" data-prd-dropzone-below-masthead="100000006938224">

<div class="g-faq-intro">

When the coronavirus pandemic began, we were figuring out how to stay
safe, how to stay home and how this was going to affect our lives in the
long run. Now that we have better answers to many of these questions,
new ones have surfaced. How can I stay healthy while interacting with
others? How can I prevent the spread of this disease? What can I do if
I’ve lost a job? How can I explain this to my kids? Simply, how can I
live in this new
normal?

</div>

<div id="G_Switchboard" class="G_Switchboard">

<div class="G_Switchboard-container">

# What do you want to know about coronavirus?

## Do you have a question about the coronavirus or life during this pandemic? Try this experimental feature that uses [machine learning](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/11/18/technology/artificial-intelligence-language.html?searchResultPosition=4) to help answer your questions. If we don’t have an answer available, we will do our best to address it in the future.

<div id="G_Switchboard-form" class="G_Switchboard-form">

ASK

<div id="G_Switchboard-loading_small" class="G_Switchboard-loading G_Switchboard-loading_small G_Switchboard-hide" data-aria-busy="true">

</div>

</div>

<div id="G_Switchboard-answer" class="G_Switchboard-hide G_Switchboard-answer">

</div>

</div>

</div>

## Four Big Questions

<div class="g-section-wrap g-questions g-body">

<div class="g-question-wrap g-0" itemscope="" itemprop="mainEntity" itemtype="https://schema.org/Question">

<div class="g-question">

### Where are we in developing a vaccine?

<div class="g-icon">

\+

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-answer-wrap g-hide-answer" itemscope="" itemprop="acceptedAnswer" itemtype="https://schema.org/Answer">

<div itemprop="text">

The race to develop a vaccine for the coronavirus is, perhaps, one of
the most important efforts in the contemporary history of science and
medicine. In some labs across the world, there is now a cautious
optimism that there will be a vaccine for the coronavirus sometime next
year.

As of July 28, there were 25 vaccines under clinical evaluation, and 139
others in early evaluation stages, according to [a
list](https://www.who.int/publications/m/item/draft-landscape-of-covid-19-candidate-vaccines)
released by the World Health Organization. Scientists are working
overtime and [trying many different
methods](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/05/20/science/coronavirus-vaccine-development.html)
to prevent the disease.

An experimental [coronavirus
vaccine](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html)
made by the biotech company Moderna provoked a [promising immune
response](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/14/health/cornavirus-vaccine-moderna.html)
against the virus and appeared safe in the first 45 people who received
it, researchers reported in [The New England Journal of
Medicine](https://www.nejm.org/coronavirus?query=RP) in mid-July.

Governments and major pharmaceutical companies are also wading in. The
United States government, as part of a project it’s calling [“Operation
Warp
Speed,”](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/03/us/politics/coronavirus-vaccine-trump-moderna.html)
is on a quest to have a vaccine by the end of the year.

Still, there is little consensus in the scientific community whether
such accelerated timelines — the end of this year, the start of next —
are feasible. Even after a vaccine is researched and tested,
manufacturing vaccines is complex. The process typically requires large,
sterilized vats and the mobilization of hundreds of pharmaceutical
factories. The record for [developing a vaccine is four years for the
mumps
vaccine,](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/06/09/magazine/covid-vaccine.html)
and a decade is not an unusual timeline.

But, optimists point out, there has also never been a time when so many
experts in so many countries [focused simultaneously on a single
topic](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/01/world/europe/coronavirus-science-research-cooperation.html)
and with such urgency. That, alone, gives some researchers
[hope.](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/20/health/coronavirus-vaccines.html)

<span class="g-read-more"> Read More</span> [Coronavirus Vaccine
Tracker](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html)

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-question-wrap g-1" itemscope="" itemprop="mainEntity" itemtype="https://schema.org/Question">

<div class="g-question">

### How can I help?

<div class="g-icon">

\+

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-answer-wrap g-hide-answer" itemscope="" itemprop="acceptedAnswer" itemtype="https://schema.org/Answer">

<div itemprop="text">

Great question\! We’re glad you asked.

There’s a full section on helping others further down this list, with
specific suggestions for donating blood, helping neighbors and
reallocating resources.

But the most helpful thing that you, an individual, can do is wear a
mask and maintain six feet of physical distance from other people. We
know it’s a pain, and we know a mask can be sweaty and uncomfortable.

Frankly, though, it’s the simplest thing you can do to help. And no one
is really exempt. Researchers believe that [symptomless
transmission](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/27/world/europe/coronavirus-spread-asymptomatic.html)
is a factor in the spread of the virus. You might feel fine, but you
could be infecting people around you.

[Not yet
convinced](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/02/health/coronavirus-face-masks-surveys.html)?
We’ll keep going. A mask is [proven to be
effective](https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/prevent-getting-sick/cloth-face-cover-guidance.html)
in slowing the virus’s spread. That also makes it a way to kickstart the
sagging economy again; a [Goldman Sachs
analysis](https://www.forbes.com/sites/sarahhansen/2020/06/30/a-national-mask-mandate-could-save-the-us-economy-1-trillion-goldman-sachs-says/#1083f1e56f18)
found that if all Americans were required to wear masks in public — as
people are in dozens of other countries — it could save the U.S. economy
$1 trillion. That’s trillion, with a T.

A minor discomfort and inconvenience could save someone’s life. In fact,
it could save quite a few lives.

Our colleagues [Jesse
Wegman](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/02/opinion/coronavirus-masks.html)
and [Nicholas
Kristof](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/01/opinion/coronavirus-face-masks.html?action=click&module=RelatedLinks&pgtype=Article)
in the Opinion section offered their arguments for mask wearing.

<span class="g-read-more"> Read More</span> [Tips for Making Your Mask
Work](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/06/25/burst/how-to-get-the-most-out-of-your-mask.html)

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-question-wrap g-2" itemscope="" itemprop="mainEntity" itemtype="https://schema.org/Question">

<div class="g-question">

### I have antibodies. Am I now immune?

<div class="g-icon">

\+

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-answer-wrap g-hide-answer" itemscope="" itemprop="acceptedAnswer" itemtype="https://schema.org/Answer">

<div itemprop="text">

As of right now, that seems likely, for at least several months.

There have been frightening accounts of people suffering what seems to
be a second bout of Covid-19. But experts say these patients may have a
drawn-out course of infection, with the virus taking a slow toll weeks
to months after initial exposure.

People infected with the coronavirus typically [produce immune
molecules](https://www.nature.com/articles/s41586-020-2456-9) called
antibodies, which are [protective proteins made in response to an
infection.](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/07/health/coronavirus-antibody-prevalence.html)
These antibodies may last in the body [only two to three
months,](https://www.nature.com/articles/s41591-020-0965-6) which may
seem worrisome, but that’s perfectly normal after an acute infection
subsides, said Dr. Michael Mina, an immunologist at Harvard University.

It may be possible to get the coronavirus again, but it’s highly
unlikely that it would be possible in a short window of time from
initial infection or make people sicker the second time.

<span class="g-read-more"> Read More</span> [You May Have Antibodies
After Coronavirus Infection. But Not for
Long.](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/22/health/covid-antibodies-herd-immunity.html)

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-question-wrap g-3" itemscope="" itemprop="mainEntity" itemtype="https://schema.org/Question">

<div class="g-question">

### What will the world look like in a few months?

<div class="g-icon">

\+

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-answer-wrap g-hide-answer" itemscope="" itemprop="acceptedAnswer" itemtype="https://schema.org/Answer">

<div itemprop="text">

Here’s the short answer: Everything is moving quickly. The only things
we can say with confidence are that nothing is certain, and that many
more Americans are likely to die before this is over.

There are a few big questions to follow.

First, will the virus return in full force with the cold weather? There
has been some speculation as to whether [warm
weather](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/22/health/warm-weather-coronavirus.html)
has had an effect on slowing the virus. So far, we do know that you are
safer outside, provided you wear a mask and stay far apart from other
people. When winter comes, it will be harder to spend time outside,
especially if you are in a cold climate. If you do need to move inside,
only spend time in places with [good
ventilation](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/06/health/coronavirus-airborne-aerosols.html),
as the virus seems to [hang in the
air](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/04/health/239-experts-with-one-big-claim-the-coronavirus-is-airborne.html)
for hours. But be prepared in case of another spike in cases where you
live.

Second, what’s the deal with schools? We have a section on this below,
but expect significant disruption. Some elementary through high school
students will be in classrooms
[part-time](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/26/us/coronavirus-schools-reopen-fall.html)
or [not at
all.](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/13/us/lausd-san-diego-school-reopening.html)
Others might be going back to school like normal, but they could be in
greater danger of sudden outbreaks and shutdowns.

Some colleges, [including California State
University](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/12/us/cal-state-online-classes.html),
have announced that they will reopen in the fall, but with most classes
moved online. Others are trying to limit the term length. Some
professors are [rebelling against in-person
teaching](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/03/us/coronavirus-college-professors.html).
Everything is basically on a “pencil it in, pending an outbreak” basis.

And third, what about work? Some non-essential workers are already back
in offices and others will soon be returning to plexiglass dividers and
alternating schedules, even though cases continue to rise. For many
companies, however, the return-to-office date keeps getting pushed out
later and later. We have more information about this below, but [as an
employee](https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/community/guidance-business-response.html),
you have [some
rights](https://www.osha.gov/SLTC/covid-19/standards.html). That choice
might be made for you, though.

<span class="g-read-more"> Read More</span> [The Coronavirus in America:
The Year
Ahead](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/18/health/coronavirus-america-future.html)

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

## Science and Health

<div class="g-section-wrap g-questions g-body">

<div class="g-question-wrap g-0" itemscope="" itemprop="mainEntity" itemtype="https://schema.org/Question">

<div class="g-question">

### What is the difference between the coronavirus and Covid-19?

<div class="g-icon">

\+

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-answer-wrap g-hide-answer" itemscope="" itemprop="acceptedAnswer" itemtype="https://schema.org/Answer">

<div itemprop="text">

A coronavirus is a type of virus. There are lots of common
coronaviruses, which are [basically just forms of a
cold.](https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/general-information.html)

This coronavirus — the coronavirus — is novel. It causes Covid-19, a
disease. The 19 signifies 2019, the year when it started. The two terms
are used interchangeably in conversation, but actually mean slightly
different things.

<span class="g-read-more"> Read More</span> [From Flattening the Curve
to Pandemic: A Coronavirus
Glossary](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/18/us/coronavirus-terms-glossary.html)

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-question-wrap g-1" itemscope="" itemprop="mainEntity" itemtype="https://schema.org/Question">

<div class="g-question">

### I keep hearing about droplets, aerosol clouds and surface contamination. What does this thing attach to, how does it get around and how would I get it?

<div class="g-icon">

\+

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-answer-wrap g-hide-answer" itemscope="" itemprop="acceptedAnswer" itemtype="https://schema.org/Answer">

<div itemprop="text">

If you were to share saliva with someone — kiss, drink from the same cup
— you could obviously get the disease. But it’s not just direct contact
that can cause transmission. After pressure from researchers, the W.H.O.
conceded that the virus can be transmitted through [particles that can
linger in the
air](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/09/health/virus-aerosols-who.html)
for hours after an infected person has left.

The nastiest recent revelation is, perhaps, that [flushing a
toilet](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/16/health/coronavirus-toilets-flushing.html)
can also spread the virus throughout a bathroom.

There is some good news, though. After months of sanitizing our
groceries, packages and mail, [the Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention
said](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/22/health/cdc-coronavirus-touching-surfaces.html)
that the risk of catching the coronavirus from a surface is low.

<span class="g-read-more"> Read More</span> [Airborne Coronavirus: What
You Should Do
Now](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/06/health/coronavirus-airborne-aerosols.html)

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-question-wrap g-2" itemscope="" itemprop="mainEntity" itemtype="https://schema.org/Question">

<div class="g-question">

### What does the virus do to my body?

<div class="g-icon">

\+

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-answer-wrap g-hide-answer" itemscope="" itemprop="acceptedAnswer" itemtype="https://schema.org/Answer">

<div itemprop="text">

In the beginning, the coronavirus seemed like it was primarily a
respiratory illness — many patients had fever and chills, were weak and
tired, and coughed a lot. Those who seemed sickest had pneumonia or
acute respiratory distress syndrome — which caused their blood oxygen
levels to plummet — and received supplemental oxygen. In severe cases,
they were placed on ventilators to help them breathe.

By now, doctors have identified many more symptoms and syndromes. (And
some people don’t show many symptoms at all.) In April, [the C.D.C.
added to the list of early
signs](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/27/health/coronavirus-symptoms-cdc.html)
sore throat, fever, chills and muscle aches. Gastrointestinal upset,
such as diarrhea and nausea, has also been observed.

Another telltale sign of infection may be a sudden, profound diminution
of one’s [sense of smell and
taste.](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/22/health/coronavirus-symptoms-smell-taste.html)
Teenagers and young adults in some cases have developed painful red and
purple lesions on their fingers and toes — nicknamed “Covid toe” — but
few other serious symptoms.

More serious cases can lead to inflammation and organ damage, even
without difficulty breathing. There have been cases of dangerous blood
clots, strokes and brain impairments.

<span class="g-read-more"> Read More</span> [Six Months of Coronavirus:
Here’s Some of What We’ve
Learned](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/coronavirus-facts-history.html#link-6817bab5)

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-question-wrap g-3" itemscope="" itemprop="mainEntity" itemtype="https://schema.org/Question">

<div class="g-question">

### What are my chances of getting sick?

<div class="g-icon">

\+

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-answer-wrap g-hide-answer" itemscope="" itemprop="acceptedAnswer" itemtype="https://schema.org/Answer">

<div itemprop="text">

It’s a moving target, and depends a lot on where you live and when. If
you’re somewhere with an outbreak, you’re at higher risk. If your state
is reopening and cases are climbing, your risk is highest.

Lots of factors determine how sick you actually get. Younger people tend
to do better than older people, and having underlying conditions
increases your risk. And if you were [exposed to a lot of the
virus](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/29/health/coronavirus-transmission-dose.html)
— [as many essential workers
were](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/24/magazine/surgeon-covid-diary.html)
— you have a higher risk of getting a severe case.

Black and Latino people have been [disproportionately
affected](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/07/05/us/coronavirus-latinos-african-americans-cdc-data.html)
by the coronavirus in a widespread manner that spans the country,
throughout hundreds of counties in urban, suburban and rural areas, and
across all age groups.

However, a better question might be what your chances are of getting
someone else sick. People in their 20s, 30s and 40s account for a
growing proportion of the cases in many places, raising fears that
[asymptomatic young
people](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/25/us/coronavirus-cases-young-people.html)
are helping to fuel the virus’s spread.

Most people have a low chance of getting a severe case. But if you’re
not careful, you have a very high chance of infecting someone who is
vulnerable. It’s sort of like drunken driving. You could harm yourself,
but you could also harm other people, too. That’s why we don't do it.

<span class="g-read-more"> Read More</span> [All 50 States Are Now
Reopening. But at What
Cost?](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/20/us/coronavirus-reopening-50-states.html)

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-question-wrap g-4" itemscope="" itemprop="mainEntity" itemtype="https://schema.org/Question">

<div class="g-question">

### If I am sick, how will I know?

<div class="g-icon">

\+

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-answer-wrap g-hide-answer" itemscope="" itemprop="acceptedAnswer" itemtype="https://schema.org/Answer">

<div itemprop="text">

If you’ve been exposed to the coronavirus or think you have, and have a
fever or symptoms like a cough or difficulty breathing, call a doctor.
They should give you advice on how to get tested and how to seek medical
treatment without potentially infecting or exposing others.

The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention says that if you’re sick
or think you’re sick, but only mildly ill, you should [isolate
yourself](https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/about/steps-when-sick.html),
and you shouldn’t leave your house except to go to the doctor.

But a lot of people get the coronavirus without showing many, or any,
symptoms. That’s why you should always wear a mask outside your home —
the only surefire way to know you don’t have it is to get a test. And
tests are still not reliable.

<span class="g-read-more"> Read More</span> [‘What Are the Symptoms?’
‘What Should I Do if I Feel Sick?’ and Other Coronavirus
Questions](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/symptoms-coronavirus.html)

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-question-wrap g-5" itemscope="" itemprop="mainEntity" itemtype="https://schema.org/Question">

<div class="g-question">

### How do I get tested? How long do tests take to come back?

<div class="g-icon">

\+

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-answer-wrap g-hide-answer" itemscope="" itemprop="acceptedAnswer" itemtype="https://schema.org/Answer">

<div itemprop="text">

The situation is constantly changing, and each case is unique.

One thing is consistent [across the
country](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-testing.html),
though: Testing is a mess.

As of July 28, the number of daily coronavirus tests being conducted in
the United States is only 38 percent of the level considered necessary
to mitigate the spread of the virus. People take a test, only to get
results days, a week or more later. That’s too long for most people,
especially those who cannot quarantine even if they wanted to. (Other
countries are doing a lot better.)

Why? Well. [Fax
machines](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/13/upshot/coronavirus-response-fax-machines.html)
are a surprising bottleneck. [Temperature
checks](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/11/technology/coronavirus-worker-testing-privacy.html)
don’t say much, because lots of people have the coronavirus without a
fever. And even once you get results, [they may not be
reliable](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/13/well/live/coronavirus-smart-testing.html).

If you want to get tested, prepare for a [sore
nose](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/13/nyregion/coronavirus-testing.html)
and a long wait time.

<span class="g-read-more"> Read More</span> [The Experience of Getting
Tested for
Coronavirus](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/test-for-coronavirus.html)

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-question-wrap g-6" itemscope="" itemprop="mainEntity" itemtype="https://schema.org/Question">

<div class="g-question">

### When should I go to the hospital?

<div class="g-icon">

\+

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-answer-wrap g-hide-answer" itemscope="" itemprop="acceptedAnswer" itemtype="https://schema.org/Answer">

<div itemprop="text">

Going to the hospital should not be your first interaction with a
doctor.

If you’re feeling sick, speak with a medical professional over the phone
and get a test. If you can, consult with a doctor before you go to a
medical center or the hospital — they might have insights or
suggestions.

As soon as symptoms start, mark the days. While most patients recover in
about a week, a significant minority of patients enter “a very nasty
second wave” of illness, said Dr. Ilan Schwartz, assistant professor of
infectious disease at the University of Alberta. “After the initial
symptoms, things plateau and maybe even improve a little bit, and then
there is a secondary worsening.”

<span class="g-read-more"> Read More</span> [Why Days 5 to 10 Are So
Important When You Have
Coronavirus](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/30/well/live/coronavirus-days-5-through-10.html)

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

## Preventative Measures and Treatment

<div class="g-section-wrap g-questions g-body">

<div class="g-question-wrap g-0" itemscope="" itemprop="mainEntity" itemtype="https://schema.org/Question">

<div class="g-question">

### Why do masks work?

<div class="g-icon">

\+

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-answer-wrap g-hide-answer" itemscope="" itemprop="acceptedAnswer" itemtype="https://schema.org/Answer">

<div itemprop="text">

The coronavirus clings to wetness and enters and exits the body through
any wet tissue (your mouth, your eyes, the inside of your nose). That’s
why people are wearing masks and eyeshields. They’re like an umbrella
for your body; they keep your droplets in and other people’s droplets
out.

But masks only work if you are wearing them properly. The mask should
cover your face from the bridge of your nose to under your chin, and
should stretch almost to your ears. Be sure there are no gaps — that
sort of defeats the purpose, no?

<span class="g-read-more"> Read More</span> [Tips for Making Your Mask
Work](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/06/25/burst/how-to-get-the-most-out-of-your-mask.html)

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-question-wrap g-1" itemscope="" itemprop="mainEntity" itemtype="https://schema.org/Question">

<div class="g-question">

### What should I consider when choosing a mask?

<div class="g-icon">

\+

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-answer-wrap g-hide-answer" itemscope="" itemprop="acceptedAnswer" itemtype="https://schema.org/Answer">

<div itemprop="text">

There are masks everywhere. There are N95s and respirators, homemade
masks and bandanas. Respirator valves should be avoided, but they do
look cool. Even [Kim
Kardashian](https://www.etonline.com/kim-kardashians-skims-face-masks-are-back-in-stock-shop-before-they-sell-out-again-146705)
has waded in.

There are a few basic things to consider when you’re wearing a mask.

Does it have at least two layers? Good.

If you hold it up to the light, can you see through it? Bad.

Can you blow a candle out through your mask? Bad.

Do you feel mostly OK wearing it for hours at a time? Good.

The most important thing, after finding a mask that fits well without
gapping, is to find a mask that you will wear.

Every brand in the history of clothing, it seems, has [entered the mask
market](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/22/fashion/coronavirus-fashion-face-masks.html).
Spend some time picking out your mask, and find something that works
with your personal style. You should be wearing it whenever you’re out
in public for the foreseeable future.

<span class="g-read-more"> Read More</span> [What’s the Best Material
for a
Mask?](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/coronavirus-homemade-mask-material-DIY-face-mask-ppe.html)

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-question-wrap g-2" itemscope="" itemprop="mainEntity" itemtype="https://schema.org/Question">

<div class="g-question">

### What about gloves? Should I wear them too?

<div class="g-icon">

\+

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-answer-wrap g-hide-answer" itemscope="" itemprop="acceptedAnswer" itemtype="https://schema.org/Answer">

<div itemprop="text">

Not really. Gloves become a second skin. They themselves could become
contaminated (don’t touch your face\!) and depending on how they’re
made, they might have holes.

Gloves may be helpful if someone in your household becomes sick, so you
can reduce the amount of times you have to wash your hands. But you will
have to change the gloves every time you leave their room or interact
with the sick person.

The most effective intervention is still washing your hands thoroughly,
for at least 20 seconds, every time you enter your home.

<span class="g-read-more"> Read More</span> [Don’t Fall for These Myths
About
Coronavirus](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/coronavirus-myths.html)

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-question-wrap g-3" itemscope="" itemprop="mainEntity" itemtype="https://schema.org/Question">

<div class="g-question">

### Why is six feet away the right distance?

<div class="g-icon">

\+

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-answer-wrap g-hide-answer" itemscope="" itemprop="acceptedAnswer" itemtype="https://schema.org/Answer">

<div itemprop="text">

The coronavirus spreads primarily through droplets from your mouth and
nose, especially when you cough or sneeze. Six feet has never been a
magic number that guarantees complete protection. The C.D.C., one of the
organizations using that measure, bases its recommendation on the idea
that most large droplets that people expel when they cough or sneeze
will fall to the ground within six feet.

But some scientists have looked at studies of air flow and are concerned
about smaller particles called aerosols. They suggest that people
consider a number of factors, including their own vulnerability and
whether they are outdoors or in an enclosed room, when deciding whether
six feet is enough distance.

Sneezes, for instance, can launch droplets a lot farther than six feet,
[according to a recent
study](https://jamanetwork.com/journals/jama/fullarticle/2763852).

It's a rule of thumb: You should be safest standing six feet apart
outside, especially when it's windy. But keep a mask on at all times,
even when you think you’re far enough apart.

<span class="g-read-more"> Read More</span> [Stay 6 Feet Apart, We’re
Told. But How Far Can Air Carry
Coronavirus?](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/14/health/coronavirus-six-feet.html)

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-question-wrap g-4" itemscope="" itemprop="mainEntity" itemtype="https://schema.org/Question">

<div class="g-question">

### Does the virus live in clothes and hair?

<div class="g-icon">

\+

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-answer-wrap g-hide-answer" itemscope="" itemprop="acceptedAnswer" itemtype="https://schema.org/Answer">

<div itemprop="text">

Probably not. If you are practicing social distancing and making only
occasional trips to the grocery store or pharmacy, experts say that it’s
not necessary to change clothes or take a shower when you return home.
You should, however, always wash your hands upon entering your home.

The same advice goes for [head and facial
hair](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/21/smarter-living/maybe-consider-shaving-that-pandemic-beard.html):
If you practice social distancing and wash your hands frequently, you
probably don’t need to worry.

<span class="g-read-more"> Read More</span> [Is the Virus on My Clothes?
My Shoes? My Hair? My
Newspaper?](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/17/well/live/coronavirus-contagion-spead-clothes-shoes-hair-newspaper-packages-mail-infectious.html)

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-question-wrap g-5" itemscope="" itemprop="mainEntity" itemtype="https://schema.org/Question">

<div class="g-question">

### President Trump talked about sunlight and ingesting disinfectants helping to kill this coronavirus. What’s the basis of that?

<div class="g-icon">

\+

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-answer-wrap g-hide-answer" itemscope="" itemprop="acceptedAnswer" itemtype="https://schema.org/Answer">

<div itemprop="text">

There is no evidence that sunlight can cure coronavirus on the human
body. Same for disinfectant and bleach. So, do not drink bleach. Do not
inject disinfectant. And do not believe there is some cure for
coronavirus coming from ultraviolet light.

Some forms of ultraviolet light have [killed the virus on
surfaces](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/20/health/coronavirus-masks-reuse.html),
and some businesses are using the [purple glow as a
disinfectant](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/07/science/ultraviolet-light-coronavirus.html)
for surfaces, to good effect. But surfaces are not the human body, and
sunlight or concentrated ultraviolet light will not un-infect you if you
are sick.

<span class="g-read-more"> Read More</span> [Please Do Not Eat
Disinfectant](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/coronavirus-disinfectant-inject-ingest.html)

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-question-wrap g-6" itemscope="" itemprop="mainEntity" itemtype="https://schema.org/Question">

<div class="g-question">

### Can hydroxychloroquine treat the virus?

<div class="g-icon">

\+

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-answer-wrap g-hide-answer" itemscope="" itemprop="acceptedAnswer" itemtype="https://schema.org/Answer">

<div itemprop="text">

There has been a lot of talk about hydroxychloroquine, [a drug used to
treat malaria and autoimmune
diseases](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/hydroxychloroquine-coronavirus.html)
like rheumatoid arthritis and lupus, but a National Institutes of Health
panel has specifically advised against using the combination of
hydroxychloroquine and the antibiotic azithromycin outside of clinical
trials.

A [study of the records of 368 patients in the Veterans Affairs
system](https://www.medrxiv.org/content/10.1101/2020.04.16.20065920v2),
which has yet to be peer-reviewed, found that hydroxychloroquine, with
or without azithromycin, did not help patients avoid the need for
ventilators. And hydroxychloroquine alone was associated with an
increased risk of death.

The study was not a controlled trial, and patients who received the
drugs were sicker to begin with. The authors wrote: “These findings
highlight the importance of awaiting the results of ongoing prospective,
randomized, controlled studies before widespread adoption of these
drugs.”

<span class="g-read-more"> Read More</span> [New U.S. Treatment
Guidelines for Covid-19 Don’t See Much
Progress](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/21/health/nih-covid-19-treatment.html)

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-question-wrap g-7" itemscope="" itemprop="mainEntity" itemtype="https://schema.org/Question">

<div class="g-question">

### I have the coronavirus. What should I expect my recovery to look like?

<div class="g-icon">

\+

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-answer-wrap g-hide-answer" itemscope="" itemprop="acceptedAnswer" itemtype="https://schema.org/Answer">

<div itemprop="text">

First off, we hope you get better soon.

Recovery is sort of a case-by-case basis. Some people show none or few
symptoms, and only find out they have been infected when they test
positive for antibodies. Other people are left with [continuing
shortness of breath, muscle weakness, flashbacks, mental fogginess and
other symptoms months after they first got
sick](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/10/world/europe/coronavirus-italy-recovery.html).
And there’s [a range of
experiences](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/04/us/coronavirus-recovery.html)
in between.

Mara Gay, a member of The Times’s editorial board, [wrote
candidly](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/14/opinion/coronavirus-young-people.html)
about her experience in recovery.

“I am one of the lucky ones. I never needed a ventilator. I survived.
But 27 days later, I still have lingering pneumonia. I use two inhalers,
twice a day. I can’t walk more than a few blocks without stopping,” she
wrote.

Many people recover, but it may take a while. Go easy on yourself, and
be forgiving if your body isn’t performing the way it used to. You
survived a pandemic. That alone is cause for celebration.

<span class="g-read-more"> Read More</span> [Here’s What Recovery From
Covid-19 Looks Like for Many
Survivors](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/01/health/coronavirus-recovery-survivors.html)

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

## How I Can Help

<div class="g-section-wrap g-questions g-body">

<div class="g-question-wrap g-0" itemscope="" itemprop="mainEntity" itemtype="https://schema.org/Question">

<div class="g-question">

### What can I do to stop the spread?

<div class="g-icon">

\+

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-answer-wrap g-hide-answer" itemscope="" itemprop="acceptedAnswer" itemtype="https://schema.org/Answer">

<div itemprop="text">

Wear a mask and stay far away from other people. That’s it. That’s the
tweet.

<span class="g-read-more"> Read More</span> [How NOT to Wear a
Mask](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/08/well/live/coronavirus-face-mask-mistakes.html)

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-question-wrap g-1" itemscope="" itemprop="mainEntity" itemtype="https://schema.org/Question">

<div class="g-question">

### Can I give blood?

<div class="g-icon">

\+

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-answer-wrap g-hide-answer" itemscope="" itemprop="acceptedAnswer" itemtype="https://schema.org/Answer">

<div itemprop="text">

You can. Transfusions are [still
needed](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Ep_tZsoeCO6fLGDmD58CetFzaKk1uUwkAEoa_CQ1p0U/edit?ts=5f0dc4a0)
for cases like organ transplants or complications of childbirth.

The American Red Cross is collecting donations at blood banks, which
have enacted new safety measures to prevent the spread of the
coronavirus. Those measures include checking the temperatures of staff
members and donors before they enter a drive facility, providing hand
sanitizer for use before and during the donation process, enhancing
their disinfection of surfaces and equipment, and spacing beds — when
possible — to enable social distancing between donors.

And even if you’re under a stay-at-home order, donating blood is an
essential need, so public health officials have made an exception for
your trip to the center.

To find a donation center, check the American Association of Blood Banks
[locator,](http://www.aabb.org/tm/donation/Pages/Blood-Bank-Locator.aspx)
visit the Red Cross [website](https://www.redcrossblood.org/) or call
1-800-RED-CROSS.

<span class="g-read-more"> Read More</span> [How to Donate Blood During
the
Crisis](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/19/well/live/coronavirus-blood-donation.html)

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-question-wrap g-2" itemscope="" itemprop="mainEntity" itemtype="https://schema.org/Question">

<div class="g-question">

### I’ve recovered from Covid-19. How do I donate plasma?

<div class="g-icon">

\+

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-answer-wrap g-hide-answer" itemscope="" itemprop="acceptedAnswer" itemtype="https://schema.org/Answer">

<div itemprop="text">

Plasma is, basically, the liquid part of your blood: it’s light yellow
and about 92 percent water. Any antibodies that your body creates are
contained in the plasma. Once you’ve recovered, or convalesced, from a
given virus, those antibodies stick around in your plasma for a certain
amount of time, ready to fight that virus if it comes back.

If you have antibodies, your convalescent plasma can be transfused into
a patient still battling the disease.

To qualify, donors must pass normal blood-donation requirements and be
symptom-free of Covid-19 for at least 14 days, and, in most cases, must
have positive results from a test. (Other restrictions may apply,
depending on the organization.)

Many health care institutions nationwide are involved in plasma
donations, including the Red Cross, so to find a location near you go to
the website for the [National Covid-19 Convalescent Plasma
Project](https://ccpp19.org/) or visit the [Red Cross’s
website](https://www.redcrossblood.org/donate-blood/dlp/plasma-donations-from-recovered-covid-19-patients.html).

<span class="g-read-more"> Read More</span> [What Is Convalescent
Plasma, and Why Do We Care About
It?](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/24/smarter-living/coronavirus-convalescent-plasma-antibodies.html)

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-question-wrap g-3" itemscope="" itemprop="mainEntity" itemtype="https://schema.org/Question">

<div class="g-question">

### Where should I donate money?

<div class="g-icon">

\+

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-answer-wrap g-hide-answer" itemscope="" itemprop="acceptedAnswer" itemtype="https://schema.org/Answer">

<div itemprop="text">

If you are looking to give money to those who need it most, you may want
to consider an organization that provides food or helps with medical
efforts.

Be sure to take care when choosing a charity. The watchdogs [Charity
Navigator](https://www.charitynavigator.org/index.cfm?bay=content.view&cpid=7779&mod=article_inline)
or
[CharityWatch](https://www.charitywatch.org/charity-donating-articles/coronavirus-outbreak?mod=article_inline)
vet organizations.

You can also consider giving to local businesses and families in need
directly. Or helping your neighbors in ways that are [not necessarily
monetary](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/15/smarter-living/wirecutter/5-ways-to-help-during-coronavirus-while-social-distancing.html).

<span class="g-read-more"> Read More</span> [How You Can Help Victims of
the Coronavirus
Pandemic](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/coronavirus-how-to-help-donations-charities.html)

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

## Reopening

<div class="g-section-wrap g-questions g-body">

<div class="g-question-wrap g-0" itemscope="" itemprop="mainEntity" itemtype="https://schema.org/Question">

<div class="g-question">

### My state is reopening. Is it safe to return to life as normal?

<div class="g-icon">

\+

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-answer-wrap g-hide-answer" itemscope="" itemprop="acceptedAnswer" itemtype="https://schema.org/Answer">

<div itemprop="text">

Please practice caution no matter where you live. At this time, it is
just not safe to jump back into the world with two feet, especially if
you are in an area where cases are surging.

And in many states, that's the situation. Many re-openings have been
followed by [a surge of new
cases.](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/07/09/us/coronavirus-cases-reopening-trends.html)

Now a number of states are [pausing plans to
re-open](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/25/us/texas-coronavirus-cases-reopening-Greg-Abbott.html)
or even reimposing restrictions they had lifted earlier.

When you do visit businesses or are otherwise out and about, maintain
your social distance and keep your mask on. Just because Americans are
bored of the pandemic, it doesn’t mean it’s over.

<span class="g-read-more"> Read More</span> [See How All 50 States Are
Reopening (and Closing
Again)](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/states-reopen-map-coronavirus.html)

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-question-wrap g-1" itemscope="" itemprop="mainEntity" itemtype="https://schema.org/Question">

<div class="g-question">

### What businesses are safe to frequent?

<div class="g-icon">

\+

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-answer-wrap g-hide-answer" itemscope="" itemprop="acceptedAnswer" itemtype="https://schema.org/Answer">

<div itemprop="text">

This is a hard question to answer. Different phases of reopening target
different businesses — retail stores, restaurants and bars, salons and
barber shops, houses of worship, gyms, etc.

The increasing moves to lift restrictions — or at least to open up
outdoor spaces like beaches and state parks — reflect the immense
political and societal pressures weighing on the nation’s governors,
even as epidemiologists remain cautious and warn of a second wave of
cases.

In general, think of businesses in terms of temptation. Where are people
going to feel most at ease, and where will they most want to get close
to one another and remove their masks? At a store, you can sort of get
in and get out.

But at businesses that exist for socialization, it’s a lot harder. Bars
can be loud, and alcohol is flowing. Gyms are inherently germy, and
working out in a mask is hard. Outdoor dining in restaurants seems
feasible, but can be tricky: Tables are close, you’re eating so you
cannot keep your mask on, and waiters keep dropping by to check up on
you.

Consider your comfort level with visiting a particular business before
you head out. There may be ways to ease your anxieties, such as calling
in advance to ask about crowds or cleaning procedures.

<span class="g-read-more"> Read More</span> [A Quick Coronavirus Risk
Assessment](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/06/03/burst/coronavirus-risk-gym-surfaces-bike.html)

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-question-wrap g-2" itemscope="" itemprop="mainEntity" itemtype="https://schema.org/Question">

<div class="g-question">

### How should I decide where and how to go to stores?

<div class="g-icon">

\+

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-answer-wrap g-hide-answer" itemscope="" itemprop="acceptedAnswer" itemtype="https://schema.org/Answer">

<div itemprop="text">

This is a hard question, especially because a stagnant economy also
damages the lives and livelihoods of unemployed people. No one wants
another recession, and spending money at [local
businesses](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/18/business/small-business-reopening-coronavirus.html)
is a good way to re-grease the wheels. But no one wants to get sick or
contribute in any way to a second wave either.

[Weigh the gains against the
losses](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/08/dining/takeout-restaurant-ethics-coronavirus.html)
— not just for you, but for everyone. You can find your way back into a
new kind of normal if you approach reopening thoughtfully and apply
ethical guidelines to your behavior.

Before you plan an errand, ask yourself [a few
questions](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/05/06/opinion/coronavirus-us-reopen.html).

1\. Is this necessary? If you’re going to a store for food or supplies,
the answer is yes. But if you are dealing with your emotional health and
the health of your relationships by seeing the people you love, that
answer might also be yes.

2\. Is this necessary now? Again, this might also be a yes. But separate
needs from wants. You might want a haircut. Do you need one? You want to
go sit in a restaurant. Must you?

3\. Can I do this thing in a safer way? This requires some creative
thinking, but the answer is also, probably, yes. You might be missing
your religious community, and your house of worship is back open. Is
there a way to move the service outside, instead of sitting in the
crowded room? You’re desperate to see your friends. And you should —
mental health matters. But can you see them in their backyard, instead
of their living room?

<span class="g-read-more"> Read More</span> [Restarting America Means
People Will Die. So When Do We Do
It?](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/10/magazine/coronavirus-economy-debate.html)

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-question-wrap g-3" itemscope="" itemprop="mainEntity" itemtype="https://schema.org/Question">

<div class="g-question">

### What about getting a haircut?

<div class="g-icon">

\+

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-answer-wrap g-hide-answer" itemscope="" itemprop="acceptedAnswer" itemtype="https://schema.org/Answer">

<div itemprop="text">

You could, if only for the story, [do it
yourself](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/wirecutter/reviews/how-to-cut-your-own-hair/).
A [buzz
cut](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/15/style/self-care/buzz-cut-your-own-hair.html)
is … possible, although perhaps ill-advised. And the
[beard](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/21/smarter-living/maybe-consider-shaving-that-pandemic-beard.html)?
Chances are that it’s [not nearly as cute as you think it
is](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/03/at-home/coronavirus-beards.html).

But fixing a ’do is one of the most beloved types of self-care there is.
Even when you’re visible only on Zoom, split ends and straggly edges can
crimp your confidence. When barbershops reopened in New York City,
people came [rushing
back](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/25/nyregion/nyc-barber-shops-coronavirus.html).

If you go to [a
salon](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/12/fashion/haircut-salon-reopening.html),
make sure you and your hairdresser or barber are both wearing masks.
They have to get close to you, so [be extra
careful](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/06/style/coronavirus-haircuts-barbers.html).
Also, unless you’re getting your hair done outside, make sure they have
fans running and windows open, to keep air moving through the space.

To keep yourself safe, shampoo your hair at home, so your stylist
doesn’t have to bend down over you. Wait for the appointment outside
and keep the haircut time short. Skip the blowdry.

That’s true for getting your hair colored, too. Step outside while the
chemicals are taking, and wash your own hair out.

And, ah, masks. But what about the hair behind my ears? That’s an easy
fix. Either settle for a not-so-close shave this time, or unloop one ear
at a time, holding your mask to your face. Safety first. Vanity second.

<span class="g-read-more"> Read More</span> [5 Swipes for a Low-Risk
Salon
Visit](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/06/17/burst/5-swipes-for-a-low-risk-salon-visit.html)

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-question-wrap g-4" itemscope="" itemprop="mainEntity" itemtype="https://schema.org/Question">

<div class="g-question">

### What about the dentist?

<div class="g-icon">

\+

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-answer-wrap g-hide-answer" itemscope="" itemprop="acceptedAnswer" itemtype="https://schema.org/Answer">

<div itemprop="text">

Taking care of your pearly whites is not just a good beauty habit; it’s
also essential for your health. With all the baking and drinking we’ve
been doing during lockdown, you’re going to need a visit sooner rather
than later. In fact, that’s part of the reason economists are using
dentists as a [bellwether for comfort about reopening writ
large](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/10/upshot/dentists-coronavirus-economic-indicator.html).

[Dentists have
mobilized](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/08/well/live/dental-care-dentistry-teeth-coronavirus.html)
and are ready to accommodate visitors. (Telehealth, for obvious reasons,
isn’t an option for most dental cases.) Dentists and hygienists should
wear head-to-toe personal protective equipment and change between
appointments.

Getting the first appointment of the day may also limit risk, though
many dentists said they are seeing fewer patients so they have more time
to disinfect rooms between visits. But the risk might be more to the
providers than it is to the patients; they keep their mask on while you
take yours off.

Before you go, speak with your dentist about how crucial your check-up
is right now. If cases are rising where you live, maybe check back in
next month if your dental issue can wait.

<span class="g-read-more"> Read More</span> [Is It Safe to Go Back to
the
Dentist?](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/25/health/dentist-coronavirus-safe.html)

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-question-wrap g-5" itemscope="" itemprop="mainEntity" itemtype="https://schema.org/Question">

<div class="g-question">

### What about laundromats?

<div class="g-icon">

\+

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-answer-wrap g-hide-answer" itemscope="" itemprop="acceptedAnswer" itemtype="https://schema.org/Answer">

<div itemprop="text">

In confined spaces, droplets spread. The [C.D.C. suggests
that](https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/prevent-getting-sick/cleaning-disinfection.html),
while doing the laundry of a sick person, you should wear gloves and try
not to shake the clothing, to minimize the possibility of dispersing the
virus through the air. If possible, wash items using the warmest water
setting, and dry thoroughly. But you can wash their laundry with
everyone else’s.

That being said, [the C.D.C. also
says](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/22/health/cdc-coronavirus-touching-surfaces.html)
that surfaces contaminated with droplets of the virus can infect people,
it is “not thought to be the main way the virus spreads.” We know that’s
contradictory information. Safe is always better than sorry, though, and
if you’re living with someone sick, it’s always good to take
precautions.

At the laundromat, if you leave your home to wash your clothes, don’t
hang out in the room between cycles. Sit in your car or lounge outside
as you wait, just for social distancing purposes.

<span class="g-read-more"> Read More</span> [How Should I Do Laundry
Now?](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/26/style/how-to-do-laundry-coronavirus.html)

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-question-wrap g-6" itemscope="" itemprop="mainEntity" itemtype="https://schema.org/Question">

<div class="g-question">

### How about gyms?

<div class="g-icon">

\+

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-answer-wrap g-hide-answer" itemscope="" itemprop="acceptedAnswer" itemtype="https://schema.org/Answer">

<div itemprop="text">

By their very nature, athletic facilities like gyms tend to be germy,
and gym equipment can be difficult to sanitize. In [a study published
earlier this year](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/31660785/),
researchers found drug-resistant bacteria, flu virus and other pathogens
on about 25 percent of the surfaces they tested in four different
athletic training facilities.

If your gym is open and you plan to go, disinfect any surfaces that you
touch. Wash your hands frequently, or use hand sanitizer. When spraying
a disinfectant, [give it a fews minutes to kill
germs](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/06/well/live/coronavirus-cleaning-cleaners-disinfectants-home.html)
before wiping. Clean any grime or dust off surfaces first. Once you're
done with that machine, disinfect it again for the next person.

But, it’s summer. Maybe just exercise outside instead? Or, there are
many exercise classes streaming online. Set up a corner of your home,
lay out a yoga mat, and stream those instead.

<span class="g-read-more"> Read More</span> [Is It Safe to Go Back to
the
Gym?](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/13/well/move/coronavirus-gym-safety.html)

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

## Socializing and Friends

<div class="g-section-wrap g-questions g-body">

<div class="g-question-wrap g-0" itemscope="" itemprop="mainEntity" itemtype="https://schema.org/Question">

<div class="g-question">

### Why is it safer to spend time together outside?

<div class="g-icon">

\+

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-answer-wrap g-hide-answer" itemscope="" itemprop="acceptedAnswer" itemtype="https://schema.org/Answer">

<div itemprop="text">

[Outdoor
gatherings](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/15/us/coronavirus-what-to-do-outside.html)
lower risk because wind disperses viral droplets, and sunlight can kill
some of the virus. Open spaces prevent the virus from building up in
concentrated amounts and being inhaled, which can happen when infected
people exhale in a confined space for long stretches of time, said Dr.
Julian W. Tang, a virologist at the University of Leicester.

And, since it’s summer, outside is fun.
[Picnics](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/09/dining/coronavirus-how-to-have-a-picnic-safely.html)
are a great way to share a meal with friends — just bring separate
blankets and utensils, and sit far enough apart. If you don’t want to
cook, [takeout and delivery are
safe](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/27/dining/takeout-delivery-safety-coronavirus.html),
and will support the local economy. Getting around can be tough without
a car, but there are ways to [protect yourself on public
transportation](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/08/nyregion/mta-subway-riding-health-coronavirus.html),
if you need to take it.

<span class="g-read-more"> Read More</span> [How Safe Are Outdoor
Gatherings?](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/03/well/live/coronavirus-spread-outdoors-party.html)

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-question-wrap g-1" itemscope="" itemprop="mainEntity" itemtype="https://schema.org/Question">

<div class="g-question">

### What are superspreaders?

<div class="g-icon">

\+

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-answer-wrap g-hide-answer" itemscope="" itemprop="acceptedAnswer" itemtype="https://schema.org/Answer">

<div itemprop="text">

A superspreader is someone who is really good at passing on the
coronavirus to others.

The good news is: they’re rare.

But superspreaders exist. There was that [Texas birthday
party](https://apnews.com/d9a6ca7eef083315648003509d07515a), where one
man reportedly infected 17 members of his family. What about [Biogen
employees](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/12/us/coronavirus-biogen-boston-superspreader.html),
who infected people after a healthcare conference? And there was that
[Connecticut
soirée](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/23/us/coronavirus-westport-connecticut-party-zero.html),
dubbed “Party Zero.”

Now researchers are trying to figure out why so few people spread the
virus to so many. For the most part, they’re trying to answer three
questions: Who are the superspreaders? When does superspreading take
place? And where?

The answer to these questions is, for the most part,
[unknown](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/30/science/how-coronavirus-spreads.html).
As with everything coronavirus-related, assume the worst and be
hypervigilant.

<span class="g-read-more"> Read More</span> [Most People With
Coronavirus Won’t Spread It. Why Do a Few Infect
Many?](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/30/science/how-coronavirus-spreads.html)

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-question-wrap g-2" itemscope="" itemprop="mainEntity" itemtype="https://schema.org/Question">

<div class="g-question">

### How should I throw a party now that reopening is possible?

<div class="g-icon">

\+

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-answer-wrap g-hide-answer" itemscope="" itemprop="acceptedAnswer" itemtype="https://schema.org/Answer">

<div itemprop="text">

Start with: Should you throw a party? Is it necessary? Now? And is a
party the best way to celebrate together?

Again, the answers to these questions may very well be: yes. An elderly
relative has a big birthday. You are getting married (more on this
later).

So. Invite a few people that you trust. Will they keep their masks on?
And, if they forget, will they be open to gentle reminders?

As for food and activities, keep it outside. Suggest that everyone bring
their own blanket, food and utensils. A “bring your own dinner” is
better than communal food, but if you go up one at a time to serve
yourselves, you should be OK. You can even [splash
around](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/06/at-home/coronavirus-cool-off-even-without-a-deep-end.html),
albeit at a safe distance.

If these restrictions still give you anxiety, [try a party on
Zoom](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/02/smarter-living/zoom-birthday-party.html).
It’s honestly pretty fun.

<span class="g-read-more"> Read More</span> [How to Have a Picnic,
Safely](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/09/dining/coronavirus-how-to-have-a-picnic-safely.html)

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-question-wrap g-3" itemscope="" itemprop="mainEntity" itemtype="https://schema.org/Question">

<div class="g-question">

### What if I have to be indoors in a small space, like an elevator?

<div class="g-icon">

\+

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-answer-wrap g-hide-answer" itemscope="" itemprop="acceptedAnswer" itemtype="https://schema.org/Answer">

<div itemprop="text">

Are there stairs? Can you climb them? If not, or it’s too many flights,
wait until the next car with no one in it.

Wait until you can ride the elevator on your own. But since droplets can
hang in the air long after you leave, wear your mask at all times.

And, no talking. Keeping your mouth shut lowers the risk of you spewing
coronavirus droplets into the contained space.

<span class="g-read-more"> Read More</span> [Going Up? Not So Fast:
Strict New Rules to Govern Elevator
Culture](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/26/health/coronavirus-elevator-reopen.html)

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-question-wrap g-4" itemscope="" itemprop="mainEntity" itemtype="https://schema.org/Question">

<div class="g-question">

### I actually … like … not seeing people. Help?

<div class="g-icon">

\+

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-answer-wrap g-hide-answer" itemscope="" itemprop="acceptedAnswer" itemtype="https://schema.org/Answer">

<div itemprop="text">

That’s really normal. For many people, the coronavirus has offered a
strange respite from the pace of the world. Many of us, also, are more
introverted than we previously thought.

Instead of self-flagellating, use this as an opportunity to reset.
[Politely decline Zoom
calls](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/20/smarter-living/coronavirus-zoom-facetime-fatigue.html)
if you’re tired of them. Don’t feel like you need to eat outside with
someone [until you’re
ready](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/09/style/coronavirus-backyard-entertaining.html).
It is a good time to take stock: Who and what is important to me, and
who and what do I want in my life after all of this?

Also, it has never been easier to politely decline plans. Just tell
someone you’re wiped out from life right now. Real friends will
understand.

<span class="g-read-more"> Read More</span> [Gotten Used to Quarantine?
Us
Too](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/27/at-home/manage-your-coronavirus-anxiety.html)

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

## Eating and Drinking

<div class="g-section-wrap g-questions g-body">

<div class="g-question-wrap g-0" itemscope="" itemprop="mainEntity" itemtype="https://schema.org/Question">

<div class="g-question">

### I am not really eating normally. What should I do?

<div class="g-icon">

\+

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-answer-wrap g-hide-answer" itemscope="" itemprop="acceptedAnswer" itemtype="https://schema.org/Answer">

<div itemprop="text">

If you are eating differently, you might be able to manage the change on
your own. If you are snacking a lot, that’s OK. But if it bothers you,
try to assess whether you are actually hungry and, if so, [try to add
fruits and vegetables into your
routine](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/20/well/eat/coronavirus-diet-metabolic-health.html),
if you can.

If you’re regularly not eating enough, find something you can tolerate.
Schedule your mealtimes like any other essential appointment. You can
also set alarms as reminders to drink some water, or to eat something.

But eating disorders can be
[serious](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/03/sports/athletes-eating-disorders.html),
even life threatening. Roughly [one in 10
Americans](http://eatingdisorderscoalition.org.s208556.gridserver.com/couch/uploads/file/Eating%20Disorders%20Fact%20Sheet.pdf)
struggle with disordered eating, and the pandemic has created new
hurdles for those managing difficult [relationships with
food](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/12/well/mind/i-have-an-eating-disorder-but-cant-escape-the-kitchen.html).

“When the world feels out of control, people want to have control over
something,” said Jessica Gold, a psychiatrist at Washington University
in St. Louis who treats patients with eating and other mental health
disorders. “Often, it’s what you put in your mouth.”

So if you are struggling, speak with people you trust and consider
seeking professional help.

<span class="g-read-more"> Read More</span> [Disordered Eating in a
Disordered
Time](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/05/health/eating-disorders-coronavirus.html)

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-question-wrap g-1" itemscope="" itemprop="mainEntity" itemtype="https://schema.org/Question">

<div class="g-question">

### I am drinking a lot. Should I be worried?

<div class="g-icon">

\+

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-answer-wrap g-hide-answer" itemscope="" itemprop="acceptedAnswer" itemtype="https://schema.org/Answer">

<div itemprop="text">

Drinking is a hard one. If you imbibe, it makes a lot of sense that you
are drinking more now. The coronavirus can be both stressful and boring,
and drinking can dull the stress of waiting. New Yorkers, for example,
[flocked to buy cheap
wine](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/23/nyregion/coronavirus-liquor-stores-nyc.html).

And although you might have normally had wine with friends, [drinking
alone](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/16/dining/drinks/drinking-alone.html)
— especially if you live alone — is not inherently frightening.

But substance abuse experts say they are worried that the pandemic could
also trigger more serious drinking problems and even create new ones for
people who have never struggled with dependency before. And [without
regular
meetings](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/02/nyregion/coronavirus-alcoholics-anonymous-online.html),
alcoholics are [struggling to stay
sober](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/26/health/coronavirus-alcoholics-drugs-online.html)
without the help of counselors and group support.

There is no right answer as to when it’s time for you to be worried.
Some questions, though, might help you get a clearer sense of the
problem. These are drawn from several self-administered quizzes put out
by rehabilitation facilities and medical centers, but are mostly common
sense gut checks.

First, just try to quantify your drinking. How many days a week do you
drink? When you do drink, how many drinks do you have? Is there a time
of day that you most want to drink? Can you sleep without a drink?

What about your attitude toward drinking? Do you get angry or irritable
when someone tries to take your alcohol away, or suggest you might have
a problem? Are you secretive about drinking?

And, primarily, have your drinking patterns changed dramatically since
the pandemic started? Have you had major life changes — beyond lockdown
— like losing your job or the death of a relative?

If your answer to some, or many of these questions, is yes, it might be
time to step back and reconsider. If it continues to escalate, talk with
friends, family and doctors about what professional help might look
like.

<span class="g-read-more"> Read More</span> [Quarantini Anyone? When
Everyday Drinking Becomes a
Problem](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/30/us/30IHW-drinking-women-coronavirus-quarantine-habit.html)

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-question-wrap g-2" itemscope="" itemprop="mainEntity" itemtype="https://schema.org/Question">

<div class="g-question">

### Restaurants are open and I really do not want to cook anymore. What should I consider?

<div class="g-icon">

\+

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-answer-wrap g-hide-answer" itemscope="" itemprop="acceptedAnswer" itemtype="https://schema.org/Answer">

<div itemprop="text">

Tantalizing, right? And [spending money in local
businesses](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/23/dining/outdoor-restaurants-nyc-coronavirus.html)
is a great way to jumpstart the economy.

However, an open restaurant doesn’t mean a [safe
restaurant](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/15/dining/restaurant-opening-safety-coronavirus.html),
either for you or for other people. And a quick look at cities and
states that reopened their public spaces earlier suggests that it’s not
safe to go without a mask, or to be around those who aren’t wearing
them.

Already, open restaurants have been linked to viral spread. The food
itself if not the problem. It’s customers, whose laughter and talking
can spew viral droplets throughout the area and all over waiters and
staff.

If you want to eat restaurant food, consider getting it as take out.
That way you can support a local business, see your friends and avoid
having to cook — without as many ethical or safety concerns.

<span class="g-read-more"> Read More</span> [I’m Not Ready to Go Back to
Restaurants. Is
Anyone?](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/30/dining/restaurant-risks-coronavirus.html)

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-question-wrap g-3" itemscope="" itemprop="mainEntity" itemtype="https://schema.org/Question">

<div class="g-question">

### Why are bars linked to outbreaks?

<div class="g-icon">

\+

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-answer-wrap g-hide-answer" itemscope="" itemprop="acceptedAnswer" itemtype="https://schema.org/Answer">

<div itemprop="text">

Think about a bar. Alcohol is flowing. It can be loud, but it’s
definitely intimate, and you often need to lean in close to hear your
friend. And strangers have way, way fewer reservations about coming up
to people in a bar. That’s sort of the point of a bar. Feeling good and
close to strangers.

It’s no surprise, then, that [bars have been linked to outbreaks in
several
states](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/25/well/live/coronavirus-spread-bars-transmission.html).
Louisiana health officials have tied [at least 100 coronavirus
cases](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/22/us/new-coronavirus-phase.html)
to bars in the Tigerland nightlife district in Baton Rouge. Minnesota
has traced 328 recent cases to bars across the state. [In
Idaho](https://www.boisestatepublicradio.org/post/bars-large-venues-close-ada-county-after-surge-coronavirus-prompts-rollback#stream/0),
health officials shut down bars in Ada County after reporting clusters
of infections among young adults who had visited several bars in
downtown Boise.

Governors in
[California](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/01/us/california-coronavirus-reopening.html),
[Texas and
Arizona](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/14/us/coronavirus-united-states.html),
where coronavirus cases are soaring, have ordered hundreds of newly
reopened bars to shut down. Less than two weeks after Colorado’s bars
reopened at limited capacity, Gov. Jared Polis [ordered them to
close](https://www.denverpost.com/2020/06/30/colorado-bars-closed-coronavirus/).

To understand the connection between bars and outbreaks, consider a
simple question: Are you your most vigilant self after a few drinks?

<span class="g-read-more"> Read More</span> [All Eyes on Bars as Virus
Surges and Americans Go
Drinking](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/02/us/coronavirus-bars.html)

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-question-wrap g-4" itemscope="" itemprop="mainEntity" itemtype="https://schema.org/Question">

<div class="g-question">

### Ok, I’ll bite. What is sourdough and how do I start it?

<div class="g-icon">

\+

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-answer-wrap g-hide-answer" itemscope="" itemprop="acceptedAnswer" itemtype="https://schema.org/Answer">

<div itemprop="text">

Baking more? We see you. During the lockdown, [stress baking
skyrocketed](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/30/style/bread-baking-coronavirus.html).
Everyone and their mother was suddenly a bread aficionado. Baking
necessities [like flour and
yeast](https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/voraciously/wp/2020/03/24/people-are-baking-bread-like-crazy-and-now-were-running-out-of-flour-and-yeast/)
were in short supply and bread makers [sold
out](https://people.com/food/bread-makers-viral-amazon/) across the
internet.

People made [focaccia
gardens](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/24/dining/focaccia-bread.html).
They made [mason jar ice
cream](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/09/at-home/virus-make-ice-cream-in-a-mason-jar.html).
And, yes, they made sourdough.

Basically, sourdough is a type of bread that rises due to natural
fermentation. Instead of adding instant commercial yeast to your dough,
you add parts of a live bacterial culture that you feed and keep in your
fridge. That’s called the “starter.” Once a baker has a starter, she can
make endless loaves, provided she has flour and a can-do attitude.

By this point, you probably know someone who has a starter: put a blast
out to your followers on social media. If not, that’s an easy fix. You
can buy one online, [or make one
yourself](https://www.kingarthurflour.com/recipes/sourdough-starter-recipe).
Just leave some flour and water out for a few days, and yeast will start
to ferment. You’ll know it’s ready when it smells, well, sour.

<span class="g-read-more"> Read More</span> [How to Make Sourdough
Bread](https://cooking.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/guides/59-how-to-make-sourdough-bread)

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-question-wrap g-5" itemscope="" itemprop="mainEntity" itemtype="https://schema.org/Question">

<div class="g-question">

### What should I consider when ordering food?

<div class="g-icon">

\+

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-answer-wrap g-hide-answer" itemscope="" itemprop="acceptedAnswer" itemtype="https://schema.org/Answer">

<div itemprop="text">

Both takeout and delivery are safer than eating in restaurants, because
social distancing is possible. And, good news, packaging has a low risk
of transmitting the disease. Although the C.D.C. says that surfaces
contaminated with droplets of the virus can infect people, the agency
notes that it is “not thought to be the main way the virus spreads.”

Delivery, though, is slightly safer because of contactless delivery,
which lets workers leave food at your door, said Ben Chapman, a
professor and food safety specialist at North Carolina State University.
Since the ordering and payment can be done electronically, customers and
workers never need to touch.

If you choose to pick your food up, ask the restaurant staff member to
put the food down and walk away before you pick it up. Wear a mask.
Stand far apart from other patrons. And whether you choose takeout or
delivery, try to pay in advance. You can do it electronically, which
will keep both you and the workers safer.

<span class="g-read-more"> Read More</span> [Is Takeout and Delivery
Food
Safe?](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/27/dining/takeout-delivery-safety-coronavirus.html)

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

## Mental Health

<div class="g-section-wrap g-questions g-body">

<div class="g-question-wrap g-0" itemscope="" itemprop="mainEntity" itemtype="https://schema.org/Question">

<div class="g-question">

### As the world is reopening, I’m anxious. What should I do?

<div class="g-icon">

\+

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-answer-wrap g-hide-answer" itemscope="" itemprop="acceptedAnswer" itemtype="https://schema.org/Answer">

<div itemprop="text">

Lots of people with anxiety are struggling more than usual, and lots of
people who haven't been anxious before are dealing with symptoms. With
different messages coming from varying levels of the government, people
can be left feeling as if there are few reliable answers about what
precautions they should take or without a clear sense of whether things
are under control.

“Uncertainty drives anxiety,” said Dr. Ellen Hendriksen, a clinical
psychologist at Boston University and the author of [“How to Be
Yourself: Quiet Your Inner Critic and Rise Above Social
Anxiety.](https://us.macmillan.com/books/9781250161703)” “Anxiety is
rooted in not knowing what is going to happen.”

Just because the world is reopening, you don’t have to start living your
life as if it’s before the pandemic. Instead of focusing on what
frightens you, think of the things that you want to have back in your
life that would enrich and fulfill you. Ease back in with activities
that you actually want to do, and view this time as an opportunity,
weighing whether you want to continue past relationships and activities.

Feel free, also, to tell people what your boundaries are, or name the
awkwardness. You might just ask what the other person feels comfortable
with. “Should we elbow bump? Do you want to go first? I guess I’ll take
the next elevator, right?”

“A problem shared is a problem halved,” Dr. Hendriksen said. “Naming the
uncertainty is helpful because it shatters the illusion that there is a
right way to do this.”

<span class="g-read-more"> Read More</span> [Gotten Used to Quarantine?
Us
Too](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/27/at-home/manage-your-coronavirus-anxiety.html)

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-question-wrap g-1" itemscope="" itemprop="mainEntity" itemtype="https://schema.org/Question">

<div class="g-question">

### Am I depressed? Or just in a bad mood?

<div class="g-icon">

\+

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-answer-wrap g-hide-answer" itemscope="" itemprop="acceptedAnswer" itemtype="https://schema.org/Answer">

<div itemprop="text">

Most experts expect to see rates of depression and other psychological
disorders increase in the [coming
months](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/18/health/coronavirus-america-future.html),
as the pandemic continues. And yet, [a majority of
those](https://www.sciencedaily.com/releases/2015/03/150311160240.htm)
who seek treatment for depression will improve if they persist.

“I don’t know anyone right now that’s not having depression-like
symptoms,” said Luana Marques, a psychologist at Harvard Medical School
and the president of the [Anxiety and Depression Association of
America](https://adaa.org/). “It’s hard to keep going when our brains
are constantly on fight or flight. It makes people really tired. If
you’re having trouble concentrating or getting out of bed, it’s not
abnormal. It’s an evolutionary response to a threat.”

Familiarize yourself with depression’s [physical and mental
markers](https://www.mayoclinic.org/diseases-conditions/depression/expert-answers/clinical-depression/faq-20057770).
Or take a [self-diagnostic
test](https://www.med.umich.edu/1info/FHP/practiceguides/depress/phq-9.pdf).
When depression isn’t severe, a self-care routine may be enough.

If you are having thoughts of suicide, call the National Suicide
Prevention Lifeline at 1-800-273-TALK (1-800-273-8255) or go to
[SpeakingOfSuicide.com/resources](http://speakingofsuicide.com/resources)
for a list of additional resources.

<span class="g-read-more"> Read More</span> [How to Tell if It’s More
Than Just a Bad
Mood](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/21/well/coronavirus-depression.html)

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-question-wrap g-2" itemscope="" itemprop="mainEntity" itemtype="https://schema.org/Question">

<div class="g-question">

### What about meditation?

<div class="g-icon">

\+

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-answer-wrap g-hide-answer" itemscope="" itemprop="acceptedAnswer" itemtype="https://schema.org/Answer">

<div itemprop="text">

Meditating is a great way to take care of your stress. If you’re a
novice [looking to
start](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/22/at-home/how-to-start-meditating.html),
try for just five minutes every day. There’s no right way to do it, but
a consistent practice is a good way to build your relaxation muscles.
Apps can be helpful:
[Wirecutter](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/wirecutter/), a product
recommendation site that’s owned by The New York Times, recently named
the meditation app [Headspace](https://www.headspace.com/) (which costs
$69.99 a year, after a free two-week trial) as its top choice.

Or, just try to find a comfortable space and breathe through your
distress. Breathe from your belly, imagining your breath moving up from
the depths of your body. Slow it down, close your eyes, and feel your
lungs expanding and deflating.

<span class="g-read-more"> Read More</span> [How to Start
Meditating](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/22/at-home/how-to-start-meditating.html)

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-question-wrap g-3" itemscope="" itemprop="mainEntity" itemtype="https://schema.org/Question">

<div class="g-question">

### How do I find a therapist?

<div class="g-icon">

\+

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-answer-wrap g-hide-answer" itemscope="" itemprop="acceptedAnswer" itemtype="https://schema.org/Answer">

<div itemprop="text">

Finding a therapist can be difficult, [even under normal
circumstances](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2017/07/17/smarter-living/how-to-find-the-right-therapist.html).

First, figure out what your insurance is and how you can pay for it. The
logistical structures will make it a lot easier to move forward, and
narrow down your choices for you. Of course, that’s not always an option
— therapy can be time-intensive and expensive. You may not have
insurance. If it is possible for you, though, here’s a quick guide.

Then, [determine what type of professional you
need](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/13/well/mind/prospective-therapist-interview-questions-online-virus.html).
If you’re mostly looking to talk, a psychologist is a safe bet. Keep in
mind that they do not prescribe medication.

If you’re suffering from a specific ailment — panic attacks, depression,
post-traumatic stress disorder or obsessive-compulsive disorder, bipolar
disorder, major depressive disorder, sociopathy, borderline personality
disorder or
[schizophrenia](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2016/01/28/health/schizophrenia-cause-synaptic-pruning-brain-psychiatry.html)
— see a psychiatrist or a psychologist with considerable experience in
that specialty.

Then, set up a few preliminary calls and consultations. The
getting-to-know-you session is often free, and you should take it as an
opportunity to talk about what you are looking for from therapy, and how
they approach their practice.

You might click with someone, the way you would with a friend. And
there’s nothing wrong with trying a few initial appointments to learn
about your own wants and desires. [Remote options are now widely
available](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/13/well/mind/prospective-therapist-interview-questions-online-virus.html),
so you can still attend sessions while [staying
distant](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/09/well/mind/teletherapy-mental-health-coronavirus.html).

<span class="g-read-more"> Read More</span> [How to Find the Right
Therapist](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2017/07/17/smarter-living/how-to-find-the-right-therapist.html)

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-question-wrap g-4" itemscope="" itemprop="mainEntity" itemtype="https://schema.org/Question">

<div class="g-question">

### I’m having trouble sleeping. What should I do?

<div class="g-icon">

\+

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-answer-wrap g-hide-answer" itemscope="" itemprop="acceptedAnswer" itemtype="https://schema.org/Answer">

<div itemprop="text">

While there’s no single trick that works for everyone, one thing you can
try now to [improve your
sleep](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/25/style/self-care/sleep-tips-benefits-coronavirus.html)
is setting up a consistent schedule. That means sticking to a regular
bedtime and wake time.
[Melatonin](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/24/well/melatonin-sleep-aid-coronavirus.html)
is also worth considering.

Try to go 90 minutes without any screentime before bed — that means no
emails, social media or watching TV. (Read a book, take a nice shower,
etc.) You can also take baby steps, beginning with 15 minutes, then
working your way up.

Working out, whether that means taking a socially distant walk or doing
an at-home routine, can help tire you out and dispel extra nervous
energy. Taking a warm shower or bath 90 minutes before lights out may
also help prime you for a better night’s sleep. And be sure to nix the
coffee, alcohol and any food before bed — these things don’t promote
quality rest.

<span class="g-read-more"> Read More</span> [How to Get More Sleep
Tonight](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/25/style/self-care/sleep-tips-benefits-coronavirus.html)

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-question-wrap g-5" itemscope="" itemprop="mainEntity" itemtype="https://schema.org/Question">

<div class="g-question">

### How can I stay motivated to work?

<div class="g-icon">

\+

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-answer-wrap g-hide-answer" itemscope="" itemprop="acceptedAnswer" itemtype="https://schema.org/Answer">

<div itemprop="text">

As the weeks morph into months, the ennui of coronavirus-induced
isolation can undermine our enthusiasm for getting anything done.

If that sounds familiar, remember: Doing what’s meaningful — acting on
what really matters to a person — is the antidote to burnout.

Motivation might best be fostered by dividing large goals into small,
specific tasks that are more easily accomplished, but not so simple that
they are boring and soon abandoned. Avoid perfectionism — the ultimate
goal could become an insurmountable challenge. As each task is
completed, reward yourself with virtual brownie points (not chips or
cookies\!), then go on to the next one.

<span class="g-read-more"> Read More</span> [How to Maintain Motivation
in a
Pandemic](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/18/well/mind/motivation-pandemic-coronavirus.html)

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

## Relationships

<div class="g-section-wrap g-questions g-body">

<div class="g-question-wrap g-0" itemscope="" itemprop="mainEntity" itemtype="https://schema.org/Question">

<div class="g-question">

### Help\! I’m frustrated with my partner.

<div class="g-icon">

\+

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-answer-wrap g-hide-answer" itemscope="" itemprop="acceptedAnswer" itemtype="https://schema.org/Answer">

<div itemprop="text">

That makes sense. If you’re
[cohabitating](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/26/style/coronavirus-living-together-callout.html),
you could be in a tough spot. [If you’re
not](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/30/smarter-living/coronavirus-long-distance-relationships.html),
you’ve probably had to figure out ways to see each other — or not — that
feel safe and nurturing for you and the people around you.

Or as Eric Spiegelman, a podcasting executive based in Los Angeles,
[tweeted in
April](https://twitter.com/ericspiegelman/status/1246488909221003264?lang=en),
“My wife and I play this fun game during quarantine, it’s called ‘Why
Are You Doing It That Way?’ and there are no winners.”

No matter who you are or how you are interacting, make sure you take
care of yourself first. Then, make a plan. If you are both working from
home, when can you take time to care for each other and feel normal and
romantic again? What rituals can you implement to separate day from
night, roommates from lovers? You might just have to impose boundaries.

If you were both at work before the pandemic, separately, during the
day, you probably didn’t talk for 14 waking hours straight. Build in
time apart, as if you really were at the office, so seeing each other is
a nice break at the end of the day, [rather than a droning
grind](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/08/parenting/coronavirus-marriage-relationships.html).

“The traditional marriage vows are ‘for better or for worse,’” said Jean
Fitzpatrick, a [relationship therapist](https://therapistnyc.com/) based
in Manhattan. “This is for worse. And so how do we navigate a time like
this? Our relationships will either grow as a result, or they will be
harmed.”

But this time together might actually make you closer. So many parts of
our lives have changed without our consent, and we may be feeling a kind
of grief about it. Some people may not want to complain to their
partners about these bad feelings, but if you don’t honestly share these
feelings, you two might feel a sense of disconnect. Lean on each other
right now.

And, you can still do nice, intentional, romantic things. Get dressed
up. Foot rubs. Chocolate. You’ll be OK.

<span class="g-read-more"> Read More</span> [How to Help Your
Relationship Survive a
Lockdown](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/03/smarter-living/coronavirus-relationship-advice.html)

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-question-wrap g-1" itemscope="" itemprop="mainEntity" itemtype="https://schema.org/Question">

<div class="g-question">

### My partner wants to go out more than I do. What should we do?

<div class="g-icon">

\+

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-answer-wrap g-hide-answer" itemscope="" itemprop="acceptedAnswer" itemtype="https://schema.org/Answer">

<div itemprop="text">

You are going to have to work together to weigh each other’s needs. One
partner might have parents who are older and at higher risk of
complications from the coronavirus; the other might be an extrovert who
thrives on being around other people and is, emotionally, at a breaking
point.

Remember that you’re on the same team. “It’s not, ‘My needs versus your
needs, and let’s negotiate,’ but asking the question and having the
posture of: ‘What is best for our relationship?’” said Jennifer Bullock,
a [psychotherapist based in
Philadelphia](https://www.letsdevelopphilly.com/).

Several psychologists and counselors recommended presenting a united
front when explaining shared decisions to friends and family. Any sort
of “I would, but he’s afraid” seeds resentment and can amplify the
problem far past the boundaries of your own home.

In any fraught situation, sit down with your partner and listen. Instead
of offering rebuttals, try to treat it more like an interview about
where he or she is coming from. Ask open-ended questions — which can’t
be answered with a simple “yes” or “no.” You could try: “How should we
approach our safety when I go back to the office?”

But remember, this is a pandemic. If one person is seriously scared
about their health or the health of their family, their needs might take
priority. Ultimately, your well-being and others’ should take
precedence.

<span class="g-read-more"> Read More</span> [Tackle Reopening Choices as
a
Couple](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/11/at-home/couples-coronavirus-pandemic.html)

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-question-wrap g-2" itemscope="" itemprop="mainEntity" itemtype="https://schema.org/Question">

<div class="g-question">

### How do I date during this time?

<div class="g-icon">

\+

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-answer-wrap g-hide-answer" itemscope="" itemprop="acceptedAnswer" itemtype="https://schema.org/Answer">

<div itemprop="text">

That’s a tough one.

By nature, pandemic dating is much more serious than any other type of
dating. Even if you feel willing to take the risk, you’re basically
co-mingling your [quarantine
pods](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/09/parenting/coronavirus-pod-family.html)
when you make out. That doesn’t mean that you have to marry the person,
but it does reframe the pace of everything.

There’s something sort of nice, though, about [taking it
slow](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/21/style/first-date-during-quarantine-coronavirus.html).
Start with a socially distanced walk with masks or a [video
chat](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/18/nyregion/coronavirus-dating-video.html),
maybe. Get to know them. If you are going to be physically intimate,
you’ll need to have frank and honest conversations about your limits
and your living situations.

Now, though, [sex is way more
complicated](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/11/well/live/coronavirus-sex-dating-masks.html).
A number of public health agencies have offered [tips for dating and sex
during the
pandemic](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/20/world/netherlands-sex-buddies-coronavirus.html),
but the New York City health department has recently updated its [Safer
Sex and Covid-19 fact
sheet](https://www1.nyc.gov/assets/doh/downloads/pdf/imm/covid-sex-guidance.pdf)
with more-detailed and descriptive advice. The new guidelines still say
that “you are your safest sex partner,” and that the “next safest
partner” is someone in your household.

Some couples are wearing masks during the deed; others are getting
tested before getting intimate. The only sure thing is that this is
going to be a bumpy year for single people.

One of the good things about dating during quarantine, though, is that
it’s cheaper. Two drinks might be $25. A video chat with your own wine
is much less.

<span class="g-read-more"> Read More</span> [How Coronavirus Is Changing
the Dating Game for the
Better](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/07/well/mind/dating-coronavirus-love-relationships.html)

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-question-wrap g-3" itemscope="" itemprop="mainEntity" itemtype="https://schema.org/Question">

<div class="g-question">

### I’m worried that I, or my friend, might be suffering domestic abuse. What should I do?

<div class="g-icon">

\+

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-answer-wrap g-hide-answer" itemscope="" itemprop="acceptedAnswer" itemtype="https://schema.org/Answer">

<div itemprop="text">

If you are in danger, call the National Domestic Violence Hotline:
1-800-799-7233.

This is a problem that is affecting people [across the
world](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/06/world/coronavirus-domestic-violence.html).
Since the pandemic started, abusers and their families are often stuck
in the same house, and tensions are running high. Doctors and advocates
for victims are seeing signs of an increase in violence at home. They
are hearing accounts of people lashing out, particularly at women and
children.

“No one can leave,” said Kim Foxx, the chief prosecutor in Chicago.
“You’re literally mandating that people who probably should not be
together in the same space stay.”

Across the country, hotlines are seeing increased traffic, with calls
and text messages mounting. But in many places, [reports are
dropping](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/17/nyregion/new-york-city-domestic-violence-coronavirus.html).
That’s not because abuse is falling, officials say. Instead, it’s
because people are having a harder time reporting. [Reports of child
abuse cases are
falling](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/09/nyregion/coronavirus-nyc-child-abuse.html),
which is also worrisome.

Be careful when reaching out for help, especially if your partner
monitors your phone. Maybe ask a friend to call for you, or use their
online chat tool.

<span class="g-read-more"> Read More</span> [Domestic Violence Calls
Mount as Restrictions Linger: ‘No One Can
Leave’](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/15/us/domestic-violence-coronavirus.html)

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

## Parenting Help

<div class="g-section-wrap g-questions g-body">

<div class="g-question-wrap g-0" itemscope="" itemprop="mainEntity" itemtype="https://schema.org/Question">

<div class="g-question">

### How should I explain this to my kids? How is their mental health?

<div class="g-icon">

\+

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-answer-wrap g-hide-answer" itemscope="" itemprop="acceptedAnswer" itemtype="https://schema.org/Answer">

<div itemprop="text">

Before you talk to your children, it’s important to [understand your own
anxiety](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/17/parenting/coronavirus-kids-talk.html)
and keep it in check. If your child is worried about the coronavirus,
listen to him or her, rather than respond with comments like, “It’ll be
fine.” Dismissive reactions can make children feel like they’re not
being heard, said Abi Gewirtz, a clinical psychologist and professor at
the University of Minnesota.

Talking about the pandemic and its impact may help avoid the [harmful
effects of
stress](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/20/us/coronavirus-young-people-emotional-toll.html).
Help your kids understand that there are things they can do to help
others — like staying home whenever possible and wearing a mask when
they go out. Kids feel good when they know they are helping solve a
problem.

Also, avoid making assumptions. While we may be struggling with schools
being closed, kids could be rejoicing in it. We might assume our kids
miss their friends, but they may appreciate having more time with us.
And some who were dealing with bullying or social challenges at school
may be relieved to not have to see other kids.

<span class="g-read-more"> Read More</span> [How to Keep Children’s
Stress From Turning Into
Trauma](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/07/well/family/coronavirus-children-stress-parents.html)

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-question-wrap g-1" itemscope="" itemprop="mainEntity" itemtype="https://schema.org/Question">

<div class="g-question">

### How does this affect kids, physically? Can they transmit coronavirus?

<div class="g-icon">

\+

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-answer-wrap g-hide-answer" itemscope="" itemprop="acceptedAnswer" itemtype="https://schema.org/Answer">

<div itemprop="text">

Fewer children seem to get infected by the coronavirus than adults, and
their symptoms tend to be mild. But it can be serious, [contrary to
earlier
belief](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/12/well/family/coronavirus-children-covid-19.html).

A [very small number of
children](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/19/parenting/pmis-coronavirus-children.html)
with the virus have shown
[symptoms](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/coronavirus-symptoms.html)
associated with toxic shock or [Kawasaki
disease](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/kawasaki-disease-coronavirus-children.html).
This is a rare illness in children, according to the New York City
health department, that involves inflammation of the blood vessels,
including coronary arteries.

[Two
studies](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/05/health/coronavirus-children-transmission-school.html)
offer compelling evidence that children can transmit the virus. While
neither proved it, many epidemiologists who were not involved in the
research said that the evidence was strong enough to suggest that
schools should be kept closed. (We have more about schools in a later
section.)

If your child develops severe symptoms, such as trouble breathing, an
inability to eat or drink, or a change in behavior, you should contact a
doctor.

<span class="g-read-more"> Read More</span> [New Studies Add to Evidence
that Children May Transmit the
Coronavirus](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/05/health/coronavirus-children-transmission-school.html)

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-question-wrap g-2" itemscope="" itemprop="mainEntity" itemtype="https://schema.org/Question">

<div class="g-question">

### My partner and I both work from home, and now both parent from home. What should we do?

<div class="g-icon">

\+

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-answer-wrap g-hide-answer" itemscope="" itemprop="acceptedAnswer" itemtype="https://schema.org/Answer">

<div itemprop="text">

Honestly, the first step is to acknowledge this is totally bonkers. The
writer Deb Perelman, who created the food blog [Smitten
Kitchen](https://smittenkitchen.com/), laid it out plainly in her essay:
"[In the Covid-19 Economy, You Can Have a Kid or a Job. You Can’t Have
Both.](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/02/business/covid-economy-parents-kids-career-homeschooling.html)”

“Why are we not hearing a primal scream so deafening that no plodding
policy can be implemented without addressing the people buried by it?”
she asks.

There are a few strategies to try. Most importantly, work with your
partner and present a united front. Division will create disorder, which
will create chaos, which will drive you all up the wall.

However you can, try to create boundaries. That might be a physical
boundary (“This is the adult room”) or a time boundary (“You are not
allowed to talk to Daddy until 2 p.m. today”). To do that, you might
need to use time more effectively — sleep whenever you can and use
noise-canceling technology, if need be. Having a daily schedule also
helps.

But most important, be kind to yourself, and to one another. This is not
like anything that has ever happened before. That’s OK. If the kids are
[spending more time on their
screens](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/13/parenting/manage-screen-time-coronavirus.html),
or if you’re not whipping up super healthy organic meals every night,
whatever. You’re getting through it, and you’re loving one another.
That’s what counts, right?

<span class="g-read-more"> Read More</span> [Figuring Out Work and
Family in the Age of
Coronavirus](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/19/us/work-from-home-mothers-coronavirus-covid19.html)

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-question-wrap g-3" itemscope="" itemprop="mainEntity" itemtype="https://schema.org/Question">

<div class="g-question">

### What about grandkids and grandparents?

<div class="g-icon">

\+

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-answer-wrap g-hide-answer" itemscope="" itemprop="acceptedAnswer" itemtype="https://schema.org/Answer">

<div itemprop="text">

Older people are more likely to have a severe case of the coronavirus,
so visiting grandparents or grandchildren is
[risky](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/20/parenting/grandparents-visit-safety-coronavirus.html).

That being said, staying apart indefinitely is not feasible.
Grandchildren are [being
born](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/16/parenting/baby/grandparents-meet-newborn-coronavirus.html)
and grandchildren are turning 10. [Life is slipping
by](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/29/well/family/coronavirus-grandchildren-compromised-immunity-cancer.html).
So find a way forward.

In the nice weather, you could spend time together outdoors. Don’t
forget a mask.

Video chat does work, although you might need to walk your older parents
through the twists and turns a few times before it’s second nature.

If you live close, perhaps you conjoin your quarantine pods. Get tested,
quarantine while you’re getting results back, and then spend time
together normally. That might be necessary: Parents, stressed from
working at home, desperately need reliable child care. Some grandparents
who have become the primary caregivers are [delighted, and
exhausted](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/12/parenting/coronavirus-grandparents-childcare.html?type=roundup&link=intro).

That might be your best option. Social distancing is hard to explain to
kids, and often harder to explain to grandparents. You want kids to have
their grandparents around at high school graduations, first jobs and
weddings. If you can’t see each other safely, maybe you should wait
until you can.

<span class="g-read-more"> Read More</span> [When Can I See My
Grandkids?](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/20/well/family/coronavirus-grandchildren-grandparents-when-can-i-see-my-grandkids.html)

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-question-wrap g-4" itemscope="" itemprop="mainEntity" itemtype="https://schema.org/Question">

<div class="g-question">

### How do I get my kid to wear a mask?

<div class="g-icon">

\+

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-answer-wrap g-hide-answer" itemscope="" itemprop="acceptedAnswer" itemtype="https://schema.org/Answer">

<div itemprop="text">

Older children can be a little cranky about adapting to life with masks,
but younger children are perfectly positioned to learn a new drill.

Most children enjoy the chance to feel morally superior to adults (and
adults often make this all too easy); go ahead and encourage a little
righteousness. They can be the family monitors, reminding their parents
not to forget their face coverings when they leave the house.

For some children, though, even the humblest of [masks can be
scary](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/13/well/family/coronavirus-children-masks-fear.html?action=click&module=RelatedLinks&pgtype=Article)
— scary in themselves, and scary as reminders of the threat of infection
and the generally frightening moment. By making it into a game, or
buying [see-through or emotive
masks](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/23/style/face-mask-emotion-coronavirus.html)
for the family, you can alleviate their anxiety. Or, maybe it’s an
opportunity to play dress up?

<span class="g-read-more"> Read More</span> [How to Help Kids Embrace
Mask-Wearing](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/23/well/family/children-masks-coronavirus.html)

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-question-wrap g-5" itemscope="" itemprop="mainEntity" itemtype="https://schema.org/Question">

<div class="g-question">

### How do I explain social distancing to my kids?

<div class="g-icon">

\+

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-answer-wrap g-hide-answer" itemscope="" itemprop="acceptedAnswer" itemtype="https://schema.org/Answer">

<div itemprop="text">

Use their imaginations and tell stories. To explain why social
distancing is important, one mother in Los Angeles compared it to
[pulling to the side of the
road](https://www.instagram.com/p/B9wqC44nYKC/?utm_source=ig_embed&utm_campaign=embed_video_watch_again)
to let an ambulance pass.

You could also try to make it into a game. (Think hot potato, but
people.) You win points if you’re far away.

Debates about using [rewards to motivate
children](https://slate.com/human-interest/2017/08/rewards-systems-for-kids-are-effective-if-you-use-them-correctly.html)
are endless, but parents [trade favors for
obedience](https://www.verywellfamily.com/concerns-about-giving-kids-rewards-1094886)
all the time. Even the C.D.C. signs off on rewarding good behavior (say,
wearing a mask outside without fussing) with [praise, a board game or an
extra book at
bedtime](https://www.cdc.gov/parents/essentials/consequences/rewards.html).

Don’t threaten them, though. Child psychology experts say that threats
hurt
[motivation](https://keepingyourcoolparenting.com/stop-with-the-threats-7-reasons-threats-dont-work-and-what-to-do-instead/)
and undermine parent-child relationships. But you can still [take away
privileges](https://www.verywellfamily.com/taking-away-privileges-to-discipline-children-1094759)
for not following the rules (like wandering too close to strangers
without a mask). Just make sure you explain the consequences beforehand
and make the punishment fit the infraction, psychologists say.

<span class="g-read-more"> Read More</span> [How to Get Your Kids to
Stay 6 Feet Away… From
Everything](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/13/style/kids-children-social-distance-coronavirus.html?action=click&module=RelatedLinks&pgtype=Article)

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-question-wrap g-6" itemscope="" itemprop="mainEntity" itemtype="https://schema.org/Question">

<div class="g-question">

### How do I help my kids entertain themselves without socializing?

<div class="g-icon">

\+

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-answer-wrap g-hide-answer" itemscope="" itemprop="acceptedAnswer" itemtype="https://schema.org/Answer">

<div itemprop="text">

[Maybe
don’t](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/18/arts/kids-summer-activities-virus.html).
Let them amuse themselves.

That’s tough: Research has shown that our heavily scheduled lives have
contributed to a significant decrease in the amount of free time kids
have, so their independent play skills may not be ready for the moment
we are facing.

But it might really be necessary. “Independent play encourages time
management, executive function and organizational skills, and emotional
and physical awareness and regulation,” said Dana Rosenbloom, a parent
and child educator in Manhattan. “All skills that help us be successful
individuals as adults.”

You can help them play on their own. Start slow — let younger kids
direct play for 20 minutes, 35, then an hour. Keep toys out of rotation,
said Avital Schreiber-Levy, a parenting performance coach in New Jersey
who has created a [play
guide](https://www.theparentingjunkie.com/wp-content/uploads/2020/03/PlayPandemic-Newer.pdf)
for parents on lockdown. “When toys sit out too long, they go stale,”
she said. “It’s about making them novel again, either because we take
them away or we set them up in a new way.”

Let kids get messy, and keep play in a specific zone where they can
wiggle and jump. And, be patient. If your kid is used to socializing and
screentime, self-directed play might be tough for them. Letting them
work out the kinks on their own will develop strength and resiliency
that can last them a lifetime.

<span class="g-read-more"> Read More</span> [Now’s a Good Time to Teach
Your Kids to Play on Their
Own](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/03/parenting/kids-independent-play-coronavirus-quarantine.html)

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-question-wrap g-7" itemscope="" itemprop="mainEntity" itemtype="https://schema.org/Question">

<div class="g-question">

### What about socializing with other children? Can we do it safely?

<div class="g-icon">

\+

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-answer-wrap g-hide-answer" itemscope="" itemprop="acceptedAnswer" itemtype="https://schema.org/Answer">

<div itemprop="text">

Maybe.

If your family or friends live nearby, consider linking up
[quar-pods](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/09/parenting/coronavirus-pod-family.html).
If you as parents agree to community norms and guidelines, you can
probably let your kids play together as if the world were normal.

But if you’re unable to do that, or you want to see someone for a play
date, know that there are risks. [Playgrounds are
open](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/11/parenting/playgrounds-reopen-safety-coronavirus.html)
in some states, and young children are being asked to stay six feet
apart and wear masks, an often unrealistic expectation.

If you’re trying for a play date, [good
communication](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/29/parenting/family-socially-distancing-coronavirus.html)
with a parent is essential.

“A start would be, ‘Hi, our kids have been asking about getting
together, and as you know, this is a complicated conversation right
now,’” said Dr. Dipesh Navsaria, an associate professor of pediatrics
at the University of Wisconsin School of Medicine and Public Health. A
parent could continue, “I wanted to start with an open conversation, see
where you are, tell you where I am, and see if it’s possible to send a
consistent message to our kids.”

Enlist your kids for help, too. If they feel like it’s a project that
they’re doing together, they might find some way to enjoy it. You could
make spaces — all of the kids get their own blanket — if you’re playing
outside.

But there’s no good answer to this. If you can keep your kids away from
other kids, you’re reducing your family’s risk of infection. That might
not be possible, but it might also be the only way to do it safely.

<span class="g-read-more"> Read More</span> [How Do You Decide if
Children Can Play Together
Again?](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/01/well/family/coronavirus-reopening-children-parents-play-dates.html)

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-question-wrap g-8" itemscope="" itemprop="mainEntity" itemtype="https://schema.org/Question">

<div class="g-question">

### But will not socializing with other children stunt my kid’s development?

<div class="g-icon">

\+

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-answer-wrap g-hide-answer" itemscope="" itemprop="acceptedAnswer" itemtype="https://schema.org/Answer">

<div itemprop="text">

Probably not, although it does make sense to worry.

Social interactions are an important part of development throughout
childhood, and spending time with peers is typically part of that
process. But try not to fret too much about what kids are missing right
now. Children are resilient and adaptable, and they’re not entirely cut
off from other people.

There is much to be gained from interactions with parents, siblings and
even pets. Time alone is valuable, too. And connection through
technology, like hanging out or playing games through video chats, can
fill in some of the blanks. Even without peer interaction for a while,
kids can still develop socially and emotionally in ways that will
prepare them to pursue real-world friendships when those can resume.

Friendship is like riding a bicycle. You don’t really forget how, even
if you have some time away.

<span class="g-read-more"> Read More</span> [Worried About Your Kids’
Social Skills
Post-Lockdown?](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/18/parenting/kids-social-needs-quarantine.html)

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

## Schools

<div class="g-section-wrap g-questions g-body">

<div class="g-question-wrap g-0" itemscope="" itemprop="mainEntity" itemtype="https://schema.org/Question">

<div class="g-question">

### For children, what is school going to look like?

<div class="g-icon">

\+

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-answer-wrap g-hide-answer" itemscope="" itemprop="acceptedAnswer" itemtype="https://schema.org/Answer">

<div itemprop="text">

As school districts across the United States consider whether and how to
restart in-person classes, their challenge is complicated by a pair of
fundamental uncertainties: No nation has tried to send children back to
school with the virus raging at levels like America’s, and the
scientific research about transmission in classrooms is limited.

“It feels like we’re playing Russian roulette with our kids and our
staff,” said Robin Cogan, a nurse at the Yorkship School in Camden,
N.J., who serves on the state’s committee on reopening schools.

It is unlikely that many schools will return to a normal schedule this
fall, requiring the grind of [online
learning,](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/05/us/coronavirus-education-lost-learning.html)
[makeshift child
care](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/29/us/coronavirus-child-care-centers.html)
and [stunted
workdays](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/03/business/economy/coronavirus-working-women.html)
to continue.

California’s two largest public school districts — Los Angeles and San
Diego — said on July 13, that [instruction will be remote-only in the
fall,](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/13/us/lausd-san-diego-school-reopening.html)
citing concerns that surging coronavirus infections in their areas pose
too dire a risk for students and teachers. Together, the two districts
enroll some 825,000 students. They are the largest in the country so far
to abandon plans for even a partial physical return to classrooms when
they reopen in August.

For other districts, the solution won’t be an all-or-nothing approach.
[Many
systems,](https://bioethics.jhu.edu/research-and-outreach/projects/eschool-initiative/school-policy-tracker/)
including the nation’s largest, New York City, are devising [hybrid
plans](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/26/us/coronavirus-schools-reopen-fall.html)
that involve spending some days in classrooms and other days online.
There’s no national policy on this yet, so check with your municipal
school system regularly to see what is happening in your community.

Plan for the worst and, frankly, assume the worst. An outbreak at a
school could slow operations to a halt for at least two weeks, and would
be enormously disruptive. Many scientists and researchers think school
reopenings might just be [wishful
thinking.](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/12/upshot/epidemiologists-decisions-children-school-coronavirus.html)

<span class="g-read-more"> Read More</span> [How to Reopen Schools: What
Science and Other Countries Teach
Us](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/11/health/coronavirus-schools-reopen.html)

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-question-wrap g-1" itemscope="" itemprop="mainEntity" itemtype="https://schema.org/Question">

<div class="g-question">

### What about colleges?

<div class="g-icon">

\+

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-answer-wrap g-hide-answer" itemscope="" itemprop="acceptedAnswer" itemtype="https://schema.org/Answer">

<div itemprop="text">

That depends on the college or college system, and is still pretty up in
the air. College is, [by its
nature,](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/15/opinion/coronavirus-college-safe.html)
not a socially distant period of life. Dorm living is close; shared
bathrooms are closer. So much you do for fun in college is predicated on
touch.

Still, [more than three-quarters of colleges and
universities](https://www.chronicle.com/article/Here-s-a-List-of-Colleges-/248626)
have decided students can return to campus this fall, to attend in-class
and remote studies. But many [professors are
concerned](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/03/us/coronavirus-college-professors.html)
about coming in to teach. Their students are at lower risk of getting
seriously ill from the virus, and are probably taking many more risks
outside the classroom.

“Until there’s a vaccine, I’m not setting foot on campus,” said Dana
Ward, 70, an emeritus professor of political studies at Pitzer College
in Claremont, Calif., who teaches a class in anarchist history and
thought.

Administrators are trying for creative solutions. [Calendars are
changing:](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/19/us/coronavirus-college-fall-semester.html)
Campuses across the country are forgoing fall break to zip through
academic work and get students home before Thanksgiving. Or, they’re
allowing only [some of their
students](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/06/us/coronavirus-universities-colleges-reopening.html)
back to campus. In order to achieve social distancing, many colleges are
saying they will allow 40 to 60 percent of their students to return to
campus and live in the residence halls at any one time, often divided by
class year.

Sports are also a big question mark. [College
football](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/01/sports/ncaafootball/coronavirus-college-football-hbcus-clemson.html)
is
[teetering](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/10/sports/ncaafootball/coronavirus-college-football-season-canceled.html)
and the Ivy League has [suspended all
sports](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/08/sports/ncaafootball/ivy-league-fall-sports-football-coronavirus.html)
until January. Expect more leagues to follow.

<span class="g-read-more"> Read More</span> [What Will College Be Like
in the
Fall?](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/03/magazine/covid-college-fall.html)

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-question-wrap g-2" itemscope="" itemprop="mainEntity" itemtype="https://schema.org/Question">

<div class="g-question">

### I’m an international student. What now?

<div class="g-icon">

\+

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-answer-wrap g-hide-answer" itemscope="" itemprop="acceptedAnswer" itemtype="https://schema.org/Answer">

<div itemprop="text">

Already, [international students were in a tough
spot.](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/25/us/coronavirus-international-foreign-students-universities.html)
More than a million students from different countries were stranded
during the lockdown, many unable to stay on campus and some struggled to
find a way back home.

After [a directive by the Trump
administration](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/aponline/2020/07/06/us/politics/ap-us-virus-outbreak-international-students.html)
that students whose classes were moving entirely online for the fall
would be [stripped of their
visas](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/07/us/student-visas-coronavirus.html)
and required to leave the United States, many were wracked with
[uncertainty.](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/09/world/international-students-visa-reaction.html)

On July 14, the Trump administration [walked
back](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/14/world/coronavirus-update.html)
the policy, ending a proposed plan that had thrown the higher education
world into turmoil. For now, things seem clear.

<span class="g-read-more"> Read More</span> [Trump Visa Rules Seen as
Way to Pressure Colleges on
Reopening](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/07/us/student-visas-coronavirus.html)

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-question-wrap g-3" itemscope="" itemprop="mainEntity" itemtype="https://schema.org/Question">

<div class="g-question">

### I’m an incoming first-year student. Can I defer? Or take a gap year?

<div class="g-icon">

\+

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-answer-wrap g-hide-answer" itemscope="" itemprop="acceptedAnswer" itemtype="https://schema.org/Answer">

<div itemprop="text">

Many colleges are allowing you to do so, but check with your admissions
counselor before you make a decision. You might be unpleasantly
surprised.

Already, some colleges are [bleeding
students,](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/01/us/coronavirus-college-enrollment.html)
as a large number of high school seniors have put off a decision about
where to go to college in the fall — or whether to go at all.

If you can take [a gap
year,](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/23/well/family/college-students-gap-year-coronavirus.html)
though, it might not be a terrible idea.

For some families, lost income makes it impossible to consider paying
tuition right now. For others, it’s more about a refusal to forgo the
yearned-for experiences of university life outside the classroom —
giggling through late nights with roommates, exploring new interests
through campus clubs, playing or cheering for sports teams — for a pale,
Zoom-fueled imitation. They’d rather take a year off and try again in
2021.

If you take a year off without a clear plan, try to set clear goals for
yourself and design your own curriculum, even if you are holding down a
job to support your family. Read what you want to read, try your hand at
a new language and enlist a mentor to help you find your way through
this strange time.

<span class="g-read-more"> Read More</span> [What’s the Value of Harvard
Without a
Campus?](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/11/style/harvard-students-coronavirus.html)

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

## Milestones

<div class="g-section-wrap g-questions g-body">

<div class="g-question-wrap g-0" itemscope="" itemprop="mainEntity" itemtype="https://schema.org/Question">

<div class="g-question">

### We have things to celebrate. What should we do?

<div class="g-icon">

\+

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-answer-wrap g-hide-answer" itemscope="" itemprop="acceptedAnswer" itemtype="https://schema.org/Answer">

<div itemprop="text">

This is going to be hard, and there’s no right way to do it. But the
coronavirus is happening right now, and it’s not specifically happening
to you or your family. There are [still ways to
celebrate.](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/15/style/self-care/birthday-party-coronavirus-online-zoom.html)

With events, you have three options. You could postpone them
indefinitely. You could host them over video chat. Or you could have a
much smaller celebration — masked up and distanced — with the people who
matter the
most.

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-question-wrap g-1" itemscope="" itemprop="mainEntity" itemtype="https://schema.org/Question">

<div class="g-question">

### Let’s start with birthdays. What should we do?

<div class="g-icon">

\+

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-answer-wrap g-hide-answer" itemscope="" itemprop="acceptedAnswer" itemtype="https://schema.org/Answer">

<div itemprop="text">

You could skip a year, and no one would be the wiser. You could try for
a socially distant park hang with friends who live near you. Or, you
could host a party over [video
conferencing,](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/02/us/coronavirus-birthday-party.html)
which is really more fun than it sounds. Set a time limit, call on
people the way you would if you were leading a meeting and decorate your
own place.

You could also ask everyone to bake the same easy mug cake, or
something, so it feels like you’re all together. Get creative, and take
the long view. Next year, you’ll be a year older. Maybe you can host one
birthday party with two times the fun?

This is, of course, harder with kids. Start by talking to them about how
this year is going to be different. You might want to try for a
split-level birthday: in-person activities at home with the members of
your household, and online activities with friends.

At home, you can build a fort at home together, or try for an ambitious
craft project. Try some funky baking project, or give them “magic
powers” for the day.

For the virtual party, keep it short and sweet. One hour is probably the
maximum amount of time, so make sure you give your guests both a start
time and end time. The other parents on the call will appreciate it.

Not sure how to fill time online? You could hire virtual entertainment.
There are still music classes and magicians and clowns, and they offer
virtual shows. (The website Mommy Poppins has [a good
list.](https://mommypoppins.com/birthday-parties/best-virtual-party-performers-and-kids-birthday-parties-at-home))

<span class="g-read-more"> Read More</span> [Go Ahead, Blow Out the
Candles on
Zoom](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/02/smarter-living/zoom-birthday-party.html)

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-question-wrap g-2" itemscope="" itemprop="mainEntity" itemtype="https://schema.org/Question">

<div class="g-question">

### What about our wedding? What should we do?

<div class="g-icon">

\+

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-answer-wrap g-hide-answer" itemscope="" itemprop="acceptedAnswer" itemtype="https://schema.org/Answer">

<div itemprop="text">

You could
[postpone.](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/04/fashion/weddings/no-zoom-wedding-next-year.html)
Lots of people are. If you really want to be able to celebrate with
everyone you love in person, be flexible about choosing a date — you
wouldn’t want to have to re-cancel.

Long-held wedding decorum may no longer be applicable, especially when
it comes to uninviting guests. To avoid having to retract invitations,
Steve Moore, an owner of [Sinclair and Moore Events in
Seattle,](https://www.sinclairandmoore.com/) says couples should either
skip the save-the-date cards or include a disclaimer noting they plan to
adhere to state and federal guidelines for gatherings. “We’ll ask in
advance for your flexibility, understanding and grace,” he offered as a
suggestion.

You could try to [host a wedding over
Zoom](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/25/fashion/weddings/how-to-livestream-your-wedding.html)
(or [a drive-in
theater](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/25/fashion/weddings/pass-the-popcorn-and-shhh-the-wedding-is-about-to-start.html)).
Maybe your first or second anniversary is the big party instead, which
you can host without the pressure.

Or, just invite your [very closest
people](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2017/10/12/smarter-living/what-to-know-about-having-a-microwedding.html)
to celebrate in person, making sure they all get tested and swabbed
before you all get together. Your immediate family, your partner’s
immediate family, your best friends. There will be other moments in your
lives when you can get a bigger group together to celebrate.

<span class="g-read-more"> Read More</span> [What Will Happen With
Weddings?](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/25/fashion/weddings/what-will-happen-with-weddings.html)

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-question-wrap g-3" itemscope="" itemprop="mainEntity" itemtype="https://schema.org/Question">

<div class="g-question">

### What about a funeral?

<div class="g-icon">

\+

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-answer-wrap g-hide-answer" itemscope="" itemprop="acceptedAnswer" itemtype="https://schema.org/Answer">

<div itemprop="text">

There are steps you can take [to treat the dead with
dignity.](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/16/opinion/coronavirus-jewish-funeral.html)

If someone you love is in hospice or nearing the end, start planning.
Death is always logistical. Now, it’s even more so. Call a few funeral
homes to ask about pricing and procedure, and check your state laws on
the size of the gathering.

If your religion mandates you bury someone within a specific period of
time, turn to a religious leader for help. They will have worked with
other people in your situation, and should have suggestions about how to
cope.

Understand that as much as you would like to honor your loved one in
your traditional ways, the changed world has also affected funeral
services. Consider the risk of a funeral gathering, and the comfort
levels and health concerns of those who would like to attend. You may
choose to organize a smaller in-person memorial, schedule a service at a
later date or hold a Zoom memorial.

As for grieving? [It’s going to be
hard.](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/28/us/politics/coronavirus-100000-trump-biden.html)
[You cannot hug your
friends,](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/29/opinion/letters/coronavirus-mourning.html)
and you cannot have them over. But with technology, you can lean on your
community
[virtually.](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/29/opinion/coronavirus-funerals-mourning.html)
Maybe that’s just regular phone calls to your support network over the
first few weeks. Or maybe that’s a Zoom shiva or wake. If you go the
videoconferencing route, ask everyone to show up with a memory or a poem
to share. Call on people one by one.

If your friend lost someone they loved, [send a condolence note or
sympathy
card.](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/27/business/coronavirus-sympathy-cards.html)
It means a lot, [even over
email.](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/09/style/best-way-to-write-a-condolence-note-coronavirus.html)

<span class="g-read-more"> Read More</span> [How Do You Maintain Dignity
for the Dead in a
Pandemic?](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/14/magazine/funeral-home-covid.html)

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

## Staying in

<div class="g-section-wrap g-questions g-body">

<div class="g-question-wrap g-0" itemscope="" itemprop="mainEntity" itemtype="https://schema.org/Question">

<div class="g-question">

### Do you have any strategies for staving off boredom at home?

<div class="g-icon">

\+

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-answer-wrap g-hide-answer" itemscope="" itemprop="acceptedAnswer" itemtype="https://schema.org/Answer">

<div itemprop="text">

Our section [At
Home](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/spotlight/at-home) is your
one-stop guide to riding out the pandemic. In it, you’ll find advice and
guidance on everything you’ll need to pass the time: what to watch,
cook, read, listen to and more, along with tips for dealing with the
psychological and emotional effects of
quarantine.

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-question-wrap g-1" itemscope="" itemprop="mainEntity" itemtype="https://schema.org/Question">

<div class="g-question">

### What should I do to keep my home safe? Should I still be disinfecting everything?

<div class="g-icon">

\+

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-answer-wrap g-hide-answer" itemscope="" itemprop="acceptedAnswer" itemtype="https://schema.org/Answer">

<div itemprop="text">

Always remember the basics, like washing your hands frequently (and
reminding members of your household to do the same).

The coronavirus isn’t really transmitted on surfaces. Or, at least,
surfaces are a much lower risk than person-to-person transmission. So
although disinfecting isn’t a bad idea, you probably don’t need to be
quite as vigilant now as we initially thought.

Mostly, keep people who might be infected out of your house. But the
safest thing you can do to keep your home safe is to keep yourself safe
when you’re outside of your home. That means wearing a mask and socially
distancing whenever possible.

<span class="g-read-more"> Read More</span> [How You Can Make Your Home
Safer](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/27/smarter-living/how-you-can-make-your-home-safer.html)

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-question-wrap g-2" itemscope="" itemprop="mainEntity" itemtype="https://schema.org/Question">

<div class="g-question">

### I’m working at home and stiff as heck. Tips?

<div class="g-icon">

\+

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-answer-wrap g-hide-answer" itemscope="" itemprop="acceptedAnswer" itemtype="https://schema.org/Answer">

<div itemprop="text">

You’ll want to focus on your wrists and forearms, your shoulders, and
your chest and back. [Read here for three stretches that’ll
help,](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/19/well/three-stretches-to-tend-to-the-aches-and-pains-of-working-from-home.html)
but for now let’s try this one for your wrists:

\* Stand with one arm out in front of you and your palm facing the
ground.

\* With your other hand, gently pull the fingers of the outstretched arm
back. You should feel the stretch in the underside of your wrist.

\* Hold for a moment or two, then release.

\* Next, keeping your arm straight, use your other hand to push your
fingers and palm down and toward your body. Hold a few seconds, then
release.

\* Repeat with your other arm.

Don’t forget to stretch and strengthen your whole body, too. See The
Times’s [9-Minute Strength
Workout,](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/guides/well/strength-training-plyometrics)
which includes exercises you can do in a pinch.

<span class="g-read-more"> Read More</span> [Three Stretches to Tend to
the Aches and Pains of Working From
Home](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/19/well/three-stretches-to-tend-to-the-aches-and-pains-of-working-from-home.html)

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-question-wrap g-3" itemscope="" itemprop="mainEntity" itemtype="https://schema.org/Question">

<div class="g-question">

### I’m trying to exercise again. It’s really hard. Tips?

<div class="g-icon">

\+

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-answer-wrap g-hide-answer" itemscope="" itemprop="acceptedAnswer" itemtype="https://schema.org/Answer">

<div itemprop="text">

If you’ve had the coronavirus, expect [a long
recovery.](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/06/opinion/coronavirus-recovery.html)
Even if you were an athlete beforehand, [you are not going to be back at
your peak capacity for a
while.](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/20/well/returning-to-exercise-training-recovery-coronavirus.html)
The usual return-to-play criteria for sick athletes do not apply, said
Dr. James Hull, a sports pulmonologist at Royal Brompton Hospital in
London.

“We have seen people have some mild symptoms to start with and seem to
improve,” he said, “only to then deteriorate really badly at seven days
following their first symptoms.”

Even if you haven’t been symptomatic, most everyone took at least a few
weeks off of their normal workout routine in the early part of the
lockdown. A lot of people are a lot less toned than they used to be.

If that’s you, [start
slow.](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/01/well/move/coronavirus-exercise-lockdown-quarantine-sports-weights-running-injuries.html)
Focus on strength, rather than cardio, because inactivity eats away at
muscle mass.

Dawdle through any resumption of weight training, said Brad Schoenfeld,
an associate professor of exercise science at Lehman College in New
York, who researches resistance exercise. “If you have been doing almost
no training,” he said, “plan to start at 50 percent of the volume and
intensity of your prior workouts” when you return to the gym.

If you’re running outside, wear a mask, even if it’s uncomfortable.
You’re breathing heavily, and you could be spitting out — or sucking
in — virus droplets. No one wants that.

<span class="g-read-more"> Read More</span> [The Well Summer Workout
Challenge](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/02/well/move/the-well-summer-workout-challenge.html)

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-question-wrap g-4" itemscope="" itemprop="mainEntity" itemtype="https://schema.org/Question">

<div class="g-question">

### What about pets? Can they get the coronavirus? Can they transmit it?

<div class="g-icon">

\+

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-answer-wrap g-hide-answer" itemscope="" itemprop="acceptedAnswer" itemtype="https://schema.org/Answer">

<div itemprop="text">

In April, [a dog in North Carolina tested positive for the
coronavirus,](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/28/us/dog-coronavirus-positive-test.html)
as did [two pet cats in New
York](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/22/health/cats-pets-coronavirus.html)
and [eight tigers at the Bronx
Zoo.](https://newsroom.wcs.org/News-Releases/articleType/ArticleView/articleId/14084/Update-Bronx-Zoo-Tigers-and-Lions-Recovering-from-COVID-19.aspx)
However, there has been no evidence that pets such as dogs or cats can
spread the coronavirus, according to [the World Health
Organization](https://www.who.int/docs/default-source/inaugural-who-partners-forum/coronavirus-poster-english-srilanka.pdf?sfvrsn=289dedc3_0)
and [the C.D.C. (The animals showed mostly mild symptoms —
though](https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/daily-life-coping/animals.html?CDC_AA_refVal=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.cdc.gov%2Fcoronavirus%2F2019-ncov%2Fprepare%2Fanimals.html)
a tiger was “visibly sick” — [and have
recovered.](https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/daily-life-coping/animals.html?CDC_AA_refVal=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.cdc.gov%2Fcoronavirus%2F2019-ncov%2Fprepare%2Fanimals.html))

Still, if you are sick with the coronavirus, it is best not to pet your
family dog. And avoid petting other people’s dogs as well.

But do [take care of your animal’s mental
health](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/21/well/coronavirus-pet-care-grooming.html)
— this is stressful for them, too. Staying at home for months on end can
[acclimate your dog to an unrealistic
reality,](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/27/smarter-living/how-to-prepare-your-dog-to-be-left-at-home-alone-again.html)
experts said. Start leaving for a bit, even to walk, so they get used to
the idea that you won’t always be around.

If you know [someone is sick and has
pets,](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/19/world/europe/coronavirus-spain-pets.html)
check in on them. Some animals are being [left
behind](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/23/nyregion/coronavirus-pets.html)
by the virus.

<span class="g-read-more"> Read More</span> [Coronavirus and Your Dog:
No Need to Panic
Yet](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/04/science/animals-pets-coronavirus.html)

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-question-wrap g-5" itemscope="" itemprop="mainEntity" itemtype="https://schema.org/Question">

<div class="g-question">

### I want to renovate my home. What should I do?

<div class="g-icon">

\+

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-answer-wrap g-hide-answer" itemscope="" itemprop="acceptedAnswer" itemtype="https://schema.org/Answer">

<div itemprop="text">

You’re in luck. Home renovation is the new sourdough bread.

Almost a month after the phase 1 reopening of New York City that allowed
contractors and their crews back into residential buildings, “we’re
redefining what ‘full steam ahead’ means,” said Steve Mark, the chief
executive of SMI Construction. “It’s not going to mean what it used to.”

It’s a tough balance as contractors and homeowners try to navigate
restrictions, but hammers are banging once more.

Other than pandemic-related changes, renovating a home is a pretty
standard process. You budget and design, work with a contractor and/or a
designer, and watch as mishaps and mayhem happen around you.

<span class="g-read-more"> Read More</span> [Advice for Renovating Your
Home](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/03/07/style/home-renovation-advice.html)

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-question-wrap g-6" itemscope="" itemprop="mainEntity" itemtype="https://schema.org/Question">

<div class="g-question">

### I miss looking at art. What do I do?

<div class="g-icon">

\+

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-answer-wrap g-hide-answer" itemscope="" itemprop="acceptedAnswer" itemtype="https://schema.org/Answer">

<div itemprop="text">

Some museums are [trying to
reopen.](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/29/arts/design/museums-interactive-coronavirus.html)
Science museums designed for kids are opting for no-touch exhibits, and
the Metropolitan Museum of Art, in New York, plans to open in late
August. Some museums have been [forced to
close.](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/29/arts/design/how-do-you-close-a-museum.html)

Some [galleries and
museums](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/26/arts/design/new-york-art-galleries.html)
are uploading their collections, so you can [“visit”
virtually.](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/09/arts/design/virtual-art-galleries.html)
The Arts section ran a series of reviews of [virtual
shows.](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/23/arts/design/best-virtual-museum-guides.html)
It’s, of course, not the real thing. But by zooming in, you can “get up
close” to the surface of canvases in a way that you might never have
been able to before.

<span class="g-read-more"> Read More</span> [Museums Embrace Art Therapy
Techniques for Unsettled
Times](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/15/arts/design/art-therapy-museums-virus.html)

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-question-wrap g-7" itemscope="" itemprop="mainEntity" itemtype="https://schema.org/Question">

<div class="g-question">

### I miss getting dressed up. And I have hot new threads. Should I … wear them?

<div class="g-icon">

\+

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-answer-wrap g-hide-answer" itemscope="" itemprop="acceptedAnswer" itemtype="https://schema.org/Answer">

<div itemprop="text">

Um, yes.

Extravagant purchases innocently made in February and March, before the
extent of the pandemic was known, have become markers of a fast-receding
era of freedom. Some purchasers have even saved their sales receipts, as
if they were historic documents. Many of these items now languish in
closets. Others are put to good use.

If that’s you, wear them. Beautiful clothes are beautiful clothes. You
deserve to be stunning and extra, even if you’ve got nowhere to be. Wear
[a
gown](https://www.thecut.com/2020/07/i-dressed-like-catherine-the-great-for-a-week.html#comments)
and a mask to walk the dog. It’s a pandemic. There are no rules. You’re
fierce no matter where you are.

<span class="g-read-more"> Read More</span> [They Splurged on Fancy
Clothes Before Quarantine. Now
What?](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/08/style/why-did-i-buy-this.html)

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

## Money and Work

<div class="g-section-wrap g-questions g-body">

<div class="g-question-wrap g-0" itemscope="" itemprop="mainEntity" itemtype="https://schema.org/Question">

<div class="g-question">

### Help me understand the economic fallout.

<div class="g-icon">

\+

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-answer-wrap g-hide-answer" itemscope="" itemprop="acceptedAnswer" itemtype="https://schema.org/Answer">

<div itemprop="text">

It feels a lot like 2008, doesn’t it? Peter S. Goodman, an economics
correspondent for The Times, says there’s a key difference between that
economic turmoil and today’s: the utter unpredictability of the
outbreak’s spread.

“The disaster feels eerily familiar, with trillions of dollars in wealth
annihilated near-daily and deepening fears that businesses will fail,”
[he
writes.](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/13/business/coronavirus-global-economy.html)
“Yet the traditional policy prescriptions seem no match for the
affliction at hand.”

But even the 2008 crisis pales in comparison to the scale of the
destruction wrought by the coronavirus. The United States lost 20
million jobs in a single month, a fall that one expert called
["literally off the
charts."](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/05/08/business/economy/april-jobs-report.html)
And the very means of controlling the health crisis — keeping workers
home, limiting travel and disrupting commerce — risk making the economic
crisis worse.

Even though markets seem to be rebounding, the [hiring outlook is
dim.](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/09/business/economy/unemployment-claims-coronavirus.html)
Total new unemployment claims have edged up from their mid-June lows.

<span class="g-read-more"> Read More</span> [Repeat After Me: The
Markets Are Not the
Economy](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/10/business/stock-market-economy-coronavirus.html)

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-question-wrap g-1" itemscope="" itemprop="mainEntity" itemtype="https://schema.org/Question">

<div class="g-question">

### I’m a small-business owner. Can I get relief?

<div class="g-icon">

\+

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-answer-wrap g-hide-answer" itemscope="" itemprop="acceptedAnswer" itemtype="https://schema.org/Answer">

<div itemprop="text">

Small-business owners are struggling. Some are [giving
up](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/13/business/small-businesses-coronavirus.html)
or
[adapting](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/26/business/small-business-coronavirus-survival.html)
to the point of being [almost
unrecognizable.](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/18/business/small-business-coronavirus-pandemic-mikes-organic.html)
Some owners have [learned from the 2008
recession,](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/23/business/coronavirus-great-recession-2008-lessons.html)
but they’re still struggling.

The stimulus bills enacted in March offer help for the millions of
American small businesses. Those eligible for aid are businesses and
nonprofit organizations with fewer than 500 workers, including sole
proprietorships, independent contractors and freelancers. Some larger
companies in some industries are also eligible. The help being offered,
which is being managed by the Small Business Administration, includes
the Paycheck Protection Program and the Economic Injury Disaster Loan
program.

But lots of folks have [not yet seen
payouts.](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/05/07/business/small-business-loans-coronavirus.html)
Even those who have received help are confused: The rules are draconian,
and some are stuck sitting on [money they don’t know how to
use.](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/02/business/economy/loans-coronavirus-small-business.html)
Many small-business owners are getting less than they expected or [not
hearing anything at
all.](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/10/business/Small-business-loans-ppp.html)

<span class="g-read-more"> Read More</span> [F.A.Q. on Coronavirus
Relief for Small Businesses, Freelancers and
More](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/small-business-loans-stimulus-grants-freelancers-coronavirus.html)

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-question-wrap g-2" itemscope="" itemprop="mainEntity" itemtype="https://schema.org/Question">

<div class="g-question">

### What are my rights if I am worried about going back to work?

<div class="g-icon">

\+

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-answer-wrap g-hide-answer" itemscope="" itemprop="acceptedAnswer" itemtype="https://schema.org/Answer">

<div itemprop="text">

Employers have to provide [a safe
workplace](https://www.osha.gov/SLTC/covid-19/standards.html) with
policies that protect everyone equally. And if one of your co-workers
tests positive for the coronavirus, the C.D.C. has said that [employers
should tell their
employees](https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/community/guidance-business-response.html)
— without giving you the sick employee’s name — that they may have been
exposed to the virus.

<span class="g-read-more"> Read More</span> [A Hub for Help During the
Coronavirus
Crisis](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/coronavirus-money-unemployment.html)

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-question-wrap g-3" itemscope="" itemprop="mainEntity" itemtype="https://schema.org/Question">

<div class="g-question">

### I have questions about my stimulus check.

<div class="g-icon">

\+

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-answer-wrap g-hide-answer" itemscope="" itemprop="acceptedAnswer" itemtype="https://schema.org/Answer">

<div itemprop="text">

President Trump signed [a bipartisan $2 trillion economic relief
plan](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/26/us/coronavirus-senate-stimulus-package.html)
to offer assistance to tens of millions of American households affected
by the
[coronavirus](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/07/us/coronavirus-stimulus-package.html)
pandemic. Its components include [stimulus
payments](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/25/us/politics/coronavirus-stimulus-dead-people.html)
to individuals, expanded unemployment coverage, student loan changes,
different retirement account rules and more. Most adults received
$1,200, although some received less, according to income.

But as with most coronavirus relief packages, questions remain. Some
people received them on [debit
cards,](https://www.washingtonpost.com/business/2020/06/01/faq-stimulus-debit-card/)
and the envelopes look [like junk
mail.](https://twitter.com/zackstanton/status/1263908922899009536) Don’t
throw them out.

Think you received a payment by mistake? Say, for [a deceased
relative?](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/25/us/politics/coronavirus-stimulus-dead-people.html)
Don’t spend the money. The Internal Revenue Service will likely ask for
it back come tax time in 2021.

If you haven’t received yours yet, don’t panic. Many people have already
received their payments, but many others are still waiting or wondering.
There are a lot of reasons you could be among them, even if the
government has [removed some of the
hurdles](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/01/business/coronavirus-stimulus-social-security.html)
it initially set up.

Try the I.R.S. [Get My
Payment](https://www.irs.gov/coronavirus/get-my-payment) tool again.
It’s supposed to help people figure out when and how their money might
be arriving. The I.R.S. is updating the information once each day,
usually in the middle of the night.

Make sure you filed the right paperwork. If you haven’t had to file a
return because your gross income did not exceed $12,200 ($24,400 for
married couples), you still qualify for a payment. But if you’re not a
recipient of S.S.I. or V.A. benefits, you should fill out a special form
for non-filers.

Also, be careful of
[scammers.](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/22/technology/stimulus-checks-hackers-coronavirus.html)

<span class="g-read-more"> Read More</span> [Didn’t Get Your Stimulus
Payment Yet? Here’s What to
Do](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/where-is-my-stimulus-payment.html)

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-question-wrap g-4" itemscope="" itemprop="mainEntity" itemtype="https://schema.org/Question">

<div class="g-question">

### How does unemployment insurance work?

<div class="g-icon">

\+

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-answer-wrap g-hide-answer" itemscope="" itemprop="acceptedAnswer" itemtype="https://schema.org/Answer">

<div itemprop="text">

The [stimulus
plan](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/25/us/politics/whats-in-coronavirus-stimulus-bill.html)
includes a significant expansion of unemployment benefits that would
extend jobless insurance by 13 weeks. The program is aimed to help
freelancers, part-time workers, furloughed employees and gig workers,
such as Uber drivers, as well as full-time employees who have lost their
jobs.

States have set their own rules for eligibility and benefits, which are
generally calculated as a percentage of your income over the past year,
up to a certain maximum. Some states are more generous than others, but
unemployment typically replaces about 45 percent of your lost income.
Eligible workers had been getting an extra $600 per week on top of their
state benefit, but that expired at the end of July

One important note: You might not have to lose your job to qualify. If
you’re quarantined or have been furloughed — and you’re not being paid
but expect to return to your job eventually — you may be able to get
unemployment benefits.

<span class="g-read-more"> Read More</span> [A Hub for Help During the
Coronavirus
Crisis](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/coronavirus-money-unemployment.html)

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-question-wrap g-5" itemscope="" itemprop="mainEntity" itemtype="https://schema.org/Question">

<div class="g-question">

### I need help paying my bills. What should I do?

<div class="g-icon">

\+

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-answer-wrap g-hide-answer" itemscope="" itemprop="acceptedAnswer" itemtype="https://schema.org/Answer">

<div itemprop="text">

Student loans: The Department of Education has granted a payment waiver
of at least 60 days to many people. But it’s not necessarily automatic.
In general, you have to call your loan servicer to request a waiver and
to make sure that your loan is eligible. The waiver does not apply to
private student loans. One big private lender, Sallie Mae, said it was
offering suspension of payment for up to three months, with no damage to
a borrower’s credit.

With the stimulus package, there will be [automatic payment
suspensions](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/coronavirus-stimulus-package-questions-answers.html)
for any student loan held by the federal government until Sept. 30. It
may be hard to contact many of the loan servicers right now, so check
your account online in the coming weeks.

Utility bills: Some utility providers are offering to stop cutting
people off for nonpayment. A number of large internet companies have
agreed not to terminate residential or small-business customers who
can’t pay their bills. Exact policies and requirements vary, though,
so if you need help, you should call and ask.

Housing: There’s also a good chance you can delay your mortgage payment
if the outbreak has left you short of money. The Federal Housing Finance
Agency has instructed mortgage servicers to allow borrowers whose
mortgages are owned by Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac to delay payments. If
you rent, the best national resource we’ve found so far is the
search-by-state function on
[Justshelter.org.](https://justshelter.org/community-resources/) This
offers information on local organizations that can provide advice to
renters in distress.

Loans and credit: Many consumer lenders are offering affected customers
help if they can’t make payments. The American Bankers Association has a
list of lenders here, although the help they’re offering varies. Some
say they will allow borrowers to skip payments; some are offering other
accommodations.

<span class="g-read-more"> Read More</span> [A Hub for Help During the
Coronavirus
Crisis](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/coronavirus-money-unemployment.html)

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-question-wrap g-6" itemscope="" itemprop="mainEntity" itemtype="https://schema.org/Question">

<div class="g-question">

### I don’t have health insurance. Help?

<div class="g-icon">

\+

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-answer-wrap g-hide-answer" itemscope="" itemprop="acceptedAnswer" itemtype="https://schema.org/Answer">

<div itemprop="text">

If you lost your job (and with it your health insurance), or even if you
never signed up for a policy, you may have options. Some states and
employers have loosened the rules around when you can sign up for
insurance because of the pandemic.

There’s also the possibility of continuing your job-based coverage under
a law known as the Consolidated Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act, or
COBRA; applying for Medicaid with your state agency; or getting an
individual plan at Healthcare.gov. [It depends on your
circumstances](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/25/upshot/coronavirus-health-insurance-faq.html)
which route makes sense.

The government has also [made it
easier](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/12/business/employer-health-plans-coronavirus.html)
for people to join or change their employer-provided health insurance
plans, if your company decides to offer the option.

<span class="g-read-more"> Read More</span> [A Hub for Help During the
Coronavirus
Crisis](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/coronavirus-money-unemployment.html)

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-question-wrap g-7" itemscope="" itemprop="mainEntity" itemtype="https://schema.org/Question">

<div class="g-question">

### What about my 401(k)?

<div class="g-icon">

\+

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-answer-wrap g-hide-answer" itemscope="" itemprop="acceptedAnswer" itemtype="https://schema.org/Answer">

<div itemprop="text">

Watching your balance bounce around can be scary. You may be wondering
if you should decrease your contributions —
[don’t\!](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/12/business/coronavirus-401k-contributions.html)
In fact, if your employer matches any part of your contributions, make
sure you’re at least saving as much as you can to get that “free money.”

Many components of the stimulus package include changes to rules
regarding retirement account withdrawals, borrowing and penalties.

<span class="g-read-more"> Read More</span> [A Hub for Help During the
Coronavirus
Crisis](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/coronavirus-money-unemployment.html)

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-question-wrap g-8" itemscope="" itemprop="mainEntity" itemtype="https://schema.org/Question">

<div class="g-question">

### Should I be putting money in a mattress?

<div class="g-icon">

\+

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-answer-wrap g-hide-answer" itemscope="" itemprop="acceptedAnswer" itemtype="https://schema.org/Answer">

<div itemprop="text">

That’s not a good idea. Even if you’re retired, having a balanced
portfolio of stocks and bonds so that your money keeps up with
inflation, or even grows, makes sense. But you may want to think about
having enough cash [to cover basic
needs](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/coronavirus-money-advice.html)
if you’re retired. One financial planner recommended that retirees set
aside enough cash for a year’s worth of living expenses and big payments
needed over the next five years.

<span class="g-read-more"> Read More</span> [A Hub for Help During the
Coronavirus
Crisis](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/coronavirus-money-unemployment.html)

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-question-wrap g-9" itemscope="" itemprop="mainEntity" itemtype="https://schema.org/Question">

<div class="g-question">

### Should I refinance my mortgage?

<div class="g-icon">

\+

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-answer-wrap g-hide-answer" itemscope="" itemprop="acceptedAnswer" itemtype="https://schema.org/Answer">

<div itemprop="text">

It could be a good idea, because mortgage rates have [never been
lower.](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/16/business/mortgage-rates-below-3-percent.html)
Refinancing requests have pushed mortgage applications to some of the
highest levels since 2008, so be prepared to get in line.

But defaults are also up, so if you’re thinking about buying a home, be
aware that some lenders have tightened their standards.

<span class="g-read-more"> Read More</span> [A Hub for Help During the
Coronavirus
Crisis](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/coronavirus-money-unemployment.html)

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-question-wrap g-10" itemscope="" itemprop="mainEntity" itemtype="https://schema.org/Question">

<div class="g-question">

### What about sick leave?

<div class="g-icon">

\+

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-answer-wrap g-hide-answer" itemscope="" itemprop="acceptedAnswer" itemtype="https://schema.org/Answer">

<div itemprop="text">

A coronavirus emergency relief package, passed by Congress in mid-March,
gives qualified workers [two weeks of paid sick
leave](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/19/upshot/coronavirus-paid-leave-guide.html)
if they are ill, quarantined or seeking a diagnosis or preventive care
for the coronavirus, or if they are caring for sick family members. It
gives 12 weeks of paid leave to people caring for children whose schools
are closed or whose child care provider is unavailable because of the
coronavirus.

Many workers at small and midsize companies and nonprofits can get the
paid leave, as can government employees, as long as they’ve been
employed at least 30 days. The law includes people who don’t typically
get such benefits, like part-time and gig-economy workers. But it
excludes those at companies with more than 500 people, including many
front-line employees at many major retailers and fast-food restaurants.

Workers at places with fewer than 50 employees are included, but the
Labor Department could exempt small businesses if providing leave would
put them out of business. Employers can also decline to give leave to
workers on the front lines of the crisis: health care providers and
emergency responders.

<span class="g-read-more"> Read More</span> [Who Qualifies for Paid
Leave Under the New Coronavirus
Law](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/19/upshot/coronavirus-paid-leave-guide.html)

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-question-wrap g-11" itemscope="" itemprop="mainEntity" itemtype="https://schema.org/Question">

<div class="g-question">

### How do I get a new job right now?

<div class="g-icon">

\+

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-answer-wrap g-hide-answer" itemscope="" itemprop="acceptedAnswer" itemtype="https://schema.org/Answer">

<div itemprop="text">

First, if you were laid off, recognize that [you might be
grieving.](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/21/smarter-living/coronavirus-laid-off-career-advice.html)
Even if it wasn’t your fault — and it probably wasn’t your fault right
now — that’s a hard thing to swallow. Give yourself some time before
jumping right back in.

If you’re just starting out, you’re not alone. [People in their
early 20s](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/27/business/coronavirus-class-of-2020-jobs.html)
are entering a terrible job market, and might do well to manage their
expectations, at least for a few months. No matter who you are, or what
you were doing before, you’re probably going to have to be willing to be
flexible. Lots of industries are laying off people for the foreseeable
future, and [many careers are on
hold.](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/27/business/coronavirus-careers-on-hold.html)
Still, others are hiring in droves.

Becoming [a contract
tracer](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/18/health/coronavirus-contact-tracing-jobs.html)
— sort of a private investigator for viral spread — is one option.
Taking a lower-wage service job — [grocery stores, pizza
delivery](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/22/business/coronavirus-hiring-jobs.html)
— might also work.

This is going to be a slog. But the American economy might be changing
for the better. Training skilled workers went out of fashion. Now, it
may be coming back.

<span class="g-read-more"> Read More</span> [The Pandemic Has
Accelerated Demands for a More Skilled Work
Force](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/13/business/coronavirus-retraining-workers.html)

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-question-wrap g-12" itemscope="" itemprop="mainEntity" itemtype="https://schema.org/Question">

<div class="g-question">

### I have a work visa. What’s going on with that?

<div class="g-icon">

\+

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-answer-wrap g-hide-answer" itemscope="" itemprop="acceptedAnswer" itemtype="https://schema.org/Answer">

<div itemprop="text">

Again, no one really knows. The Trump administration is [unlikely to
allow laid-off holders of H-1B and other work visas to extend their stay
in the
country](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/12/us/foreign-workers-visas-immigrants.html)
amid the coronavirus pandemic. Many have been waiting in a backlog for
several years to obtain permanent legal residency through their
employer, and now face the prospect of deportation.

[The temporary suspension of work
visas](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/22/world/coronavirus-updates.html?action=click&module=Top%20Stories&pgtype=Homepage#link-2dd2e3cb)
is opposed by a lot of
[businesses](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/19/us/foreign-worker-visas-trump-coronavirus.html)
— including tech companies in Silicon Valley and manufacturers — whose
leaders say it will block their ability to recruit workers for jobs that
Americans are not willing or able to perform. [Foreign
doctors](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/13/us/coronavirus-foreign-doctors-nurses-visas.html)
are willing to come help, but most cannot get into the country.

If you can, get in touch with an immigration lawyer and your employer.
There may be legal recourse, and some attorneys are working on such
cases for free.

<span class="g-read-more"> Read More</span> [Trump Administration Moves
to Solidify Restrictive Immigration
Policies](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/12/us/politics/coronavirus-trump-immigration-policies.html)

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

## Travel

<div class="g-section-wrap g-questions g-body">

<div class="g-question-wrap g-0" itemscope="" itemprop="mainEntity" itemtype="https://schema.org/Question">

<div class="g-question">

### Is flying safe?

<div class="g-icon">

\+

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-answer-wrap g-hide-answer" itemscope="" itemprop="acceptedAnswer" itemtype="https://schema.org/Answer">

<div itemprop="text">

Before you book your trip (and there have been some great deals), ask
whether flying is absolutely necessary. Do you have to go? Or do you
just want to?

If you do have to fly, the most important thing you can do is keep your
mask on throughout your travel. It’s the best way you can keep yourself
and the people around you safe. Bring hand sanitizer too.

Before you go, plan out every step of the process.

Packing: In your carry-on, be extra careful. Separate out your [food and
liquids,](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/21/business/memorial-day-travel-2020-coronavirus.html)
and double check that you don’t have anything sharp or dangerous. Any
backlog in a security line might compromise social distancing, and
opening the valise creates unnecessary opportunities for exposure.

Getting to the airport: If you’re in a rideshare, keep your windows down
and your mask on. If someone in your household can drive you, that’s
safer.

Check in: Most airlines suggest that travelers download their app for
touchless boarding, which will minimize the number of times you have to
hand over documents or touch screens.

On board: Industry and government policies are shifting, almost daily,
but most airlines now require passengers to wear masks while boarding
and during flights.

Even boarding has changed. Southwest, for example, has had passengers
board in groups of 10, with people only lining up on one side of its
boarding poles. United is boarding people by row, with people sitting in
the back of the plane boarding after pre-boarding groups. Most airlines
are boarding fewer people at a time to keep crowds from forming at the
gate, on the jet bridge and as people get on the plane.

On the flight, things get different. Some airlines are spacing their
passengers out by leaving the middle seat open. Some are not. If you are
concerned about sitting next to someone and have a choice of airlines,
consider their different policies. Call and ask before you book a flight
with a specific company.

When the plane lands, maybe wait in your seat as passengers get their
luggage from overhead bins, to keep social distance. At baggage claim,
try to do the same.

<span class="g-read-more"> Read More</span> [Airlines Say It’s Safe to
Travel. But Is It? and How The Coronavirus Changed Air Travel: A Visual
Diary of a
Flight](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/01/business/coronavirus-airports-airlines.html)

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-question-wrap g-1" itemscope="" itemprop="mainEntity" itemtype="https://schema.org/Question">

<div class="g-question">

### I’m American. Can I leave the country?

<div class="g-icon">

\+

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-answer-wrap g-hide-answer" itemscope="" itemprop="acceptedAnswer" itemtype="https://schema.org/Answer">

<div itemprop="text">

That depends on where you want to go.

In recent weeks, many countries around the world, including the United
States, have imposed [travel
restrictions](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/10/travel/state-travel-restrictions.html)
to help curb the spread of the coronavirus. Airport closures, the
suspension of all incoming and outgoing flights, and nationwide
lockdowns are just some of the measures countries are adopting in an
effort to help contain the pandemic.

Even as many countries remain off-limits to American visitors because of
the high rate of coronavirus within the United States, about two dozen
others have started to welcome U.S. citizens.

<span class="g-read-more"> Read More</span> [Travel Restrictions on
Americans Erode a Sense of Passport
Privilege](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/07/world/europe/american-passport-privilege-coronavirus.html)

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-question-wrap g-2" itemscope="" itemprop="mainEntity" itemtype="https://schema.org/Question">

<div class="g-question">

### Flights to some tourist destinations are cheap. But is it ethical?

<div class="g-icon">

\+

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-answer-wrap g-hide-answer" itemscope="" itemprop="acceptedAnswer" itemtype="https://schema.org/Answer">

<div itemprop="text">

That depends. Questions about the morality of traveling are not new. For
years, people have raised concerns about [climate
change](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/06/13/opinion/letters/travel-climate-change.html)
and traveling to countries with [oppressive
governments.](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/05/16/t-magazine/ethical-travel-reporting.html)
Certain travel activities, like [elephant
riding,](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/06/19/travel/thailand-elephant-tourism-humane.html)
also raise eyebrows.

On the one hand, the [economy of many vacation
destinations,](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/08/travel/travel-discounts-vouchers-coronavirus.html)
like the Caribbean, often depend on tourism. And cheap flights [are
tempting.](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/21/travel/budget-travel-coronavirus.html)
But many countries have been spared outbreaks, and have much weaker
health systems than we do. As with everything these days, assess the
risks.

<span class="g-read-more"> Read More</span> [Reopenings Mark a New
Phase: Global ‘Trial-and-Error’ Played Out in
Lives](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/07/world/europe/coronavirus-reopening-costs.html)

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-question-wrap g-3" itemscope="" itemprop="mainEntity" itemtype="https://schema.org/Question">

<div class="g-question">

### What are other strategies for getting away?

<div class="g-icon">

\+

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-answer-wrap g-hide-answer" itemscope="" itemprop="acceptedAnswer" itemtype="https://schema.org/Answer">

<div itemprop="text">

Even domestic travel is hard right now: Some states have imposed [travel
restrictions](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/10/travel/state-travel-restrictions.html)
on out-of-town folks, and the list changes every day. The day before you
go, check restrictions. But it might cause the least stress and hassle
just to stay close to home this time around.

But that doesn’t mean you can’t have fun. You could buy or rent [a
van.](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/01/style/camper-vans-mercedes.html)
Or [a
boat.](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/02/style/boat-sales-summer.html)
Both industries are booming. National parks might be crowded, but you
could take a road trip to [an alternative
destination.](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/04/travel/national-parks-social-distancing-coronavirus.html)
Nature can be healing for your soul. Go bask.

<span class="g-read-more"> Read More</span> [Life on the Road in
Pandemic
America](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/14/business/coronavirus-road-trip.html)

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-question-wrap g-4" itemscope="" itemprop="mainEntity" itemtype="https://schema.org/Question">

<div class="g-question">

### My trip was canceled. How do I get a refund?

<div class="g-icon">

\+

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-answer-wrap g-hide-answer" itemscope="" itemprop="acceptedAnswer" itemtype="https://schema.org/Answer">

<div itemprop="text">

Refunds are [a pain in the
neck.](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/18/your-money/coronavirus-refunds.html)
[Companies are going to be annoying about
it.](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/12/travel/virus-airlines-private-arbitration.html)
You have to be annoying about it right back.

If your flight was canceled, you’re in for an uphill battle. The airline
has to give you a refund, but they might drag their feet. And if you
booked with [an
agency,](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/03/travel/coronavirus-refund-travel-ota.html)
it may be more complicated. Also, [don’t let them talk you into a
credit.](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/12/travel/refunds-or-credits-travelers-and-businesses-face-off.html)
You’re entitled to a refund. Get a refund. Here’s how:

First, try to resolve it on your own — send a few emails to establish a
paper trail and put on your best “I’d like to speak to the manager”
voice. If you get nowhere, [file a complaint with the Department of
Transportation.](https://airconsumer.dot.gov/escomplaint/ConsumerForm.cfm)
Be as specific as possible. Then, let the company know you filed a
complaint.

Sarah Firshein, a travel writer for The Times, has been writing [helpful
columns](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/09/15/reader-center/travel-sarah-firshein-tripped-up-columnist.html)
on how to get your refund.

Are you having a hard time getting a refund from a … [Travel
company?](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/25/travel/coronavirus-refunds-overseas-adventure-travel.html)
[Hotel?](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/07/travel/virus-refunds-hotel-franchises.html)
[Tour?](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/11/travel/coronavirus-travel-trip-refunds.html)
[Airline?](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/01/travel/trip-refund-airlines.html)
[Anything?](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/18/travel/travel-refunds-airlines.html)
If you’re stuck, shoot us a note:
travel@NYTimes.com

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

## Politics and Government

<div class="g-section-wrap g-questions g-body">

<div class="g-question-wrap g-0" itemscope="" itemprop="mainEntity" itemtype="https://schema.org/Question">

<div class="g-question">

### How will this affect the 2020 election?

<div class="g-icon">

\+

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-answer-wrap g-hide-answer" itemscope="" itemprop="acceptedAnswer" itemtype="https://schema.org/Answer">

<div itemprop="text">

Although the general election has yet to begin, it is already [being
profoundly shaped by the
coronavirus.](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/12/us/politics/coronavirus-2020-campaign.html)
The pandemic’s effects on the economy have [challenged President Trump’s
core
message:](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/29/us/politics/trump-coronavirus-polls.html)
that Americans are better off than before he took office.

Former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. has proposed a detailed plan
for hospitals and research, echoing the language of presidents during
past crises. [Campaigning looks
different.](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/29/us/2020-elections-coronavirus.html)
The Democratic National Convention [was
moved](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/24/us/politics/democratic-convention-milwaukee-coronavirus.html)
from July to August, and will take place in a smaller venue and will
feature live broadcasts. President Trump recently [cancelled the portion
of the Republican National Convention to be held in Jacksonville,
Fla.](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/23/us/politics/jacksonville-rnc.html)
The rest of the convention is unclear.

It would be enormously [difficult to cancel or
postpone](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/24/us/politics/coronavirus-2020-election-primary.html)
the November general election, though.

<span class="g-read-more"> Read More</span> [Could the 2020 Election Be
Postponed? Only With Great Difficulty. Here’s
Why.](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/14/us/politics/election-postponed-canceled.html)

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-question-wrap g-1" itemscope="" itemprop="mainEntity" itemtype="https://schema.org/Question">

<div class="g-question">

### What is the deal with voting by mail?

<div class="g-icon">

\+

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-answer-wrap g-hide-answer" itemscope="" itemprop="acceptedAnswer" itemtype="https://schema.org/Answer">

<div itemprop="text">

Many experts and ethicists agree: The only way to enable everyone to
vote is to turn to a mail-in ballot system, because [going to the polls
could be a matter of life or
death.](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/05/magazine/voting-by-mail-2020-covid.html)

President Trump alleged that voting by mail could lead to voter fraud —
despite being used for years in Democratic and Republican states without
controversy. But states are [opening the
door](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/21/us/vote-by-mail-trump.html)
to the system, and some opposition to letting [voters mail in their
ballots](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/10/us/politics/voting-by-mail-georgia.html)
has dissipated.

Republican opposition to the system seemed driven by the conviction that
an increase in mail voting would benefit Democrats. But [the reality is
far less
clear.](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/25/us/vote-by-mail-coronavirus.html)
The pandemic is also [affecting who can
vote](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/14/us/voter-registration-coronavirus-2020-election.html)
— millions of people who would ordinarily register or update their
registrations in a presidential election year have not been able to do
so.

The drop in registration has the potential to depress participation in a
November presidential election that has been widely expected to break
all records for turnout.

<span class="g-read-more"> Read More</span> [Voting by Mail Is the Hot
New Idea. Is There Time to Make It
Work?](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/19/us/politics/voting-by-mail-coronavirus.html)

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div id="interactive-footer-container" class="css-ovgi28 interactive-footer-container">

Design and production by Rebecca Lieberman.  
  
Research & Development contributions by Jimmy Chion, Jon Cohrs, Jack
Cook, Or Fleisher, Allison Ing, Amelia Pisapia, Dalit Shalom and Yuri
Victor.  
  
Written by Amelia Nierenberg.  
  
Reporting was contributed by Reed Abelson, Rachel Abrams, Karen Barrow
Katrin Bennhold, Pam Belluck, Chris Berdik, Matthew Bloch, Dani Blum,
Nicholas Bogel-Burroughs, Jane E. Brody, Larry Buchanan, Benedict Carey,
Elaine Chen, Keith Collins, Stacy Cowley, Johnny Diaz, Caitlin
Dickerson, Catie Edmondson, David Enrich, Sarah Firshein, Jacey Fortin,
James Glanz, Anna Goldfarb, James Gorman, Jessica Grose, Jenny Gross,
Alisha Haridasani Gupta, Christine Hauser, Tim Herrera, Laura M. Holson,
Julia Jacobs, Zolan Kanno-Youngs, David D. Kirkpatrick, Gina Kolata,
Steven Kurutz, K.K. Rebecca Lai, Lauren Leatherby, Michael Levenson,
Ernesto Londoño, Ron Lieber, Neil MacFarquhar, Apoorva Mandavilli, Erin
McCann, Claire Cain Miller, Talya Minsberg, Melinda Wenner Moyer,
Heather Murphy, Amelia Nierenberg, Aimee Ortiz, Tara Parker-Pope, Roni
Caryn Rabin, Gretchen Reynolds, Kate Rope, Katherine Rosman, Andrea
Salcedo, Dan Saltzstein, David E. Sanger, Margot Sanger-Katz, Michael D.
Shear, Knvul Sheikh, A.C. Shilton, Tara Siegel Bernard, Lauren Sloss,
Mitch Smith, Jennifer Taitz, Neil Vigdor, Kathleen Walsh, Nancy Wartik,
Sui-Lee Wee, Pete Wells, Noah Weiland, Jin Wu, Alan Yuhas and Carl
Zimmer.

<div id="interactive-addendum-list" class="css-1yiqkdd interactive-addendum-list">

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div id="standalone-footer">

<div>

<div>

<div id="interactive-footer-wrapper">

<div class="css-i29ckm">

<div class="interactive-sharetools css-9z2bwm" data-role="toolbar" data-aria-label="Social Media Share buttons, Save button, and Comments Panel with current comment count" data-testid="share-tools">

  - 
  - 
  - 
  - 
    
    <div class="css-6n7j50">
    
    </div>

</div>

</div>

<div>

</div>

<div id="bottom-wrapper" class="css-1ede5it">

<div id="bottom-slug" class="css-l9onyx">

Advertisement

</div>

[Continue reading the main
story](#after-bottom)

<div id="bottom" class="ad bottom-wrapper" style="text-align:center;height:100%;display:block;min-height:90px">

</div>

<div id="after-bottom">

</div>

</div>

## Site Index

<div>

</div>

## Site Information Navigation

  - [© <span>2020</span> <span>The New York Times
    Company</span>](https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice)

<!-- end list -->

  - [NYTCo](https://www.nytco.com/)
  - [Contact
    Us](https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us)
  - [Work with us](https://www.nytco.com/careers/)
  - [Advertise](https://nytmediakit.com/)
  - [T Brand Studio](http://www.tbrandstudio.com/)
  - [Your Ad
    Choices](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy#how-do-i-manage-trackers)
  - [Privacy](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy)
  - [Terms of
    Service](https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service)
  - [Terms of
    Sale](https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale)
  - [Site
    Map](https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion)
  - [Help](https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us)
  - [Subscriptions](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW)

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>
