Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/world/asia}{Asia
Pacific}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/world/asia}{Asia Pacific}\textbar{}Coronavirus Map:
Tracking the Global Outbreak

\url{https://nyti.ms/2t6WE75}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{the-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Interactive\&impression_id=aecb3550-efba-11ea-b68e-f70513192fc8\&variant=undefined}{The
Coronavirus
Outbreak}}{The Coronavirus Outbreak}}\label{the-coronavirus-outbreak}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  live\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/05/world/coronavirus-covid.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Interactive\&impression_id=aecb3551-efba-11ea-b68e-f70513192fc8\&variant=undefined}{Latest
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Interactive\&impression_id=aecb3552-efba-11ea-b68e-f70513192fc8\&variant=undefined}{Maps
  and Cases}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Interactive\&impression_id=aecb3553-efba-11ea-b68e-f70513192fc8\&variant=undefined}{Vaccine
  Tracker}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/02/your-money/eviction-moratorium-covid.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Interactive\&impression_id=aecb5c60-efba-11ea-b68e-f70513192fc8\&variant=undefined}{Eviction
  Moratorium}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/09/02/magazine/food-insecurity-hunger-us.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Interactive\&impression_id=aecb5c61-efba-11ea-b68e-f70513192fc8\&variant=undefined}{American
  Hunger}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{coronavirus-map-tracking-the-global-outbreak}{%
\section{Coronavirus Map: Tracking the Global
Outbreak}\label{coronavirus-map-tracking-the-global-outbreak}}

By The New York TimesUpdated September 5, 2020, 2:18 P.M. E.T.

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/world/coronavirus-maps.html}{World}~

COUNTRIES

\textbar{}
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html}{U.S.A.}~

STATES

~
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-testing.html}{Testing}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/world/americas/brazil-coronavirus-cases.html}{Brazil}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/world/canada/canada-coronavirus-cases.html}{Canada}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/world/europe/france-coronavirus-cases.html}{France}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/world/europe/germany-coronavirus-cases.html}{Germany}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/world/asia/india-coronavirus-cases.html}{India}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/world/europe/italy-coronavirus-cases.html}{Italy}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/world/americas/mexico-coronavirus-cases.html}{Mexico}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/world/europe/spain-coronavirus-cases.html}{Spain}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/world/europe/united-kingdom-coronavirus-cases.html}{U.K.}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/alabama-coronavirus-cases.html}{Alabama}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/alaska-coronavirus-cases.html}{Alaska}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/arizona-coronavirus-cases.html}{Arizona}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/arkansas-coronavirus-cases.html}{Arkansas}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/california-coronavirus-cases.html}{California}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/colorado-coronavirus-cases.html}{Colorado}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/connecticut-coronavirus-cases.html}{Connecticut}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/delaware-coronavirus-cases.html}{Delaware}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/florida-coronavirus-cases.html}{Florida}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/georgia-coronavirus-cases.html}{Georgia}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/hawaii-coronavirus-cases.html}{Hawaii}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/idaho-coronavirus-cases.html}{Idaho}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/illinois-coronavirus-cases.html}{Illinois}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/indiana-coronavirus-cases.html}{Indiana}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/iowa-coronavirus-cases.html}{Iowa}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/kansas-coronavirus-cases.html}{Kansas}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/kentucky-coronavirus-cases.html}{Kentucky}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/louisiana-coronavirus-cases.html}{Louisiana}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/maine-coronavirus-cases.html}{Maine}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/maryland-coronavirus-cases.html}{Maryland}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/massachusetts-coronavirus-cases.html}{Massachusetts}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/michigan-coronavirus-cases.html}{Michigan}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/minnesota-coronavirus-cases.html}{Minnesota}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/mississippi-coronavirus-cases.html}{Mississippi}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/missouri-coronavirus-cases.html}{Missouri}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/montana-coronavirus-cases.html}{Montana}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/nebraska-coronavirus-cases.html}{Nebraska}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/nevada-coronavirus-cases.html}{Nevada}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/new-hampshire-coronavirus-cases.html}{New
Hampshire}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/new-jersey-coronavirus-cases.html}{New
Jersey}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/new-mexico-coronavirus-cases.html}{New
Mexico}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/new-york-coronavirus-cases.html}{New
York}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/north-carolina-coronavirus-cases.html}{North
Carolina}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/north-dakota-coronavirus-cases.html}{North
Dakota}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/ohio-coronavirus-cases.html}{Ohio}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/oklahoma-coronavirus-cases.html}{Oklahoma}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/oregon-coronavirus-cases.html}{Oregon}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/pennsylvania-coronavirus-cases.html}{Pennsylvania}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/puerto-rico-coronavirus-cases.html}{Puerto
Rico}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/rhode-island-coronavirus-cases.html}{Rhode
Island}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/south-carolina-coronavirus-cases.html}{South
Carolina}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/south-dakota-coronavirus-cases.html}{South
Dakota}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/tennessee-coronavirus-cases.html}{Tennessee}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/texas-coronavirus-cases.html}{Texas}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/utah-coronavirus-cases.html}{Utah}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/vermont-coronavirus-cases.html}{Vermont}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/virginia-coronavirus-cases.html}{Virginia}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/washington-coronavirus-cases.html}{Washington}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/washington-dc-coronavirus-cases.html}{Washington,
D.C.}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/west-virginia-coronavirus-cases.html}{West
Virginia}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/wisconsin-coronavirus-cases.html}{Wisconsin}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/wyoming-coronavirus-cases.html}{Wyoming}

~

0

200,000 cases

Feb.

March

April

May

June

July

Aug.

Sept.

New cases

7-day average

Total cases

26.6 million+

Deaths

875,610

Includes confirmed and probable cases where available

\protect\hyperlink{map}{Map}\protect\hyperlink{countries}{Country
table}\protect\hyperlink{cases}{New
cases}\protect\hyperlink{tips}{Tips}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/05/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html}{Latest
news »}

The
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/prepare-for-coronavirus.html}{coronavirus
pandemic} has sickened more than 26,676,600 people, according to
official counts. As of Saturday afternoon, at least 875,600 people have
died, and the virus has been detected in nearly every country, as these
maps show.

Hot spots

Total cases

Deaths

Per capita

Average daily cases per 100,000 people in the past week

Few or no cases

Share of population with a reported case

No cases reported

Double-click to zoom into the map.

Use two fingers to pan and zoom. Tap for details.

Sources: Local governments; The Center for Systems Science and
Engineering at Johns Hopkins University; National Health Commission of
the People's Republic of China; World Health Organization.

About this data The map shows where the average number of reported cases
over the past two weeks is increasing, decreasing or about the same.
Countries with an increase in the rate of cases are shaded darker.
Countries with fewer than 100 cases over the past two weeks are not
shaded. Data for the West Bank and Gaza was reported together by the
Palestinian Health Ministry and includes only Palestinian-controlled
land. Russia is reporting data for Crimea, a peninsula it
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2014/03/19/world/europe/ukraine.html}{annexed
in 2014} in a move that led to international sanctions. Data for some
countries, like the United States and France, include counts for
overseas territories. Japan's count includes 696 cases and seven deaths
from a cruise ship that docked in Yokohama.

The coronavirus pandemic is ebbing in some of the countries that were
hit hard early on, but the number of new cases is growing faster than
ever worldwide, with more than 200,000 reported each day on average.

Cases

Deaths

Show all

Weekly cases per capita shows the share of population with a new
reported case for each week. Weeks without a reported case are shaded
gray.

The virus continues to affect every region of the world, but some
countries are experiencing high rates of infection, while others appear
to have mostly controlled the virus.

\hypertarget{where-new-cases-are-higher-and-staying-high}{%
\subsection{Where new cases are higher and staying
high}\label{where-new-cases-are-higher-and-staying-high}}

Countries where new cases are higher had a daily average of at least
four new cases per 100,000 people over the past week. The charts, which
are all on the same scale, show daily cases per capita and are of
countries with at least five million people.

\subsection{}

7-day average

\textbf{Israel} Jan. 22 Sept. 4

\textbf{Argentina}

\textbf{Peru}

\textbf{Brazil}

\textbf{Spain}

\textbf{United States}

\textbf{Iraq}

\textbf{Paraguay}

\textbf{Chile}

\textbf{France}

\textbf{Libya}

\textbf{Lebanon}

\textbf{Honduras}

\textbf{Romania}

\textbf{India}

\textbf{U.A.E.}

\textbf{Ukraine}

\textbf{Czech Republic}

\textbf{Mexico}

\textbf{Belgium}

\textbf{Morocco}

+ Show all -- Show less

7-day average

\textbf{Israel} 126,419 total cases Jan. 22 Sept. 4

\textbf{Argentina} 461,882

\textbf{Peru} 676,848

\textbf{Brazil} 4,091,801

\textbf{Spain} 498,989

\textbf{United States} 6,241,869

\textbf{Iraq} 256,719

\textbf{Paraguay} 20,654

\textbf{Chile} 418,469

\textbf{France} 309,156

\textbf{Libya} 17,094

\textbf{Lebanon} 19,490

\textbf{Honduras} 63,798

\textbf{Romania} 93,864

\textbf{India} 4,023,179

\textbf{U.A.E.} 73,471

\textbf{Ukraine} 136,966

\textbf{Czech Republic} 27,560

\textbf{Mexico} 623,090

\textbf{Belgium} 87,174

\textbf{Morocco} 68,605

+ Show all + Show less

\hypertarget{where-new-cases-are-higher-but-going-down}{%
\subsection{Where new cases are higher but going
down}\label{where-new-cases-are-higher-but-going-down}}

7-day average

\textbf{Colombia} Jan. 22 Sept. 4

\textbf{Bolivia}

\textbf{Dominican Rep.}

\textbf{Ecuador}

7-day average

\textbf{Colombia} 650,055 total cases Jan. 22 Sept. 4

\textbf{Bolivia} 119,580

\textbf{Dominican Rep.} 98,776

\textbf{Ecuador} 117,175

\hypertarget{where-new-cases-are-lower-but-going-up}{%
\subsection{Where new cases are lower but going
up}\label{where-new-cases-are-lower-but-going-up}}

Countries where new cases are lower had a daily average of less than
four new cases per 100,000 people over the past week. The charts, which
are all on the same scale, show daily cases per capita and are of
countries with at least five million people.

\hypertarget{-1}{%
\subsection{}\label{-1}}

7-day average

\textbf{Nepal} Jan. 22 Sept. 4

\textbf{Switzerland}

\textbf{Portugal}

\textbf{Hungary}

\textbf{U.K.}

\textbf{Italy}

\textbf{Turkey}

\textbf{Republic of Congo}

\textbf{Norway}

\textbf{Belarus}

\textbf{Azerbaijan}

\textbf{Slovakia}

\textbf{Canada}

\textbf{Tunisia}

\textbf{Indonesia}

\textbf{Rwanda}

\textbf{Jordan}

\textbf{Mozambique}

\textbf{Ivory Coast}

\textbf{Cameroon}

\textbf{Uganda}

\textbf{Egypt}

\textbf{Angola}

\textbf{Myanmar}

\textbf{Sri Lanka}

\textbf{Somalia}

\textbf{Burundi}

+ Show all -- Show less

7-day average

\textbf{Nepal} 45,277 total cases Jan. 22 Sept. 4

\textbf{Switzerland} 43,957

\textbf{Portugal} 59,943

\textbf{Hungary} 7,892

\textbf{U.K.} 344,164

\textbf{Italy} 276,338

\textbf{Turkey} 276,555

\textbf{Republic of Congo} 4,628

\textbf{Norway} 11,254

\textbf{Belarus} 72,663

\textbf{Azerbaijan} 37,192

\textbf{Slovakia} 4,526

\textbf{Canada} 131,124

\textbf{Tunisia} 4,542

\textbf{Indonesia} 190,665

\textbf{Rwanda} 4,304

\textbf{Jordan} 2,353

\textbf{Mozambique} 4,341

\textbf{Ivory Coast} 18,269

\textbf{Cameroon} 19,604

\textbf{Uganda} 3,353

\textbf{Egypt} 99,582

\textbf{Angola} 2,876

\textbf{Myanmar} 1,253

\textbf{Sri Lanka} 3,118

\textbf{Somalia} 3,332

\textbf{Burundi} 451

+ Show all + Show less

\hypertarget{where-new-cases-are-lower-and-staying-low}{%
\subsection{Where new cases are lower and staying
low}\label{where-new-cases-are-lower-and-staying-low}}

7-day average

\textbf{Netherlands} Jan. 22 Sept. 4

\textbf{South Africa}

\textbf{Venezuela}

\textbf{Austria}

\textbf{Guatemala}

\textbf{Russia}

\textbf{Philippines}

\textbf{Saudi Arabia}

\textbf{Iran}

\textbf{Denmark}

\textbf{Greece}

\textbf{Bulgaria}

\textbf{Germany}

\textbf{Poland}

\textbf{El Salvador}

\textbf{Sweden}

\textbf{Kyrgyzstan}

\textbf{Bangladesh}

\textbf{Serbia}

\textbf{Ethiopia}

\textbf{Uzbekistan}

\textbf{Algeria}

\textbf{Singapore}

\textbf{Zambia}

\textbf{Kazakhstan}

\textbf{Cuba}

\textbf{Japan}

\textbf{Finland}

\textbf{Guinea}

\textbf{Senegal}

\textbf{South Korea}

\textbf{Zimbabwe}

\textbf{Syria}

\textbf{Ghana}

\textbf{Nicaragua}

\textbf{Tajikistan}

\textbf{Australia}

\textbf{Kenya}

\textbf{Madagascar}

\textbf{Haiti}

\textbf{Togo}

\textbf{Pakistan}

\textbf{Hong Kong}

\textbf{Nigeria}

\textbf{Malawi}

\textbf{Afghanistan}

\textbf{Benin}

\textbf{Mali}

\textbf{Sierra Leone}

\textbf{Papua New Guinea}

\textbf{Burkina Faso}

\textbf{Sudan}

\textbf{Malaysia}

\textbf{Eritrea}

\textbf{Democratic Republic of Congo}

\textbf{South Sudan}

\textbf{Yemen}

\textbf{Chad}

\textbf{Thailand}

\textbf{Mainland China}

\textbf{Taiwan}

\textbf{Vietnam}

\textbf{Niger}

\textbf{Cambodia}

\textbf{Tanzania}

+ Show all -- Show less

7-day average

\textbf{Netherlands} 76,827 total cases Jan. 22 Sept. 4

\textbf{South Africa} 635,078

\textbf{Venezuela} 50,973

\textbf{Austria} 29,087

\textbf{Guatemala} 77,040

\textbf{Russia} 1,017,131

\textbf{Philippines} 234,570

\textbf{Saudi Arabia} 319,932

\textbf{Iran} 384,666

\textbf{Denmark} 18,163

\textbf{Greece} 11,200

\textbf{Bulgaria} 16,954

\textbf{Germany} 248,997

\textbf{Poland} 70,387

\textbf{El Salvador} 26,206

\textbf{Sweden} 84,985

\textbf{Kyrgyzstan} 44,293

\textbf{Bangladesh} 323,565

\textbf{Serbia} 31,849

\textbf{Ethiopia} 56,516

\textbf{Uzbekistan} 43,293

\textbf{Algeria} 45,773

\textbf{Singapore} 56,982

\textbf{Zambia} 12,709

\textbf{Kazakhstan} 106,225

\textbf{Cuba} 4,266

\textbf{Japan} 71,572

\textbf{Finland} 8,261

\textbf{Guinea} 9,649

\textbf{Senegal} 13,948

\textbf{South Korea} 21,010

\textbf{Zimbabwe} 6,837

\textbf{Syria} 3,041

\textbf{Ghana} 44,777

\textbf{Nicaragua} 4,668

\textbf{Tajikistan} 8,757

\textbf{Australia} 26,207

\textbf{Kenya} 35,020

\textbf{Madagascar} 15,269

\textbf{Haiti} 8,326

\textbf{Togo} 1,457

\textbf{Pakistan} 298,025

\textbf{Hong Kong} 4,857

\textbf{Nigeria} 54,743

\textbf{Malawi} 5,608

\textbf{Afghanistan} 38,324

\textbf{Benin} 2,194

\textbf{Mali} 2,814

\textbf{Sierra Leone} 2,041

\textbf{Papua New Guinea} 479

\textbf{Burkina Faso} 1,408

\textbf{Sudan} 13,189

\textbf{Malaysia} 9,391

\textbf{Eritrea} 330

\textbf{Democratic Republic of Congo} 10,178

\textbf{South Sudan} 2,536

\textbf{Yemen} 1,983

\textbf{Chad} 1,023

\textbf{Thailand} 3,438

\textbf{Mainland China} 92,811

\textbf{Taiwan} 492

\textbf{Vietnam} 1,049

\textbf{Niger} 1,177

\textbf{Cambodia} 274

\textbf{Tanzania} 509

+ Show all + Show less

\hypertarget{where-new-deaths-are-increasing}{%
\subsection{Where new deaths are
increasing}\label{where-new-deaths-are-increasing}}

The charts, which are all on the same scale, show daily deaths per
capita and are of countries with at least five million people.

\hypertarget{-2}{%
\subsection{}\label{-2}}

7-day average

\textbf{Bolivia} Jan. 22 Sept. 4

\textbf{Paraguay}

\textbf{Honduras}

\textbf{Dominican Rep.}

\textbf{Bulgaria}

\textbf{Ukraine}

\textbf{Morocco}

\textbf{Australia}

\textbf{Lebanon}

\textbf{Republic of Congo}

\textbf{Turkey}

\textbf{Belarus}

\textbf{Nepal}

\textbf{Indonesia}

\textbf{Greece}

\textbf{Azerbaijan}

\textbf{Egypt}

\textbf{Hong Kong}

\textbf{Tunisia}

\textbf{Haiti}

\textbf{Cuba}

\textbf{South Korea}

\textbf{Nigeria}

+ Show all -- Show less

7-day average

\textbf{Bolivia} 5,343 total deaths Jan. 22 Sept. 4

\textbf{Paraguay} 398

\textbf{Honduras} 1,984

\textbf{Dominican Rep.} 1,840

\textbf{Bulgaria} 665

\textbf{Ukraine} 2,863

\textbf{Morocco} 1,292

\textbf{Australia} 748

\textbf{Lebanon} 183

\textbf{Republic of Congo} 102

\textbf{Turkey} 6,564

\textbf{Belarus} 705

\textbf{Nepal} 280

\textbf{Indonesia} 7,940

\textbf{Greece} 279

\textbf{Azerbaijan} 545

\textbf{Egypt} 5,495

\textbf{Hong Kong} 94

\textbf{Tunisia} 87

\textbf{Haiti} 212

\textbf{Cuba} 100

\textbf{South Korea} 333

\textbf{Nigeria} 1,051

+ Show all + Show less

These countries have had the highest growth in newly reported deaths
over the last 14 days. Deaths tend to rise a few weeks after a rise in
infections, as there is typically a delay between when people are
infected, when they die and when deaths are reported. Some deaths
reported in the last two weeks may have occurred much earlier because of
these delays.

The outbreak was initially defined by a series of shifting epicenters
--- including Wuhan, China; Iran; northern Italy; Spain; and New York.

Cases worldwide leveled off in April after social distancing measures
were put in place in many of the areas with early outbreaks.

But as countries began to reopen in May and June, the United States was
unable to contain a resurgence of the disease, making it one of the main
drivers of rising case numbers around the world. Many South American
countries are also experiencing high rates of infection, with Brazil,
Colombia, Peru and Argentina reporting large numbers of cases every day.

\hypertarget{new-reported-cases-by-day-across-the-world}{%
\subsubsection{New reported cases by day across the
world}\label{new-reported-cases-by-day-across-the-world}}

0

100,000

200,000

300,000 cases

Feb.

March

April

May

June

July

Aug.

Sept.

New cases

7-day average

Note: The seven-day average is the average of a day and the previous six
days of data.

\hypertarget{new-reported-deaths-by-day-across-the-world}{%
\subsubsection{New reported deaths by day across the
world}\label{new-reported-deaths-by-day-across-the-world}}

0

5,000 deaths

Feb.

March

April

May

June

July

Aug.

Sept.

New deaths

7-day average

Note: Scale for deaths chart is adjusted from cases chart to display
trend.

The New York Times has found that official
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/12/us/covid-deaths-us.html}{tallies
in the United States} and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/04/21/world/coronavirus-missing-deaths.html}{in
more than a dozen other countries} have undercounted deaths during the
coronavirus outbreak because of limited testing availability.

Follow our coverage of the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/05/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html}{coronavirus
pandemic here.}

\hypertarget{united-states}{%
\subsection{United States}\label{united-states}}

The number of known coronavirus cases in the United States continues to
grow. As of Saturday afternoon, at least 6,241,800 people across every
state, plus Washington, D.C., and four U.S. territories, have tested
positive for the virus, according to a New York Times database, and at
least 188,000 patients with the virus have died.

\hypertarget{reported-cases-in-the-united-states}{%
\subsubsection{Reported cases in the United
States}\label{reported-cases-in-the-united-states}}

Average daily cases per 100,000 people in the past week

← Fewer

More →

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2020/03/16/coronavirus-maps/53ce5a3353d6ac27572d473aa0a97c8ae0dc5a70/build/maps/usa-choropleth.svg}

Wash.

Ill.

Calif.

Ariz.

Mass.

Wis.

Texas

Neb.

Utah

Ore.

Fla.

N.Y.

R.I.

Ga.

N.H.

N.C.

N.J.

Colo.

Md.

Nev.

Tenn.

Hawaii

Ind.

Ky.

Minn.

Okla.

Pa.

S.C.

Kan.

Mo.

Vt.

Va.

Conn.

Iowa

La.

Ohio

Mich.

S.D.

Ark.

Del.

Miss.

N.M.

N.D.

Wyo.

Alaska

Maine

Ala.

Idaho

Mont.

P.R.

W.Va.

Sources: Local governments; The Center for Systems Science and
Engineering at Johns Hopkins University; National Health Commission of
the People's Republic of China; World Health Organization.

About this data Note: The map shows the share of population with a new
reported case over the last week. Parts of a county with a population
density lower than 10 people per square mile are not shaded. Sources:
State and local health agencies and hospitals.

See our
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html}{page
of maps, charts and tables} tracking every coronavirus case in the U.S.

After case numbers fell steadily in April and May,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html}{cases
in the United States} are growing again at about the same rapid pace as
when infections were exploding in New York City in late March. But the
hotspots are now mainly spread across the southern and western parts of
the country.

The New York Times is engaged in an effort to track the details of
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html}{every
reported case in the United States}, collecting information from
federal, state and local officials around the clock. The numbers in this
article are being updated several times a day based on the latest
information our journalists are gathering from around the country. The
Times has
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/coronavirus-county-data-us.html?action=click\&module=Spotlight\&pgtype=Homepage}{made
that data public} in hopes of helping researchers and policymakers as
they seek to slow the pandemic and prevent future ones.

Read more about the methodology and download county-level data for
coronavirus cases in the United States from The New York Times
\href{https://github.com/nytimes/covid-19-data}{on GitHub}.

\hypertarget{about-the-data}{%
\subsection{About the data}\label{about-the-data}}

Governments often revise data or report a single-day large increase in
cases or deaths from unspecified days without historical revisions,
which can cause an irregular pattern in the daily reported figures. The
Times is excluding these anomalies from seven-day averages when
possible.

\hypertarget{tracking-the-coronavirus}{%
\subsection{Tracking the Coronavirus}\label{tracking-the-coronavirus}}

\hypertarget{united-states-1}{%
\subsubsection{United States}\label{united-states-1}}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2020/03/16/coronavirus-maps/53ce5a3353d6ac27572d473aa0a97c8ae0dc5a70/images/orphan_usa-threeByTwoSmallAt2X.png}

\hypertarget{latest-maps-and-data}{%
\paragraph{Latest Maps and Data}\label{latest-maps-and-data}}

Cases and deaths for every county

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/05/05/us/coronavirus-death-toll-us.html}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2020/03/16/coronavirus-maps/53ce5a3353d6ac27572d473aa0a97c8ae0dc5a70/images/footer-thumbs/deaths-us.jpg}

\hypertarget{deaths-above-normal}{%
\paragraph{Deaths Above Normal}\label{deaths-above-normal}}

The true toll of coronavirus in the U.S.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/04/23/upshot/five-ways-to-monitor-coronavirus-outbreak-us.html}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2020/03/16/coronavirus-maps/53ce5a3353d6ac27572d473aa0a97c8ae0dc5a70/images/footer-thumbs/metros.png}

\hypertarget{cities-and-metro-areas}{%
\paragraph{Cities and Metro Areas}\label{cities-and-metro-areas}}

Where it is getting better and worse

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-testing.html}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2020/03/16/coronavirus-maps/53ce5a3353d6ac27572d473aa0a97c8ae0dc5a70/images/footer-thumbs/testing.png}

\hypertarget{testing}{%
\paragraph{Testing}\label{testing}}

Is your state doing enough?

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-nursing-homes.html}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2020/03/16/coronavirus-maps/53ce5a3353d6ac27572d473aa0a97c8ae0dc5a70/images/footer-thumbs/nursing-homes.png}

\hypertarget{nursing-homes}{%
\paragraph{Nursing Homes}\label{nursing-homes}}

The hardest-hit states and facilities

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/covid-college-cases-tracker.html}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/09/04/us/covid-college-cases-tracker-promo-1599194588528/covid-college-cases-tracker-promo-1599194588528-threeByTwoSmallAt2X.png}

\hypertarget{colleges-and-universities}{%
\paragraph{Colleges and Universities}\label{colleges-and-universities}}

Cases at more than 1,000 schools

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/states-reopen-map-coronavirus.html}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/04/24/us/states-reopen-map-coronavirus-promo-1587778728210/states-reopen-map-coronavirus-promo-1587778728210-threeByTwoSmallAt2X-v96.png}

\hypertarget{reopening}{%
\paragraph{Reopening}\label{reopening}}

Which states are open and closed

\hypertarget{world}{%
\subsubsection{World}\label{world}}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/world/coronavirus-maps.html}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2020/03/16/coronavirus-maps/53ce5a3353d6ac27572d473aa0a97c8ae0dc5a70/images/orphan_world-threeByTwoSmallAt2X.png}

\hypertarget{latest-maps-and-data-1}{%
\paragraph{Latest Maps and Data}\label{latest-maps-and-data-1}}

Cases and deaths for every country

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/04/21/world/coronavirus-missing-deaths.html}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2020/03/16/coronavirus-maps/53ce5a3353d6ac27572d473aa0a97c8ae0dc5a70/images/footer-thumbs/deaths-world.jpg}

\hypertarget{deaths-above-normal-1}{%
\paragraph{Deaths Above Normal}\label{deaths-above-normal-1}}

The true toll of coronavirus around the world

\hypertarget{health}{%
\subsubsection{Health}\label{health}}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2020/03/16/coronavirus-maps/53ce5a3353d6ac27572d473aa0a97c8ae0dc5a70/images/footer-thumbs/vaccines.png}

\hypertarget{vaccines}{%
\paragraph{Vaccines}\label{vaccines}}

Track their development

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-drugs-treatments.html}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2020/03/16/coronavirus-maps/53ce5a3353d6ac27572d473aa0a97c8ae0dc5a70/images/footer-thumbs/treatments.png}

\hypertarget{treatments}{%
\paragraph{Treatments}\label{treatments}}

Rated by effectiveness and safety

\hypertarget{countries}{%
\subsubsection{Countries}\label{countries}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/world/americas/brazil-coronavirus-cases.html}{Brazil}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/world/canada/canada-coronavirus-cases.html}{Canada}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/world/europe/france-coronavirus-cases.html}{France}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/world/europe/germany-coronavirus-cases.html}{Germany}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/world/asia/india-coronavirus-cases.html}{India}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/world/europe/italy-coronavirus-cases.html}{Italy}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/world/americas/mexico-coronavirus-cases.html}{Mexico}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/world/europe/spain-coronavirus-cases.html}{Spain}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/world/europe/united-kingdom-coronavirus-cases.html}{U.K.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html}{United
  States}
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{states-territories-and-cities}{%
\subsubsection{States, Territories and
Cities}\label{states-territories-and-cities}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/alabama-coronavirus-cases.html}{Alabama}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/alaska-coronavirus-cases.html}{Alaska}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/arizona-coronavirus-cases.html}{Arizona}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/arkansas-coronavirus-cases.html}{Arkansas}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/california-coronavirus-cases.html}{California}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/colorado-coronavirus-cases.html}{Colorado}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/connecticut-coronavirus-cases.html}{Connecticut}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/delaware-coronavirus-cases.html}{Delaware}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/florida-coronavirus-cases.html}{Florida}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/georgia-coronavirus-cases.html}{Georgia}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/hawaii-coronavirus-cases.html}{Hawaii}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/idaho-coronavirus-cases.html}{Idaho}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/illinois-coronavirus-cases.html}{Illinois}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/indiana-coronavirus-cases.html}{Indiana}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/iowa-coronavirus-cases.html}{Iowa}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/kansas-coronavirus-cases.html}{Kansas}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/kentucky-coronavirus-cases.html}{Kentucky}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/louisiana-coronavirus-cases.html}{Louisiana}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/maine-coronavirus-cases.html}{Maine}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/maryland-coronavirus-cases.html}{Maryland}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/massachusetts-coronavirus-cases.html}{Massachusetts}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/michigan-coronavirus-cases.html}{Michigan}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/minnesota-coronavirus-cases.html}{Minnesota}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/mississippi-coronavirus-cases.html}{Mississippi}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/missouri-coronavirus-cases.html}{Missouri}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/montana-coronavirus-cases.html}{Montana}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/nebraska-coronavirus-cases.html}{Nebraska}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/nevada-coronavirus-cases.html}{Nevada}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/new-hampshire-coronavirus-cases.html}{New
  Hampshire}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/new-jersey-coronavirus-cases.html}{New
  Jersey}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/new-mexico-coronavirus-cases.html}{New
  Mexico}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/new-york-coronavirus-cases.html}{New
  York}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/nyregion/new-york-city-coronavirus-cases.html}{New
  York City}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/north-carolina-coronavirus-cases.html}{North
  Carolina}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/north-dakota-coronavirus-cases.html}{North
  Dakota}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/ohio-coronavirus-cases.html}{Ohio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/oklahoma-coronavirus-cases.html}{Oklahoma}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/oregon-coronavirus-cases.html}{Oregon}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/pennsylvania-coronavirus-cases.html}{Pennsylvania}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/puerto-rico-coronavirus-cases.html}{Puerto
  Rico}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/rhode-island-coronavirus-cases.html}{Rhode
  Island}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/south-carolina-coronavirus-cases.html}{South
  Carolina}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/south-dakota-coronavirus-cases.html}{South
  Dakota}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/tennessee-coronavirus-cases.html}{Tennessee}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/texas-coronavirus-cases.html}{Texas}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/utah-coronavirus-cases.html}{Utah}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/vermont-coronavirus-cases.html}{Vermont}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/virginia-coronavirus-cases.html}{Virginia}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/washington-coronavirus-cases.html}{Washington}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/washington-dc-coronavirus-cases.html}{Washington,
  D.C.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/west-virginia-coronavirus-cases.html}{West
  Virginia}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/wisconsin-coronavirus-cases.html}{Wisconsin}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/wyoming-coronavirus-cases.html}{Wyoming}
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{what-you-can-do}{%
\subsection{What you can do}\label{what-you-can-do}}

Experts'
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/02/health/coronavirus-profile-covid.html}{understanding
of how the Covid-19 works is growing}. It seems that there are
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/coronavirus-how-it-spreads.html}{four
factors that most likely play a role}: how close you get to an infected
person; how long you are near that person; whether that person expels
viral droplets on or near you; and how much you touch your face
afterwards.
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/05/well/covid-19-symptoms.html}{Here
is a guide to the symptoms of Covid-19.}

You can help reduce your risk and do your part to protect others by
following some
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/prepare-for-coronavirus.html}{basic
steps}:

Keep your distance from others. Stay at least six feet away from people
outside your household as much as possible.

Wear a mask outside your home. A mask protects others from your germs,
and it protects you from infection as well. The more people who wear
masks, the more we all stay safer.

Wash your hands often. Anytime you come in contact with a surface
outside your home, scrub with soap for at least 20 seconds, rinse and
then dry your hands with a clean towel.

Avoid touching your face. The virus can spread when our hands come into
contact with the virus, and we touch our nose, mouth or eyes. Try to
keep your hands away from your face unless you have just recently washed
them.

Here's a
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/world/coronavirus-tips-advice.html}{complete
guide on how you can prepare} for the coronavirus outbreak.

Note: Data are based on reports at the time of publication. At times,
officials revise reports or offer incomplete information. Population
data from World Bank.

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/sarah-almukhtar}{Sarah
Almukhtar},
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/aliza-aufrichtig}{Aliza
Aufrichtig},
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/matthew-bloch}{Matthew
Bloch}, Julia Calderone,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/keith-collins}{Keith
Collins}, Matthew Conlen, Lindsey Cook, Gabriel Gianordoli,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/amy-harmon}{Amy Harmon},
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/rich-harris}{Rich Harris},
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/adeel-hassan}{Adeel Hassan},
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/jon-huang}{Jon Huang}, Danya
Issawi,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/danielle-ivory}{Danielle
Ivory}, \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/kk-rebecca-lai}{K.K.
Rebecca Lai}, Alex Lemonides,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/allison-mccann}{Allison
McCann},
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/richard-a-oppel-jr}{Richard
A. Oppel Jr.},
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/jugal-k-patel}{Jugal K.
Patel}, Kirk Semple, Julie Walton Shaver,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/anjali-singhvi}{Anjali
Singhvi}, Charlie Smart,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/mitch-smith}{Mitch Smith},
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/derek-watkins}{Derek
Watkins},
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/timothy-williams}{Timothy
Williams}, \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/jin-wu}{Jin Wu}
and \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/karen-yourish}{Karen
Yourish}. ~~·~~ Reporting was contributed by Jordan Allen, Jeff Arnold,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/ian-austen}{Ian Austen},
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/mike-baker}{Mike Baker},
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/ellen-barry}{Ellen Barry},
Samone Blair, Nicholas Bogel-Burroughs, Aurelien Breeden, Elisha Brown,
Emma Bubola, Maddie Burakoff, Alyssa Burr, Christopher Calabrese, Sarah
Cahalan, Zak Cassel, Robert Chiarito, Izzy Colón, Matt Craig, Yves De
Jesus, Brendon Derr, Brandon Dupré, Melissa Eddy, John Eligon, Timmy
Facciola, Bianca Fortis, Matt Furber, Robert Gebeloff,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/matthew-goldstein}{Matthew
Goldstein}, Grace Gorenflo, Rebecca Griesbach, Benjamin Guggenheim,
Lauryn Higgins, Josh Holder, Jake Holland, Jon Huang, Anna Joyce, Ann
Hinga Klein, Jacob LaGesse, Alex Lim, Patricia Mazzei, Jesse McKinley,
Miles McKinley, K.B. Mensah, Sarah Mervosh, Jacob Meschke, Lauren
Messman, Andrea Michelson, Jaylynn Moffat-Mowatt, Steven Moity, Paul
Moon, Thomas Gibbons-Neff, Anahad O'Connor, Ashlyn O'Hara, Azi Paybarah,
Elian Peltier, Sean Plambeck, Laney Pope, Elisabetta Povoledo, Cierra S.
Queen, Savannah Redl, Scott Reinhard, Thomas Rivas, Frances Robles,
Natasha Rodriguez, Jess Ruderman, Alison Saldanha,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/kai-schultz}{Kai Schultz},
Alex Schwartz, Emily Schwing, Libby Seline, Sarena Snider, Brandon
Thorp, Alex Traub, Maura Turcotte, Tracey Tully, Lisa Waananen Jones,
Amy Schoenfeld Walker, Jeremy White, Kristine White, Bonnie G. Wong,
Tiffany Wong,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/sameer-yasir}{Sameer Yasir}
and John Yoon. ~~·~~ Data acquisition and additional work contributed by
Will Houp, Andrew Chavez, Michael Strickland, Tiff Fehr, Miles Watkins,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/josh-williams}{Josh
Williams}, Albert Sun, Shelly Seroussi, Nina Pavlich, Carmen Cincotti,
Ben Smithgall, Andrew Fischer,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/rachel-shorey}{Rachel
Shorey},
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/blacki-migliozzi}{Blacki
Migliozzi}, Alastair Coote, Steven Speicher, Hugh Mandeville, Robin
Berjon, Thu Trinh, Carolyn Price, James G. Robinson, Phil Wells, Yanxing
Yang, Michael Beswetherick, Michael Robles, Nikhil Baradwaj, Ariana
Giorgi and Bella Virgilio.

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
