\href{/}{}\href{/travel}{}

\href{/travel/destinations}{Destinations}\href{/travel/food-and-drink}{Food
\&
Drink}\href{/travel/news}{News}\href{/travel/stay}{Stay}\href{/travel/videos}{Video}

Search

Menu

\href{/travel/food-and-drink}{}

Food \& Drink

\hypertarget{breakfast-around-the-world-how-different-countries-start-the-day}{%
\section{Breakfast around the world: How different countries start the
day}\label{breakfast-around-the-world-how-different-countries-start-the-day}}

Casey Barber, CNN • Updated 27th May 2019

FacebookTwitterEmail

\includegraphics{https://dynaimage.cdn.cnn.com/cnn/e_blur:500,q_auto:low,w_50,c_fill,g_auto,h_28,ar_16:9/http\%3A\%2F\%2Fcdn.cnn.com\%2Fcnnnext\%2Fdam\%2Fassets\%2F190515175546-15-breakfast-around-the-world-zopf.jpg}

View Gallery

21 Pictures

(CNN) --- When it comes to breakfast foods across the globe, there are
as many ways to enjoy the first meal of the day as there are to say
"good morning."

From creamy cornbread cake in Brazil to savory Tunisian chickpea soup,
from fluffy Ukrainian pancakes to sweet coconut jam toasts in Singapore,
these 21 international specialties offer a breakfast option for every
palate.

And even if the flavors in some of these dishes might be unexpected
based on what your first meal of the day typically consists of, the
presentations are likely familiar. Read through our list -\/- in no
particular order -\/- and learn about the delicious diversity of our
world's breakfast cultures, and maybe even find food inspiration for
your next trip.

\hypertarget{switzerland}{%
\subsubsection{Switzerland}\label{switzerland}}

On weekdays, the Swiss frequently stick to quick but filling breakfasts
like the traditional birchermüesli, the granola-style blend of oats with
fruit and nuts that's usually served over thick yogurt.

But on weekends, it's time for Swiss brunch. Along with roesti (potato
pancakes), cheeses, and cold cuts, the centerpiece of the brunch table
is zopf. This braided egg bread is similar to challah or brioche, and
served with honey, butter, and jam.

\hypertarget{ethiopia}{%
\subsubsection{Ethiopia}\label{ethiopia}}

\href{/travel/article/breakfast-food-around-the-world/index.html?gallery=1}{}

\includegraphics{https://dynaimage.cdn.cnn.com/cnn/e_blur:500,q_auto:low,w_50,c_fill,g_auto,h_28,ar_16:9/http\%3A\%2F\%2Fcdn.cnn.com\%2Fcnnnext\%2Fdam\%2Fassets\%2F190517113734-20-breakfast-around-the-world-genfo.jpg}

Genfo is a thick porridge made with barley, wheat and corn flour, and
it's a traditional porridge.

Shutterstock

When you're having qurs (that's "breakfast" in Amharic, Ethiopia's
official language), chances are you'll be eating porridge. While there
are many varieties and names for hot grain cereals served throughout the
country, savory genfo is one of the most popular.

Genfo is made by mixing barley flour with boiling water until a thick,
sticky dough forms, then shaped into a mound with a well in the center.
The well is then filled with clarified butter blended with berbere, the
complex spice blend, and dollops of yogurt are often spooned around the
edges of the genfo.

\hypertarget{japan}{%
\subsubsection{Japan}\label{japan}}

Japanese breakfasts fall squarely on the savory side of the food
spectrum: In fact, much of what you can eat for breakfast in Japan
wouldn't be out of place at any other meal of the day.

Many morning repasts consist of a selection of small plates, each with a
few bites of a traditional Japanese dish. Fish like salmon or mackerel,
miso soup, pickled vegetables and rice are all represented. There's also
tamagoyaki, a slightly sweet rolled omelet made from thin layers of egg
in a rectangular pan that gives it its signature shape.

\hypertarget{iceland}{%
\subsubsection{Iceland}\label{iceland}}

Start your day in Iceland with a jolt of life-giving lysi: cod liver
oil, a plentiful source of omega-3 fatty acids and one of the byproducts
of the country's fish industry. Though it's been said to combat seasonal
affective disorder, among other health benefits, it's not the only
breakfast option.

For a more palatable morning meal, have a bowl of hafragrautur, a thick
oatmeal. Top it with nuts, raisins, and sugar, or add a helping of skyr,
the thick yogurt-like cultured dairy product that's actually a fresh
cheese.

\hypertarget{singapore}{%
\subsubsection{Singapore}\label{singapore}}

If "Crazy Rich Asians" didn't already whet your appetite for Singapore,
let the multitude of dishes served in the hawker centers entice you
further. These open-air food courts are always open for business, and
it's not uncommon to see hungry people scooping up bowls of savory curry
noodles first thing in the morning.

For a traditional hawker-style breakfast, kaya toast is a must-have.
This unassuming-looking toasted sandwich is spread with flavorful kaya,
a sweet jam made with coconut milk, eggs, and sometimes pandan leaf for
vibrant green color and flavor.

It's great with coffee or tea, and each stall or shop makes kaya toast
its own way -\/- so why not try a few?

\hypertarget{morocco}{%
\subsubsection{Morocco}\label{morocco}}

Along with mint tea, semolina breads are mainstays on the Moroccan
breakfast table. Baghrir are thin, yeasted rounds studded with tiny
holes that give them the name "thousand-hole pancakes" or "thousand-hole
crepes." Instead of maple syrup, these light semolina breads are topped
with butter and honey.

Harcha are thicker, griddled biscuit-style rounds that have a crispy
crust from a dusting of coarse semolina. They can be split like English
muffins and served with cheese or butter, jam, and honey.

\hypertarget{australia}{%
\subsubsection{Australia}\label{australia}}

\href{/travel/article/breakfast-food-around-the-world/index.html?gallery=6}{}

\includegraphics{https://dynaimage.cdn.cnn.com/cnn/e_blur:500,q_auto:low,w_50,c_fill,g_auto,h_28,ar_16:9/http\%3A\%2F\%2Fcdn.cnn.com\%2Fcnnnext\%2Fdam\%2Fassets\%2F190515173104-03-breakfast-around-the-world-avacado-toast.jpg}

Australian breakfasts range, but a mainstay is avocado toast topped with
an egg.

Ben Kolde/Unsplash

For those who love grain bowls, avocado and other savory toasts, and
other staples of all-day café culture, Australia's "brekkie" will be a
match made in heaven.

With a focus on fresh produce, whole grains, and nourishing
combinations, Australian breakfasts can range from the classic avocado
toast on seeded bread to a farro bowl topped with a poached egg and
pickled vegetables or rice pudding with yogurt, seeds and berries.

Don't forget the flat white -\/- an espresso with a high ratio of
steamed milk that even Starbucks can't get enough of.

\hypertarget{argentina}{%
\subsubsection{Argentina}\label{argentina}}

There's one word that defines the Argentinean breakfast spread:
facturas. The overarching term for pastries encompasses a sweet and
doughy world of shapes, sizes, and flavors.

Some of the more popular offerings include medialunes, a
croissant-shaped brioche pastry; bombas and bolas de fraille, or fried
doughnuts; and churros, which are often dipped in chocolate. Many are
filled with dulce de leche or crema pastelera, a vanilla custard.

Pair a platter of facturas with highly caffeinated yerba mate or coffee.

\hypertarget{germany}{%
\subsubsection{Germany}\label{germany}}

In the land of many wurst, it's not surprising that sausage and other
meats take a starring role in frühstück, the traditional German
breakfast.

This buffet spread is filled with variety: sausages, cold cuts, cheeses,
bread and rolls (including pretzels), as well as fresh fruit,
soft-boiled eggs and condiments like homemade jam. The abundant choices
are meant for sampling and assembling as you please.

\hypertarget{brazil}{%
\subsubsection{Brazil}\label{brazil}}

\href{/travel/article/breakfast-food-around-the-world/index.html?gallery=9}{}

\includegraphics{https://dynaimage.cdn.cnn.com/cnn/e_blur:500,q_auto:low,w_50,c_fill,g_auto,h_28,ar_16:9/http\%3A\%2F\%2Fcdn.cnn.com\%2Fcnnnext\%2Fdam\%2Fassets\%2F190515173207-04-breakfast-around-the-world-bolo-de-fuba.jpg}

Brazil's bolo de fuba is a cornbread-style cake with a texture both
moist and creamy.

Shutterstock

If you can't stop eating pao de queijo, the puffy baked cheese rolls
that are a staple of Brazilian culture, you'll be happy to know you can
eat them for breakfast too.

But for a variation on Brazilian breakfast breads, try bolo de fuba.
It's a cornbread-style cake with a moist and creamy texture that comes
from the addition of grated Parmesan cheese and/or shredded coconut.
Sliced and served like a pound cake, it's frequently an afternoon
pick-me-up too.

\hypertarget{tunisia}{%
\subsubsection{Tunisia}\label{tunisia}}

Fans of savory meals will love lablabi, a spiced chickpea soup that,
yes, is a breakfast food in Tunisia. Chickpeas and harissa paste are the
two constants in virtually every lablabi recipe, but the customizations
of this simple, soul-warming soup are up to every cook.

Sometimes thickened with pieces of stale crusty bread, sometimes
brightened by a squeeze of a lemon, sometimes made creamy with yogurt or
topped with olives, there are infinite ways to enjoy it.

And because it's often topped with a poached egg, it's a breakfast that
will fill you up all day.

Related content

\href{/travel/article/world-50-best-desserts/index.html}{50 of the
world's best desserts}

\hypertarget{bulgaria}{%
\subsubsection{Bulgaria}\label{bulgaria}}

Popara follows in the long tradition of using leftover bread as the next
day's meal. This warm, comforting breakfast is a childhood favorite of
many Bulgarians -\/- it's not quite a porridge and not quite a bread
pudding, but shares characteristics of both.

Warm milk or tea is poured over a bowl of cubed bread, crumbled
Bulgarian sirene cheese, butter and sugar, and left to soak until soft
and spoonable.

Sirene is a feta-style cheese that's creamier and softer than many of
the Eastern European brined cheeses, so it doesn't give the dish as much
of a salty flavor and more of a fresh, goat cheese-like tanginess.

\hypertarget{turkey}{%
\subsubsection{Turkey}\label{turkey}}

Kahvalti, the traditional Turkish breakfast spread, is a lavish affair
that has a little something for everyone. For those who love to graze
and snack, the abundant options will leave nothing lacking.

Turkish breads like simit, a circular seeded loaf, or pide, a chewy
flatbread, accompany bowls of feta or other fresh, salty cheeses;
olives; halvah; and honey and preserves. Eggs are often cooked with
pan-fried slices of sucuk, a dried beef sausage spiced with garlic, red
pepper, cumin and sumac.

\hypertarget{guam}{%
\subsubsection{Guam}\label{guam}}

This small island -\/- technically an American territory -\/- In the
Pacific Ocean is a melting pot of culinary culture, with foods that show
the influence of the various countries that colonized the land over the
centuries.

Like many Asian Pacific nations, Spam is a favorite add-in for
breakfasts of fried rice and eggs. But just as popular is the local
chamorro pork sausage, a fresh chorizo-style sausage named after the
indigenous population of the island. Grilled in links or patties, it's
breakfast sausage like no other.

\hypertarget{portugal}{%
\subsubsection{Portugal}\label{portugal}}

\href{/travel/article/breakfast-food-around-the-world/index.html?gallery=14}{}

\includegraphics{https://dynaimage.cdn.cnn.com/cnn/e_blur:500,q_auto:low,w_50,c_fill,g_auto,h_28,ar_16:9/http\%3A\%2F\%2Fcdn.cnn.com\%2Fcnnnext\%2Fdam\%2Fassets\%2F190515173411-06-breakfast-around-the-world-egg-tart.jpg}

Portugal's egg custard tarts pair perfectly with the caffeinated
beverage of your choice.

Shutterstock

Coffee drinks with lots of milk are the first order of business when
getting breakfast in Portugal. Uma mei de leite, a half-and-half blend
of coffee and milk, or um galao, which is mostly milk with a shot of
coffee, are an easy way to ease into the day.

Though many Portuguese have a simple piece of toast or bread alongside
their drink, the perfect pairing for these milky coffees are pasteis de
nata, or egg custard tarts. With a flaky puff pastry shell and a creamy
custard filling, they're equally popular as a snack for the 11 a.m. cafe
break, another Portuguese morning ritual.

Related content

\href{/travel/article/cbd-food-drink-america/index.html}{How CBD has
become the USA's coolest food and drink ingredient}

\hypertarget{ukraine}{%
\subsubsection{Ukraine}\label{ukraine}}

Tender and fluffy on the inside and crispy golden brown on the outside,
Ukrainian syrniki pancakes wouldn't be out of place on a five-star
brunch buffet.

Yet they're made with a simple ingredient: fresh farmer's cheese, known
as tvorog, with a consistency similar to ricotta or cottage cheese. The
crisp exterior comes from a quick dredge in flour, like a breakfast
fritter.

Like American pancakes or French toast, they can be topped with fresh
fruit, preserves, or powdered sugar, but like potato pancakes or
blintzes, they can go savory with a side of sour cream.

\hypertarget{jamaica}{%
\subsubsection{Jamaica}\label{jamaica}}

For breakfast in Jamaica, it couldn't get more patriotic than eating the
national dish: ackee and saltfish.

Ackee, a delicately sweet pear-shaped fruit, is sautéed with salt cod,
tomatoes, garlic, chilies and onion in a breakfast scramble that brings
together sweet, salty, and spicy for a one-of-a-kind island taste.
Though it looks similar to scrambled eggs, that's just the creamy yellow
ackee, Jamaica's national fruit, in the dish.

\hypertarget{taiwan}{%
\subsubsection{Taiwan}\label{taiwan}}

While a glass of milk is often advertised in the US as "part of a
balanced breakfast," dòu jiāng takes the tradition to new levels. This
fresh soy milk is a specialty of Taiwan, typically made fresh by street
vendors and restaurants every morning for their customers.

Served hot in the winter and cold in the summer, it's a refreshing
contrast to the chewy scallion pancakes, dumplings and dough fritters
that are also part of the usual Taiwanese breakfast. Dip your fritters
in the soy milk for an extra treat.

Related content

\href{/travel/article/best-cities-street-food/index.html}{Best 23 cities
for street food from Miami to Tokyo}

\hypertarget{italy}{%
\subsubsection{Italy}\label{italy}}

Italians are almost too busy for breakfast -\/- or so you'd think from
the number of coffee bars where guests take their espresso standing up
for a quick jolt at the beginning of the day.

But whether standing or relaxing for a moment at a café table, there's
always time for a coffee and Italian pastry to go with it. For the
morning, espresso or cappuccino is frequently paired with a simple sweet
like a cornetto, or croissant, filled with custard or Nutella.

Sfogliatelle, a crunchy and flaky multi-layered pastry with a sweet
ricotta cheese filling, is another breakfast standard.

\hypertarget{united-states-of-america}{%
\subsubsection{United States of
America}\label{united-states-of-america}}

\href{/travel/article/breakfast-food-around-the-world/index.html?gallery=19}{}

\includegraphics{https://dynaimage.cdn.cnn.com/cnn/e_blur:500,q_auto:low,w_50,c_fill,g_auto,h_28,ar_16:9/http\%3A\%2F\%2Fcdn.cnn.com\%2Fcnnnext\%2Fdam\%2Fassets\%2F190515174409-11-breakfast-around-the-world-american-pancakes.jpg}

Fluffy American-style pancakes served with a generous pat of butter and
real maple syrup (bacon if you're lucky) is one of the best breakfasts
in the US.

Kobby Mendez/Unsplash

When it comes to classic American brunch, you can't go wrong with fluffy
buttermilk pancakes stacked high alongside a pile of crispy bacon. The
contrasting textures and salty-sweet flavor pairing make this breakfast
a favorite of kids and adults alike. And while pancakes can be dressed
up by adding in everything from fresh blueberries to chocolate chips to
pecans, the classic toppings of butter and maple syrup remain the gold
standard.

\hypertarget{russia}{%
\subsubsection{Russia}\label{russia}}

Though it sounds indulgent, caviar is actually a Russian breakfast food.
Whether red or black caviar, it remains a favorite topping for large,
folded crepe-like blini or small, thick oladyi pancakes at weekend
brunches.

On weekdays, however, breakfasts are simpler. On these mornings, caviar
is spread across dark, sweet rye bread, known simply as black bread,
sometimes with a smear of butter as well.

Most importantly, a pot of black tea is a fixture on every breakfast
table.

Casey Barber is a food writer, photographer, and illustrator; the author
of the cookbooks "Pierogi Love: New Takes on an Old-World Comfort Food"
and "Classic Snacks Made from Scratch: 70 Homemade Versions of Your
Favorite Brand-Name Treats"; and editor of the website Good. Food.
Stories.

\href{//www.cnn.com/interactive/travel/best-beaches}{}

A year of the world'sBest BeachesThere's a perfect beach for every week
of the year. Join us on a 12-month journey to see them all

Go to the best beaches

\includegraphics{https://dynaimage.cdn.cnn.com/cnn/e_blur:500,q_auto:low,w_50,c_fill,g_auto,h_28,ar_16:9/http\%3A\%2F\%2Fcdn.cnn.com\%2Fcnnnext\%2Fdam\%2Fassets\%2F171220172042-best-beaches-promo.jpg}

Search

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{/us}{US}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{/specials/us/crime-and-justice}{Crime + Justice}
  \item
    \href{/specials/us/energy-and-environment}{Energy + Environment}
  \item
    \href{/specials/us/extreme-weather}{Extreme Weather}
  \item
    \href{/specials/space-science}{Space + Science}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \href{/world}{World}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{/africa}{Africa}
  \item
    \href{/americas}{Americas}
  \item
    \href{/asia}{Asia}
  \item
    \href{/australia}{Australia}
  \item
    \href{/china}{China}
  \item
    \href{/europe}{Europe}
  \item
    \href{/india}{India}
  \item
    \href{/middle-east}{Middle East}
  \item
    \href{/uk}{United Kingdom}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \href{/politics}{Politics}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{/specials/politics/president-donald-trump-45}{45}
  \item
    \href{/specials/politics/congress-capitol-hill}{Congress}
  \item
    \href{/specials/politics/supreme-court-nine}{SCOTUS}
  \item
    \href{/specials/politics/fact-check-politics}{Facts First}
  \item
    \href{/specials/politics/2020-election-coverage}{2020}
  \item
    \href{/election/2020/candidates}{Candidates}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \href{/business}{Business}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{https://money.cnn.com/data/markets/}{Markets}
  \item
    \href{/business/tech}{Tech}
  \item
    \href{/business/media}{Media}
  \item
    \href{/business/success}{Success}
  \item
    \href{/business/perspectives}{Perspectives}
  \item
    \href{/business/videos}{Videos}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \href{/opinions}{Opinion}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{/specials/opinion/opinion-politics}{Political Op-Eds}
  \item
    \href{/specials/opinion/opinion-social-issues}{Social Commentary}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \href{/health}{Health}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{/specials/health/food-diet}{Food}
  \item
    \href{/specials/health/fitness-excercise}{Fitness}
  \item
    \href{/specials/health/wellness}{Wellness}
  \item
    \href{/specials/health/parenting}{Parenting}
  \item
    \href{/specials/health/vital-signs}{Vital Signs}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \href{/entertainment}{Entertainment}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{/entertainment/celebrities}{Stars}
  \item
    \href{/entertainment/movies}{Screen}
  \item
    \href{/entertainment/tv-shows}{Binge}
  \item
    \href{/entertainment/culture}{Culture}
  \item
    \href{/business/media}{Media}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \href{/business/tech}{Tech}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{/specials/tech/innovate}{Innovate}
  \item
    \href{/specials/tech/gadget}{Gadget}
  \item
    \href{/specials/tech/mission-ahead}{Mission: Ahead}
  \item
    \href{/specials/tech/upstarts}{Upstarts}
  \item
    \href{/specials/tech/work-transformed}{Work Transformed}
  \item
    \href{/specials/tech/innovative-cities}{Innovative Cities}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \href{/style}{Style}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{/style/arts}{Arts}
  \item
    \href{/style/design}{Design}
  \item
    \href{/style/fashion}{Fashion}
  \item
    \href{/style/architecture}{Architecture}
  \item
    \href{/style/luxury}{Luxury}
  \item
    \href{/style/beauty}{Beauty}
  \item
    \href{/style/videos}{Video}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \href{/travel}{Travel}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{/travel/destinations}{Destinations}
  \item
    \href{/travel/food-and-drink}{Food \& Drink}
  \item
    \href{/travel/news}{News}
  \item
    \href{/travel/stay}{Stay}
  \item
    \href{/travel/videos}{Videos}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \href{http://bleacherreport.com}{Sports}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{http://bleacherreport.com/nfl}{Pro Football}
  \item
    \href{http://bleacherreport.com/college-football}{College Football}
  \item
    \href{http://bleacherreport.com/nba}{Basketball}
  \item
    \href{http://bleacherreport.com/mlb}{Baseball}
  \item
    \href{http://bleacherreport.com/world-football}{Soccer}
  \item
    \href{/specials/sport/winter-olympics-2018}{Olympics}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \href{/videos}{Videos}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{//cnn.it/go2}{Live TV}
  \item
    \href{/specials/digital-studios}{Digital Studios}
  \item
    \href{/specials/videos/digital-shorts}{CNN Films}
  \item
    \href{/specials/videos/hln}{HLN}
  \item
    \href{/tv/schedule/cnn}{TV Schedule}
  \item
    \href{/specials/tv/all-shows}{TV Shows A-Z}
  \item
    \href{/vr}{CNNVR}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \href{//coupons.cnn.com}{Coupons}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{/cnn-underscored/}{CNN Underscored}
  \item
    \href{/specials/cnn-underscored/explore/}{Explore}
  \item
    \href{/specials/cnn-underscored/wellness/}{Wellness}
  \item
    \href{/specials/cnn-underscored/gadgets/}{Gadgets}
  \item
    \href{/specials/cnn-underscored/lifestyle/}{Lifestyle}
  \item
    \href{//store.cnn.com/?utm_source=cnn.com\&utm_medium=referral\&utm_campaign=navbar}{CNN
    Store}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \href{/more}{More}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{/specials/photos}{Photos}
  \item
    \href{/specials/cnn-longform}{Longform}
  \item
    \href{/specials/cnn-investigates}{Investigations}
  \item
    \href{/specials/profiles}{CNN Profiles}
  \item
    \href{/specials/more/cnn-leadership}{CNN Leadership}
  \item
    \href{/email/subscription}{CNN Newsletters}
  \item
    \href{https://www.turnerjobs.com/search-jobs?orgIds=1174\&ac=19299}{Work
    for CNN}
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

Follow CNN

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{/terms}{Terms of Use}
\item
  \href{/privacy}{Privacy Policy}
\item
  \href{/accessibility}{Accessibility \& CC}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{}{AdChoices}
\item
  \href{/about}{About Us}
\item
  \href{/tour}{CNN Studio Tours}
\item
  \href{/msa}{Modern Slavery Act Statement}
\item
  \href{https://commercial.cnn.com}{Advertise with us}
\item
  \href{//store.cnn.com}{CNN Store}
\item
  \href{/newsletters}{Newsletters}
\item
  \href{/transcripts}{Transcripts}
\item
  \href{/collection}{License Footage}
\item
  \href{http://cnnnewsource.com}{CNN Newsource}
\item
  \href{https://www.cnn.com/sitemap.html}{Sitemap}
\end{itemize}

© 2020 Cable News Network.\href{//www.turner.com}{Turner Broadcasting
System, Inc.}All Rights Reserved.CNN Sans ™ \& © 2016 Cable News
Network.
