Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/your-money}{Your Money}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/your-money}{Your Money}\textbar{}Auctions Are Crimped as
the Pandemic Forces Them Online

\url{https://nyti.ms/3iOq92u}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{The
Coronavirus Outbreak}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  live\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/03/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Latest
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Maps
  and Cases}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Vaccine
  Tracker}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/02/us/covid-college-reopening.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{College
  Reopening}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/03/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Economy}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

Wealth Matters

\hypertarget{auctions-are-crimped-as-the-pandemic-forces-them-online}{%
\section{Auctions Are Crimped as the Pandemic Forces Them
Online}\label{auctions-are-crimped-as-the-pandemic-forces-them-online}}

As sellers look to shed valuable items and buyers look to collect them
on the cheap, auction houses are learning to adapt with virtual events.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/07/11/business/10WEALTH-print/10WEALTH-01-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/paul-sullivan}{Paul
Sullivan}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  July 10, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Just about every area of personal finance has been affected by the
coronavirus pandemic. That economic shock reaches all the way to some of
the most aspirational purchases on the planet: art, cars, watches and
wine.

The mechanism to buy and sell many of these objects --- frothy,
in-person auctions, with attendees dressed smartly and cocktails readily
available --- has been rendered untenable since March because of
social-distancing measures meant to stop the spread of the virus.

But the desire remains, with sellers looking to shed valuable items to
shore up their own balance sheets, and buyers who have reserves looking
to collect on the cheap.

To meet that demand, the rarefied world of the auction house has been
forced online.

The electricity you feel in a room, as the bidding heats up and prices
soar, is gone. But auction houses are working to make sure selling their
high-ticket objects doesn't devolve into an eBay frenzy, where wealthy
buyers are sitting around in their pajamas stalking deals on their
laptops.

To counteract that down-market feel, auction houses have become
creative. Sotheby's, for one, built a platform for its online-only
auctions that prevents people from entering a bid just as the time is
about to expire, a strategy known as sniping.

``If someone snipes at the last minute, the sale extends for another
five minutes,'' said Richard Lopez, head of online sales and a senior
watch specialist at Sotheby's.

On Friday, Christie's live-streamed a
``\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/10/arts/design/christies-auction.html}{global
20th century art sale}'' across four cities: Hong Kong, Paris, London
and New York.

Auctions tend to be seasonal, and many are smaller now that they are
online. Several annual California car auctions next month in Pebble
Beach and Monterrey are planning to present half the number of cars
online that they did in in-person auctions last year. But because
sellers may need cash, there may also be more deals for people with
money to invest in these illiquid assets.

Bidding and buying will require greater due diligence ahead of the
auction, because items will be difficult to see, feel and assess.

``The pandemic has caused people who under normal circumstances have
shied away from the internet to increase their interest in buying
online,'' said David Sleeman, executive director of the Winston Art
Group, an appraisal firm. But that means those new online buyers need
``to research the sellers' reputation and feel a level of trust that
they're going to be on the up and up.''

\hypertarget{latest-updates-global-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/03/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: Global Coronavirus
Outbreak}}{Latest Updates: Global Coronavirus Outbreak}}\label{latest-updates-global-coronavirus-outbreak}}

Updated 2020-08-04T07:33:06.428Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/03/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-4547638f}{Fauci
  defends Birx after she is criticized by Trump.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/03/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-15e7f995}{Trump
  derides Democrats as lawmakers and administration officials try to
  break stimulus impasse.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/03/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-e5a2cda}{The
  deadline for 2020 census counting has been moved up by a month.}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/03/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

More live coverage:
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/03/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Markets}

\hypertarget{art}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\textbf{Art}}{Art}}\label{art}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/07/10/business/10wealth-art/merlin_172957791_b785b100-aa88-440e-bff6-786eb0e931f3-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Sotheby's contemporary art sale, held online at the end of June, was
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/30/arts/design/sothebys-online-auction.html}{the
first big test of virtual auctions}. In-person viewing was limited by
New York's reopening guidelines.

Some major pieces of art still sold for top dollar. A Francis Bacon
triptych
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/29/arts/design/sothebys-online-auction-francis-bacon.html}{sold
for nearly \$85 million}, above its estimate. A Jean-Michel Basquiat
drawing went for \$15 million, which was \$3 million more than the high
estimate.

But some of the other featured paintings, including one by Roy
Lichtenstein and another by Clyfford Still, fetched prices in the middle
of their ranges.

``We've been lucky at Sotheby's because with our online platform, we've
been able to switch over with the same level of trust,'' Mr. Lopez said.
(When asked what was lost online, he responded without hesitation: ``The
fun.'')

Still, the push to move auctions online has its risks.
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/05/04/arts/design/art-dealer-pleads-guilty-fraud-case.html?searchResultPosition=1}{Stories}
abound of buyers being duped by
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2017/04/12/arts/design/lawsuit-related-to-art-fraud-scandal-knoedler-is-settled.html?searchResultPosition=3}{high-end
galleries}.

``Acquiring real estate, a business --- there would be a lot of due
diligence,'' Mr. Sleeman said. ``But oftentimes when a collector is
considering making a purchase of an equally expensive painting, they
don't do the same due diligence.''

On the positive side, moving big purchases online could drive greater
advance research, Mr. Sleeman said. Some art fairs are requiring dealers
to publish their prices online, he said, adding a level of transparency
that wasn't there, or at least not as easily accessible, before the
pandemic.

\hypertarget{cars}{%
\subsubsection{Cars}\label{cars}}

Part of the thrill of buying a collectible car is strolling among scores
of polished, perfect automobiles. Once they leave the auction grounds,
most of these cars will be parked in climate-controlled garages,
shielded from the sun-dappled fields where they are shown, driven and
coveted.

Next month would normally send some of the world's most expensive cars
to the Monterrey Peninsula for the annual
\href{https://pebblebeachconcours.net/}{Pebble Beach Concours
d'Elegance}, where rare automobiles are parked for a day on the 18th
fairway at Pebble Beach Golf Links.

That's not happening this year. Both Gooding \& Company and Bonhams, two
auction houses with large automotive departments, will present about
half the cars they would have in a live auction, and rely on video and
limited in-person viewing to drum up interest. Both houses are upbeat
about the online demand.

``People are getting in touch with things that make them happy and that
they love,'' said David Gooding, president of his namesake company. ``If
they're passionate about cars, they're tapping into that passion. We're
seeing demand and interest as strong as ever.''

There is far less ambivalence now than ahead of a typical live auction.
Sellers really want to sell their cars, and buyers are focused on
getting the car they want. A few cars are priced in excess of \$2
million, but many are in the \$50,000-to-\$100,000 range, he said.

To assure the cars' condition, the auction house is maintaining them in
a Los Angeles warehouse. ``It's critical for us to know what we're
selling and representing,'' Mr. Gooding said.

Bonhams is similarly storing its cars, splitting them between Los
Angeles and Bedford, N.Y., where specialists can arrange virtual or
in-person viewings before the August sale.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{}

\hypertarget{the-coronavirus-outbreak-}{%
\subsubsection{The Coronavirus Outbreak
›}\label{the-coronavirus-outbreak-}}

\hypertarget{frequently-asked-questions}{%
\paragraph{Frequently Asked
Questions}\label{frequently-asked-questions}}

Updated August 3, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{im-a-small-business-owner-can-i-get-relief}{%
  \paragraph{I'm a small-business owner. Can I get
  relief?}\label{im-a-small-business-owner-can-i-get-relief}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    The
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/small-business-loans-stimulus-grants-freelancers-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{stimulus
    bills enacted in March} offer help for the millions of American
    small businesses. Those eligible for aid are businesses and
    nonprofit organizations with fewer than 500 workers, including sole
    proprietorships, independent contractors and freelancers. Some
    larger companies in some industries are also eligible. The help
    being offered, which is being managed by the Small Business
    Administration, includes the Paycheck Protection Program and the
    Economic Injury Disaster Loan program. But lots of folks have
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/05/07/business/small-business-loans-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{not
    yet seen payouts.} Even those who have received help are confused:
    The rules are draconian, and some are stuck sitting on
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/02/business/economy/loans-coronavirus-small-business.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{money
    they don't know how to use.} Many small-business owners are getting
    less than they expected or
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/10/business/Small-business-loans-ppp.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{not
    hearing anything at all.}
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{what-are-my-rights-if-i-am-worried-about-going-back-to-work}{%
  \paragraph{What are my rights if I am worried about going back to
  work?}\label{what-are-my-rights-if-i-am-worried-about-going-back-to-work}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Employers have to provide
    \href{https://www.osha.gov/SLTC/covid-19/standards.html}{a safe
    workplace} with policies that protect everyone equally.
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/coronavirus-money-unemployment.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{And
    if one of your co-workers tests positive for the coronavirus, the
    C.D.C.} has said that
    \href{https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/community/guidance-business-response.html}{employers
    should tell their employees} -\/- without giving you the sick
    employee's name -\/- that they may have been exposed to the virus.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{should-i-refinance-my-mortgage}{%
  \paragraph{Should I refinance my
  mortgage?}\label{should-i-refinance-my-mortgage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/coronavirus-money-unemployment.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{It
    could be a good idea,} because mortgage rates have
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/16/business/mortgage-rates-below-3-percent.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{never
    been lower.} Refinancing requests have pushed mortgage applications
    to some of the highest levels since 2008, so be prepared to get in
    line. But defaults are also up, so if you're thinking about buying a
    home, be aware that some lenders have tightened their standards.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{what-is-school-going-to-look-like-in-september}{%
  \paragraph{What is school going to look like in
  September?}\label{what-is-school-going-to-look-like-in-september}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    It is unlikely that many schools will return to a normal schedule
    this fall, requiring the grind of
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/05/us/coronavirus-education-lost-learning.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{online
    learning},
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/29/us/coronavirus-child-care-centers.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{makeshift
    child care} and
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/03/business/economy/coronavirus-working-women.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{stunted
    workdays} to continue. California's two largest public school
    districts --- Los Angeles and San Diego --- said on July 13, that
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/13/us/lausd-san-diego-school-reopening.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{instruction
    will be remote-only in the fall}, citing concerns that surging
    coronavirus infections in their areas pose too dire a risk for
    students and teachers. Together, the two districts enroll some
    825,000 students. They are the largest in the country so far to
    abandon plans for even a partial physical return to classrooms when
    they reopen in August. For other districts, the solution won't be an
    all-or-nothing approach.
    \href{https://bioethics.jhu.edu/research-and-outreach/projects/eschool-initiative/school-policy-tracker/}{Many
    systems}, including the nation's largest, New York City, are
    devising
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/26/us/coronavirus-schools-reopen-fall.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{hybrid
    plans} that involve spending some days in classrooms and other days
    online. There's no national policy on this yet, so check with your
    municipal school system regularly to see what is happening in your
    community.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{is-the-coronavirus-airborne}{%
  \paragraph{Is the coronavirus
  airborne?}\label{is-the-coronavirus-airborne}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    The coronavirus
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/04/health/239-experts-with-one-big-claim-the-coronavirus-is-airborne.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{can
    stay aloft for hours in tiny droplets in stagnant air}, infecting
    people as they inhale, mounting scientific evidence suggests. This
    risk is highest in crowded indoor spaces with poor ventilation, and
    may help explain super-spreading events reported in meatpacking
    plants, churches and restaurants.
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/06/health/coronavirus-airborne-aerosols.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{It's
    unclear how often the virus is spread} via these tiny droplets, or
    aerosols, compared with larger droplets that are expelled when a
    sick person coughs or sneezes, or transmitted through contact with
    contaminated surfaces, said Linsey Marr, an aerosol expert at
    Virginia Tech. Aerosols are released even when a person without
    symptoms exhales, talks or sings, according to Dr. Marr and more
    than 200 other experts, who
    \href{https://academic.oup.com/cid/article/doi/10.1093/cid/ciaa939/5867798}{have
    outlined the evidence in an open letter to the World Health
    Organization}.
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Some of the highest-priced cars may be the easiest to sell at an online
auction, said Jakob Greisen, head of Bonhams' U.S. motoring department.
The sale's signature car is a 1934 Alfa Romeo 8C 2300 Cabriolet by
Figoni, estimated to sell for as much as \$7.5 million.

``Few people are going to walk in and say, `I'll have that 90-year-old
car I've never heard about,''' Mr. Greisen said. ``It's for a really
sophisticated buyer who has had more time to think about their hobby and
their passion.''

Where he thinks sales could struggle is in what he termed the
impulse-buy range --- around \$250,000 --- because people will not be
walking around and getting excited by a car that they realize they can
afford.

\hypertarget{watches}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\textbf{Watches}}{Watches}}\label{watches}}

Image

A Rolex Daytona watch with a ceramic bezel.~ Sotheby's watch department
to move to weekly and monthly auctions.Credit...Sotheby's

What's expensive is always relative. A \$28,000 Rolex is inexpensive
compared with a \$7.5 million car, but there is one model from the
iconic watchmaker that has had a star turn during the pandemic: the
Rolex Daytona with a ceramic bezel.

The watch has a retail price of \$13,000 but has been selling for
\$20,000 to \$30,000 in online auctions. Sotheby's recently sold one for
\$28,000. ``You can buy it retail, but the wait list is two to three
years,'' Mr. Lopez said.

Watches lend themselves to the online scrolling so many of us have been
doing to pass the time. And that has pushed Sotheby's watch department
to move to weekly and monthly auctions, scrapping its previous format of
semiannual New York auctions.

``We were getting a lot of consignors who wanted the cash for doomsday,
and collectors who were willing to purchase because they were home and
bored,'' Mr. Lopez said. ``We couldn't get them to go with the
traditional timeline for the bigger auctions.''

Data on who is buying what from where has allowed the auction house to
further refine and target the watch auctions.

\hypertarget{wine}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\textbf{Wine}}{Wine}}\label{wine}}

Image

Tom Gearing, chief executive and a co-founder of Cult Wines,
said~Bordeaux producers were heavily discounting the 2019
vintage.Credit...Cult Wines

Fine wine can sit in a bottle for decades and, potentially, get better.
But the primary mechanism for selling first-growth wine from Bordeaux,
France --- the most reliably collectible region in the wine world --- is
to sell wine futures a few months after the wine is put into a barrel.
Futures, the prices for wine that won't arrive in buyers' cellars for
several years, have traditionally been set by working with wine brokers
through a marketplace called the Place du Bordeaux.

This year, the process of tasting young wines to divine which ones will
age well was disrupted because no one could travel to Bordeaux to sample
the 2019 vintage. To sell the wine, which is considered a top vintage,
Bordeaux producers are discounting it heavily, said Tom Gearing, chief
executive and a co-founder of Cult Wines, which manages about \$165
million of investment-grade wine.

``With the uncertain economy, people are in the position to ask, `Do I
really want to shell out money for a wine I won't have physically for
two years?''' he said.

To encourage buyers, producers, even among the top five Bordeaux houses
like Rothschild and Margaux, have discounted this vintage as much as 25
percent from the 2018 vintage (which is considered not as good). As with
all of these passion investments, fine wine is a deal only if you are
among the lucky few who have weathered the economic crisis with
disposable income and confidence in the future.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
