Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}Denying Conflict, Trump
Family Tries to Resolve Potential Problems

\url{https://nyti.ms/2irfAT1}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{denying-conflict-trump-family-tries-to-resolve-potential-problems}{%
\section{Denying Conflict, Trump Family Tries to Resolve Potential
Problems}\label{denying-conflict-trump-family-tries-to-resolve-potential-problems}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2016/12/25/us/25DECON-01/25DECON-01-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By \href{http://www.nytimes.com/by/eric-lipton}{Eric Lipton} and
\href{http://www.nytimes.com/by/maggie-haberman}{Maggie Haberman}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Dec. 24, 2016
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

WASHINGTON --- Realizing that his presidency could face potentially
crippling questions over conflicts of interest, Donald J. Trump and his
family are rushing to resolve potential controversies --- like
shuttering foundations and terminating development deals --- even as the
president-elect publicly maintains that no legal conflicts exist.

In recent days, the president-elect and his aides have said that he
intends to distribute the assets of his personal charity and then close
it down, has examined a plan to hire an outside monitor to oversee the
Trump Organization and has terminated
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2016/11/15/us/politics/donald-trump-holdings-conflict-of-interest.html?_r=0}{some
international business projects.}

``This is a process that my father and my family are taking incredibly
seriously,'' said Eric Trump, who will help oversee the
\href{http://www.trump.com/}{Trump Organization}, and who announced last
week that he was terminating fund-raising for his own charity, the
\href{https://www.erictrumpfoundation.com/}{Eric Trump Foundation}.

Even with these steps, Mr. Trump will enter the White House with a maze
of financial holdings unlike those of any other president in American
history. Many ethics experts still say the only way Mr. Trump can
eliminate his most serious conflicts is to liquidate his company, and
then put the money into a blind trust --- a move Mr. Trump has so far
rejected as impractical and unreasonable.

The potential roles that his daughter
\href{http://www.nytimes.com/2016/12/03/fashion/ivanka-trump-first-daughter.html?_r=0}{Ivanka
Trump}and her husband, Jared Kushner, may play in the administration are
particularly vexatious. Both have business operations that could benefit
from their government roles --- even if they are not involved in the
businesses on a day-to-day basis. Ms. Trump's business is so tied to her
name that any position she might take in the White House or informal
role she might play as an adviser to her father could benefit her
company, which she will still own.

And because Mr. Trump refuses to release his tax returns, the extent of
his potential conflicts remains unknown.

``Yes, it would be hard to sell the business --- there would be some
personal discomfort,'' said
\href{http://www.citizen.org/Page.aspx?pid=2558}{Robert Weissman}, the
president of Public Citizen, a liberal nonprofit group that has
\href{http://www.citizen.org/pressroom/pressroomredirect.cfm?ID=10095}{mocked
Mr. Trump's efforts to ``drain the swamp''} of Washington special
interests. ``But he ran for president of the United States and won, so
those considerations can't be weighted very heavily.''

The hurried effort to clean up some of the family's potential conflicts
stands in contrast to the public statements by Mr. Trump since his
election that as president he would
\href{http://www.nytimes.com/2016/11/23/us/politics/trump-new-york-times-interview-transcript.html}{not
be subject to conflict of interest laws} and could eliminate most
questions by turning his business operations over entirely to his
children.

But in recent weeks, as public scrutiny of Mr. Trump's global business
operations
\href{http://www.nytimes.com/2016/11/26/us/politics/donald-trump-international-business.html}{has
intensified}, Mr. Trump, his family, their executives in New York and a
team of outside lawyers have been working to eliminate many of these
potential flash points --- a task so complicated that Mr. Trump has
delayed announcing the details.

The list of actions contemplated --- with some already executed --- is
long, but the planned dissolution of the
\href{https://www.charitynavigator.org/index.cfm?bay=search.summary\&orgid=16764}{Donald
J. Trump Foundation} might be the most resonant, given the enormous
controversies surrounding the nonprofit, which is
\href{http://www.nytimes.com/2016/10/04/us/politics/trump-foundation-money.html}{under
investigation} by the New York attorney general.

The Trumps must work out the terms of the foundation's closing. A
spokeswoman for the New York attorney general's office said Saturday
that any move to close the foundation required state approval, given the
investigation into how it spends its money and courts donations, and the
state's order that it stop fund-raising.

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2016/12/01/us/politics/trump-conflict-of-interests.html}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2016/12/01/us/politics/trump-conflict-of-interests-1480568444610/trump-conflict-of-interests-1480568444610-videoLarge-v2.png}

\hypertarget{the-array-of-conflicts-of-interest-facing-the-trump-presidency}{%
\subsection{The Array of Conflicts of Interest Facing the Trump
Presidency}\label{the-array-of-conflicts-of-interest-facing-the-trump-presidency}}

Donald J. Trump's global business empire will create an unprecedented
number of conflicts of interest for a United States president, experts
say.

``The Trump Foundation is still under investigation by this office and
cannot legally dissolve until that investigation is complete,'' Amy
Spitalnick, the press secretary, said.

Mr. Trump gave little thought to what to do with his business in the
event of a victory on Election Day. But embarrassing reversals by his
children highlighted concerns that access to the incoming administration
could be for sale, and pressed the family to respond. A charity auction
for coffee with Ivanka Trump, his daughter, was
\href{http://www.nytimes.com/2016/12/16/us/politics/ivanka-trump-charity-auction.html}{canceled},
and Eric Trump and Donald Trump Jr., the president-elect's sons, pulled
out of another
\href{http://tmz.vo.llnwd.net/o28/newsdesk/tmz_documents/Opening_Day_2017_Redacted.pdf}{charity
event that asked donors to give as much as \$1 million} in return for
access to their father and a hunting expedition with his sons.

In interviews late last week, executives at the Trump Organization,
advisers on the Trump transition team and members of Mr. Trump's family
said they were determined to move aggressively in the remaining days
before the inauguration to clear as many of these potential conflicts as
possible.

``I certainly can't deny there is a greater desire to sort of clear the
decks as much as possible to avoid distractions,'' said
\href{https://www.linkedin.com/in/alan-garten-405a1013}{Alan Garten},
the general counsel at the Trump Organization, in an interview, pointing
to the recent
\href{http://www.nytimes.com/2016/11/19/us/politics/trump-university.html}{\$25
million settlement of fraud claims} against Mr. Trump's for-profit
educational program, Trump University.

Among other measures:

■ Both the Trump Organization and the
\href{http://ivankatrump.com/}{Ivanka Trump brand} --- a line of
jewelry, clothing, handbags and other items --- are exploring options
for an outside monitor to help oversee operations, block inappropriate
contacts between the companies and the federal government, and provide
independent voices for management decisions, executives involved in the
efforts said. One option is a trustee who would run the business
alongside Eric and his brother, Donald Jr. The Trump Organization has
discussed turning to legal experts such as former Attorney General
\href{http://www.debevoise.com/michaelmukasey}{Michael Mukasey} as
potential trustees.

■ The Trump Organization, in some cases citing deficiencies in the work
performed by some of its foreign partners or other clauses in contracts
with them, is terminating pending or nearly completed hotels and
apartment buildings in
\href{http://www.nytimes.com/2016/12/14/world/americas/donald-trump-hotel-rio-brazil-investigation.html}{Brazil},
Azerbaijan, Georgia and Argentina, while also forgoing other early-stage
ventures in places such as India.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2016/12/25/us/25DECON-02a/25DECON-02a-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

■ Ivanka Trump is looking at donating proceeds from
\href{https://www.amazon.com/Women-Who-Work-Rewriting-Success/dp/0735211329}{a
soon-to-be-published book}, ``Women Who Work: Rewriting the Rules for
Success*,''* to charity.

■ A labor dispute with hundreds of workers at the
\href{https://www.trumphotels.com/las-vegas}{Trump International Hotel
in Las Vegas} --- which generated calls for a national boycott of Trump
properties and protest rallies ---
\href{http://www.nytimes.com/2016/12/21/business/economy/trump-organization-labor-unions-hotels.html}{was
suddenly settled on Wednesday}, with the hotel
\href{http://www.nytimes.com/2016/12/21/business/economy/trump-organization-labor-unions-hotels.html}{agreeing
to provide} pensions, health insurance, annual wage increases and other
benefits that it previously refused to offer. Another agreement with
employees at the just-opened
\href{https://www.trumphotels.com/washington-dc}{Trump International
Hotel} on Pennsylvania Avenue in Washington will allow them to organize
a union.

■ The Trump
Organization\href{http://www.nytimes.com/2016/12/07/business/international/britain-ireland-trump-golf-snail.html}{has
shelved a planned 15-foot-tall sea wall}at its oceanfront golf course in
Ireland after the proposal provoked angry protests from
environmentalists both in Ireland and in the United States.

■ Eric Trump said he no longer intended to participate in any meetings
--- business or policy-focused --- organized by his father, as the
president-elect prepared to move to the White House, and would not
interact with him or anyone in his administration on government matters
once he was in office.

``I'll have no role in government,'' he said, describing a division of
``church and state'' but saying he will still talk to his father about
other things.

The turnaround on the labor union dispute demonstrates just how sudden
the shift has been. In November, four days before Election Day, the
Trump hotel
\href{https://dockets.justia.com/docket/circuit-courts/cadc/16-1386}{filed
a lawsuit in the United States Court of Appeals} challenging a
\href{http://www.culinaryunion226.org/news/press/body/2016-11-03-NLRB-decision-and-order-re-TRUMP.pdf}{ruling
by the National Labor Relations Board} that ordered his hotel in Las
Vegas to recognize a labor union that workers voted for
in\href{http://www.culinaryunion226.org/news/press/trump-las-vegas-workers-vote-yes-to-join-the-union-in-nlrb-election-culinary-union-calls-for-immediate-contract-negotiations}{late
2015} and to negotiate a new contract. A month later, company officials
invited labor negotiators to Trump Tower for a three-day negotiation.

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2016/08/20/us/elections/donald-trump-owns-and-owes-debt-properties.html}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2016/08/20/us/elections/donald-trump-owns-and-owes-debt-properties-1471648028995/donald-trump-owns-and-owes-debt-properties-1471648028995-largeHorizontalJumbo.png}

\hypertarget{what-donald-j-trump-owns-and-owes}{%
\subsection{What Donald J. Trump Owns and
Owes}\label{what-donald-j-trump-owns-and-owes}}

The Republican presidential nominee has an interest in more than 30 U.S.
properties, roughly half of which have debt on them.

On Wednesday, the union
\href{http://www.culinaryunion226.org/news/press/unite-here-unions-reach-agreements-with-trump-hotels-in-las-vegas-and-washington-d-c}{ratified
a deal}that gave the 500 workers generous health care coverage,
pensions, a guaranteed workweek and other protections, and set up a
grievance system if they objected to conditions.
\href{https://assets.documentcloud.org/documents/3245561/Trump-Hotel-20161221.pdf}{The
lawsuit was also dropped}, as were outstanding matters pending before
the labor relations board, which will soon be under Mr. Trump's control.

``It is everything the workers have been fighting for for over for a
year,'' said Bethany Khan, a spokeswoman for the
\href{http://www.culinaryunion226.org/}{Culinary Workers Union}.

While the family may be removing some of the most obvious problems,
critics say Mr. Trump will still know what properties his family owns
and which policy decisions will benefit them, no matter how careful he
is.

The portfolio of assets might influence his interactions with leaders in
nations such as
\href{http://www.trump.com/real-estate-portfolio/istanbul/trump-towers/}{Turkey}
and the \href{http://www.trumptowerphilippines.com/}{Philippines}, where
Mr. Trump has prominent marketing deals. In places where he has allowed
the use of his family name and even his image, Mr. Trump will soon be
confronting foreign policy decisions, such as
\href{http://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2016/12/07/world/asia/rodrigo-duterte-philippines-drugs-killings.html}{how
to confront human rights violations} or
\href{http://www.nytimes.com/2016/06/30/world/middleeast/turkeys-twin-terrorist-threats-explained.html}{fight
terrorism}.

The family, at least so far, has not announced how it will resolve
\href{http://www.nytimes.com/2016/12/14/us/politics/donald-trump-transition.html}{other
issues}, such as the lease at the Trump International Hotel in
Washington, which was issued
by\href{https://www.gsa.gov/portal/content/172963}{the federal
government's General Services Administration}, an agency Mr. Trump will
soon oversee.

Trump-owned hotels and golf courses across the globe could benefit from
business sent to them by foreign governments or other corporate players
\href{https://www.washingtonpost.com/business/capitalbusiness/2016/11/18/9da9c572-ad18-11e6-977a-1030f822fc35_story.html?utm_term=.5b25e43dbde9}{seeking
to try to influence Mr. Trump}. Loans that help finance his companies
and permits issued by local government or foreign entities --- even on
projects that are already built --- could be perceived as special
favors. Payments by foreign governments to his hotels --- for diplomatic
soirees or overnight stays --- might violate the so-called
\href{https://www.brookings.edu/research/the-emoluments-clause-its-text-meaning-and-application-to-donald-j-trump/}{emoluments
clause} of the Constitution, which prohibits gifts to federal employees
from foreign government entities.

Representative \href{https://cummings.house.gov/}{Elijah E. Cummings},
Democrat of Maryland, the ranking member on the House Oversight and
Government Reform Committee,
\href{http://www.warren.senate.gov/files/documents/2016-11-23-GAO_Letter_On_Trump_Transition.pdf}{who
has called for an investigation into Mr. Trump's potential conflicts},
said he was glad to see that the Trump family appeared to have
acknowledged that the conflicts issues were real. But he said much more
must be done.

``He is headed in the right direction, but he has to reach the right
destination, which is to divest of everything like Democratic and
Republican ethics experts have said he must do,'' Mr. Cummings said.
``The presidency is probably the most difficult job in the world. Why
would you want almost every decision you make to be questioned? You have
more than 111 companies operating in 18 countries. That is a minefield,
and sadly it will take away from his credibility.''

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
