Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}The Women in Line to Hug Joe
Biden

\url{https://nyti.ms/2zuHKqU}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Election
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/biden-vice-president-2020.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Biden's
  V.P. Search}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/07/24/us/politics/trump-biden-campaign-donors.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Map
  of Donations}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/elections/delegate-count-primary-results.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Delegate
  Count}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2019/us/politics/2020-presidential-candidates.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{The
  Candidates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Politics
  Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{the-women-in-line-to-hug-joe-biden}{%
\section{The Women in Line to Hug Joe
Biden}\label{the-women-in-line-to-hug-joe-biden}}

It's a moment to connect with a candidate they like. And it's an act of
defiance.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2019/08/15/us/politics/00bidenhugs1/00bidenhugs1-articleLarge-v2.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/katie-glueck}{Katie Glueck}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Aug. 29, 2019
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

ORANGEBURG, S.C. --- A hug can be an act of affection. Of encouragement.
Of comfort.

When it comes to hugging Joe Biden, it can also be an act of defiance.

At least, that's how some of his female supporters see it.

``I told him, don't apologize, never apologize for anything, ever,''
said Juliette Daniels, 55, a lifestyle blogger who embraced Mr. Biden at
a campaign event in Orangeburg, S.C., last month. Their hug came hours
after he
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/07/06/us/politics/joe-biden-barack-obama-south-carolina.html?action=click\&module=Top\%20Stories\&pgtype=Homepage}{expressed
regret} for warmly invoking
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/06/19/us/politics/biden-segregationists.html}{relationships
with segregationist senators}, something that Ms. Daniels considered
unnecessary because ``he was already vetted by Barack.''

``He's just so warm,'' she continued.

While plenty of voters chalk up their early support for Mr. Biden to
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/08/22/us/politics/joe-biden-trump-2020.html}{strategizing
about electability} rather than explicit enthusiasm for his campaign
vision, others at his events across the country, like Ms. Daniels, are
often moved to demonstrate how close to --- and protective of --- the
former vice president they feel. It's a reminder of the good will Mr.
Biden has from many Democratic voters even as he has grappled with
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/08/12/us/politics/joe-biden-gaffes.html}{gaffes}
and a
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/06/06/us/politics/joe-biden-hyde-amendment.html}{series}
of
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/06/19/us/politics/biden-eastland.html}{controversies}
this summer.

A hug is a reflection of that dynamic. And it's something more, too,
according to some of **** the women who are waiting in line to embrace
Mr. Biden.

They know that hugs have been fraught territory for him. Last spring,
Mr. Biden faced his first major controversy of the 2020 campaign ---
even before entering the race --- when former State Assemblywoman
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/03/31/us/politics/joe-biden-flores.html}{Lucy
Flores} of Nevada
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/04/02/us/politics/joe-biden-women-me-too.html}{and
other women} said that Mr. Biden's habit of unsolicited touches and
embraces made them uncomfortable.

In a video message, Mr. Biden promised to be
``\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/04/03/us/politics/joe-biden-women-video.html}{more
mindful and respectful of people's personal space,}'' though he has also
since
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/04/05/us/politics/joe-biden-controversy.html}{made
light of} the complaints. Some women remain frustrated that in their
view he didn't take the feedback to heart.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2019/08/15/us/politics/00bidenhugs2/merlin_157675890_f5a420dd-1508-47a1-93da-a7bcff8c0961-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

To them, it's one of many examples of Mr. Biden, 76, appearing out of
step with the progressive norms shaping today's Democratic Party.

``The electorate doesn't have to settle for someone who doesn't
demonstrate that they see us and are for us, and there are a lot of ways
he's signaled he's not there,'' said Aimee Allison, the founder of She
the People, a political advocacy group focused on women of color. Ms.
Allison, who has been supportive of Ms. Flores, continued, ``It's
nothing to be proud of, that you have women saying, `I'm going to go in
for a hug!' That's not the point. The point is for us all to evolve.''

For Ms. Flores, the question of evolution is key.

``When someone behaves badly, it's incumbent on them --- not us --- it's
incumbent on them to change their behavior,'' Ms. Flores said in an
interview earlier this month. ``It doesn't mean that makes them,
necessarily, bad people. The only thing that makes them bad is if they
continue the behavior. Joe Biden has demonstrated he's not very
interested in changing his behavior or attitude.''

\hypertarget{latest-updates-2020-election}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: 2020
Election}}{Latest Updates: 2020 Election}}\label{latest-updates-2020-election}}

Updated 2020-08-01T01:26:45.732Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-29fdff45}{Kamala
  Harris, a top vice-presidential contender, confronts double
  standards.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-13ec3d9c}{Karen
  Bass and Susan Rice are rising on Biden's vice-presidential
  shortlist.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-49e9a016}{Trump
  says Russian bounties to kill U.S. troops `never took place.'}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

Mr. Biden's supporters are keenly aware of that criticism. And they are
often eager to loudly dismiss it.

These voters volunteer --- sometimes earnestly, sometimes combatively
--- that they were the ones to request the hugs. They glibly wave off
questions about his tactile campaigning style, chalking it up to
generational differences, or more often, calling it an asset.

``If you like somebody, you hug them,'' said Elizabeth Walek-Sowin, 74,
who did just that at a campaign event with Mr. Biden in Henderson,
Nevada. ``It doesn't take a Ph.D. to figure that out.''

She proceeded to hug the reporter who had asked about the exchange.

``We're in a period of time right now where we need hugs,'' said Mary
McWhorter, 72, after sharing an embrace with Mr. Biden at a campaign
stop in Charleston, S.C. ``I was thrilled to get to hug Joe Biden. Hell,
I'd be happy --- he can put his hands on my shoulder any day of the
week. I might return the favor, with my husband right here.''

A conversation about hugs often leads to a broader defense of Mr.
Biden's record.

``He has not a racist bone in his body,'' insisted Bernadette Brown, a
51-year-old administrative assistant from North Charleston, S.C., soon
after explaining why she had hugged Mr. Biden (``that's just my nature,
we greet people, hug people'') at a campaign event after the first
debate, where Mr. Biden's opposition to many
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/07/31/us/politics/kamala-harris-biden-busing.html}{busing
practices} had been a focus. ``Racism exists but Vice President Biden
did not cause the racism. He is not the problem.''

Mr. Biden is back in South Carolina this week for more campaigning ---
and perhaps, more hugs, in a state his allies consider to be his
firewall.

Some **** Democrats say that there should be room for acknowledging
complexities in the discussion of Mr. Biden's approach --- and
recognition that a style that appeals to women of one generation may
translate differently with women of another generation.

``We can believe Lucy Flores when she says Biden made her feel demeaned
and disrespected, while at the same time believing these women who say
the same sort of behavior is welcome,'' said Rebecca Kirszner Katz, a
progressive strategist.

``In this new era, it's important for male politicians to recognize that
not everyone will be comfortable with candidates being in their personal
space,'' she added. ``When told that your touching is making some women
uncomfortable, your defense can't be, `Well, some women are O.K. with
it.'''

Ms. Flores, 39, who supported Senator Bernie Sanders in 2016 but has not
yet endorsed in the 2020 race, said Mr. Biden's defenders are missing
important nuances of the \#MeToo era.

``It doesn't have to rise to the level of sexual assault or illegal
sexual harassment in order for it to be wrong,'' she said. ``Because it
is at the lower end of the spectrum in terms of bad behavior, and women
are just now starting to speak out about it, people are of course
dismissing it, minimizing the behavior, both women and men.''

Image

Credit...John Locher/Associated Press

Ms. Flores said she has not heard from Mr. Biden --- ``it took him,
what, 30 years to call Anita Hill?'' she said, referencing
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/04/25/us/politics/joe-biden-anita-hill.html}{his
call} to Professor Hill shortly before he announced his campaign for
president to discuss how she was treated during the 1991 Clarence Thomas
hearings when he oversaw the Senate Judiciary Committee. ``I'm not
holding my breath.''

``It is incredibly difficult to hold someone accountable for bad
behavior when you really, really like them,'' Ms. Flores said. ``That is
the hard part about living our values: it is uncomfortable.''

Yet there are also many people who seek a hug from Mr. Biden not to make
a statement but to connect with a man
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/05/30/us/politics/joe-biden-beau-biden-death.html}{who
can relate} to their stories of grief or illness. Mr. Biden's personal
tragedies, which he discussed in
a\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/08/27/us/politics/joe-biden-ad-personal.html}{campaign
ad} released Tuesday, are well-known: his first wife and a baby daughter
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/1972/12/19/archives/bidens-wife-child-killed-in-car-crash.html}{were
killed} in a car accident in 1972, right after he won his first election
to the Senate. In 2015, one of the sons who survived that car crash,
Beau Biden, died of brain cancer. Voters, aware of that history, are
often open about sharing their own struggles with Mr. Biden, especially
about cancer.

Patty Krysiak, 66, approached Mr. Biden after a campaign event in Nevada
on a recent Saturday, and told him that she was struggling with an
incurable blood cancer.

``He said, `they got people working on that kind of thing,''' and
offered to help connect her doctor with others who are focused on the
issue, Ms. Krysiak recalled.

A reporter had earlier observed Mr. Biden hugging Ms. Krysiak and
kissing her hand.

``She said she's a hugger!'' Mr. Biden insisted when he caught the
reporter watching the exchange.

Ms. Krysiak confirmed that was indeed the case.

``I'm a hugger, not a hand-shaker,'' she said. ``I know he's a hugger,
too. When he's allowed to be.''

\hypertarget{our-2020-election-guide}{%
\section{Our 2020 Election Guide}\label{our-2020-election-guide}}

Updated July 31, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{the-latest}{%
  \subsection{The Latest}\label{the-latest}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    President Trump's assault on the Postal Service is intersecting with
    his attacks on mail-in voting.
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/politics/trump-usps-mail-delays.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Voting
    rights groups say it is a recipe for disaster.}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{bidens-vp-search}{%
  \subsection{Biden's V.P. Search}\label{bidens-vp-search}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/biden-vice-president-2020.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Here
    are 13 women} who have been under consideration to be Joe Biden's
    running mate, and why each might be chosen --- and might not be.
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{keep-up-with-our-coverage}{%
  \subsection{Keep Up With Our
  Coverage}\label{keep-up-with-our-coverage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Get an
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{email}
    recapping the day's news
  \end{itemize}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Download our mobile app on
    \href{https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nytimes/id284862083?ls=1\&mat_click_id=5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\&referrer=mat_click_id\%3D5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\%26link_click_id\%3D722930677036718082}{iOS}
    and
    \href{http://a.localytics.com/android?id=com.nytimes.android\&referrer=utm_source\%3Dother_nyt_mobile_web\%26utm_medium\%3DWeb\%2520page\%26utm_term\%3DGeneral\%2520Mobile\%2520Page\%26utm_campaign\%3DNYT\%2520Mobile\%2520General\%2520Page}{Android}
    and turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
