Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\hypertarget{the-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus?name=styln-coronavirus-markets\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=LegacyCollection\&impression_id=19828850-f4be-11ea-886e-25385b9a717d\&variant=undefined}{The
Coronavirus
Outbreak}}{The Coronavirus Outbreak}}\label{the-coronavirus-outbreak}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  live\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/11/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?name=styln-coronavirus-markets\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=LegacyCollection\&impression_id=1982af60-f4be-11ea-886e-25385b9a717d\&variant=undefined}{Latest
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html?name=styln-coronavirus-markets\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=LegacyCollection\&impression_id=1982af61-f4be-11ea-886e-25385b9a717d\&variant=undefined}{Maps
  and Cases}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html?name=styln-coronavirus-markets\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=LegacyCollection\&impression_id=1982af62-f4be-11ea-886e-25385b9a717d\&variant=undefined}{Vaccine
  Tracker}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/10/us/politics/fda-coronavirus-vaccine.html?name=styln-coronavirus-markets\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=LegacyCollection\&impression_id=1982af63-f4be-11ea-886e-25385b9a717d\&variant=undefined}{F.D.A.
  Regulators' Self-Defense}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/09/upshot/coronavirus-surprise-test-fees.html?name=styln-coronavirus-markets\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=LegacyCollection\&impression_id=1982af64-f4be-11ea-886e-25385b9a717d\&variant=undefined}{Surprise
  Test Fees}
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{sp-500-rallies-to-close-out-best-day-in-almost-two-months}{%
\section{S\&P 500 Rallies to Close Out Best Day in Almost Two
Months}\label{sp-500-rallies-to-close-out-best-day-in-almost-two-months}}

Last Updated

Sept. 3, 2020, 5:17 a.m. ET

Sept. 3, 2020, 5:17 a.m. ET

The latest economic and business news during the coronavirus pandemic.

This briefing is no longer being updated.

\hypertarget{heres-what-you-need-to-know}{%
\subsubsection{Here's what you need to
know:}\label{heres-what-you-need-to-know}}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{the-federal-debt-is-on-track-to-outpace-us-economy-in-2021-budget-office-says}{}

  The federal debt is on track to outpace U.S. economy in 2021, budget
  office says.
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{a-fed-survey-of-businesses-shows-the-pandemic-continues-to-hinder-growth}{}

  A Fed survey of businesses shows the pandemic continues to hinder
  growth.
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{united-airlines-is-set-to-furlough-16000-workers-in-the-fall}{}

  United Airlines is set to furlough 16,000 workers in the fall.
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{ford-plans-to-cut-1400-salaried-jobs-in-north-america}{}

  Ford plans to cut 1,400 salaried jobs in North America.
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{australia-falls-into-its-first-recession-in-almost-30-years}{}

  Australia falls into its first recession in almost 30 years.
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{sp-500-rallies-to-close-out-best-day-in-almost-two-months-1}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{sp-500-rallies-to-close-out-best-day-in-almost-two-months}{S\&P
500 rallies to close out best day in almost two
months.}}{S\&P 500 rallies to close out best day in almost two months.}}\label{sp-500-rallies-to-close-out-best-day-in-almost-two-months-1}}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  U.S. stocks climbed on Wednesday, following a rally on Tuesday after
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/01/business/economy/mnuchin-coronavirus.html}{Treasury
  Secretary Steven Mnuchin} suggested to lawmakers that the Trump
  administration might be open to a stimulus package as large as \$1.5
  trillion. The S\&P 500 rose 1.5 percent to set another record.
  \textbf{It was the index's best day since July 6}.
\item
  The Dow Jones Industrial index closed above 29,000 for the first time
  since February, though \textbf{it is still more than 450 points off
  its record high}. President Trump crowed about the index's performance
  \href{https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/1301249968091455488}{on
  Twitter}: ``You are so lucky to have me as your President ðŸ˜‰''
\item
  Shares of giant technology companies helped lead the gains in the S\&P
  500, where the large weighting of such stocks gives them outsized
  influence. \textbf{Twitter} was one of the best-performing stocks of
  the day, rising more than 6 percent, \textbf{Alphabet} rose nearly 4
  percent and \textbf{Facebook} rose by more than 2 percent.
\item
  But other more defensive sectors, such as utilities and health care,
  also fared well, generating the highest percentage gains of any of the
  S\&P 500's 11 sectors. Energy was the only S\&P sector to decline.
\item
  The
  \href{https://adpemploymentreport.com/2020/August/NER/NER-August-2020.aspx}{ADP
  report on private sector payrolls}, which was released Wednesday
  morning, showed that \textbf{hiring increased in August} from the
  prior month but fell below what economists had expected. Investors are
  more focused on the Labor Department's monthly jobs report, which is
  set to be released on Friday.
\item
  The downbeat economic data seemed to drive increased expectations from
  investors that more support from the Federal Reserve, in the form of
  lower long-term interest rates, would be coming. The yield on the
  10-year Treasury note fell to its lowest level in more than a week, at
  0.65 percent.
\item
  \textbf{European markets were also higher}, with benchmark indexes up
  more than 1 percent. Asian markets ended the day broadly lower, a
  trend defied by Japan's Nikkei, which closed up about half a percent.
\item
  Investors were encouraged by fresh economic data from around the world
  that signaled a recovery from the devastation of the pandemic was
  underway. U.S. manufacturing data
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/reuters/2020/09/01/business/01reuters-usa-economy.html}{released
  Tuesday} showed that \textbf{new orders surged in August}. A report
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/reuters/2020/09/01/us/01reuters-eurozone-economy-pmi.html?searchResultPosition=5}{from
  the eurozone} Tuesday also showed that manufacturing activity had
  increased for the second straight month.
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{the-federal-debt-is-on-track-to-outpace-us-economy-in-2021-budget-office-says}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{the-federal-debt-is-on-track-to-outpace-us-economy-in-2021-budget-office-says}{The
federal debt is on track to outpace U.S. economy in 2021, budget office
says.}}{The federal debt is on track to outpace U.S. economy in 2021, budget office says.}}\label{the-federal-debt-is-on-track-to-outpace-us-economy-in-2021-budget-office-says}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/09/02/business/02markets-brf-cbo/merlin_176135358_a0a134de-30de-4893-bdd3-fe2331d8b3cf-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

The amount of U.S. government debt will nearly outpace the size of the
nation's economy in the 2020 fiscal year, the Congressional Budget
Office
\href{https://www.cbo.gov/system/files/2020-09/56517-Budget-Outlook.pdf}{said
on Wednesday}, a level not reached since the immediate aftermath of
World War II and a direct result of the pandemic recession.

The federal budget deficit is expected to reach \$3.3 trillion for the
fiscal year, which ends on Sept. 30, the budget office said. Total debt
held by the public is expected to reach an estimated 98 percent of the
size of the economy --- gross domestic product --- for the year. It
falls just short of equaling the size of the economy: The last fiscal
year when the amount of federal debt was larger than the sum of the
nation's annual economic output was in 1946.

The budget office now expects the debt to exceed the size of the economy
in fiscal year 2021. By 2023, it said on Wednesday, it expects the debt
as a share of the economy to reach its highest level in American
history, surpassing the World War II era.

The United States appeared to have passed the debt
milepost\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/21/business/economy/national-debt-coronavirus-stimulus.html}{in
June}, when the total debt exceeded the size of a year's worth of
economic output.

The pandemic recession plunged the economy into its sharpest quarterly
contraction in growth in nearly 75 years, ballooning the deficit in the
process. With millions out of work and businesses shuttered, tax
revenues fell for the federal government, along with states and
municipalities. Congress and President Trump moved quickly to approve
more than \$3 trillion in new federal spending to help businesses and
individuals through the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/22/us/politics/coronavirus-economy-shutdown.html}{abrupt
slowdown in economic activity}. All of those factors converged to send
deficits --- which had grown steadily even in the expansion years under
Mr. Trump before the crisis hit --- soaring.

While most economists think the federal government should not be worried
about deficit spending in the midst of a severe downturn, concerns over
the amount of federal borrowing have hindered bipartisan negotiations
over another round of economic assistance this fall. Democrats started
talks pushing for a more-than \$3 trillion package. Republicans
countered with about \$1 trillion, citing, in part, concerns over the
rising amounts of debt.

But even many deficit hawks in Washington, while alarmed by the swift
rise in debt, continue to urge lawmakers to spend more to stimulate the
recovery.

``I think we should think and worry about the deficit an awful lot,''
said Maya MacGuineas, president of the Committee for a Responsible
Federal Budget in Washington, ``and we should proceed to make it
larger'' this fall.

--- \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/jim-tankersley}{Jim
Tankersley}

\hypertarget{advertisement}{%
\subsubsection{Advertisement}\label{advertisement}}

\protect\hyperlink{after-dfp-ad-mid1}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{a-fed-survey-of-businesses-shows-the-pandemic-continues-to-hinder-growth}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{a-fed-survey-of-businesses-shows-the-pandemic-continues-to-hinder-growth}{A
Fed survey of businesses shows the pandemic continues to hinder
growth.}}{A Fed survey of businesses shows the pandemic continues to hinder growth.}}\label{a-fed-survey-of-businesses-shows-the-pandemic-continues-to-hinder-growth}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/09/02/business/02markets-brf-survey-business-growth/merlin_175581093_27227c06-e792-4c5b-b1ed-28617a2201a2-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

The Federal Reserve's regular survey of its nationwide business contacts
showed that the pandemic continues to weigh on regional economies ---
and signaled that in many places, the pace of the post-lockdown rebound
began to slow by late August.

While vehicle sales, tourism and retail had been boosting consumer
spending, ``many Districts noted a slowing pace of growth in these
areas, and total spending was still far below pre-pandemic levels,''
according to the so-called
``\href{https://www.federalreserve.gov/monetarypolicy/files/BeigeBook_20200902.pdf}{Beige
Book}'' report for August 2020. ``Commercial construction was down
widely, and commercial real estate remained in contraction.''

Housing was a bright spot, the report said, but the agriculture and
energy industries continued to struggle. Continued uncertainty driven by
the pandemic ``was a theme echoed across the country.'' Employment was
rising, but temporary layoffs were also turning permanent in many
places.

In the New York region, ``while more manufacturers said they anticipated
staff increases than reductions, the reverse was true among service
sector businesses --- especially those in the information,
transportation, and warehousing industries.''

Even as jobs disappeared in some areas and the pace of labor market
improvement slowed in others, businesses complained about struggling to
hire. Some cited expanded unemployment benefits, which lapsed at the end
of July, along with day care and school closings that kept parents at
home.

``A lack of access to day care and unwillingness of some working parents
to send their children to day care contributed to a reduced pool of
candidates,'' according to contacts in the Boston Fed's district. ``By
contrast, one contact saw increased applicants, citing recent layoffs
and furloughs as driving factors.''

--- \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/jeanna-smialek}{Jeanna
Smialek}

\hypertarget{united-airlines-is-set-to-furlough-16000-workers-in-the-fall}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{united-airlines-is-set-to-furlough-16000-workers-in-the-fall}{United
Airlines is set to furlough 16,000 workers in the
fall.}}{United Airlines is set to furlough 16,000 workers in the fall.}}\label{united-airlines-is-set-to-furlough-16000-workers-in-the-fall}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/09/02/business/02markets-brf-unitedjobcuts/merlin_175614120_ad7bfdc0-63cb-4877-8f32-74fb4cb9f199-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\textbf{United Airlines} said Wednesday that it expects to furlough
16,370 employees starting Oct. 1, when federal restrictions on job cuts
that were a condition of government aid end.

The announcement, which comes a week after a similar one from
\textbf{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/25/business/american-airline-furlough-19000.html}{American
Airlines}}, could put further pressure on Congress and the Trump
administration to renew the \$25 billion in stimulus funding the federal
government provided to passenger airlines in March. A union-led effort
to extend that funding has received bipartisan support, but lawmakers
and the administration are at an impasse over further pandemic relief.

``To be clear, an extension would be the one thing that would prevent
involuntary furloughs on October 1 and hopefully delay any potential
impact on employees until early 2021,'' the airline told employees on
Wednesday. Tens of thousands of United employees have already contacted
their representatives to renew the funding and the airline encouraged
others to do so.

The Oct. 1 cut would affect nearly 7,000 flight attendants, nearly 3,000
pilots and thousands of others who work in maintenance, airport
operations and other roles. United had warned 36,000 employees in July
that they could be subject to the furlough, but that figure was greatly
reduced in large part because thousands of employees agreed to take
buyouts, early retirement or temporary leave.

Airlines have introduced a broad range of voluntary programs to offset
costs and save jobs. Some United employees who work in airport
operations, at contact centers or in maintenance, for example, have been
offered a year of leave during which they will receive health benefits
and a quarter of their salary. Flight attendants have been able to sign
up for extended leave with health benefits with the right to return to
work if flights are available. In both cases, the airline would be able
to call the employees back when demand recovers.

Last week, American said that it expects to cut as many as 19,000
workers starting Oct. 1.
\textbf{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/24/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus/delta-says-it-will-need-to-furlough-2000-pilots-in-october}{Delta
Air Lines}} has said it may need to furlough nearly 2,000 pilots, even
after nearly as many signed up for early retirement. \textbf{Southwest
Airlines} has said it expects to avoid broad cuts, at least for the rest
of the year.

The number of people flying is down about 70 percent from a year ago and
isn't expected to recover substantially until a coronavirus vaccine is
widely available. The World Travel \& Tourism Council, an industry
group, said on Wednesday that the devastating drop in international
travel would cost the U.S. economy \$155 billion this year.

--- \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/niraj-chokshi}{Niraj
Chokshi}

\hypertarget{ford-plans-to-cut-1400-salaried-jobs-in-north-america}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{ford-plans-to-cut-1400-salaried-jobs-in-north-america}{Ford
plans to cut 1,400 salaried jobs in North
America.}}{Ford plans to cut 1,400 salaried jobs in North America.}}\label{ford-plans-to-cut-1400-salaried-jobs-in-north-america}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/09/02/business/02markets-brf-ford/merlin_170642190_366795f5-212a-4a83-88f8-533648d6585e-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\textbf{Ford Motor} said Wednesday that it planned to eliminate about
1,400 salaried jobs in North America by the end of the year to lower
costs.

The automaker told workers that it would offer incentives to encourage
employees to leave voluntarily but would resort to layoffs if not enough
people took buyout packages.

``We are in a multiyear process of making Ford more fit and effective
around the world,'' Kumar Galhotra, the president of the company's
Americas and international markets group, said in an email to employees.

The job cuts come as Ford replaces its top executive. Its chief
executive for the last three years, Jim Hackett, is set to retire in
October, and will be succeeded by James Farley, the chief operating
officer.

Mr. Hackett has worked to streamline Ford, but so far has achieved mixed
results. He is credited with revamping Ford's model line, developing a
battery-powered Mustang sport-utility vehicle and a new line of Bronco
sport-utility vehicles. But the company's financial performance has
lagged other big automakers and its share price has languished in the
single digits for most of the last two years.

--- \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/neal-e-boudette}{Neal E.
Boudette}

\hypertarget{advertisement-1}{%
\subsubsection{Advertisement}\label{advertisement-1}}

\protect\hyperlink{after-dfp-ad-mid2}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{australia-falls-into-its-first-recession-in-almost-30-years}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{australia-falls-into-its-first-recession-in-almost-30-years}{Australia
falls into its first recession in almost 30
years.}}{Australia falls into its first recession in almost 30 years.}}\label{australia-falls-into-its-first-recession-in-almost-30-years}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/03/27/world/02virus-oz-econ-jobs/merlin_170992641_b250eb0e-16d3-42e5-8096-a73b82dfa396-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

After almost 30 years of economic growth,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/02/business/australia-recession.html}{Australia
officially fell into recession} after its economy shrank 7 percent in
the second quarter, the government said on Wednesday.

The drop in quarterly G.D.P. is the largest since record-keeping began
in 1959, Michael Smedes, head of national accounts at the Australian
Bureau of Statistics, said
\href{https://www.abs.gov.au/ausstats/abs\%40.nsf/mediareleasesbyCatalogue/C9973AC780DDFD3FCA257F690011045C?OpenDocument}{in
a statement}.

Restrictions that were imposed in March during the virus's first surge
greatly reduced domestic spending on transportation, hotels and
restaurants, while border bans hit the tourism and education industries.

Australia's second-most populous state, Victoria, remains under lockdown
as it fights a surge that was
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/04/world/australia/coronavirus-melbourne-lockdown.html}{driven
by returning travelers}. Officials on Wednesday extended Victoria's
state of emergency for six months, a designation that gives them broad
powers to enact virus-related restrictions as needed.

In the end, more than \$150 billion in stimulus packages could not ward
off a recession.

``Today's devastating numbers confirm what every Australian knows: that
Covid-19 has wreaked havoc on our economy and our lives like nothing we
have ever experienced before,'' Josh Frydenberg, the country's
treasurer, said on Wednesday.

The new data marked a sobering end to
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/27/world/australia/australia-coronavirus-economy.html}{what
had once seemed an endless boom} driven by immigration, rising trade
with Asia and careful monetary policy. More than
\href{https://www.abs.gov.au/ausstats/abs@.nsf/mf/6202.0}{a million
Australians were unemployed in July}, and the unemployment rate of 7.5
percent was the worst in 22 years.

``The road ahead will be long,'' Mr. Frydenberg said. ``The road ahead
will be hard. The road ahead will be bumpy.''

Australia has recorded 663 coronavirus deaths and more than 25,000
cases,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/world/coronavirus-maps.html\#countries}{according
to a New York Times database}.

--- \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/isabella-kwai}{Isabella
Kwai}

\hypertarget{bank-of-england-policymakers-warn-of-even-more-economic-damage-than-is-forecast}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{bank-of-england-policymakers-warn-of-even-more-economic-damage-than-is-forecast}{Bank
of England policymakers warn of even more economic damage than is
forecast.}}{Bank of England policymakers warn of even more economic damage than is forecast.}}\label{bank-of-england-policymakers-warn-of-even-more-economic-damage-than-is-forecast}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/09/02/business/02markets-brf-boe/merlin_175364973_ad84f0ca-574f-4eae-b860-62834a60873f-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

The British economy could suffer longer-term damage and a slower
recovery than
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/06/business/britains-economy-wont-fully-recover-till-end-of-2021-its-central-bankers-said.html}{the}\textbf{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/06/business/britains-economy-wont-fully-recover-till-end-of-2021-its-central-bankers-said.html}{Bank
of
England}}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/06/business/britains-economy-wont-fully-recover-till-end-of-2021-its-central-bankers-said.html}{is
currently forecasting}, two of its policymakers said on Wednesday.

Speaking to a parliamentary committee, the central bankers warned that
the economy, which suffered its
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/12/business/britain-economy-recession-coronavirus.html}{worst
recession since official record-keeping began in the 1950s}, faced
bigger risks than current estimates anticipate.

``Once we're on the other side of the Covid shock, we think the level of
G.D.P. will be permanently about 1.5 percent lower,'' Dave Ramsden, the
deputy governor of the central bank, said of the current forecast. ``For
me, all the risks are really that that number will be greater than 1.5
percent.''

The bank's forecast already anticipates some economic mismatch lasting a
long time, meaning that some people who lose their jobs will struggle to
find new employment because they won't have the right skills. But there
could be other impacts that have not yet been accounted for, such as a
lack of investment in commercial real estate as more people work from
home, or an increase in spending on machinery and other equipment in the
retail sector as it pivots to online shopping at the expense of workers'
wages.

The central bank expects the output gap --- the difference between the
actual output of the economy and what it has the potential to achieve
--- to close in about a year and a half. ``I think that's quite quick,''
said Gertjan Vlieghe, a member of the central bank's monetary policy
committee.

He said that if unemployment stayed high while the economy tried to
undergo a structural change,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/28/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus\#bank-of-england-chief-says-negative-rates-are-possible-in-the-uk}{more
monetary} and fiscal stimulus would be needed to get the economy
``running at full capacity.''

--- \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/eshe-nelson}{Eshe
Nelson}

\hypertarget{macys-says-that-its-sales-fell-36-percent-but-that-it-expected-worse}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{macys-says-that-its-sales-fell-36-percent-but-that-it-expected-worse}{Macy's
says that its sales fell 36 percent, but that it expected
worse.}}{Macy's says that its sales fell 36 percent, but that it expected worse.}}\label{macys-says-that-its-sales-fell-36-percent-but-that-it-expected-worse}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/09/02/business/02markets-brf-macys/merlin_175621164_36c8c58c-8c5f-47e2-835e-6179b2977826-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\textbf{Macy's}, the biggest department store company in the United
States, on Wednesday
\href{https://www.macysinc.com/investors/news-events/press-releases/detail/1637/macys-inc-reports-second-quarter-2020-results}{reported}
another significant slide in quarterly sales, but struck an upbeat tone,
saying that the performance was ``stronger than anticipated.''

The New York-based retailer, which also owns \textbf{Bloomingdale's} and
\textbf{Bluemercury}, said that sales fell 36 percent, to \$3.6 billion,
in the quarter ending Aug. 1. It reported a net loss of \$431 million.
Like many other retailers, Macy's said that its digital sales grew, by
53 percent, in the quarter, while in-store sales plunged 61 percent.

Macy's said it was not providing a full-year forecast as uncertainty
persisted, but it expected its comparable sales to drop by the ``low- to
mid-20s'' during the fall. On an earnings call, the retailer said that
it expected at least 40 percent of its total sales to be digital going
forward, up from 25 percent last year.

``The store remains a very, very important component of our brands,''
said Jeff Gennette, Macy's chief executive. But as the pandemic
persists, customers are not using the stores to browse, he said.
``They're mission-based: They're coming in for a transaction, they're
lingering less time in stores, and they're buying at a higher conversion
rate.''

Macy's is a linchpin of the mall, and its results provide a window into
how and where Americans are shopping. Dresses, men's clothing and formal
shoes, and luggage have been weak categories, the company said on the
call, as it observed a big shift into purchases of activewear and
athletic footwear. The retail giant also noted ``disproportionately
strong'' performance in luxury categories like fragrances and diamonds
and said its strongest business was in homewares, beauty and certain
accessories categories.

The coronavirus outbreak and widespread store closures drove Macy's
sales down by 45 percent to about \$3 billion in the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/02/business/macys-herald-square-protests.html?action=click\&module=RelatedLinks\&pgtype=Article}{first
quarter}, which ended May 2, and the retailer posted a net loss of \$3.6
billion. It said in June that it was cutting
\href{https://www.macysinc.com/investors/news-events/press-releases/detail/1630/macys-inc-announces-restructuring-to-address-sales}{3,900
corporate and managemen}t positions.

Macy's staggered the release of its dismal first-quarter results across
three months. It has continued to struggle as consumers are
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/18/business/economy/coronavirus-economic-recovery-states.html}{especially
slow to} return to enclosed malls.

In February, before the virus began spreading across the U.S., Macy's
had announced
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/02/04/business/macys-store-closings.html}{plans
to close at least 125 stores} in the next three years and cut about
2,000 jobs. Those closings are expected to leave the company with about
400 locations.

The retailer, one of the most iconic destinations during the holiday
season, said Wednesday that it was preparing to start promotions
earlier, create a safe store environment and give customers the option
to buy items in advance, which they can retrieve curbside or in stores.

--- \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/sapna-maheshwari}{Sapna
Maheshwari}

\hypertarget{republicans-and-democrats-agree-the-economy-needs-more-stimulus--but-not-on-how-to-do-it}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{mnuchin}{Republicans and
Democrats agree the economy needs more stimulus --- but not on how to do
it.}}{Republicans and Democrats agree the economy needs more stimulus --- but not on how to do it.}}\label{republicans-and-democrats-agree-the-economy-needs-more-stimulus--but-not-on-how-to-do-it}}

Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin says
``\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/01/business/economy/mnuchin-coronavirus.html}{there
is more work to be done}'' to help the U.S. economy recover from its
pandemic-induced recession. But he and Democrats disagree on the scale
of the problem, and the scope of the solution, making it hard to predict
when --- or if --- lawmakers will strike a deal on another economic
stimulus package, today's
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/02/business/dealbook/coronavirus-stimulus-bill.html}{DealBook
newsletter} explains.

\textbf{Mr. Mnuchin and House Democrats painted different pictures of
the economy} at a congressional hearing yesterday. While the Treasury
secretary said the economy was ``doing great'' relative to the
worst-case pandemic situations, the House majority whip, Jim Clyburn,
Democrat of South Carolina, warned of a ``K-shaped'' recovery, in which
the wealthy bounce back and the rest lag behind.

\textbf{Who's right?} A number of economic reports are due this week
that could shed some light on the course of the recovery. Today, the
Congressional Budget Office will release an update to its 10-year
economic projections. On Thursday, weekly jobless claims are expected to
show a large decline, due mostly to
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/01/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus/the-labor-department-will-start-counting-unemployment-claims-in-a-new-way}{methodological
changes}. On Friday, the monthly report on jobs is predicted to show the
unemployment rate falling to single digits for the first time during the
pandemic, to a level roughly equal to the \emph{peak} reached during the
global financial crisis.

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  The weekly ``recovery tracker'' assembled by \textbf{Oxford
  Economics}, which mashes together a range of high-frequency statistics
  on consumer demand, employment, financial markets, health, mobility
  and production, reckons that the U.S. economy is now operating around
  80 percent of normal, with muted improvement in recent weeks.
\end{itemize}

\textbf{Is help on the way?} Mr. Mnuchin told the House Select
Subcommittee on the Coronavirus Crisis yesterday that he would call
House Speaker Nancy Pelosi ``right after the hearing'' to discuss the
next stimulus bill. They spoke for more than 30 minutes, but Ms. Pelosi
said afterward that there were ``serious differences understanding the
gravity of the situation'' between the White House and Democrats.

--- Lauren Hirsch and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/jason-karaian}{Jason
Karaian}

\hypertarget{expect-to-see-a-big-artificial-drop-in-jobless-claims-heres-why}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{expect-to-see-a-big-artificial-drop-in-jobless-claims-heres-why}{Expect
to see a big, artificial drop in jobless claims. Here's
why.}}{Expect to see a big, artificial drop in jobless claims. Here's why.}}\label{expect-to-see-a-big-artificial-drop-in-jobless-claims-heres-why}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/09/02/business/02markets-brf-jobless-adjustment/merlin_176413299_3ab859d0-b6e2-41ec-bec8-b3d01aacceaf-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Starting this week, the Labor Department
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/01/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus/the-labor-department-will-start-counting-unemployment-claims-in-a-new-way}{will
change its approach to seasonal adjustment} for weekly unemployment
claims. The Times will be changing the way we report the numbers, too,
to emphasize the non-seasonally adjusted figures going forward.
\href{https://twitter.com/bencasselman}{Ben Casselman} explains the
change:

\begin{quote}
UPDATE: Got some clarity on this.
\href{https://twitter.com/USDOL?ref_src=twsrc\%5Etfw}{@USDOL} says
initial claims for 8/22 will NOT be revised to reflect the new
adjustment methodology. So we should expect to see a big, artificial
drop in claims from 8/22 to 8/29. \url{https://t.co/IievTvgw9v}

--- Ben Casselman (@bencasselman)
\href{https://twitter.com/bencasselman/status/1300846216306192384?ref_src=twsrc\%5Etfw}{September
1, 2020}
\end{quote}

\begin{quote}
The key points:

â€¢ This change should make the seasonally adjusted numbers more accurate.

â€¢ The Labor Department is not revising prior data, which means the new
seasonally adjusted numbers will not be comparable with the old ones.

â€¢~If you want to compare over time, use non-seasonally adjusted data.

Seasonal adjustment is meant to account for regular, predictable
patterns in layoffs. Take the first week of June, for example: Every
year, jobless claims spike because thousands of public school employees
get laid off.

The seasonal adjustment formula ``knows'' this, and expects claims to
rise around 15 percent the first week of June each year. An increase of
less than 15 percent would show up as a drop in claims.

This year, though, the absolute level of claims is way higher than
normal because of the pandemic. The formula once again expected claims
to rise around 15 percent, but this year 15 percent was nearly 250,000
claims.

As it happens, unadjusted filings fell by about 60,000 that week this
year. The seasonal formula, expecting a huge increase, reported a drop
of 330,000 seasonally adjusted claims.

The new adjustment methodology should fix this. Instead of looking at
historical patterns as percentage changes, it will look at actual levels
of change. So in June, it would have expected an increase of around
30,000, and the seasonally adjusted figure would have shown a dip of
around 90,000.
\end{quote}

\hypertarget{advertisement-2}{%
\subsubsection{Advertisement}\label{advertisement-2}}

\protect\hyperlink{after-dfp-ad-mid1}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{catch-up-most-evictions-in-the-us-will-be-barred-until-the-end-of-the-year}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{catch-up-most-evictions-in-the-us-will-be-barred-until-the-end-of-the-year}{Catch
up: Most evictions in the U.S. will be barred until the end of the
year.}}{Catch up: Most evictions in the U.S. will be barred until the end of the year.}}\label{catch-up-most-evictions-in-the-us-will-be-barred-until-the-end-of-the-year}}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \textbf{Virgin Atlantic's} \$1.6 billion rescue deal is set for
  completion this week after a London judge sanctioned the airline's
  restructuring plan in a court hearing on Wednesday, Reuters
  \href{https://www.reuters.com/article/us-health-coronavirus-virgin-atlantic/virgin-atlantic-set-to-seal-rescue-deal-after-london-judge-approves-plan-idUSKBN25T1PH}{reported}.
  A procedural court hearing is scheduled for Thursday in the United
  States so that the deal can be recognized there, but the judge said
  that the court order was not conditional on the U.S. process.
\item
  The Trump administration issued an order on Tuesday
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/01/business/eviction-moratorium-order.html?action=click\&module=RelatedLinks\&pgtype=Article}{barring
  evictions of most renters} in the country for the rest of the year as
  the nation grapples with the coronavirus pandemic. The order, put
  forward by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, said the
  action was needed to avoid having renters lose their homes and wind up
  in shelters or other crowded living conditions, compounding the
  crisis. To apply for the new moratorium, tenants would have to attest
  to a substantial loss of household income, the inability to pay full
  rent and best efforts to pay partial rent. Tenants would also need to
  stipulate that eviction would be likely to leave them homeless or
  force them to live with others at close quarters.
\item
  \textbf{AMC Entertainment} announced that it would
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/01/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus/amc-plans-to-reopen-140-additional-theaters-by-friday}{reopen
  roughly 140 additional theaters} by Sept. 4, bringing a total of 70
  percent of its movie theaters in the United States back into
  operation. Shares of the company jumped nearly 10 percent after-hours
  following the announcement Tuesday afternoon. The majority of the
  theaters will reopen on Sept. 3, the same day that Christopher Nolan's
  ``Tenet'' comes out. Theater executives are
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/28/business/media/coronavirus-movie-theaters-new-mutants.html}{hoping}
  the \$200 million thriller will draw crowds of viewers. But it
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/28/business/media/coronavirus-movie-theaters-new-mutants.html}{remains
  to be seen} whether people will want to sit in an enclosed space next
  to other moviegoers.
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{Â©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
