Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}Trump's Actions Rattle the
Military World: `I Can't Support the Man'

\url{https://nyti.ms/30Cosi6}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Election
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/biden-vice-president-2020.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Biden's
  V.P. Search}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/07/24/us/politics/trump-biden-campaign-donors.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Map
  of Donations}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/elections/delegate-count-primary-results.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Delegate
  Count}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2019/us/politics/2020-presidential-candidates.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{The
  Candidates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Politics
  Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{trumps-actions-rattle-the-military-world-i-cant-support-the-man}{%
\section{Trump's Actions Rattle the Military World: `I Can't Support the
Man'}\label{trumps-actions-rattle-the-military-world-i-cant-support-the-man}}

The president's threat to use troops against largely peaceful
protesters, as well as other attempts to politicize the military, have
unsettled a number of current and former members and their families.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/06/09/us/politics/09military-vote-00/09military-vote-00-articleLarge-v2.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/jennifer-steinhauer}{Jennifer
Steinhauer}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  June 12, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Erin Fangmann grew up in a military family, has been married to a
captain in the Air Force for 18 years and has voted Republican all her
life, including for
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/elections/donald-trump.html}{Donald
J. Trump}. But as with a number of other veterans, troops and military
family members who have watched the president with alarm, her support
has evaporated.

``He has hurt the military,'' said Ms. Fangmann, who lives in Arizona,
one of several states in play this November with a high percentage of
veterans and active-duty service members. ``Bringing in active-duty
members to the streets was a test to desensitize people to his future
use of the military for his personal benefit. I think the silent
majority among us is going to swing away.''

Since 2016, Mr. Trump has viewed veterans as a core slice of his base;
in that year's presidential election, about
\href{https://www.cnn.com/election/2016/results/exit-polls/national/president}{60
percent} voted for him, according to exit polls, and swing-state
counties with especially high numbers of veterans
\href{https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/checkpoint/wp/2016/11/10/how-swing-state-veterans-played-a-key-role-in-donald-trump-winning-the-white-house/}{helped
him win}. Many veterans and members of the military stuck with him even
as he attacked the Vietnam War record of Senator John McCain, disparaged
families of those killed in combat and denigrated generals whom he fired
or drove from government service. Some conservative rank-and-file
enlisted members silently agreed with Mr. Trump.

But the president's threat last week to
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/04/us/politics/trump-military-protests.html}{use
active-duty troops on American streets} against largely peaceful
protesters, and his flirtation with
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/insurrection-act.html}{invoking
the 1807 Insurrection Act}, have rattled the military world, from its
top leaders to its youngest veterans. If they break in significant
numbers, they could carry political weight in key battleground states
like Arizona, North Carolina and Ohio.

``I have always been a swing voter,'' said Amy Rutkowske, an Army
veteran and spouse who lives in North Carolina and is volunteering on a
House race, the first time she has ever volunteered in politics. ``My
fundamental understanding is that the president is the commander in
chief and that the office demands respect. But I have never wanted a
different commander in chief more.''

Some members of the military --- who are not permitted to speak about
politics publicly --- and their families have been posting critically on
social media about the president and policies of his that they once
supported. Others, who have never been excited about Mr. Trump as their
commander in chief, have begun to speak out, join protests and volunteer
for progressive causes.

They say that Mr. Trump has politicized the armed forces --- which pride
themselves as being above politics and discourage partisan discourse in
their ranks --- and has threatened the Constitution, both of which they
deem as last straws.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-2020-election}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: 2020
Election}}{Latest Updates: 2020 Election}}\label{latest-updates-2020-election}}

Updated 2020-08-01T01:26:45.732Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-29fdff45}{Kamala
  Harris, a top vice-presidential contender, confronts double
  standards.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-13ec3d9c}{Karen
  Bass and Susan Rice are rising on Biden's vice-presidential
  shortlist.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-49e9a016}{Trump
  says Russian bounties to kill U.S. troops `never took place.'}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

Of course, many veterans and military personnel still support Mr. Trump.
Quality recent polling on their views is scant, but some have embraced
his America-first campaign message, his focus on military spending and
his creation of a new Space Force that has been unexpectedly
well-received after initial scoffing.

In the 2018 congressional elections, when support for Democrats surged,
58 percent of military voters continued to vote for members of Mr.
Trump's party, according to
\href{https://www.cnn.com/election/2018/exit-polls}{exit polls}. And
those who do turn away from the president now will not automatically
support his Democratic opponent,
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/elections/joe-biden.html}{Joseph
R. Biden Jr.}

Martin Sepulveda, a former commander in the United States Navy Reserve
who lives in Arizona, said of Mr. Trump, ``I can't support the man.''
But he added: ``Am I a Biden guy? No. I don't know what I will do. I
have been a registered Republican for years.''

But the recent
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/03/us/politics/jim-mattis-trump-protests.html}{condemnations}
of Mr. Trump from high-level military veterans like
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/04/us/politics/murkowski-mattis-trump.html}{Jim
Mattis}, the former defense secretary and a retired four-star Marine
Corps general, have in some cases fortified the shifting views among
military members. ``The Mattis statement has changed people in some
amazing ways,'' said Chelsea Mark, a Marine veteran in Florida who works
for a veteran service organization. ``I went on a veteran hike recently,
and I saw someone wearing a Donald Trump T-shirt, and that same person
this week was posting anti-police-brutality things on her Instagram.''

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/06/09/us/politics/09military-vote-01/merlin_173247672_f1f953c3-eea7-4fc5-88b1-702e36993ad4-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

On June 5, the same day
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/06/us/marines-confederate-flag-ban.html}{the
Marines} issued a ban on displays of the Confederate battle flag at its
installations, a retired Marine in dress uniform
\href{https://nypost.com/2020/06/07/utah-retired-marine-shows-support-for-black-lives-matter/}{stood
solo} in front of the Utah State Capitol in support of the Black Lives
Matter movement, with black duct tape across his mouth that read, ``I
can't breathe.''

Mr. Trump's moves to use the military against American protesters and
looters came after several months of other highly unorthodox moves by
his administration involving the military, including the
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/11/15/us/trump-pardons.html}{clearing}
of three members of the armed services accused of war crimes; the firing
of
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/05/05/us/politics/coronavirus-carrier-roosevelt.html}{Capt.
Brett E. Crozier} after he raised alarms about the coronavirus on the
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/05/05/us/politics/coronavirus-carrier-roosevelt.html}{aircraft
carrier} he commanded; the calling back of West Point students during a
pandemic so the president could address them for a graduation,
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/04/24/us/politics/coronavirus-trump-west-point.html}{which
he is set to do on Saturday}; and the
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/09/03/us/politics/pentagon-border-wall.html}{diversion
of funds from military projects} to pay for a border wall, a move that
followed
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/10/29/us/politics/border-security-troops-trump.html}{the
deployment of troops to the border} just before the 2018 midterm
elections.

``This is the culmination of all those metronomic choices that have
intruded into the military chain of command and culture,'' said Kori N.
Schake, the director of foreign and defense policy studies at the
American Enterprise Institute, who served as a foreign policy adviser on
Mr. McCain's 2008 presidential campaign. ``I do think it is likely to
chip away among veterans, just as I believe it will chip away at support
with Republicans more broadly.''

Mr. Trump's ordering of the killing of a top Iranian general, which
briefly appeared to
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/01/08/world/middleeast/us-iran-war.html}{bring
the United States to the edge of war with Iran} early this year, was a
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/01/09/us/politics/veterans-trump-iran.html}{disappointment}
to the many veterans and service members who had supported him in part
for his promise to end American involvement in overseas conflicts.

``The news of wanting to deploy the military domestically has caused a
huge sense of outrage among most families I know,'' said Sarah Streyder,
the director of the Secure Families Initiative, which advocates
diplomacy-first foreign policy and works on behalf of military families.
``A lot of military families live on Facebook. Social media is very
important for this transient community.''

Numerous military spouses concurred. **** ``From what I see from my
friends communicating online, spouses have grown much more vocal in
opposition to policies,'' said Kate Marsh Lord, a Democrat who is
married to a member of the Air Force and lives in Virginia but votes in
Ohio. ``I have seen more spouses speak out on issues of race and lack of
leadership than in my entire 15 years as a military spouse.''

Image

Kate Marsh Lord and her children have marched and joined peaceful
demonstrations in their neighborhood in Northern Virginia.

Roughly
\href{https://www.pewresearch.org/fact-tank/2017/04/13/6-facts-about-the-u-s-military-and-its-changing-demographics/}{40
percent} of active-duty service people and reserves are people of color,
underlining how the current moment has affected military families.

``People took offense that they were using the military to calm peaceful
protests by people of color who were out on the streets,'' said Jerry
Green, who served in the Army until 1998 and now lives in Tampa. ``When
I saw that whole thing unfold, for me, personally, it was awful. I was
really distraught.'' Mr. Green, who is black, will not be supporting Mr.
Trump, whom he once found interesting, he said.

In North Carolina, Cal Cunningham, a Democrat and a lieutenant colonel
in the United States Army Reserve who is challenging Senator Thom
Tillis, a Republican, is working to capitalize on the military and
veteran vote in his state, where Mr. Trump recently diverted millions of
dollars for
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/03/25/us/politics/border-wall-funding.html}{military
installments} to pay for a wall at the Mexican border after Congress
blocked its funding.

``Cal's profile as a military veteran is quite powerful in a state with
so many veterans and military members,'' said Rachel Petri, a
spokeswoman for Mr. Cunningham. ``Not only in communicating with them,
but also with independent and swing voters who see the military and
veterans as part of the state's DNA.''

Other Democratic groups around the nation are also seeking leverage with
the military vote. ``We believe that Trump's support within the
military, with military families and with veterans, is soft and
receding,'' said Jon Soltz, a founder of VoteVets, which has been
increasingly successful in electing Democratic veterans. ``Our plan for
the fall is simple: We're putting together the most comprehensive
data-driven veteran and military family get-out-the-vote operation the
Democratic Party has ever seen, and we will deploy it to ensure Donald
Trump is a one-term president.''

Giovanni Russonello contributed reporting.

\hypertarget{our-2020-election-guide}{%
\section{Our 2020 Election Guide}\label{our-2020-election-guide}}

Updated July 31, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{the-latest}{%
  \subsection{The Latest}\label{the-latest}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    President Trump's assault on the Postal Service is intersecting with
    his attacks on mail-in voting.
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/politics/trump-usps-mail-delays.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Voting
    rights groups say it is a recipe for disaster.}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{bidens-vp-search}{%
  \subsection{Biden's V.P. Search}\label{bidens-vp-search}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/biden-vice-president-2020.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Here
    are 13 women} who have been under consideration to be Joe Biden's
    running mate, and why each might be chosen --- and might not be.
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{keep-up-with-our-coverage}{%
  \subsection{Keep Up With Our
  Coverage}\label{keep-up-with-our-coverage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Get an
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{email}
    recapping the day's news
  \end{itemize}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Download our mobile app on
    \href{https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nytimes/id284862083?ls=1\&mat_click_id=5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\&referrer=mat_click_id\%3D5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\%26link_click_id\%3D722930677036718082}{iOS}
    and
    \href{http://a.localytics.com/android?id=com.nytimes.android\&referrer=utm_source\%3Dother_nyt_mobile_web\%26utm_medium\%3DWeb\%2520page\%26utm_term\%3DGeneral\%2520Mobile\%2520Page\%26utm_campaign\%3DNYT\%2520Mobile\%2520General\%2520Page}{Android}
    and turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
