Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}Pence Will Control All
Coronavirus Messaging From Health Officials

\url{https://nyti.ms/2HXsdnw}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{the-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=63e11ce0-e38e-11ea-aa92-b162d5bed6a1}{The
Coronavirus
Outbreak}}{The Coronavirus Outbreak}}\label{the-coronavirus-outbreak}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  live\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/20/world/coronavirus-covid.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=63e11ce1-e38e-11ea-aa92-b162d5bed6a1}{Latest
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=63e143f0-e38e-11ea-aa92-b162d5bed6a1}{Maps
  and Cases}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=63e143f1-e38e-11ea-aa92-b162d5bed6a1}{Vaccine
  Tracker}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/19/us/colleges-closing-covid.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=63e143f2-e38e-11ea-aa92-b162d5bed6a1}{Colleges
  Closing}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/20/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=63e143f3-e38e-11ea-aa92-b162d5bed6a1}{Economy}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{pence-will-control-all-coronavirus-messaging-from-health-officials}{%
\section{Pence Will Control All Coronavirus Messaging From Health
Officials}\label{pence-will-control-all-coronavirus-messaging-from-health-officials}}

The White House's attempt to impose a more disciplined approach to
communications about the virus was undermined by President Trump, who
complained the news media was overstating the threat.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/02/27/us/politics/27dc-virus1-sub/merlin_169656147_5de50cc8-7323-49fa-8c96-fec732e64fe1-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/michael-d-shear}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/06/13/multimedia/author-michael-d-shear/author-michael-d-shear-thumbLarge-v2.png}}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/maggie-haberman}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/07/12/multimedia/author-maggie-haberman/author-maggie-haberman-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/michael-d-shear}{Michael
D. Shear} and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/maggie-haberman}{Maggie
Haberman}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Feb. 27, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

WASHINGTON --- The White House moved on Thursday to tighten control of
coronavirus messaging by government health officials and scientists,
directing them to coordinate all statements and public appearances with
the office of Vice President Mike Pence, according to several officials
familiar with the new approach.

But on a day that the White House sought to display a more disciplined
strategy to the administration's communications about the virus, Mr.
Trump used an evening event honoring African-American History Month to
rail against the news media, claiming it is overstating the threat, and
to congratulate himself for keeping the number of cases low.

``I think it's an incredible achievement what our country's done,'' Mr.
Trump said, noting that he had moved quickly
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/01/31/business/china-travel-coronavirus.html}{to
ban travel from China} after the emergence of the virus. Even though a
total of 60 people infected with the coronavirus are in the United
States, he ignored all but the 15 who did not initially contract it
overseas.

``Fifteen people is almost, I would say, a miracle,'' the president
bragged.

The comments came just a few hours after Mr. Pence convened a meeting of
the coronavirus task force composed of some of the nation's top public
health officials. The vice president made it clear that they would
report to him.

``I'm leading the task force,'' Mr. Pence told reporters at the
Department of Health and Human Services, even as he promised to rely on
the guidance of experts.

Mr. Trump announced Wednesday evening that Mr. Pence
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/02/26/us/politics/trump-coronavirus-cdc.html}{would
coordinate the government's response} to the public health threat while
playing down the immediate danger from the virus that is
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/world/asia/china-wuhan-coronavirus-maps.html}{spreading
rapidly across the globe}.

Officials insist Mr. Pence's goal is not to control what experts and
other officials say, but to make sure their efforts are coordinated,
after days of confusion with various administration officials making
contradictory statements on television.

But the attempt to demonstrate a unified administration voice was
undercut early in the day, when Mr. Pence said that he had selected Dr.
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/06/us/politics/coronavirus-trump-deborah-birx.html}{Deborah
L. Birx}, the director of the United States effort to combat H.I.V. and
AIDS, to serve as the coronavirus response coordinator for the White
House, enlisting an experienced scientist and physician to address the
potential spread of the virus.

The announcements of the roles of the vice president and Dr. Birx were
intended to show that Mr. Trump and those around him are taking
seriously the potential threat to the health of Americans. Aides said
the president wanted governors and members of Congress to have a single
point person to communicate with, eliminating any jockeying for power in
a decentralized situation.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-the-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/20/world/coronavirus-covid.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: The Coronavirus
Outbreak}}{Latest Updates: The Coronavirus Outbreak}}\label{latest-updates-the-coronavirus-outbreak}}

Updated 2020-08-21T09:06:19.820Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/20/world/coronavirus-covid.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-68774d88}{Shutdowns,
  warnings and scoldings follow alarming incidents on college campuses.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/20/world/coronavirus-covid.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-26b58724}{Biden
  knocks Trump's pandemic response, and outlines a national strategy.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/20/world/coronavirus-covid.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-4e542da3}{U.S.
  health agencies announce moves to confront the flu season and
  plummeting child vaccination rates.}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/20/world/coronavirus-covid.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

More live coverage:
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/20/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Markets}

But Dr. Birx is now the third person to have been designated as the
administration's primary coronavirus official, along with Mr. Pence and
Alex M. Azar II, the secretary of health and human services.

Mr. Trump said Wednesday that ``Mike is going to be in charge, and Mike
will report back to me.'' Mr. Pence said it would be Dr. Birx. Mr. Azar,
for his part, remains the chairman of the government's coronavirus task
force.

The vice president's move to control the messaging about coronavirus
appeared to be aimed at preventing the kind of conflicting statements
that have plagued the administration's response.

The latest instance occurred Thursday evening, when the president said
that the virus could get worse or better in the days and weeks ahead,
but that nobody knows, contradicting Dr. Anthony S. Fauci, one of the
country's leading experts on viruses and the director of the National
Institute of Allergy and Infectious Disease.

At the meeting with Mr. Pence on Thursday, Dr. Fauci described the
seriousness of the public health threat facing Americans, saying that
``this virus has adapted extremely well to human species'' and noting
that it appeared to have a higher mortality rate than influenza.

``We are dealing with a serious virus,'' Dr. Fauci said.

Dr. Fauci has told associates that the White House had instructed him
not to say anything else without clearance.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/02/27/us/politics/27dc-virus2/27dc-virus2-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

The new White House approach came as the Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention acknowledged Thursday that a California woman with
coronavirus was
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/02/27/health/coronavirus-testing-california.html}{made
to wait days before she was tested} for an infection because of the
agency's restrictive criteria.

And despite Mr. Trump's efforts to calm jittery investors, stock markets
plunged again Thursday. The S\&P 500 fell 4.4 percent, the worst
single-day slide for the market since August 2011 and leaving it 10
percent lower than it was a week earlier.

The president's decision to appoint Mr. Pence to lead the coronavirus
response came after several days in which his aides grappled with
whether to name a ``coronavirus czar.''

Mr. Trump said on Wednesday that he was pleased with Mr. Azar's
performance, calling the team that he has led ``totally brilliant.'' But
White House aides, led by Mick Mulvaney, the president's acting chief of
staff, had debated for days whether the administration needed a point
person to be the face of the response.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{}

\hypertarget{the-coronavirus-outbreak-}{%
\subsubsection{The Coronavirus Outbreak
›}\label{the-coronavirus-outbreak-}}

\hypertarget{frequently-asked-questions}{%
\paragraph{Frequently Asked
Questions}\label{frequently-asked-questions}}

Updated August 17, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{why-does-standing-six-feet-away-from-others-help}{%
  \paragraph{Why does standing six feet away from others
  help?}\label{why-does-standing-six-feet-away-from-others-help}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    The coronavirus spreads primarily through droplets from your mouth
    and nose, especially when you cough or sneeze. The C.D.C., one of
    the organizations using that measure,
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/14/health/coronavirus-six-feet.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{bases
    its recommendation of six feet} on the idea that most large droplets
    that people expel when they cough or sneeze will fall to the ground
    within six feet. But six feet has never been a magic number that
    guarantees complete protection. Sneezes, for instance, can launch
    droplets a lot farther than six feet,
    \href{https://jamanetwork.com/journals/jama/fullarticle/2763852}{according
    to a recent study}. It's a rule of thumb: You should be safest
    standing six feet apart outside, especially when it's windy. But
    keep a mask on at all times, even when you think you're far enough
    apart.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{i-have-antibodies-am-i-now-immune}{%
  \paragraph{I have antibodies. Am I now
  immune?}\label{i-have-antibodies-am-i-now-immune}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    As of right
    now,\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/22/health/covid-antibodies-herd-immunity.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{that
    seems likely, for at least several months.} There have been
    frightening accounts of people suffering what seems to be a second
    bout of Covid-19. But experts say these patients may have a
    drawn-out course of infection, with the virus taking a slow toll
    weeks to months after initial exposure. People infected with the
    coronavirus typically
    \href{https://www.nature.com/articles/s41586-020-2456-9}{produce}
    immune molecules called antibodies, which are
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/07/health/coronavirus-antibody-prevalence.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{protective
    proteins made in response to an
    infection}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/07/health/coronavirus-antibody-prevalence.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{.
    These antibodies may} last in the body
    \href{https://www.nature.com/articles/s41591-020-0965-6}{only two to
    three months}, which may seem worrisome, but that's perfectly normal
    after an acute infection subsides, said Dr. Michael Mina, an
    immunologist at Harvard University. It may be possible to get the
    coronavirus again, but it's highly unlikely that it would be
    possible in a short window of time from initial infection or make
    people sicker the second time.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{im-a-small-business-owner-can-i-get-relief}{%
  \paragraph{I'm a small-business owner. Can I get
  relief?}\label{im-a-small-business-owner-can-i-get-relief}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    The
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/small-business-loans-stimulus-grants-freelancers-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{stimulus
    bills enacted in March} offer help for the millions of American
    small businesses. Those eligible for aid are businesses and
    nonprofit organizations with fewer than 500 workers, including sole
    proprietorships, independent contractors and freelancers. Some
    larger companies in some industries are also eligible. The help
    being offered, which is being managed by the Small Business
    Administration, includes the Paycheck Protection Program and the
    Economic Injury Disaster Loan program. But lots of folks have
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/05/07/business/small-business-loans-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{not
    yet seen payouts.} Even those who have received help are confused:
    The rules are draconian, and some are stuck sitting on
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/02/business/economy/loans-coronavirus-small-business.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{money
    they don't know how to use.} Many small-business owners are getting
    less than they expected or
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/10/business/Small-business-loans-ppp.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{not
    hearing anything at all.}
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{what-are-my-rights-if-i-am-worried-about-going-back-to-work}{%
  \paragraph{What are my rights if I am worried about going back to
  work?}\label{what-are-my-rights-if-i-am-worried-about-going-back-to-work}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Employers have to provide
    \href{https://www.osha.gov/SLTC/covid-19/standards.html}{a safe
    workplace} with policies that protect everyone equally.
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/coronavirus-money-unemployment.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{And
    if one of your co-workers tests positive for the coronavirus, the
    C.D.C.} has said that
    \href{https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/community/guidance-business-response.html}{employers
    should tell their employees} -\/- without giving you the sick
    employee's name -\/- that they may have been exposed to the virus.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{what-is-school-going-to-look-like-in-september}{%
  \paragraph{What is school going to look like in
  September?}\label{what-is-school-going-to-look-like-in-september}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    It is unlikely that many schools will return to a normal schedule
    this fall, requiring the grind of
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/05/us/coronavirus-education-lost-learning.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{online
    learning},
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/29/us/coronavirus-child-care-centers.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{makeshift
    child care} and
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/03/business/economy/coronavirus-working-women.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{stunted
    workdays} to continue. California's two largest public school
    districts --- Los Angeles and San Diego --- said on July 13, that
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/13/us/lausd-san-diego-school-reopening.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{instruction
    will be remote-only in the fall}, citing concerns that surging
    coronavirus infections in their areas pose too dire a risk for
    students and teachers. Together, the two districts enroll some
    825,000 students. They are the largest in the country so far to
    abandon plans for even a partial physical return to classrooms when
    they reopen in August. For other districts, the solution won't be an
    all-or-nothing approach.
    \href{https://bioethics.jhu.edu/research-and-outreach/projects/eschool-initiative/school-policy-tracker/}{Many
    systems}, including the nation's largest, New York City, are
    devising
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/26/us/coronavirus-schools-reopen-fall.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{hybrid
    plans} that involve spending some days in classrooms and other days
    online. There's no national policy on this yet, so check with your
    municipal school system regularly to see what is happening in your
    community.
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

The decision to put Mr. Pence in charge was made on Wednesday after the
president told some people that the vice president did not ``have
anything else to do,'' according to people familiar with Mr. Trump's
comments.

Dr. Birx has spent more than three decades working on H.I.V./AIDS
immunology, vaccine research and global health, according to the White
House, which said in a statement that she would ``bring her infectious
disease, immunologic, vaccine research and interagency coordinating
capacity to this position.''

The president's selection of Mr. Pence --- and the decision to name Dr.
Birx as the coordinator for the response --- further erodes Mr. Azar's
traditional role as the nation's top health official in charge of
directing the government's response to a medical crisis. Mr. Trump has
told people that he considers Mr. Azar to be too ``alarmist'' about the
virus.

Mr. Azar denied reports that he had not been consulted about the
decision to bring in Mr. Pence before the president's announcement
Wednesday evening. He told lawmakers on Thursday during a House Ways and
Means Committee hearing that when he was informed of Mr. Pence's
selection, ``I said, quote, `that's genius.'''

Image

Alex M. Azar II, the health and human services secretary, remains the
chairman of the government's coronavirus task force.Credit...Anna
Moneymaker/The New York Times

Officials also announced that Mr. Pence was expanding the coronavirus
task force to include ``key administration officials,'' including Dr.
Jerome M. Adams, the surgeon general, as well as the president's top two
economic advisers, Larry Kudlow, the director of the National Economic
Council, and Steven Mnuchin, the Treasury secretary. The task force is
made up of more than a dozen top administration officials and cabinet
secretaries.

An administration official said Thursday night that Mr. Pence had
discussed the coronavirus with several governors, including Andrew
Cuomo, Democrat of New York; Greg Abbott, Republican of Texas; Larry
Hogan, Republican of Maryland; Pete Ricketts, Republican of Nebraska;
Jay Inslee, Democrat of Washington; and Gavin Newsom, Democrat of
California.

The decision to bring in Mr. Pence was not without controversy.

Critics of the vice president pointed to Mr. Pence's record on public
health when he was the governor of Indiana as evidence that he was not
the right person to lead the government's response to a health crisis.
Democrats noted that Mr. Pence was blamed for
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2015/05/06/us/rural-indiana-struggles-to-contend-with-hiv-outbreak.html}{aggravating
a severe AIDS outbreak} among intravenous drug users when he opposed
calls for a clean needle exchange program on the grounds it would
encourage more drug use.

Speaker Nancy Pelosi told reporters that she had told Mr. Pence directly
that she questioned his new role given that as governor, he had
``slashed'' the public health budget in Indiana.

``I spoke with the vice president this morning, made some of these
concerns known to him,'' she said. ``We have always had a very candid
relationship and I expressed to him the concern that I had of his being
in this position.''

Annie Karni and Emily Cochrane contributed reporting.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
