Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}6 Takeaways From the
Biden-Sanders Joint Task Force Proposals

\url{https://nyti.ms/2ZdyQeS}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/11/us/trump-vs-biden?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Election
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/election-states-biden-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Paths
  to 270}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/us/elections/2020-presidential-election-calendar.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Key
  Dates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/31/us/politics/vote-by-mail-deadlines.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Voting
  by Mail}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Politics
  Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{6-takeaways-from-the-biden-sanders-joint-task-force-proposals}{%
\section{6 Takeaways From the Biden-Sanders Joint Task Force
Proposals}\label{6-takeaways-from-the-biden-sanders-joint-task-force-proposals}}

Signature progressive programs like ``Medicare for all'' and the Green
New Deal did not make it into the recommendations. But Senator Bernie
Sanders's allies pushed some policies to the left.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/07/09/us/politics/09biden-takeaways/merlin_174084669_294380f2-e0f9-4b12-a4e6-9f3e58d451c5-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/maggie-astor}{Maggie
Astor}, \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/lisa-friedman}{Lisa
Friedman},
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/dana-goldstein}{Dana
Goldstein},
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/zolan-kanno-youngs}{Zolan
Kanno-Youngs},
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/margot-sanger-katz}{Margot
Sanger-Katz} and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/jim-tankersley}{Jim
Tankersley}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  July 9, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

The new policy recommendations for
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/joe-biden.html}{Joseph
R. Biden Jr.}, crafted jointly by allies of Mr. Biden and Senator Bernie
Sanders of Vermont, are the clearest sign yet that the moderate and
progressive wings of the Democratic Party are trying to unite far more
than they did in 2016.

But
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/08/us/politics/biden-bernie-sanders.html}{the
ideas put forth on Wednesday} are also indications that progressives
succeeded in pushing some proposals leftward, influencing Mr. Biden's
policy platform as he prepares to accept his party's nomination for
president next month.

\hypertarget{here-are-key-points-from-the-six-areas}{%
\subsubsection{Here are key points from the six
areas.}\label{here-are-key-points-from-the-six-areas}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-42d793b5}{Health care: Expanding
  government-run plans, without `Medicare for all'}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-4936622c}{Criminal justice: Broad agreement on
  many priorities, but not on marijuana}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-53fcae28}{Climate change: New near-term
  targets, but no fracking ban}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-5e9b5b24}{The economy: Closing racial gaps and
  creating jobs programs}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-a0f0a46}{Education: Rethinking Obama-era
  priorities}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-17b99a1d}{Immigration: A focus on undoing
  Trump policies}
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{health-care-expanding-government-run-plans-without-medicare-for-all}{%
\subsection{Health care: Expanding government-run plans, without
`Medicare for
all'}\label{health-care-expanding-government-run-plans-without-medicare-for-all}}

The task force's recommendations stop far short of Mr. Sanders's
signature health care policy initiative,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/06/23/us/politics/2020-democrats-medicare-for-all-public-option.html}{a
single-payer ``Medicare for all'' system} that would enroll all
Americans in a generous government-run health plan.

Instead, the task force supports a government-run insurance option that
would be offered to all Americans on a sliding scale according to income
--- and automatically provided to low-income Americans free.

A so-called public option
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/07/15/us/politics/biden-health-care.html}{has
always been a part of Mr. Biden's health plan}, but the recommendations
specify new details, such as a requirement that certain prescription
medicines be offered without any out-of-pocket spending by patients.
Similar to Mr. Biden's most recent health proposal, this one would allow
Americans to become eligible for Medicare coverage at 60 instead of the
current threshold, 65. The document also suggests considering how
Medicare could expand its benefits to cover treatment for dental care,
vision and hearing loss.

The task force also recommends special insurance options for people
during the coronavirus pandemic. For those who lost coverage because
they became unemployed, the task force suggests that the federal
government pay the full cost of continuing that coverage under the
federal law known as COBRA. People without previous coverage would be
allowed to buy a new plan with no deductible, at a price determined by
their income, or an existing Obamacare plan.

\hypertarget{criminal-justice-broad-agreement-on-many-priorities-but-not-on-marijuana}{%
\subsection{Criminal justice: Broad agreement on many priorities, but
not on
marijuana}\label{criminal-justice-broad-agreement-on-many-priorities-but-not-on-marijuana}}

Mr. Biden's views on criminal justice
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/07/23/us/politics/biden-criminal-justice.html}{had
already shifted drastically} since
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/06/25/us/joe-biden-crime-laws.html}{he
helped pass the 1994 crime bill}, and the task force's recommendations
reinforce that transformation. They call for eliminating private
prisons, ending cash bail and eliminating mandatory minimum sentences,
steps that both candidates supported in the primary; eliminating private
prisons, in particular, was something Mr. Sanders championed early.

The task force also suggested a federal standard for police departments'
use of force, a national database of police officers who commit
misconduct and an end to sentences of life without parole for juvenile
offenders.

It did not, however, bridge a notable gap between the Biden and Sanders
platforms. The task force called for decriminalizing marijuana and
legalizing it at the federal level for medical use, but for letting the
states decide whether to legalize it for recreational use. That is the
position Mr. Biden held in the primary, in contrast to Mr. Sanders, who
supports full legalization.

\hypertarget{climate-change-new-near-term-targets-but-no-fracking-ban}{%
\subsection{Climate change: New near-term targets, but no fracking
ban}\label{climate-change-new-near-term-targets-but-no-fracking-ban}}

The climate change task force, led by former Secretary of State John
Kerry and Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, Democrat of New York,
declared rising planet-warming emissions a nationwide ``emergency.'' It
also directly tied the effort to reduce fossil fuels to a need to
address racial injustices that have led low-income communities to bear a
disproportionate level of air and water pollution.

The recommendations make no mention of
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/02/21/climate/green-new-deal-questions-answers.html}{the
Green New Deal}, an ambitious plan that Ms. Ocasio-Cortez and other
supporters of Mr. Sanders have championed.

There is also no mention of a national
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/01/27/us/politics/pennsylvania-democrats-fracking.html}{ban
on fracking}, which Mr. Biden has avoided calling for, despite pressure
from young climate activists. But there are other signs that
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/06/us/politics/joe-biden-climate-change.html}{progressives
on the task force were able to push Mr. Biden to the left}.

Specifically, critics of Mr. Biden's plan to invest \$1.7 trillion in
order to achieve net-zero emissions before 2050 had complained that his
platform included few details on how it would achieve that faraway goal.
The recommendations set a number of specific near-term benchmarks that
Democrats would promise to reach. They include moving all electric power
off fossil fuels by 2035; achieving carbon-neutrality in all new
buildings by 2030; and installing 500 million solar panels in the next
five years.

\hypertarget{the-economy-closing-racial-gaps-and-creating-jobs-programs}{%
\subsection{The economy: Closing racial gaps and creating jobs
programs}\label{the-economy-closing-racial-gaps-and-creating-jobs-programs}}

The economics recommendations to Mr. Biden include more expansive and
expensive plans
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/17/us/politics/joe-biden-economy-democrats.html}{than
he has embraced in the campaign}. They are heavily focused on addressing
racial inequality and on
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/21/us/politics/biden-workplace-childcare.html}{getting
Americans back to work} in the wake of the recession caused by the
pandemic.

The task force suggested that Mr. Biden consider several plans that his
more liberal rivals had championed during the Democratic primaries,
though at times it stopped short of endorsing them.

The recommendations call for ``a comprehensive agenda for communities of
color with ambition that matches the scale of the challenge and with
recognition that race-neutral policies are not a sufficient response to
race-based disparities.''

The details include asking Mr. Biden to ``explore'' a so-called
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/04/06/us/politics/cory-booker-2020-baby-bonds.html}{baby
bonds proposal} to provide every child with a government-funded savings
account at birth, a policy favored by Darrick Hamilton, an Ohio State
University economist who was one of Mr. Sanders's appointees.

A section on job creation urges consideration of another plan favored by
Mr. Sanders's appointees: a large-scale federal employment program in
areas such as infrastructure development. ``In order to ensure that
everyone who wants to work has a pathway to employment,'' the
recommendation says, ``the government must enact measures to create jobs
and jobs programs like those effectively used during the New Deal.''

\hypertarget{education-rethinking-obama-era-priorities}{%
\subsection{Education: Rethinking Obama-era
priorities}\label{education-rethinking-obama-era-priorities}}

On K-12 education, the task force report represents something of a shift
away from the policy commitments of the Obama-era Democratic Party.

Instead of emphasizing
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2015/10/25/us/obama-administration-calls-for-limits-on-testing-in-schools.html}{standardized
tests} to drive accountability for teachers and students, the document
talks about holistic tests of students' skills and the importance of
schools as community centers that provide a broad array of social
services, such as health care and meals.

While the Obama administration was strongly supportive of charter
schools, the task force promises to subject charters, which are publicly
funded but privately managed, to stricter federal scrutiny, echoing
policy plans released by Mr. Sanders and Senator Elizabeth Warren, the
Massachusetts Democrat, during the primary.

The document commits to tripling federal aid for low-income schools and
to increasing funding for students with disabilities. School
desegregation by race and class has emerged in recent years as a major
concern for progressives. The task force commits to addressing the
problem through strategies like busing and magnet schools, but does not
mention a specific amount of funding. (Mr. Biden's opposition to
federally mandated busing
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/07/05/us/politics/biden-harris-busing-cnn.html}{was
a major campaign issue} last year, but he has
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/07/15/us/politics/biden-busing.html}{never
opposed voluntary busing}.)

While many supporters of Mr. Sanders were excited by his promise of
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/12/06/us/politics/buttigieg-sanders-warren-free-tuition.html}{universal
free tuition} at public four-year colleges, the task force stops short
of that commitment. It says instead that public universities should be
free for families earning under \$125,000 per year, and that community
colleges should be free for all.

\hypertarget{immigration-a-focus-on-undoing-trump-policies}{%
\subsection{Immigration: A focus on undoing Trump
policies}\label{immigration-a-focus-on-undoing-trump-policies}}

The report indicated that the immigration agenda of a Biden
administration would focus on
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/12/11/us/politics/joe-biden-immigration.html}{undoing
President Trump's restrictionist policies}, which have been anathema to
Democrats.

The task force recommended that Mr. Biden work with Congress to maintain
protections for about 700,000 young immigrants known as Dreamers from
deportation, a program that Mr. Trump
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/19/us/politics/trump-daca.html}{is
trying to end}. It also recommended ending
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/01/31/us/politics/trump-travel-ban.html}{Mr.
Trump's travel restrictions against 13 countries}, most of which have
substantial Muslim populations.

The report said Mr. Biden should end a program that forced more than
60,000 migrants to wait in Mexico while their asylum cases wound through
immigration courts, and should stop diverting asylum seekers to Central
American countries. Mr. Biden should increase the number of refugees who
can be allowed into the United States to 125,000 per year, from Mr.
Trump's level of 18,000, and raise that cap over time, the committee
said. And it called for ending the national emergency declaration that
Mr. Trump has used to siphon billions of dollars in Pentagon funding for
a wall along the southwestern border.

The task force stopped short of calling for Immigration and Customs
Enforcement to be abolished, as some in the party have called for.
Instead, the report recommends increasing oversight of immigration
enforcement and border agencies with the creation of an ombudsman and a
panel. There was also no suggestion that unauthorized border crossings
should be decriminalized and made a civil offense, a change
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/11/07/us/politics/bernie-sanders-immigration.html}{Mr.
Sanders has supported}, although the committee recommended prioritizing
prosecutions of human traffickers.

Sydney Ember contributed reporting.

\hypertarget{our-2020-election-guide}{%
\section{Our 2020 Election Guide}\label{our-2020-election-guide}}

Updated ~Sept. 11, 2020

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

\begin{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{the-latest}{%
  \subsection{The Latest}\label{the-latest}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Joe Biden and President Trump put
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/11/us/politics/shanksville-trump-biden.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{hostilities
    on hold today to travel to ground zero and then to Shanksville, Pa.,
    where they separately honored 9/11 victims}.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{how-to-win-270}{%
  \subsection{How to Win 270}\label{how-to-win-270}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Joe Biden and Donald Trump need 270 electoral votes to reach the
    White House. Try building
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/election-states-biden-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{your
    own coalition of battleground states}~to see potential outcomes.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{voting-by-mail}{%
  \subsection{Voting by Mail}\label{voting-by-mail}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Will you have enough time to vote by mail in your state? Yes, but
    it's risky to procrastinate.
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/31/us/politics/vote-by-mail-deadlines.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Check
    your state's deadline.}
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/joe-biden.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{}

    \hypertarget{joe-biden}{%
    \section{Joe Biden}\label{joe-biden}}

    \hypertarget{democrat}{%
    \subsection{Democrat}\label{democrat}}

    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/donald-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{}

    \hypertarget{donald-trump}{%
    \section{Donald Trump}\label{donald-trump}}

    \hypertarget{republican}{%
    \subsection{Republican}\label{republican}}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \hypertarget{keep-up-with-our-coverage}{%
  \subsection{Keep Up With Our
  Coverage}\label{keep-up-with-our-coverage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Get an
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{email}~recapping
    the day's news
  \item
    Download our mobile app on
    \href{https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nytimes/id284862083?ls=1\&mat_click_id=5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\&referrer=mat_click_id\%3D5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\%26link_click_id\%3D722930677036718082}{iOS}~and
    \href{http://a.localytics.com/android?id=com.nytimes.android\&referrer=utm_source\%3Dother_nyt_mobile_web\%26utm_medium\%3DWeb\%2520page\%26utm_term\%3DGeneral\%2520Mobile\%2520Page\%26utm_campaign\%3DNYT\%2520Mobile\%2520General\%2520Page}{Android}~and
    turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
