Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/food/drinks}{Wine, Beer
\& Cocktails}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/food/drinks}{Wine, Beer \& Cocktails}\textbar{}Fall's
Beer Bars and Breweries Go Big

\url{https://nyti.ms/2NQXblp}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

The Restaurant Preview

\hypertarget{falls-beer-bars-and-breweries-go-big}{%
\section{Fall's Beer Bars and Breweries Go
Big}\label{falls-beer-bars-and-breweries-go-big}}

New York will get a two-story brewery, a maritime-themed brew pub and
more.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2019/09/04/dining/03Preview-Beer1/merlin_159602385_e82df6e4-13a8-4295-a625-2af4106f5f19-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By Joshua M. Bernstein

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Sept. 3, 2019
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Now that New York City's beer boom has brought thriving breweries,
taprooms and beer bars to every borough, new places may have to offer a
little something extra to get attention. Some of this fall's openings
will do just that: a sprawling food-hall bar with a long, global beer
list; a maritime-themed brew pub with a community events space; a
two-story brewery with a cocktail lounge and live music; and a brewery
using a yeast strain found in a Brooklyn park.

Inside the \href{https://marketline.nyc/}{Market Line} food hall and
marketplace on the Lower East Side --- a 150,000 square-foot space,
opening in October as part of the Essex Crossing development ---
\href{https://thegranddelancey.com/}{the Grand Delancey} is the first
New York City bar from
\href{https://neighborhoodrestaurantgroup.com/}{Neighborhood Restaurant
Group}, which operates beer bars in Washington, D.C., including
\href{https://churchkeydc.com/}{ChurchKey}. The Grand Delancey will have
a menu of 50 draft beers from local breweries like
\href{https://grimmales.com/}{Grimm Artisanal Ales} in Brooklyn and
respected producers like \href{https://hillfarmstead.com/}{Hill
Farmstead} in Vermont. There will also be British cask ales and European
pilsners, lagers and saisons that are rarely seen on this side of the
Atlantic.

``We're aiming to show the full spectrum of beer flavor,'' said Greg
Engert, the group's beer director and a managing partner.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2019/09/04/dining/03Preview-Beer2/merlin_159602316_64e659c3-6565-43f1-9635-8786c92276fc-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Each beer will be served at its ideal temperature --- 42, 48 or 54
degrees --- in one of a dozen styles of glasses, accentuating aromatics
and taste. Given the large, diverse list, the Grand Delancey's bar staff
will offer recommendations and steer patrons toward marketplace food
pairings. Customers can bring in food from Market Line vendors,
including dim sum from \href{https://nomwah.com/}{Nom Wah} and sausages
from \href{https://schallerweber.com/}{Schaller \& Weber}.

``It's almost like a beer-and-food pairing lab,'' Mr. Engert said.

\emph{{[}}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/09/03/dining/fall-restaurant-preview-nyc.html}{\emph{Click
here to read more from our restaurant preview.}}\emph{{]}}

\href{https://www.bluepointbrewing.com}{Blue Point Brewing}, from Long
Island, will open the Hull, a brew pub with a nautical look, under the
sustainable-seafood restaurant
\href{https://www.seamores.com/}{Seamore}'s in Dumbo, Brooklyn.
Customers will descend stairs to a room meant to evoke ``the intimate
feel of the inside of a ship, just not how cramped it is,'' said the
general manager, Chris Chou-Messina. The space has high ceilings and
seating for 55.

Image

Blue Point Brewing's nautically inspired brew pub, the Hull, in Dumbo,
Brooklyn, will serve seafood with its house-brewed
beers.Credit...Karsten Moran for The New York Times

Guests can order oysters both baked and raw while enjoying a selection
of 12 beers, half of them brewed on the premises and poured fresh from
the tanks. ``This is going to be a center for innovation,'' said Rob
Capitelli, the Hull's brewmaster, who plans to make some experimental
beers.

The taproom's stage will host live music performances, debates, lectures
and perhaps podcast tapings, Mrs. Chou-Messina said.

\href{https://collectiveartsbrewing.com}{Collective Arts Brewing}, based
near Toronto, is building a two-story brewery in Gowanus, Brooklyn, to
produce eclectic sour ales, double I.P.A.s and more. The
16,000-square-foot complex, Collective Arts' first location in United
States, will serve ``elevated street food,'' said Matt Johnston, a
founder. There will be mixed-use spaces for art shows and D.J. sets;
bands will play in a cocktail lounge featuring Collective Arts' own gin.
The aim is a ``creative hub for Gowanus,'' Mr. Johnston said.

On Saturday, \href{https://www.18thwardbrewing.com/}{18th Ward
Brewing}\href{https://www.18thwardbrewing.com/}{Company} will open
across the street from the popular music hall
\href{https://www.bowerypresents.com/venues/brooklyn-steel}{Brooklyn
Steel} in East Williamsburg, Brooklyn. The 2,500-square-foot brewery's
star ingredient is a strain of native yeast that the brewer Dailey
Crafton isolated from a log in Cooper Park, a few blocks away.

It has ``a really nice bubble gum component,'' Mr. Crafton said of the
yeast, which he uses to make farmhouse-style ales like Saison No. 1. The
brewery will also offer I.P.A.s and stouts, and plans to keep six
house-brewed beers on tap. Like the yeast, drinking 18th Ward beers will
be a strictly local experience. The brewery is not aiming to distribute
yet, said Jordan Beldner, an owner, but just looking ``to have a good
time.''

\textbf{Collective Arts Brewing} 519-529 Third Avenue (between 12th and
13th Streets), Gowanus, Brooklyn,
\href{https://collectiveartsbrewing.com/}{collectiveartsbrewing.com},
December.

\textbf{18th Ward Brewing Company} 300 Richardson Street (Debevoise
Avenue), Bushwick, Brooklyn,
\href{https://www.18thwardbrewing.com/}{18thwardbrewing.com}, Sept. 7.

\textbf{The Grand Delancey,} Market Line, 115 Delancey Street (Essex
Street), \href{https://thegranddelancey.com/}{thegranddelancey.com},
October.

\textbf{The Hull} 66 Water Street (between Dock Street and Main Street),
Dumbo, Brooklyn,
\href{https://www.bluepointbrewing.com}{bluepointbrewing.com}, October.

\emph{Follow} \href{https://twitter.com/nytfood}{\emph{NYT Food on
Twitter}} \emph{and}
\href{https://www.instagram.com/nytcooking/}{\emph{NYT Cooking on
Instagram}}\emph{,}
\href{https://www.facebookcorewwwi.onion/nytcooking/}{\emph{Facebook}}\emph{,}
\href{https://www.youtube.com/nytcooking}{\emph{YouTube}} \emph{and}
\href{https://www.pinterest.com/nytcooking/}{\emph{Pinterest}}\emph{.}
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/cooking}{\emph{Get
regular updates from NYT Cooking, with recipe suggestions, cooking tips
and shopping advice}}\emph{.}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{Â©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
