Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}Mark Esper Confirmed as
Trump's Defense Secretary

\url{https://nyti.ms/2Oe2PA5}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{mark-esper-confirmed-as-trumps-defense-secretary}{%
\section{Mark Esper Confirmed as Trump's Defense
Secretary}\label{mark-esper-confirmed-as-trumps-defense-secretary}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2019/07/23/us/politics/23dc-military/23dc-military-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/helene-cooper}{Helene Cooper}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  July 23, 2019
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

WASHINGTON --- The Senate overwhelmingly confirmed Mark T. Esper as
secretary of defense on Tuesday, ending the longest period by far that
the Pentagon had been without a permanent leader.

Mr. Esper, an Army infantryman who fought in the Persian Gulf war of
1991 before becoming a lobbyist for the military contractor Raytheon,
replaces Jim Mattis, who
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/12/20/us/politics/jim-mattis-defense-secretary-trump.html}{resigned
in December} during a dispute over pulling American troops out of Syria.

In receiving the lopsided 90-to-8 Senate nod, Mr. Esper succeeded where
Patrick M. Shanahan, President Trump's original pick to replace Mr.
Mattis, did not;
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/06/18/us/politics/patrick-shanahan-defense-secretary.html}{Mr.
Shanahan abruptly resigned last month}, before his Senate confirmation
hearing was even scheduled, after news reports revealed details of his
2011 divorce.

Mr. Esper, 55, now takes control of the country's 1.2 million
active-duty troops and one of the largest militaries in the world as the
Trump administration is wrestling with the results of its so-called
maximum pressure campaign of economic sanctions on Iran, which has
prodded the two adversaries closer to military confrontation.

``Having a Senate-confirmed secretary of defense, especially one of this
quality, could not come a moment too soon,'' Senator Mitch McConnell of
Kentucky, the majority leader, said in a floor speech on Tuesday. He
called Mr. Esper a ``well-prepared nominee'' who will face a world
``full of serious threats to America, to our allies and to our
interests.''

Mr. Esper will add his voice to the senior Trump national security
advisers seeking to influence the president on a range of issues,
including how to end the war in Afghanistan, and how to negotiate with
Turkey, a longtime North Atlantic Treaty Organization ally, as it defies
American wishes in
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/07/12/world/russia-turkey-missile-explain.html}{buying
a missile system from Russia}.

How influential Mr. Esper will be is one of the biggest questions facing
the new defense secretary. Mr. Mattis was widely viewed as a voice of
reason and global stability in a chaotic administration, but those very
views helped to poison his relationship with Mr. Trump and led to his
resignation.

Mr. Shanahan, a former Boeing executive, by contrast, was seen as far
more amenable to White House directives.

Unlike Mr. Shanahan, Mr. Esper joins Mr. Trump's senior advisers with a
solid background in military affairs and a broad understanding of the
alliances that the United States has maintained throughout the Cold War
era. But the exit of Mr. Mattis and the Pentagon's seven months without
a permanent secretary have diminished the department's voice in internal
White House meetings.

Meanwhile, the national security adviser, John R. Bolton, and Secretary
of State Mike Pompeo --- who was a former West Point classmate of Mr.
Esper --- have largely run national security policy in the months since
Mr. Mattis departed. Mr. Esper's challenge, national security experts
said, will be to work to get the Pentagon's views represented among
those strong personalities.

``The protracted period without a permanent defense secretary has
created a vacuum,'' Carl Tobias, a law professor at the University of
Richmond, said in an email. ``That situation has decreased D.O.D.'s
influence on critical matters involving national security and military
affairs and limited D.O.D.'s ability to affect important policymaking
generally and on specific issues,'' especially Iran, China and North
Korea.

``The president needs the best advice, particularly on national
security, from numerous perspectives, partly as a counterbalance to the
apparently outsized recent influence being exercised by Pompeo, Bolton
and perhaps others in the White House and Trump's orbit,'' Mr. Tobias
said. He said that need ``may help explain the unusually bipartisan,
overwhelming confirmation vote that Esper secured.''

Indeed, Mr. Esper's confirmation process was largely fast and smooth,
reflecting lawmakers' eagerness for stability at the Pentagon.

But during his confirmation hearing, some Democrats, including Senator
Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts, raised questions about Mr. Esper's
ties to the defense industry. Ms. Warren, who is running for president
in 2020, in particular was critical of Mr. Esper's refusal to recuse
himself from all matters involving Raytheon once he becomes defense
secretary. She voted against his confirmation.

In fact, five of the eight senators --- all Democrats --- voting against
Mr. Esper are presidential aspirants in 2020: Cory Booker of New Jersey,
Kirsten Gillibrand of New York, Kamala Harris of California, Amy
Klobuchar of Minnesota and Ms. Warren.

The confirmation of Mr. Esper, who was sworn in later Tuesday, does not
end the leadership void at the Pentagon, which still has no permanent
deputy secretary of defense. David Norquist, Mr. Trump's nominee for
that job, is scheduled for his own Senate hearing on Wednesday.

Meanwhile, the vice chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, Gen. Paul
Selva, is retiring on Friday, but the man nominated by the president to
replace him, Gen. John E. Hyten, has been embroiled in sexual misconduct
allegations that could torpedo his chances of gaining Senate
confirmation.

Mr. Esper's rise to the top job also signals the ascent of the Army,
after several years in which Marines have largely run the Defense
Department. Mr. Mattis was a four-star Marine general, as is Gen. Joseph
F. Dunford Jr., the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, whose term
expires in October.

Mr. Trump has
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/12/07/us/politics/trump-mark-milley-chairman-joint-chiefs.html}{nominated
Gen. Mark A. Milley} of the Army to replace General Dunford.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{Â©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
