Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/business}{Business}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/business}{Business}\textbar{}Owner of Ann Taylor and Lane
Bryant Files for Bankruptcy

\href{https://nyti.ms/2ZTOQDm}{https://nyti.ms/2ZTOQDm}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{The
Coronavirus Outbreak}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  live\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/03/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Latest
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Maps
  and Cases}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Vaccine
  Tracker}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/02/us/covid-college-reopening.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{College
  Reopening}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/03/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Economy}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{owner-of-ann-taylor-and-lane-bryant-files-for-bankruptcy}{%
\section{Owner of Ann Taylor and Lane Bryant Files for
Bankruptcy}\label{owner-of-ann-taylor-and-lane-bryant-files-for-bankruptcy}}

Ascena Retail is the latest retailer to fall during the pandemic. The
disappearance of 1,600 of its 2,800 stores is a fresh blow to shopping
malls.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/07/09/business/00virus-ascena/merlin_95485880_6c016d0c-35cb-426c-b980-98f6b53551bf-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By Gillian Friedman and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/sapna-maheshwari}{Sapna
Maheshwari}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  July 23, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

The owner of Ann Taylor and Lane Bryant, which just a few years ago was
one of the country's largest clothing retailers for women and girls,
filed for bankruptcy on Thursday, after declining sales and high debt
were exacerbated by store closures mandated by coronavirus lockdowns.

The company, Ascena Retail Group, will close 1,600 of its approximately
2,800 stores and hopes to shed \$1 billion of its \$1.1 billion in debt,
the company said in a Chapter 11 filing in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in the
Eastern District of Virginia. The closings will include ``a select
number'' of Ann Taylor, Lane Bryant, Loft and Lou \& Grey stores, as
well as all of its Catherines locations. Ascena had 53,000 employees
last year, among them 40,000 part-time workers, according to recent
government filings.

``The meaningful progress we have made driving sustainable growth,
improving our operating margins and strengthening our financial
foundation has been severely disrupted by the Covid-19 pandemic,''
Carrie Teffner, the interim executive chair of Ascena, said in a
statement. ``As a result, we took a strategic step forward today to
protect the future of the business for all of our stakeholders.''

The pandemic has taken a
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/05/business/coronavirus-malls-department-stores-bankruptcy.html}{heavy
toll on retailers}, especially apparel sellers and other mall-based
chains that might have otherwise stayed afloat, perhaps even for a short
period, without turning to bankruptcy court. Ascena, based in Mahwah,
N.J., is at least the ninth prominent retailer to file for bankruptcy
since early May, right on the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/08/business/brooks-brothers-chapter-11-bankruptcy.html}{heels
of Brooks Brothers} and Sur La Table this month, and in the wake of
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/03/business/j-crew-bankruptcy-coronavirus.html}{J.
Crew},
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/07/business/neiman-marcus-bankruptcy.html}{Neiman
Marcus Group},
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/15/business/jc-penney-bankruptcy-coronavirus.html}{J.C.
Penney}, Lucky Brand, Stage Stores and GNC.

Ascena was known for decades as Dress Barn, the clothing chain founded
in 1962 by Roslyn S. Jaffe, who noticed that there were few options for
stylish and affordable women's work attire even as more women were
entering the work force. Dress Barn went public in 1983, around the time
that the ``power suit'' came into vogue, exemplifying women's desire to
take on the predominantly male corporate world.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-economy}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/03/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates:
Economy}}{Latest Updates: Economy}}\label{latest-updates-economy}}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/03/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#the-chicago-fed-president-says-its-up-to-congress-to-save-the-economy}{11h
ago}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/03/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#the-chicago-fed-president-says-its-up-to-congress-to-save-the-economy}{The
Chicago Fed president says it's up to Congress to save the economy.}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/03/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#faa-says-boeing-has-effectively-mitigated-defects-in-the-737-max}{11h
ago}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/03/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#faa-says-boeing-has-effectively-mitigated-defects-in-the-737-max}{F.A.A.
says Boeing has `effectively mitigated' defects in the 737 Max.}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/03/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#small-businesses-got-emergency-loans-but-not-what-they-expected}{14h
ago}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/03/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#small-businesses-got-emergency-loans-but-not-what-they-expected}{Small
businesses got emergency loans, but not what they expected.}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/03/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

More live coverage:
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/03/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Global}

``Women in America were climbing the corporate ladder in traditional
businesses for the first time,'' said Shawn Grain Carter, a specialist
in fashion retail business management at the Fashion Institute of
Technology. ``Therefore, clothing had to adjust.''

It adopted the Ascena name
in\href{https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1498301/000093041311000020/c63666_ex99-1.htm}{2011}
after acquiring brands like Maurices and the tween chain Justice, saying
at the time that
\href{https://ascenaretailgroupinc.gcs-web.com/node/8851/html}{the
business}had ``ascended to new heights.'' Ascena went on to buy Lane
Bryant and the owner of Ann Taylor, which includes Loft, and by 2016 it
had nearly 5,000 stores in malls, outlets and strip malls across its
brands. Ascena's stock, which traded at nearly \$300 a share in July
2015, had plunged below \$1 by the time of the company's bankruptcy
filing.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/07/09/business/00virus-ascena-3/merlin_155205885_d376205a-a293-41a3-869c-0bcc1bda83bb-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

But Ascena's fortunes and sales have soured in recent years. It has
struggled to compete with the rise of fast fashion and the popularity of
the online shopping as well as with direct-to-consumer clothing services
such as Rent the Runway and Stitch Fix. It offloaded the chain Maurices
and its nearly 950 stores in 2019, the same year Ascena closed all 650
Dress Barns. The company was losing money, posting a net loss of at
least \$600 million in 2019, compared with a loss of \$9 million in
2016.

Ascena's bankruptcy may have a big impact on shopping centers and malls,
which were already under pressure before the pandemic and cannot afford
to
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/05/business/coronavirus-malls-department-stores-bankruptcy.html}{lose
tenants}. As recently as February, the company had more than 2,100
Justice, Lane Bryant and Loft locations combined, while Catherines and
Ann Taylor each had nearly 300 stores. Gary Muto, Ascena's chief
executive, said on a March earnings call that 34 percent of its stores
were in malls.

Even outside of malls, the Ascena brands are heavily reliant on stores.
Before its closures in mid-March, in-store sales accounted for about 60
percent of Ascena's revenue, according to a
\href{https://ascenaretailgroupinc.gcs-web.com/node/14181/pdf}{preliminary}
earnings report in May. Overall sales fell 45 percent in the three
months that ended May 2.

In an effort to preserve cash, the company furloughed more than 90
percent of its employees and cut salaries for remaining staff.

With millions of women unemployed or working from home as a result of
coronavirus restrictions, the demand for women's professional clothing
--- Ascena's core product --- has taken a nosedive.

But the company's financial troubles preceded the pandemic.

Image

The store closures expected after the bankruptcy of Ascena Retail would
put further pressure on malls and shopping centers during the
pandemic.Credit...Rachel Abrams/The New York Times

As foot traffic in malls slowed over the past decade and halted
altogether during the coronavirus pandemic, Ascena has remained saddled
with the extensive real estate and operating costs of maintaining its
stores across the country.

Ascena's troubles began in 2009, when malls were still in their heyday.
The company set out to grab a larger share of the market for specialty
stores in malls. Under the Ascena umbrella, the company acquired brands
focusing on premium fashion (Ann Taylor and Loft), plus-size clothes
(Lane Bryant and Catherines) and girls' clothes (Justice).

The
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2015/05/19/business/dealbook/ann-taylor-parent-to-be-bought-for-2-16-billion.html}{acquisition
of Ann Taylor and Loft} in 2015 was intended to bolster revenue by
attracting customers willing to pay higher prices. Ann Taylor and Loft
had loyal followings in the past, but Ascena acquired them when young
female customers were turning to online retailers and inexpensive fast
fashion brands such as Zara or H\&M, where they could pay \$30 for a
work dress instead of \$100.

The acquisition stuck the company with more than \$1 billion in debt
without increasing sales, said Anthony Campagna, global director of
fundamental research at ISS EVA, an analytics firm. The company's
diversification strategy backfired, he said, and Ascena ended up with a
large portfolio of mall brands when the retail industry was shifting
almost entirely online. It was this miscalculation that led Ascena down
the road to bankruptcy.

``The company was never able to get out of that hole,'' Mr. Campagna
said. ``It was a slow bleed after that.''

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
