Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}As Election Nears, Trump's
White House Grows Bolder in Flouting Ethical Norms

\url{https://nyti.ms/32pwUSp}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Election
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/biden-vice-president-2020.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Biden's
  V.P. Search}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/07/24/us/politics/trump-biden-campaign-donors.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Map
  of Donations}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/elections/delegate-count-primary-results.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Delegate
  Count}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2019/us/politics/2020-presidential-candidates.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{The
  Candidates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Politics
  Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

White House Memo

\hypertarget{as-election-nears-trumps-white-house-grows-bolder-in-flouting-ethical-norms}{%
\section{As Election Nears, Trump's White House Grows Bolder in Flouting
Ethical
Norms}\label{as-election-nears-trumps-white-house-grows-bolder-in-flouting-ethical-norms}}

The outcry over a photograph of Ivanka Trump with a can of Goya beans
reveals how the president and his aides continue to disregard
traditional boundaries between the official and the political.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/07/16/us/politics/16dc-whitehousememo1/merlin_174569724_d7e13867-05c5-41a1-ab47-c8b3ea6bc9c6-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/michael-crowley}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2019/10/25/reader-center/author-michael-crowley/author-michael-crowley-thumbLarge-v2.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/michael-crowley}{Michael Crowley}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  July 16, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/es/2020/07/16/espanol/estados-unidos/goya-trump-ivanka.html}{Leer
en espa√±ol}

When President Trump holds official taxpayer-funded events outside
Washington, his audiences are treated to campaign-style speeches and
rock music playlists drawn from his political rallies. His appearances
at the White House, most recently a
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/14/us/politics/trump-news-conference.html?fbclid=IwAR3ztzy09muUUd91tiAoZL-C_rRdGiVBoSa5bHkbP0auF7H2KjU1gPL9WIM}{rambling
Rose Garden news conference}, are increasingly devoid of policy and
filled with attacks on the ``radical left'' and the presumptive
Democratic presidential nominee, former Vice President Joseph R. Biden
Jr.

And on Tuesday, Mr. Trump's eldest daughter and senior adviser, Ivanka
Trump, a White House employee, posted a photograph online celebrating
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/19/us/goya-trump-hispanic-vote.html}{Goya
Foods}, whose chief executive had recently praised her father, in what
government ethics experts called a clear violation of federal law. The
president followed up on Wednesday with his own photograph, featuring
the company's products arrayed on the Resolute Desk in the Oval Office.

Mr. Trump and his advisers have long tested --- and often crossed ---
the boundaries between the official and the political. The Office of
Special Counsel, an independent government watchdog agency, has found 13
Trump officials in violation of the Hatch Act, the 1939 law limiting the
political activities of government employees, according to Citizens for
Responsibility and Ethics in Washington, or CREW. Staff members with the
watchdog group said they could recall only two such instances under
President Barack Obama.

But with the general election in November little more than 100 days
away, the coronavirus quashing Mr. Trump's raucous rallies, and the
White House lacking a clear policy agenda, the Trump administration
seems almost entirely unconstrained by traditional divisions between
politics and governance.

``Every White House I have known until this one --- of both parties ---
has rigorously worked to separate campaign activity and official
business,'' said Trevor Potter, a Republican and a former chairman of
the Federal Election Commission who is now the president of the Campaign
Legal Center.

``Traditionally, the White House counsel's office has policed campaign
activity to keep it off the White House grounds and out of official
events,'' he continued. ``What we are seeing now is a complete
overturning of these ethical and legal norms.''

Jordan Libowitz, the communications director for CREW, said that while
Mr. Trump and his senior advisers had never shown much interest in
respecting such distinctions, they appeared to have grown bolder in the
months since he was acquitted by the Senate after the House impeached
him.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-2020-election}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: 2020
Election}}{Latest Updates: 2020 Election}}\label{latest-updates-2020-election}}

Updated 2020-08-01T01:26:45.732Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-29fdff45}{Kamala
  Harris, a top vice-presidential contender, confronts double
  standards.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-13ec3d9c}{Karen
  Bass and Susan Rice are rising on Biden's vice-presidential
  shortlist.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-49e9a016}{Trump
  says Russian bounties to kill U.S. troops `never took place.'}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

``I think there is a larger pattern we've seen, really since the
impeachment trial, of a stepped-up disregard for ethical norms,'' Mr.
Libowitz said. He said that top Trump aides had become ``more brazen''
about talking explicitly about politics and the 2020 election, including
on the White House grounds, in ways that would have made past officials
fear for their jobs.

All first-term presidents in recent memory have used their offices in
mostly subtle but sometimes blatant ways to help ensure their
re-election. But Mr. Trump and his senior advisers appear far less
concerned than their predecessors did about norms and laws governing
political activity.

When Mr. Trump visited Kennedy Space Center in Florida in May to watch a
private rocket launch, in what was ostensibly an official White House
event, he staged a campaign-style rally afterward in a NASA hangar where
loudspeakers blared his rally playlist and the president denounced
``radical-left criminals,'' boasted that he had ``completely rebuilt''
the military and thanked well over a dozen Republican lawmakers in
attendance --- but no Democrats.

Days later, Mr. Trump's campaign pulled a ``Make Space Great Again''
advertisement it had cut using footage from the launch and featuring the
NASA logo and two astronauts. Critics said the ad was in violation of
regulations against the commercial use of NASA's name and its personnel.

During a meeting last week in Miami with Cuban and Venezuelan exiles as
part of an official White House event on Latin American policy, Mr.
Trump repeatedly attacked Mr. Biden, charging that he was sympathetic to
communist governments and warning that ``nobody will be safe in a Biden
America.''

At the end of the event, Mr. Trump provided a closing thought that
appeared to be less about oppressed Latin Americans than about his own
fate: ``2020 is very important,'' he said. ``Very important.''

At the Rose Garden event on Tuesday, billed as a news conference on
China, Mr. Trump spent about an hour riffing on politics, his
accomplishments and the alleged failings of Mr. Biden, whom he accused
of wanting ``to defund our military'' and place immigrants on welfare
``immediately,'' and who he said had ``gone radical left.'' The
president added that Mr. Biden ``sides with China over America time and
time again.''

Many presidents have used that venerable venue to their advantage by
rolling out announcements and policies during their re-election
campaigns, so much so that a ``Rose Garden strategy'' has become part of
the political vernacular. But previous presidents avoided open talk of
campaign politics in that setting.

Later, on Fox News, the Republican strategist Karl Rove, who informally
advises the Trump campaign, warned that Mr. Trump was diminishing the
power of his incumbency. ``Don't use presidential events as campaign
events,'' Mr. Rove said. ``Try and turn campaign events into
presidential events.''

But the White House chief of staff, Mark Meadows, dismissed such
criticism.

``I don't see anything inappropriate with the comments the president has
made,'' Mr. Meadows said, adding that ``those were policy differences
that the president highlighted'' regarding Mr. Biden.

As president, Mr. Trump is not bound by the Hatch Act, which was passed
to ensure that federal employees were promoted on merit and not
politically coerced. His subordinates are bound, though, but Mr. Trump
has chosen not to punish them in the several cases where the Office of
Special Counsel has found them in violation.

In June 2019, the Office of Special Counsel, which is led by a former
career prosecutor and congressional Republican aide appointed by Mr.
Trump, issued a 17-page report detailing ``numerous violations of the
Hatch Act'' by Kellyanne Conway, the White House counselor.

Calling for Ms. Conway's dismissal, the office warned that failure to
punish her would ``send a message to all federal employees that they
need not abide by the Hatch Act's restrictions.'' But the White House
dismissed the call, saying it was ``as outrageous as it is
unprecedented,'' and took no action.

Ms. Conway had previously drawn rebukes from lawmakers of both parties
in March 2017 when, speaking from the White House Briefing Room during
an appearance on Fox News, she urged viewers to buy merchandise sold by
Ms. Trump that Nordstrom had recently dropped from its stores.

On Tuesday, Ms. Trump
\href{https://twitter.com/IvankaTrump/status/1283221019684110337?ref_src=twsrc\%5Etfw}{posted
a photograph on Twitter} showing her smiling and holding a can of Goya
beans. A message with it read, in both English and Spanish, ``If it's
Goya, it has to be good.''

Her tweet was a clear response to
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/10/business/goya-boycott.html?searchResultPosition=1}{calls
for a boycott of Goya Foods} after its chief executive, Robert Unanue,
said last week at a White House event that his fellow Latinos were
``truly blessed'' to have Mr. Trump as president. That event itself,
organized around a largely symbolic executive order on Hispanic
``prosperity,'' had a heavily political feel and opened with an audience
member shouting, ``Four more years!''

Under federal ethics laws, government employees ``shall not use or
permit the use of his government position or title or any authority
associated with his public office to endorse any product, service or
enterprise.'' Several government watchdogs, along with Democrats, said
that Ms. Trump had been in clear violation of that measure, which is
separate from the Hatch Act.

But the White House unapologetically defended her post.

``Only the media and the cancel culture movement would criticize Ivanka
for showing her personal support for a company that has been unfairly
mocked, boycotted and ridiculed for supporting this administration ---
one that has consistently fought for and delivered for the Hispanic
community,'' said ****** Carolina Hurley, a White House spokeswoman. She
added that Ms. Trump ``has every right to express her personal support''
for the company.

Walter M. Shaub Jr., who was the director of the Office of Government
Ethics from 2013 to 2017, noted that Ms. Trump's
\href{https://twitter.com/IvankaTrump}{Twitter bio} included her
official title of adviser to the president.

``There's no distinction in the minds of administration officials
between the personal and the official,''
\href{https://twitter.com/waltshaub/status/1283379197646381064?s=20}{Mr.
Shaub tweeted}. ``Their message is that the government and the people it
represents exist to serve Trump's personal interests.''

``Ms. Trump has had ethics training,'' he added. ``She knows better. But
she did it anyway because no one in this administration cares about
government ethics.''

There was little sign of unhappiness from Mr. Trump. A day later on
Instagram, he posted a photograph of himself sitting behind his desk in
the Oval Office, beaming and giving two thumbs up, with a variety of
Goya Foods products before him.

\hypertarget{our-2020-election-guide}{%
\section{Our 2020 Election Guide}\label{our-2020-election-guide}}

Updated July 31, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{the-latest}{%
  \subsection{The Latest}\label{the-latest}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    President Trump's assault on the Postal Service is intersecting with
    his attacks on mail-in voting.
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/politics/trump-usps-mail-delays.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Voting
    rights groups say it is a recipe for disaster.}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{bidens-vp-search}{%
  \subsection{Biden's V.P. Search}\label{bidens-vp-search}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/biden-vice-president-2020.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Here
    are 13 women} who have been under consideration to be Joe Biden's
    running mate, and why each might be chosen --- and might not be.
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{keep-up-with-our-coverage}{%
  \subsection{Keep Up With Our
  Coverage}\label{keep-up-with-our-coverage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Get an
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{email}
    recapping the day's news
  \end{itemize}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Download our mobile app on
    \href{https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nytimes/id284862083?ls=1\&mat_click_id=5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\&referrer=mat_click_id\%3D5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\%26link_click_id\%3D722930677036718082}{iOS}
    and
    \href{http://a.localytics.com/android?id=com.nytimes.android\&referrer=utm_source\%3Dother_nyt_mobile_web\%26utm_medium\%3DWeb\%2520page\%26utm_term\%3DGeneral\%2520Mobile\%2520Page\%26utm_campaign\%3DNYT\%2520Mobile\%2520General\%2520Page}{Android}
    and turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{¬©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
