Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/nyregion}{New York}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/nyregion}{New York}\textbar{}Why Are So Many N.Y.P.D.
Officers Refusing to Wear Masks at Protests?

\url{https://nyti.ms/37iNWlC}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{race-and-america}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/george-floyd-protests-minneapolis-new-york-los-angeles?name=styln-george-floyd\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=8f793b10-f4bb-11ea-8094-d5ba3891c9e8\&variant=undefined}{Race
and America}}{Race and America}}\label{race-and-america}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/11/us/black-police-chiefs-reform.html?name=styln-george-floyd\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=8f793b11-f4bb-11ea-8094-d5ba3891c9e8\&variant=undefined}{Black
  Police Chiefs}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/04/nyregion/rochester-police-daniel-prude.html?name=styln-george-floyd\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=8f793b12-f4bb-11ea-8094-d5ba3891c9e8\&variant=undefined}{What
  Happened in Rochester, N.Y.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/30/us/portland-shooting-explained.html?name=styln-george-floyd\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=8f793b13-f4bb-11ea-8094-d5ba3891c9e8\&variant=undefined}{Portland
  Shooting}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/30/us/breonna-taylor-police-killing.html?name=styln-george-floyd\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=8f796220-f4bb-11ea-8094-d5ba3891c9e8\&variant=undefined}{Breonna
  Taylor's Life and Death}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{why-are-so-many-nypd-officers-refusing-to-wear-masks-at-protests}{%
\section{Why Are So Many N.Y.P.D. Officers Refusing to Wear Masks at
Protests?}\label{why-are-so-many-nypd-officers-refusing-to-wear-masks-at-protests}}

Though the city is recording hundreds of new coronavirus cases each week
and some officers have died, many are not heeding instructions to cover
their faces.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/06/10/nyregion/10nyunrest-masks-3/merlin_173303706_f7c6e22e-ab0c-48f3-b13b-e4889bc61b0a-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/michael-wilson}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/07/18/multimedia/author-michael-wilson/author-michael-wilson-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/michael-wilson}{Michael
Wilson}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Published June 11, 2020Updated June 26, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Riot helmets, ballistic vests,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/face-shield-mask-california-coronavirus.html}{shields},
batons --- fully decked-out police officers have become staples in New
York City as the protests against racism and police brutality approach
their third week. But increasingly, one piece of equipment has attracted
attention with its absence: the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/12/us/fl-sheriff-billy-woods-bans-masks.html}{face
mask}.

On any given day, any corner, any group of officers, some or all of them
are not wearing masks. Others wear them below their chin. With
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/17/nyregion/new-york-coronavirus-masks.html}{masks
having become as ingrained} as shirts and shoes in the vast majority of
New Yorkers' wardrobes, their widespread absence on the police is
striking --- and to a mayor and governor still fighting the coronavirus
pandemic, troubling.

``Police officers should be wearing masks,'' Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo said
during a news conference in Manhattan on Monday. Likewise, Mayor Bill de
Blasio, on his call-in appearance on WNYC on Friday, was asked why
officers were unmasked.

''I'm frustrated by it, too,'' he said. ``The policy is police officers
are supposed to wear face coverings in public, period.'' But he noted
that compliance is far from universal: ``It has not been happening
consistently. I have had this conversation with Commissioner Shea
multiple times. It has to be fixed and that bothers me.''

While police officers may forgo mask-wearing for any number of reasons,
from peer pressure within ranks that are loath to change to a desire to
more easily communicate, the images have fueled a perception of the
police as arrogant and dismissive of protesters' health --- perhaps even
at the peril of their own.

And while several officers have conspicuously knelt down with or hugged
people at rallies, the widespread failure to use masks is creating a
more standoffish look, one that protesters say suggests that the police
operate above the rules --- one of the very beliefs motivating the
nationwide movement.

``If you're out here to protect the public, it starts with you,'' said
Chaka McKell, 46, a carpenter from Bedford-Stuyvesant who attended a
protest in Downtown Brooklyn on Monday. ``The head sets the example for
the tail.''

The official
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/15/nyregion/nypd-plainclothes-cops.html}{New
York Police Department} policy is that officers should wear masks when
interacting with the public. But in a statement on Wednesday, the
department dismissed the criticism about the lack of masks as petty.

``Perhaps it was the heat,'' Sgt. Jessica McRorie of the department's
press office said in a statement. ``Perhaps it was the 15 hour tours,
wearing bullet resistant vests in the sun. Perhaps it was the helmets.
With everything New York City has been through in the past two weeks and
everything we are working toward together, we can put our energy to a
better use.''

At his daily briefing on Thursday, the mayor responded to the
department's statement, saying that while there may be legitimate
reasons for officers to remove their masks, such as to take a drink of
water, he reiterated that the city remains ``in the middle of a
pandemic'' and that ``overwhelmingly, people need to have face coverings
on.''

``It is so important that the people of the city see the people they
look to to enforce the law actually abiding by the same rules as the
rest of us,'' the mayor said. ``That has to happen to the absolute
maximum extent possible among our police officers.''

Skipping personal protection may come with a cost. The city is still
reporting
\href{https://www1.nyc.gov/site/doh/covid/covid-19-data.page}{hundreds
of new coronavirus cases} each week, and more than 40 members of the
Police Department have died of Covid-19, the police said. Just days ago,
Commissioner Shea announced the virus-related death of Chief William
Morris, who led the transportation division.

As of May 29, the most recent date that numbers were made available, 901
uniformed members of the Department --- about 2.5 percent of the total
number ---
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/03/nyregion/coronavirus-nypd.html}{were
out sick}, down from 19.8 percent at its peak in April. As of that same
date, 5,627 members of the Department had returned to work after testing
positive for the coronavirus.

Then the protests began, putting the officers, working in large crowds,
in the spotlight. The new questions arise during what seems, from the
outside, to have been an evolving relationship between officers and
protective masks. In the early days of the coronavirus's arrival in the
region, with cases seemingly few and isolated, officers for the most
part set the masks aside, with the encouragement of their leaders.

On March 20, with the city moving toward a quarantine --- bars and
restaurants had closed three days earlier --- Commissioner Shea was
asked at a news conference about officers without masks.

``That could very well be a good thing, quite frankly,'' he said.
``We're trying to conserve the use of these and use them where
appropriate. And I think the medical professionals would tell us that,
generally speaking, it's better to have the masks on the people that are
sick as opposed to officers walking around in the street.''

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/06/10/nyregion/10nyunrest-masks-2/merlin_173181291_ce49eb93-0aa3-4664-a35f-30a9edb52f0b-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

At the same news conference, Dr. Oxiris Barbot, the commissioner of the
New York City Department of Health and Mental Hygiene, addressed the
issue.

``The time to use a mask is when someone is symptomatic, when they're
coughing, when they're sneezing, and it's to ensure that that individual
doesn't contaminate other folks,'' she said. ``It gives people who are
asymptomatic a false sense of security that if they wear this mask, they
don't have to wash their hands, they don't have to cover their mouths
and their noses when they cough or their sneeze.''

Not long after, the governor
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/17/nyregion/new-york-coronavirus-masks.html}{made
masks mandatory} for all New Yorkers. Since April 17, anyone visiting an
indoor location or unable to maintain social distancing must wear a mask
--- a striking period of 54 days and counting, perhaps indefinitely for
many.

And so, the sight of maskless officers, at gatherings that are
protesting police behavior nationwide, rankles some.

A Twitter account,
\href{https://twitter.com/nypdmaskwatch}{@nypdmaskwatch}, has posted
photographs of officers without masks, including their names and badge
numbers.

At a rally Monday outside Brooklyn's Borough Hall, 11 of the 13 police
officers near one section of the crowd wore masks, with the other two
having pulled them down below their chins. But around the corner stood
12 officers, only three wearing masks.

At the entrance to the Brooklyn Bridge stood 38 officers and captains.
Eight wore masks, some below the nose, while 14 wore them below their
chins and 16 wore none.

Asked about the masks, officers mostly declined to comment or ignored
the question. One officer who was confronted about the matter by a young
man in Williamsburg on Saturday responded, ``We've got more important
things to deal with.''

One captain who was walking alongside protesters without wearing a mask
seemed to suggest the decision falls to the individual officer in the
situation at hand.

``The focus is staying at peace with the protesters,'' said the captain,
who declined to give his name since he had no authorization to speak
with the news media. ``This isn't the ideal scenario, but we're doing
the best we can. Ideally, officers wear their masks, they take
precautions and they stay safe, but our priority right now is the
protest and the protesters.''

Crista Simiriglia, the manager of the band Sunflower Bean, who was
passing out Gatorades from the back of their touring van at a nearby
demonstration, was struck by the lack of police masks. ``It was very
startling and very dangerous,'' she said.

A musician in the band, Julia Cumming, 24, said she was surprised
whenever she sees an officer wearing a mask. ``I've come to expect them
not to,'' she said. ``It's just very strange. I'm generally confused.
They're supposed to give this sense of authority.''

Nate Schweber, Aaron Randle, Ashley Southall, Luis Ferré Sadurní and
Matt Stevens contributed reporting.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
