Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/business}{Business}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/business}{Business}\textbar{}Why Delta Is Leaving Middle
Seats Empty During the Pandemic

\url{https://nyti.ms/3ghQSD3}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/news-event/coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{The
Coronavirus Outbreak}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  live\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/03/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Latest
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Maps
  and Cases}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Vaccine
  Tracker}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/02/us/covid-college-reopening.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{College
  Reopening}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/live/2020/08/03/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Economy}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{why-delta-is-leaving-middle-seats-empty-during-the-pandemic}{%
\section{Why Delta Is Leaving Middle Seats Empty During the
Pandemic}\label{why-delta-is-leaving-middle-seats-empty-during-the-pandemic}}

An executive for the airline explains its distancing practices and
approach to cleaning at a time when its biggest rivals are selling all
the seats they can.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/07/27/business/27virus-delta/merlin_174833229_f6ec80e5-3f69-4ade-bbcd-066a066e7097-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/niraj-chokshi}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/02/20/multimedia/author-niraj-chokshi/author-niraj-chokshi-thumbLarge.jpg}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/niraj-chokshi}{Niraj Chokshi}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  July 27, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

The number of people flying today is down about 75 percent from a year
ago. And in the fight to attract those few passengers who remain,
airlines have promoted their health and safety policies.

Delta Air Lines has tried to stake a claim as one of the most cautious
companies in the industry by promising to
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/08/travel/airplanes-social-distancing-coronavirus.html}{leave
middle seats empty} even as American Airlines and United Airlines
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/21/travel/crowded-flights-coronavirus.html}{are
selling as many seats as they can}. Delta has also said that it cleans
planes between flights, tests all employees for the coronavirus and
aggressively enforces a
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/18/us/american-airlines-mask-brandon-straka.html}{mask
requirement}. On Monday, it announced a partnership with Lysol's parent
company aimed at improving Delta's cleaning practices.

The man responsible for all of those initiatives is Bill Lentsch, a
30-year veteran of the airline who is its chief customer experience
officer. In an interview, he explained Delta's approach. Below are
edited excerpts from the conversation.

\textbf{What does Delta hope to get out of working with Lysol?}

We hope to tap the 130 years of expertise that Lysol has --- to
transpose it into the cabin, into the lavatories on board the aircraft,
into our facilities. Through our survey data, we hear that our cabins
are very clean, but one thing our customers say is, ``The lavatories are
very clean when we get on board, but how can you keep them clean
throughout the flight?'' And this is the first area that we are going to
target with Lysol, coming up with a product that will help us maintain
cleanliness during flight on board the airplane. It doesn't sound
terribly glamorous, but it's incredibly important to our people.

\textbf{Delta has already teamed up with the Mayo Clinic. How has that
partnership informed what you do?}

The Mayo Clinic partnership is phenomenal. They've been looking at our
practices and policies with a very critical eye. They are also helping
us develop our program to test all of our employees, not only the active
virus but for
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/26/health/coronvirus-antibody-tests.html?action=click\&module=Top\%20Stories\&pgtype=Homepage}{the
antibodies}. Once we have all of our employees baseline tested, who do
we then retest, at what frequency, and what are all the factors to
determine that? The Mayo Clinic has a very sophisticated algorithm that
they're building to help with that. They're providing general education
to our employees and sitting on an advisory panel for us, too, so that
we have an opportunity to run new policies, procedures and technologies
by them.

Image

A Delta worker offers a passenger a face mask. The airline is enforcing
a rule on face coverings.Credit...Michael A. Mccoy/Getty Images

Image

Boarding a flight to Minneapolis at Baltimore-Washington International
Airport.Credit...Alyssa Schukar for The New York Times

\textbf{Let's take a step back.}
\textbf{\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/05/10/business/airlines-coronavirus-bleak-future.html}{Few
people are traveling}} \textbf{these days. Who are they?}

Well, those who are providing essential services have continued to fly
throughout the pandemic --- doctors, nurses, critical workers who
support the economy, government, and other key organizations. Also,
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/09/business/flying-coronovirus.html}{many
must fly personally}, whether it's for a funeral, some small family
event, or someone is sick. But business travel is still very depressed.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-economy}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes.com/live/2020/08/03/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates:
Economy}}{Latest Updates: Economy}}\label{latest-updates-economy}}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/live/2020/08/03/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#the-chicago-fed-president-says-its-up-to-congress-to-save-the-economy}{9h
ago}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/live/2020/08/03/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#the-chicago-fed-president-says-its-up-to-congress-to-save-the-economy}{The
Chicago Fed president says it's up to Congress to save the economy.}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/live/2020/08/03/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#faa-says-boeing-has-effectively-mitigated-defects-in-the-737-max}{10h
ago}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/live/2020/08/03/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#faa-says-boeing-has-effectively-mitigated-defects-in-the-737-max}{F.A.A.
says Boeing has `effectively mitigated' defects in the 737 Max.}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/live/2020/08/03/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#small-businesses-got-emergency-loans-but-not-what-they-expected}{12h
ago}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/live/2020/08/03/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#small-businesses-got-emergency-loans-but-not-what-they-expected}{Small
businesses got emergency loans, but not what they expected.}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/live/2020/08/03/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

More live coverage:
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/03/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Global}

\textbf{What do customers say they need before they're willing to fly
again?}

They want to be assured that airlines have very comprehensive social
distancing and aircraft cleaning policies. But I think the real key to
why they aren't traveling is because restaurants, hotels, car rental
facilities, other businesses, either have significant restrictions or
aren't even opened up. They're not flying just to fly, they've got
something that they want to do.

\textbf{Delta was early to block middle seats and is going to continue
through September. But that policy doesn't guarantee six feet of
distance. Why keep it up?}

Our position all along has been we are going to take a multilayered
approach. That means more frequent replacement of the
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/04/30/business/airlines-masks-coronavirus-passengers.html}{HEPA
filters that are part of our air circulation system}, enforcing wearing
of masks, making sure that we minimize the touch points with our
customers and having space between you and the person closest to you. So
we are looking to ensure that we are driving the probability of any kind
of transmission very, very close to zero. All of the medical guidance
we've received says that more space is more protective. So, yes, it's
not six feet, but it's better than having someone shoulder-to-shoulder
with you.

\textbf{How have passenger needs changed during the pandemic?}

Well, the order of priorities is different. Price and schedule
flexibility used to be one of the most important factors. While those
are still part of the mix, customers have placed the highest priority on
two things: social distancing, whether that's in the airport, lobbies,
gate areas, jet bridges or on board the airplane, and cleanliness.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/07/27/business/27virus-delta2/merlin_174833814_87b0703a-3929-4264-994e-db4aa9fe5ff7-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\textbf{You've continued to fly weekly during the pandemic. How has that
informed your work?}

It's interesting because while I have my eyes on the operation, we have
flight attendants and pilots and gate agents and others who are on board
that aircraft every minute of every day. They hear from our customers in
ways that we may not through a survey. For example, the decision that we
made months ago to start boarding the airplane from back to front rather
than by zones. That came from a flight attendant who heard from a
customer in first class, who said, ``Maybe you should put us on last
because everyone who is sitting behind me is walking right by me.''

\textbf{Delta and other airlines have already implemented a lot of new
health and safety policies. What more is there to do?}

This is why we partnered with Lysol and the Mayo Clinic. We want to hear
from them. We're looking for a critical eye to help us fill any gaps and
push the boundaries. It is my opinion that in three to six months, there
are going to be some products on our airplanes that I'm not even
contemplating right now. And, by the way, we're never going to be done
with this. We've built an organization at Delta, a global cleanliness
division with a vice president of the company who leads it, and the
purpose is solely to continue to push the boundaries of cleanliness and
sanitization and protection for our customers and our employees.

\textbf{Delta has brought back alcohol, restored automatic upgrades for
elite members and reopened some lounges. Do customers still care about
these kinds of perks?}

Not all of them do, but some of them do. And this is where we really
have to evaluate the feedback. But one thing is very clear for us and we
make this very clear to our customers: We will not compromise their
safety. We'll listen to their feedback and take action, provided we can
find a way to do it safely. In some cases, we've had to say no for the
time being. In other cases, like the
\href{https://news.delta.com/beverage-service-returns-delta-reintroduces-select-beer-and-wine-domestic-flights-added-safety}{limited
beer and wine offering} we started this month in first class and comfort
plus, we found a way to serve that without adding any more touch points
between our flight attendants and our customers.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
