<div id="app">

<div id="standalone-header">

<div class="interactive-masthead NYTAppHideMasthead css-xuu3c2 e1suatyy0">

<div class="section css-133zg39 e1suatyy2">

<div class="css-eph4ug er09x8g0">

<div class="css-6n7j50">

</div>

<span class="css-1dv1kvn">Sections</span>

<div class="css-10488qs">

<span class="css-1dv1kvn">SEARCH</span>

</div>

[Skip to content](#site-content)[Skip to site
index](#site-index)

</div>

<div class="css-10698na e1huz5gh0">

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="css-11kjks6" data-role="region" data-aria-label="comments panel" tabindex="-1">

<div class="css-1h21wu5">

<div class="css-akb3vb">

<div>

<div class="css-1yip8nf">

## [Comments](#commentsContainer)

[What Back to School Might Look Like in the Age of Covid-19]()[Skip to
Comments]()

<div class="css-c32q7m">

The comments section is closed. To submit a letter to the editor for
publication, write to <letters@nytimes.com>.

</div>

</div>

<div class="css-1bxnhxc">

</div>

<div class="css-1yip8nf">

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div id="site-content" data-role="main">

# What Back to School Might Look Like in the Age of Covid-19

<div class="css-1vegfwe interactive-byline-container">

By [<span class="css-1baulvz" itemprop="name">Dana
Goldstein</span>](https://www.nytimes.com/by/dana-goldstein),
[<span class="css-1baulvz" itemprop="name">Yuliya
Parshina-Kottas</span>](https://www.nytimes.com/by/yuliya-parshina-kottas)
and [<span class="css-1baulvz last-byline" itemprop="name">Aliza
Aufrichtig</span>](https://www.nytimes.com/by/aliza-aufrichtig)July 30,
2020

</div>

<div id="interactive-standalone-sharetools" class="css-wkcogx">

<div>

<div class="interactive-sharetools css-9z2bwm" data-role="toolbar" data-aria-label="Social Media Share buttons, Save button, and Comments Panel with current comment count" data-testid="share-tools">

  - 
  - 
  - 
  - 
    
    <div class="css-6n7j50">
    
    </div>

  - *<span class="css-1dtr3u3">169</span>*

</div>

</div>

</div>

An illustrated guide to how schools will try to control the coronavirus
when students return to their classrooms, this fall or in the
future.

<div id="schools-reopening-coronavirus" class="section css-l08pwh interactive-minimal interactive-content interactive-size-medium" data-id="100000007258718">

<div class="css-17ih8de interactive-body">

<div class="g-story g-freebird g-max-limit" data-preview-slug="2020-06-29-virus-back-to-school">

<div class="g-asset g-svelte g-asset-width-full" style="">

<div data-role="img">

<div class="g-svelte" data-component="1">

<div class="section svelte-150bj5i">

![socially distanced
kids](https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2020/06/29/virus-back-to-school/f4a8a920272371cae148b89fa0b2ad3e54fdd623/top-d.png)

<div class="text-wrapper svelte-150bj5i">

# What Back to School Might Look Like in the Age of Covid-19

## An illustrated guide to how schools will try to control the coronavirus when students return to their classrooms, this fall or in the future.

<div class="byline svelte-150bj5i">

<span class="sub-byline svelte-150bj5i"><span class="byline-individual first">Text
by [Dana Goldstein](https://www.nytimes.com/by/dana-goldstein)</span>
<span class="byline-individual">Illustrations by [Yuliya
Parshina-Kottas](https://www.nytimes.com/by/yuliya-parshina-kottas)</span>  
<span class="byline-individual">Produced by [Aliza
Aufrichtig](https://www.nytimes.com/by/aliza-aufrichtig)</span></span>
<span class="date svelte-150bj5i">July 29, 2020</span>

</div>

</div>

![socially distanced
kids](https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2020/06/29/virus-back-to-school/f4a8a920272371cae148b89fa0b2ad3e54fdd623/top-hs-student.png)

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

A typical American school day requires proximity: High school lab
partners leaning over a vial. Kindergarten students sharing finger
paints. Middle schoolers passing snacks around a cafeteria table.

This year, nothing about school will be typical. Many of the nation’s
largest districts plan to [start the academic year
online](https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/14/us/coronavirus-schools-fall.html),
and it is unclear when students and teachers will be back in classrooms.
Others plan hybrid models, while some are determined to go five days a
week.

When school buildings do reopen, whether this fall or next year, buses,
hallways, cafeterias and classrooms will need to look very different as
long as the coronavirus remains a threat. Even teaching, which has
evolved in recent decades to emphasize fewer lectures and more
collaborative lessons, must change.

“This is the biggest adaptive challenge in my career, and in the history
of public education,” said Cindy Marten, superintendent of the San Diego
public schools.

Education decisions are largely made at the local level, and leaders are
relying on a host of conflicting federal, state and public health
guidelines. There is still [considerable uncertainty and
debate](https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/11/health/coronavirus-schools-reopen.html)
over how easily [children of different
ages](https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/18/health/coronavirus-children-schools.html)
contract and spread the virus, and whether some of the recommended
safety guidelines would help or are even necessary.

As a result, schools are adopting a wide range of approaches for the
pandemic era. But those recommendations largely agree on at least some
adaptations, and they all come down to eliminating one factor:
proximity.

## <span class="g-balancer" data-id="2">Riding the <span class="quar">Bus</span></span>

For about half of American students, the school day typically begins
with a bus trip.

For many districts, getting children to school will be one of the most
difficult logistical challenges during the pandemic. Parents will be
asked to consider whether they can arrange other forms of
transportation, like dropping their children off or arranging car
pools.

<div class="g-asset g-svelte g-asset-width-full" style="">

<div data-role="img">

<div class="g-svelte" data-component="3">

<div class="outer svelte-a8g2nz" style="height: calc(100vh + 400vw)">

<div class="svelte-bw18gr">

<div class="slides svelte-iish4j" style="transform: translateX(0px);">

<div class="slide svelte-iish4j" style="left: 0vw;">

![bg](https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2020/06/29/virus-back-to-school/f4a8a920272371cae148b89fa0b2ad3e54fdd623/bus_d1.png)

<div class="text-block text-first svelte-iish4j top-right" style="">

Families should not cluster at the bus stop, as they might have in the
past. And parents will be told: Do not send children to school if they
have a fever, cough or other
symptoms.

</div>

</div>

<div class="slide svelte-iish4j" style="left: 100vw;">

![bg](https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2020/06/29/virus-back-to-school/f4a8a920272371cae148b89fa0b2ad3e54fdd623/bus_d2-1.png)

<div class="text-block svelte-iish4j" style="max-width: 35vw; top: 10vh; left: 10vw; ">

In non-pandemic times, a typical bus might carry 54
children.

</div>

<div class="fader svelte-iish4j" style="opacity: 0">

![overlay](https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2020/06/29/virus-back-to-school/f4a8a920272371cae148b89fa0b2ad3e54fdd623/bus_d2-3.png)

<div class="text-block svelte-iish4j" style="max-width: 35vw; top: 10vh; left: 10vw; ">

Enforce strict social distancing guidelines of six feet, and you’re down
to
eight.

</div>

</div>

<div class="fader svelte-iish4j" style="opacity: 0">

![overlay](https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2020/06/29/virus-back-to-school/f4a8a920272371cae148b89fa0b2ad3e54fdd623/bus_d2-2.png)

<div class="text-block svelte-iish4j" style="max-width: 30vw; bottom: 5vh; right: 5vw; ">

Some state guidelines sketch an alternative scenario in which masked
students sit in a zigzag pattern to allow more on
board.

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="slide svelte-iish4j" style="left: 200vw;">

![bg](https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2020/06/29/virus-back-to-school/f4a8a920272371cae148b89fa0b2ad3e54fdd623/bus_d3.png)

<div class="text-block svelte-iish4j" style="max-width: 40vw; top: 30vh; left: 30vw; ">

Options are expensive. Schools in Marietta, Ga., plan to spend $640,000
to hire 55 monitors to check students’ symptoms before they board.
Dundee, Mich., expects to spend over $300,000 to add routes. In Odessa,
Texas, there are plans for buses to run on continuous routes, like city
transit, with students arriving and leaving school at staggered
times.

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

## <span class="g-balancer" data-id="4"><span class="quar long right">Entering</span> the Building</span>

When students arrive at school, most will be checked to see if they are
running a temperature or showing other symptoms. If adults are dropping
off children, they will likely remain behind a barrier.

Public health experts agree that a key step in keeping the coronavirus
out of schools will be limiting the number of visitors
inside.

<div class="g-asset g-image" style="max-width: 1050px">

<div data-role="img">

<div class="g-asset_inner">

![](https://static01.nyt.com/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png)

![](https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2020/06/29/virus-back-to-school/f4a8a920272371cae148b89fa0b2ad3e54fdd623/arrival.png)

</div>

</div>

</div>

Temperature checks run the risk of missing asymptomatic or atypical
coronavirus cases, raising false alarms about ordinary illnesses and
taking up valuable time that students could spend learning.
Nevertheless, most districts plan them.

About 60 percent of American schools [did not have full-time
nurses](https://higherlogicdownload.s3.amazonaws.com/NASN/3870c72d-fff9-4ed7-833f-215de278d256/UploadedImages/PDFs/Advocacy/2017_Workforce_Study_Infographic_School_Nurses_in_the_Nation.pdf)
on site in 2018, but many are hoping for additional federal stimulus
money to rectify that amid the pandemic.

Students who fail the symptom check should be isolated while they await
a caretaker to pick them up, guidelines say. Doing so may require
real-estate-strapped schools to designate both safe indoor and outdoor
locations to hold ill and potentially contagious
children.

## <span class="g-balancer" data-id="5">In <span class="quar long">Elementary</span> School Classrooms</span>

Young children may be the hardest to keep apart, given their frenetic
energy, need for hands-on play and affectionate nature. And most
guidelines acknowledge that it is not realistic to expect them to wear
masks all
day.

<div class="g-asset g-svelte g-asset-width-full" style="">

<div data-role="img">

<div class="g-svelte" data-component="6">

<div class="outer svelte-a8g2nz" style="height: calc(100vh + 300vw)">

<div class="svelte-bw18gr">

<div class="slides svelte-iish4j" style="transform: translateX(0px);">

<div class="slide svelte-iish4j" style="left: 0vw;">

![bg](https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2020/06/29/virus-back-to-school/f4a8a920272371cae148b89fa0b2ad3e54fdd623/kindergarten_d1.png)

<div class="text-block svelte-iish4j" style="max-width: 40vw; top: 5vh; left: 35vw; ">

Many schools will try to keep students in pods by limiting class sizes
to about 12 students and by reducing interaction between classrooms.
That way, they can avoid shutting down entirely if a single pod has a
positive
case.

</div>

</div>

<div class="slide svelte-iish4j" style="left: 100vw;">

![bg](https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2020/06/29/virus-back-to-school/f4a8a920272371cae148b89fa0b2ad3e54fdd623/kindergarten_d2.png)

<div class="text-block svelte-iish4j" style="max-width: 48vw; top: 2vh; left: 26vw; ">

Some schools will use X’s to indicate where students should sit for
story
time.

</div>

<div class="text-block svelte-iish4j" style="max-width: 46vw; bottom: 8vh; left: 2vw; ">

Some guidelines suggest clear face shields as an alternative to masks
for teachers. Seeing an adult’s mouth move helps children understand the
connections between spoken sounds and the written word — a [key
concept](https://www.nytimes.com/2020/02/15/us/reading-phonics.html) in
early
reading.

</div>

</div>

<div class="slide svelte-iish4j" style="left: 200vw;">

![bg](https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2020/06/29/virus-back-to-school/f4a8a920272371cae148b89fa0b2ad3e54fdd623/kindergarten_d3.png)

<div class="text-block svelte-iish4j" style="max-width: 30vw; bottom: 13vh; left: 5vw; ">

Two students may sit at tables usually used by four or six, with
individual boxes of materials that are typically shared, like art
supplies — an expense that schools, teachers or families will have to
bear.

</div>

<div class="text-block svelte-iish4j" style="max-width: 32vw; top: 12vh; left: 58vw; ">

Many schools plan to repurpose large spaces, like gyms and cafeterias,
for socially distanced academic work. Students will eat in their
classrooms, either bringing food from home or receiving a boxed lunch.
No buffet
lines.

</div>

</div>

<div class="slide svelte-iish4j" style="left: 300vw;">

![bg](https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2020/06/29/virus-back-to-school/f4a8a920272371cae148b89fa0b2ad3e54fdd623/kindergarten_d4.png)

<div class="text-block svelte-iish4j" style="max-width: 45vw; bottom: 20vh; right: 10vw; ">

Districts are investing heavily in cleaning and hygiene supplies, such
as hand sanitizer and portable air filters. Adults will disinfect
surfaces several times a day. Federal guidelines recommend that soft
toys that cannot be easily cleaned, like stuffed animals, stay off
limits.

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

Teachers, who are likely [at greater risk from the
virus](https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/15/health/coronavirus-schools-reopening.html)
than most young students, typically come into contact with many people
in the course of their daily work: children, parents, other educators.
To help reduce risk, staff planning meetings and parent-teacher
conferences can be held remotely.

But many educators, like those who work with children with special
needs, are stationed inside classrooms with other teachers, where they
must attend to students in a hands-on way. Text messaging or in-ear
communication within the classroom may help, with masks to provide
protection.

Teachers will be encouraged to keep classroom windows open to [promote
air
circulation](https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/06/health/coronavirus-airborne-aerosols.html).
Some districts are upgrading heating and cooling systems to install
filtration features, a much more expensive fix.

Moving instruction outdoors when possible would be one way to reduce the
risk of [airborne transmission of the
virus](https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/06/health/coronavirus-airborne-aerosols.html).
In Marietta, some elementary school students will bring their own
folding lawn chairs to class. Athletics and singing are activities that,
if they occur at all, should be done in the open air, experts
say.

## <span class="g-balancer" data-id="7">In <span class="quar long right">Middle</span> and <span class="quar long">High</span> Schools</span>

Older students typically move between classrooms during the day for
different subjects. Instead, health guidelines call for them to remain
in self-contained pods to the greatest extent possible. Schools will
have to figure out another way to deliver an individualized
curriculum.

<div class="g-asset g-svelte g-asset-width-full" style="">

<div data-role="img">

<div class="g-svelte" data-component="8">

<div class="outer svelte-a8g2nz" style="height: calc(100vh + 200vw)">

<div class="svelte-bw18gr">

<div class="slides svelte-iish4j" style="transform: translateX(0px);">

<div class="slide svelte-iish4j" style="left: 0vw;">

![bg](https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2020/06/29/virus-back-to-school/f4a8a920272371cae148b89fa0b2ad3e54fdd623/secondary_d1.png)

<div class="text-block svelte-iish4j" style="max-width: 52vw; top: 5vh; right: 10vw; ">

Teenagers may be [more at risk from the
coronavirus](https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/18/health/coronavirus-children-schools.html)
than younger children are, recent research suggests, so physical
distancing will be more important with this age group. Some districts
are spending hundreds of thousands of dollars on plexiglass desk
dividers for classrooms in which students cannot stay six feet
apart.

</div>

</div>

<div class="slide svelte-iish4j" style="left: 100vw;">

![bg](https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2020/06/29/virus-back-to-school/f4a8a920272371cae148b89fa0b2ad3e54fdd623/secondary_d2.png)

<div class="text-block svelte-iish4j" style="max-width: 40vw; top: 10vh; left: 30vw; ">

Some students could be remote learning even while in class. An algebra
lesson could be taught at the front of the room, while those who have
moved onto pre-calculus use laptops to participate in an online lesson
in the
back.

</div>

</div>

<div class="slide svelte-iish4j" style="left: 200vw;">

![bg](https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2020/06/29/virus-back-to-school/f4a8a920272371cae148b89fa0b2ad3e54fdd623/secondary_d3.png)

<div class="text-block svelte-iish4j" style="max-width: 40vw; bottom: 5vh; left: 30vw; ">

Schools are not planning to follow a traditional bell schedule. Instead,
individual pods of students will travel through unidirectional hallways
at specific times, including, in some cases, for prescheduled bathroom
breaks.

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

Teachers who have adopted a more project-based style say they do not
want to spend the whole year delivering lectures. To get around that,
group work could be done online from home, with teachers focused on
introducing concepts and answering questions while in the classroom.

In some countries that have reopened schools using similar guidelines,
distancing measures have been [relaxed within
months](https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/europe/schools-reopening-coronavirus/2020/07/10/865fb3e6-c122-11ea-8908-68a2b9eae9e0_story.html)
as infection numbers have remained low. The United States is different
from much of the world because some schools are trying to reopen while
infections are still high in their communities.

Dr. Ronald E. Dahl, an expert on adolescent health and development at
the University of California, Berkeley, suggested that a key factor in
making the reconfigured school day work would be for students to feel
invested. To accomplish that, teachers could engage them in group
discussions about the science of the virus and the importance of
physical distancing, and brainstorm ways of enforcing new social norms
among peers.

“It will be very challenging,” Dr. Dahl acknowledged, given the natural
desire of children and teenagers to interact with one another, jostling,
teasing, flirting and pushing boundaries. But young people also have a
strong sense of right and wrong, he said, and are motivated to help
others, which could inspire them to embrace rules that keep their
friends and teachers healthy.

If the new practices “honor their desire to be respected and admired,”
Dr. Dahl said, “young people can shift their behavior quickly.”

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div id="standalone-footer">

<div>

<div>

<div id="interactive-footer-wrapper">

<div class="css-i29ckm">

<div class="css-1oeie6n">

Read 169
Comments

</div>

<div class="interactive-sharetools css-9z2bwm" data-role="toolbar" data-aria-label="Social Media Share buttons, Save button, and Comments Panel with current comment count" data-testid="share-tools">

  - 
  - 
  - 
  - 
    
    <div class="css-6n7j50">
    
    </div>

</div>

</div>

<div>

</div>

<div id="bottom-wrapper" class="css-1ede5it">

<div id="bottom-slug" class="css-l9onyx">

Advertisement

</div>

[Continue reading the main
story](#after-bottom)

<div id="bottom" class="ad bottom-wrapper" style="text-align:center;height:100%;display:block;min-height:90px">

</div>

<div id="after-bottom">

</div>

</div>

## Site Index

<div>

</div>

## Site Information Navigation

  - [© <span>2020</span> <span>The New York Times
    Company</span>](https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice)

<!-- end list -->

  - [NYTCo](https://www.nytco.com/)
  - [Contact
    Us](https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us)
  - [Work with us](https://www.nytco.com/careers/)
  - [Advertise](https://nytmediakit.com/)
  - [T Brand Studio](http://www.tbrandstudio.com/)
  - [Your Ad
    Choices](https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy#how-do-i-manage-trackers)
  - [Privacy](https://www.nytimes.com/privacy)
  - [Terms of
    Service](https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service)
  - [Terms of
    Sale](https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale)
  - [Site
    Map](https://spiderbites.nytimes.com)
  - [Help](https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us)
  - [Subscriptions](https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW)

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>
