Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/sports/football}{Pro
Football}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/sports/football}{Pro Football}\textbar{}Washington N.F.L.
Team Faces Sexual Harassment Claims from 15 Women

\url{https://nyti.ms/30hn6r8}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{washington-nfl-team-faces-sexual-harassment-claims-from-15-women}{%
\section{Washington N.F.L. Team Faces Sexual Harassment Claims from 15
Women}\label{washington-nfl-team-faces-sexual-harassment-claims-from-15-women}}

The organization hired a Washington-based law firm after 15 women said
that they were sexually harassed while employed by the team.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/07/16/sports/16nfl-washington-1/merlin_174638595_8d2f4862-5dd4-4966-ac21-4bbbb6da052b-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/ken-belson}{Ken Belson},
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/kevin-draper}{Kevin Draper}
and \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/juliet-macur}{Juliet
Macur}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  July 16, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

The
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/10/sports/football/washington-nfl-snyder-lawsuit.html}{N.F.L.
team in Washington} has hired the law firm Wilkinson Walsh to review the
claims of 15 women who, in an
\href{https://www.washingtonpost.com/sports/2020/07/16/redskins-sexual-harassment-larry-michael-alex-santos/?arc404=true}{article
published} by The Washington Post on Thursday, said they were sexually
harassed while employed by the team.

The article detailed numerous allegations of sexual harassment,
misconduct and abusive behavior by several team executives and football
personnel over more than a dozen years. Male executives, the women said,
commented repeatedly on their looks, sent them inappropriate text
messages and pursued unwanted relationships.

After The Post contacted the team with the allegations, according to the
article, its longtime play-by-play announcer, Larry Michael, retired,
while Alex Santos, the director of pro personnel, and Richard Mann II,
the assistant director of pro personnel, were both fired. All three were
accused of sexual harassment by former team employees, according to the
article.

Michael declined to comment about the reason for his departure before
The Post's article was published. He did not return a call for comment
after the allegations against him were made public. Santos and Mann
could not be reached for comment.

Dennis Greene, the team's former head of business operations, was
accused of sexually harassing women on the staff when he encouraged them
to wear tight skirts and low-cut shirts, and asked them to flirt with
people who own luxury boxes at FedEx Field, the team's stadium in
Landover, Md.

Greene, who resigned under pressure in 2018 after 17 years with the
team, had been in charge of selling luxury suites and oversaw a program
involving cheerleaders called ambassadors, who had been hired not to
cheer, but solely for their attractiveness. He left the team in May that
year, the day The New York Times
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/05/31/sports/nfl-cheerleaders.html}{published
an investigation} into the program. That report described him as
examining each ambassador from head to toe as the group stood in an
inspection line for him on game days.

Greene also oversaw a 2013 cheerleader calendar photo shoot in Costa
Rica. The team collected the women's passports at the start of that
trip, depriving the women of their official identification. Several
cheerleaders who were there told The Times that they
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/05/02/sports/redskins-cheerleaders-nfl.html}{were
forced to act as escorts} for male corporate sponsors and luxury box
owners invited on the trip. Those sponsors and well-heeled supporters
watched as some cheerleaders posed topless for the calendar shoot.

``It's disheartening, but I wouldn't say that I'm surprised at all,''
said
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/09/27/sports/nfl-cheerleaders-redskins.html}{Allison
Cassidy, a defense contractor and former team cheerleader}who attended
the Costa Rica trip. ``When I was there, management held this power over
you, and it was this abusive power dynamic that made you feel 100\%
replaceable. Even if we wanted to complain about the harassment, there
was no one we could tell without feeling like we'd lose our job.''

Beth Wilkinson, a founding partner of Wilkinson Walsh, confirmed in an
email that her firm would conduct ``an independent review of the team's
culture, policies and allegations of workplace misconduct.''

``These matters as reported are serious, disturbing and contrary to the
N.F.L.'s values,'' the league said in a statement on Friday. ``We will
meet with the attorneys upon the conclusion of their investigation and
take any action based on their findings.''

The team owner, Daniel Snyder, said in a statement Friday that he was
committed to changing the team's culture, adding that after the
Wilkinson Walsh investigation is completed the team would, ``institute
new policies and procedures and strengthen our human resources
infrastructure to not only avoid these issues in the future but most
importantly create a team culture that is respectful and inclusive of
all.''

The decision to begin an internal investigation comes at a turbulent
time for the franchise, which has been embroiled in a public controversy
over the team's name and has had numerous staff members depart over the
past year.

Under pressure from several of its largest corporate sponsors,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/13/sports/football/washington-redskins-new-name.html}{the
team said Monday that it would drop its logo} and the name ``Redskins,''
an about-face by Snyder, who for decades said he would never change the
name, which has long been considered a racial slur by many.

Fred Smith, the chairman of FedEx and a minority shareholder of the
football team, and two other shareholders have been trying to sell their
stakes in the team, which amount to about 40 percent, for months.

The team is in the process of
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/16/sports/football/washington-name-change-trademark.html}{choosing
a new name and logo}.

Several front office executives have left or been dismissed from the
team in the past year, some of whom were not accused of harassment in
the article.

In October,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/10/07/sports/jay-gruden-redskins.html}{the
team fired Jay Gruden}, the head coach who had a losing record since he
took over in 2014. Gruden's team had lost its first five games of the
2019 season.

Bruce Allen, who was hired as general manager in 2010 and made team
president in 2017, was fired in December. Larry Hess, the team's trainer
for 17 years, was fired in late December. In January, the team let go of
Eric Schaffer, its vice president for football operations and general
counsel, after 17 years with the club.

Santos and Mann also left last week.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/07/16/sports/16nfl-washington-3/merlin_166577847_af6e8633-194a-405c-bcd9-f56fd4d77b01-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

When the team's 2019 season ended,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/12/31/sports/football/ron-rivera-washington-redskins.html}{Snyder
hired Ron Rivera}, the longtime coach of the Carolina Panthers.

``He is widely respected around the league as a man of great integrity
and has proven to be one of the finest coaches in the country,'' Snyder
said in a statement.

Rivera has brought in new coaches and other front office personnel
involved in evaluating players, a step common for incoming head coaches.
But Rivera has had to make several key hires and sign free agents and
rookies at a time when players and personnel have been unable to travel
as usual because of the coronavirus pandemic.

Eric Stokes, who ran college scouting for the Panthers when Rivera
coached there, was recruited to
\href{https://www.washingtonpost.com/sports/2020/07/15/larry-michael-retires-washington-nfl-team/}{replace
Santos}, and Jeff Scott, an assistant under Mann, was promoted.

Rivera also brought in Rob Rogers, who spent 25 years working on salary
cap-related issues and contracts with the Panthers organization, to
replace Schaffer.

Snyder has not hired a new team president or general manager.

It is unclear how long the law firm's investigation will take.Wilkinson
Walsh has represented the N.F.L. in a lawsuit brought by DirecTV Sunday
Ticket subscribers, and before founding the firm, Beth Wilkinson
represented the league in the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2013/08/30/sports/football/judge-announces-settlement-in-nfl-concussion-suit.html}{extensive
concussion lawsuit}.

ESPN first
\href{https://twitter.com/AdamSchefter/status/1283798174583398402}{reported}
that Washington's N.F.L. team had hired the firm.

In response to The Times's report on the cheerleaders, the Washington
team denied any wrongdoing, but still conducted a three-month
investigation into its cheerleading program after Greene resigned. A
team spokesman said substantial changes to the program followed,
including the organization no longer inviting sponsors on calendar
shoots, and cheerleaders no longer being assigned to work at private
events.

The last team to confirm it was undergoing a major internal review was
the Carolina Panthers. In 2017, when allegations of sexual harassment
were made against Jerry Richardson, the club's founding owner,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2017/12/18/sports/jerry-richardson-panthers.html}{the
team hired Erskine Bowles, a former White House chief of staff} and one
of the team's minority shareholders, to lead an investigation into the
claims. The league stepped in and hired a different law firm to take
over, and Richardson sold the team the next year.

Last month the Panthers
\href{https://www.charlotteobserver.com/sports/spt-columns-blogs/scott-fowler/article243428601.html}{took
down a statue of Richardson} that was outside its stadium, saying they
were worried protesters against racism and police brutality would try to
topple it.

Former Washington players were not eager to talk about the culture of
the club. Josh Norman, a cornerback now with the Buffalo Bills after
spending the past four seasons in Washington, sent a cryptic message on
Twitter on Thursday that seemed to reference the events surrounding his
old team.

``Look Don't ask me NO QUESTIONS!''
\href{https://twitter.com/J_No24/status/1283612952856334336}{Norman
wrote}. ``But I will say this, what goes around comes around. What's
done in the dark will surely come to the Light!''

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
