Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/world}{World}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/world}{World}\textbar{}Fauci to Testify Before Congress
on Coronavirus Response

\url{https://nyti.ms/3hQTcB7}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{The
Coronavirus Outbreak}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  live\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/01/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Latest
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Maps
  and Cases}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Vaccine
  Tracker}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/07/29/us/schools-reopening-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{What
  School May Look Like}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/07/31/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Economy}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{fauci-to-testify-before-congress-on-coronavirus-response}{%
\section{Fauci to Testify Before Congress on Coronavirus
Response}\label{fauci-to-testify-before-congress-on-coronavirus-response}}

Federal U.S. jobless benefits are set to expire after lawmakers failed
to make a deal. Herman Cain died after being hospitalized with the
virus.

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Published July 30, 2020Updated July 31, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

This briefing has ended.
Re\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/31/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html}{ad
live coronavirus updates here}.

\hypertarget{key-developments-on-thursday}{%
\subsubsection{Key developments on
Thursday:}\label{key-developments-on-thursday}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-3d16bd29}{As states scramble to put out fires,
  Fauci and other top U.S. health officials will go back before
  Congress.}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-5f1140f}{The crisis mounts in the U.S. as the
  economy contracts and deaths climb.}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-59ffb834}{U.S. lawmakers fail to extend
  federal jobless benefits that are set to expire Friday.}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-3cc76879}{New Jersey, which had made great
  strides against the virus, sees a worrisome uptick in cases.}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-177c5cda}{Here's how New York City schools
  plan to handle a positive test for someone in a classroom.}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-e01ef62}{Herman Cain dies after being
  hospitalized with the virus.}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-6923e1fe}{Brazil reported a record number of
  virus deaths, and its first lady tested positive. It also opened its
  border to foreigners.}
\end{itemize}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/07/30/us/30virus-briefing-testify/merlin_173848605_a09fc026-d521-4526-864d-7c39d731e216-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\hypertarget{as-states-scramble-to-put-out-fires-fauci-and-other-top-us-health-officials-will-go-back-before-congress}{%
\subsection{As states scramble to put out fires, Fauci and other top
U.S. health officials will go back before
Congress.}\label{as-states-scramble-to-put-out-fires-fauci-and-other-top-us-health-officials-will-go-back-before-congress}}

Two days after U.S. deaths surpassed 150,000, three familiar federal
health officials, including Dr. Anthony S. Fauci, will return to Capitol
Hill to testify in front of a new audience: the House's special select
committee investigating the Trump administration's response to the
pandemic.

Dr. Fauci, the nation's top infectious disease expert, will be joined on
Friday morning by Dr. Robert R. Redfield, the director of the Centers
for Disease Control and Prevention, and Adm. Brett P. Giroir, the
assistant secretary for health and the administration's point person on
coronavirus testing.

The hearing begins at 9 a.m. and will be streamed online by The New York
Times.

The three witnesses last testified a month ago before lawmakers in the
Republican-controlled Senate, when the subject was school reopenings.

But the Democrat-led House select committee has had a hard time securing
Dr. Fauci and his colleagues as witnesses. The Trump administration
initially refused to make them available to the panel before relenting
to the demands of Democrats.

The hearing is taking place as states across the country are reimposing
limits amid a resurgence of cases --- a turn of events reflected in the
title lawmakers gave the hearing: ``The Urgent Need for a National Plan
to Contain the Coronavirus.''

The session is expected to center on three overlapping subjects:
testing, vaccines and the push in some quarters to send children back to
school. On Thursday, the president, meeting with reporters, again
stressed his desire for students to return to the classroom.

With President Trump clearly intent on announcing promising vaccine
news, it has fallen to Dr. Fauci to offer reassurances that the federal
government is moving quickly but safely.

Dr. Redfield will most likely be asked about the C.D.C.'s shift on
reopening schools. The
agency's\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/24/health/cdc-schools-coronavirus.html}{recently
published guidelines} tilt strongly toward reopening, listing numerous
benefits of in-person education and playing down the potential health
risks.

For Admiral Giroir. the questions are likely to focus on the delays in
test results across the South, where local health officials have
complained of excruciating wait times.

The coronavirus panel was established this spring by Speaker Nancy
Pelosi in large part to put a check on how the federal government is
spending the trillions of dollars in emergency aid. But its mandate has
broadened to include a panoply of issues, including
\href{https://coronavirus.house.gov/subcommittee-activity/briefings/coronavirus-panel-hold-member-briefing-racial-health-disparities}{racial
disparities in the pandemic} and
\href{https://coronavirus.house.gov/subcommittee-activity/briefings/devastating-impact-coronavirus-crisis-america-s-nursing-homes}{nursing
home outbreaks}.

The panel includes some of the most fiery members of the House,
including Representative Jim Jordan, the Ohio Republican who has been a
regular skeptic of Dr. Fauci and public health mandates, including mask
wearing.

A number of prominent House Democrats who sit on the panel are also not
known for shying away from conflict, including the chairman of the
committee, Representative James E. Clyburn of South Carolina, and
Representative Maxine Waters of California.

The hearing will take place one day after Florida and Arizona broke
their single-day records for deaths from the virus, reporting 253 and
158, respectively, on Thursday. Mississippi also set a record, with 48
deaths. That state and three others --- Missouri, Hawaii and Ohio ---
set single-day records for new cases.

\hypertarget{the-crisis-mounts-in-the-us-as-the-economy-contracts-and-deaths-climb}{%
\subsection{The crisis mounts in the U.S. as the economy contracts and
deaths
climb.}\label{the-crisis-mounts-in-the-us-as-the-economy-contracts-and-deaths-climb}}

Image

Health care workers preparing coronavirus tests this week in Orlando,
Fla.Credit...Eve Edelheit for The New York Times

The coronavirus pandemic's unrelenting toll came into sharper focus on
Thursday as the United States announced that it had suffered its
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/07/30/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&module=Top\%20Stories\&pgtype=Homepage}{worst
economic contraction on record} this spring, several states reported
record numbers of deaths as the nation mourned
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/29/us/coronavirus-deaths-150000.html}{150,000}
and an
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/07/30/upshot/coronavirus-stimulus-bill.html}{impasse
in Washington} threatened to leave millions of jobless Americans facing
the loss of federal aid.

As the Senate continued its stalemate ahead of Friday's expiration of
the weekly \$600 in federal jobless aid, President Trump, whose unsteady
handling of the virus has left him trailing in the polls, floated the
idea of changing the date of the presidential election --- which he has
no authority to do, and which instantly drew
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/30/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&module=Top\%20Stories\&pgtype=Homepage}{rare
rebukes from top Republicans}.

The president, who has been pushing for schools across the country to
reopen for in-person instruction and calling on more governors to reopen
their states even as federal data shows
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/07/28/us/states-report-virus-response-july-26.html}{serious
outbreaks across many states}, broached the idea on Twitter, writing,
``Delay the Election until people can properly, securely and safely
vote???''

And as the U.S. surpassed 150,000 deaths, the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/world/coronavirus-maps.html}{highest
toll of any nation in the world,} Arizona, California, Florida and
Mississippi all set records this week for the most deaths they have
reported in a single day. Herman Cain, the businessman who made a bid
for the Republican presidential nomination in 2012, died of the virus.

Arizona reported 158 new deaths on Thursday, a single-day record,
according to a New York Times database. Florida set death records three
days in a row this week, hitting its latest record, 253, on Thursday.
And California saw back-to-back records, with 172 deaths reported on
Tuesday and 192 on Wednesday.

In recent days the number of new cases in those states have stopped
spiking, but the virus continues to spread widely and infect thousands
of people. On average, in Arizona, there have been about 2,500 new cases
a day; in California, more than 9,000 new cases a day; and more than
10,000 a day in Florida, which leads the country with the most new cases
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html}{per
100,000 in the past week}, according to the Times database.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html}{Tracking
the Coronavirus~›}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html}{}

\hypertarget{where-cases-are-rising-fastest}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{Where cases are \textbf{rising}
fastest}{Where cases are rising fastest}}\label{where-cases-are-rising-fastest}}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/hawaii-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

Hawaii

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/alaska-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

Alaska

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/new-jersey-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

N.J.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/missouri-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

Mo.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/rhode-island-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

R.I.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/massachusetts-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

Mass.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/mississippi-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

Miss.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/maryland-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

Md.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/oklahoma-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

Okla.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/south-dakota-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

S.D.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/kentucky-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

Ky.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/nebraska-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

Neb.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html}{}

\hypertarget{us-hot-spots-}{%
\subsubsection{U.S. hot spots~›}\label{us-hot-spots-}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2020/03/16/coronavirus-maps/ede29db66044639aecd12edb0a3b7696a30be7e6/images/orphan_usa-threeByTwoSmallAt2X.png}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/world/coronavirus-maps.html}{}

\hypertarget{worldwide-}{%
\subsubsection{Worldwide~›}\label{worldwide-}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2020/03/16/coronavirus-maps/ede29db66044639aecd12edb0a3b7696a30be7e6/images/orphan_world-threeByTwoSmallAt2X.png}

\hypertarget{us-lawmakers-fail-to-extend-federal-jobless-benefits-that-are-set-to-expire-friday}{%
\subsection{U.S. lawmakers fail to extend federal jobless benefits that
are set to expire
Friday.}\label{us-lawmakers-fail-to-extend-federal-jobless-benefits-that-are-set-to-expire-friday}}

Image

``I wouldn't say that optimism is the word I would characterize in
negotiations,'' Steven Mnuchin, the Treasury secretary, said on Thursday
after meeting with top Democrat leaders.Credit...Anna Moneymaker for The
New York Times

Top Democrats on Thursday rejected the Trump administration's proposal
for a short-term agreement to address the looming expiration of enhanced
unemployment benefits, administration officials said.

Steven Mnuchin, the Treasury secretary, and Mark Meadows, the White
House chief of staff, spent nearly two hours in the Capitol Hill suite
of Speaker Nancy Pelosi of California, along with Senator Chuck Schumer
of New York, the minority leader, where the two Democrats ``made clear
they don't want to do that,'' Mr. Mnuchin said afterward.

``Our proposals were not received warmly,'' Mr. Meadows said afterward,
later adding, ``I wouldn't say that optimism is the word I would
characterize in negotiations.''

Ms. Pelosi and Mr. Schumer said they had insisted that any agreement
needed to be broad and comprehensive. ``We just don't think they
understand the gravity of the problem,'' Mr. Schumer told reporters.

``I think they understand that we have to have a bill,'' Ms. Pelosi
added, ``but they just don't realize how big it has to be.''

With negotiations over the broader recovery package stalled, Senate
Republicans tried to pass the stand-alone bill, which would have
continued the extra jobless aid payments through the end of the year,
but slash them to \$200 a week from \$600.

Democrats blocked the effort and instead tried to pass the \$3 trillion
stimulus measure the House approved in May, which includes an extension
of the full \$600 benefit through January.

Republicans blocked that legislation, dismissing it as too costly and
too broad in scope.

The group of negotiators plan to continue talks on Friday, either by
phone or in person.

U.S. Roundup

\hypertarget{new-jersey-which-had-made-great-strides-against-the-virus-sees-a-worrisome-uptick-in-cases}{%
\subsection{New Jersey, which had made great strides against the virus,
sees a worrisome uptick in
cases.}\label{new-jersey-which-had-made-great-strides-against-the-virus-sees-a-worrisome-uptick-in-cases}}

Image

New Jersey had recently recorded its lowest seven-day total since the
worst of the outbreak in early April.Credit...Theo Wargo/Getty Images

Cases in New Jersey, which recently plunged to their lowest levels since
the pandemic began, are rising again.

Just a week ago, New Jersey recorded its lowest seven-day average of new
daily cases --- 224 --- since the numbers peaked in the state in early
April, according to
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/new-jersey-coronavirus-cases.html}{a
database maintained by The New York Times.} But cases have been rising
since then, and the state has averaged 416 cases per day over the past
week.

The increase, which came after the state moved to ease a number of
restrictions, has worried elected leaders and public health officials,
who say that young people who are enjoying summer parties are not taking
enough precautions.

A party that dozens of Long Beach Island lifeguards attended has been
linked to 35 cases of the virus, according to the state's health
commissioner. A house party in Middletown, N.J., has been blamed for 65
new cases; 52 of the people infected were between the ages of 15 and 19,
Gov. Philip D. Murphy said. Judith M. Persichilli, the state health
commissioner, \href{https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oqLsxnOmEAc}{said
Wednesday} that 15 Rutgers football players had tested positive.

And a house party in Jackson, N.J., about 65 miles south of Manhattan,
drew more than 700 people on Sunday night, leading the police to issue
tickets to its organizers. More than 100 cars were parked outside, and
it took the police more than five hours to clear the scene.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-global-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/01/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: Global Coronavirus
Outbreak}}{Latest Updates: Global Coronavirus Outbreak}}\label{latest-updates-global-coronavirus-outbreak}}

Updated 2020-08-01T19:42:17.410Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/01/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-3ac56579}{Top
  officials work to break impasse over jobless benefit.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/01/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-8796723}{The
  virus picks up dangerous speed in the Midwest, and in areas that had
  seen success.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/01/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-25930521}{Thousands
  in Berlin protest Germany's coronavirus measures.}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/01/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

More live coverage:
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/07/31/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Markets}

Officials with the governor's office noted that despite the uptick, New
Jersey continues to be among the six states with the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html\#states}{fewest
new daily infections} per 100,000 residents. Some of the increase in the
past week also can be linked to a lag in testing results, which they
said are sometimes delivered in large bulk batches, skewing the daily
case counts.

Perry N. Halkitis, an epidemiologist and dean of the Rutgers School of
Public Health, agreed the delay in testing results muddies the daily
data report. But he said the seven-day trend is alarming.

``It's time for us to say, `Indicators are bad,''' Professor Halkitis
said. ``People are just gathering with no thought in mind.''

He added, ``It's almost like we have to re-pause, right now, before it
gets too late.''

Here's what else is happening around the United States:

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \textbf{Wisconsin}'s governor announced on Thursday that he will
  require people to wear face coverings indoors starting Saturday and
  strongly recommends that people wear them outdoors and when they
  cannot social distance.
\item
  Public schools in \textbf{Washington, D.C.,} will all rely on remote
  teaching until Nov. 6, the mayor said on Thursday. The Washington
  Teachers' Union had petitioned the mayor to issue the order, as cases
  in the Washington metropolitan region continued to tick upward.
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  An experimental coronavirus vaccine developed by Johnson \& Johnson
  \textbf{protected}
  \textbf{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/30/health/covid-19-vaccine-monkeys.html}{monkeys
  from infection}} in a new study.
\item
  The ``Breaking Bad'' star \textbf{Bryan Cranston} revealed on Thursday
  that he had
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/31/arts/television/bryan-cranston-coronavirus-plasma.html}{recovered
  from the coronavir}us and shared a video of himself donating plasma,
  which he said had virus antibodies that could possibly help others.
\item
  Several states broke records on Thursday for the most cases they have
  reported in a single day: \textbf{Mississippi} with 1,775 cases;
  \textbf{Missouri} with more than 1,600 cases; and \textbf{Ohio} with
  1,733 cases.
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{heres-how-new-york-city-schools-plan-to-handle-a-positive-test-for-someone-in-a-classroom}{%
\subsection{Here's how New York City schools plan to handle a positive
test for someone in a
classroom.}\label{heres-how-new-york-city-schools-plan-to-handle-a-positive-test-for-someone-in-a-classroom}}

Image

P.S. 241 in the Crown Heights neighborhood of Brooklyn closed in April
because of the pandemic.Credit...Kirsten Luce for The New York Times

Education officials in New York City,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/14/us/coronavirus-schools-fall.html}{one
of the few large districts in the country that are still planning to
open schools in the fall}, laid out a plan on Thursday for what would
happen in the seemingly inevitable event that cases of the coronavirus
are confirmed in a classroom.

The protocol means it is likely that at many of the city's 1,800
schools, individual classrooms or even entire buildings will be closed
at points during the school year. Although the city's test positivity
rate and caseload are relatively low, many public health experts expect
those numbers to tick up this fall, whether or not schools reopen.

Officials said confirmed infections among students, teachers and staff
members would be treated the same. One or two confirmed cases in a
single classroom would require those classes to close for 14 days; all
students and staff members in that classroom would be ordered to
self-quarantine, and students would learn remotely. The rest of the
school would continue to operate.

But if two or more people in different classrooms in the same school
tested positive, the entire building would close while disease
detectives from the city's Department of Health were brought in to
investigate the cases, which could take several days. Depending on the
results of the investigation, the building could reopen, but the
classrooms with positive cases would remain closed for 14 days.

If disease detectives were not able to find a link between two or more
confirmed cases in a building, including exposure to the virus outside
of school, the entire building would remain shuttered for two weeks.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/08/nyregion/nyc-schools-reopening-plan.html}{New
York City is currently planning to reopen its schools on a hybrid model
starting Sept. 10}, with students reporting to classrooms one to three
days a week to allow for social distancing. All staff members will be
asked to take coronavirus tests before the start of school, with
expedited results.

Mayor Bill de Blasio's
administration\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/06/nyregion/nyc-school-reopening-plan.html}{faced
enormous criticism for waiting until mid-March to close schools}, after
the virus had already begun to spread significantly throughout the city,
which soon became a global center of the crisis. Throughout March, when
a student or staff member tested positive, the school would
automatically close for 24 hours for cleaning, a protocol that many
parents and teachers said was too lax.

Other states, including California, have announced less stringent
policies for how to manage positive cases in schools. But most
California school districts will begin the academic year exclusively
online because of the high numbers of cases in their communities.

\hypertarget{herman-cain-dies-after-being-hospitalized-with-the-virus}{%
\subsection{Herman Cain dies after being hospitalized with the
virus.}\label{herman-cain-dies-after-being-hospitalized-with-the-virus}}

Image

Herman Cain in 2014. He attended President Trump's rally in Tulsa,
Okla., last month and tested positive for the coronavirus shortly
after.Credit...Molly Riley/Associated Press

Herman Cain, who
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2011/12/04/us/politics/herman-cain-suspends-his-presidential-campaign.html}{made
a bid} for the Republican presidential nomination in the 2012 race and
was a recent contender for a top Federal Reserve job,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/30/us/politics/herman-cain-dead.html}{died
after being hospitalized with the coronavirus}, according to
\href{https://hermancain.com/heartbroken-world-poorer-herman-cain-gone-lord/?ff_source=twitter\&ff_medium=thenewvoice\&ff_content=2020-07-30}{an
announcement} posted to his personal website and on his verified social
media \href{https://twitter.com/THEHermanCain}{accounts}.

Mr. Cain, 74, was the former chief executive of Godfather's Pizza. Mr.
Trump
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/04/04/business/herman-cain-federal-reserve.html}{said
in 2019} that he was planning to nominate him to the Federal Reserve
Board, but Mr. Cain
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/04/22/us/politics/trump-herman-cain-federal-reserve.html}{withdrew
his name} as he battled old accusations of sexual harassment, the same
ones that had halted his earlier presidential campaign.

``We knew when he was first hospitalized with Covid-19 that this was
going to be a rough fight,'' Dan Calabrese, editor of
\href{http://hermancain.com/}{HermanCain.com}, wrote on the website.
``Although he was basically pretty healthy in recent years, he was still
in a high-risk group because of his history with cancer.''

In 2018, Mr. Cain formed the America Fighting Back political action
committee, which had a mission of publicly rebutting what he believes is
misinformation about Mr. Trump.

He
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/02/us/politics/herman-cain-coronavirus.html}{was
admitted to a hospital with the coronavirus at the beginning of July}.
Mr. Cain attended Mr. Trump's indoor rally in Tulsa, Okla., on June 20.
A few hours before the event, the Trump campaign
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/20/us/politics/tulsa-trump-rally.html?searchResultPosition=64}{disclosed}
that six staff members who had been working on the rally had tested
positive during a routine screening. Two members of the Secret Service
also tested positive there, people familiar with the matter said.

In a video on his website, Mr. Cain described the rally and
\href{https://hermancain.com/trump-tulsa-rally-i-was-there/?utm_source=twitter\&utm_medium=thenewvoice\&utm_content=2020-06-22}{said
he had worn a mask} while in groups of people. But he also
\href{https://twitter.com/THEHermanCain/status/1274489632886075398?s=20}{posted
photographs} of himself on social media that showed him without a mask
and surrounded by people in the arena.

The statement on Mr. Cain's Twitter account in early July announcing he
had tested positive said that there was ``no way of knowing for sure how
or where Mr. Cain contracted the coronavirus.''

Mr. Cain, who was an official surrogate for Trump's 2020 re-election
campaign,
\href{https://www.westernjournal.com/herman-cain-tulsa-trump-rally-crowd-huge-enthusiastic/?utm_source=Twitter\&utm_medium=PostTopSharingButtons\&utm_campaign=websitesharingbuttons}{wrote
an op-ed after the rally} in which he defended the event, writing, ``The
media worked very hard to scare people out of attending the Trump
campaign rally last Saturday night in Tulsa.''

On July 8, the top health official in Tulsa said that a surge in cases
in and around Tulsa
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/08/us/politics/coronavirus-tulsa-trump-rally.html}{was
probably connected to Mr. Trump's campaign rally}.

\hypertarget{brazil-reported-a-record-number-of-virus-deaths-and-its-first-lady-tested-positive-it-also-opened-its-border-to-foreigners}{%
\subsection{Brazil reported a record number of virus deaths, and its
first lady tested positive. It also opened its border to
foreigners.}\label{brazil-reported-a-record-number-of-virus-deaths-and-its-first-lady-tested-positive-it-also-opened-its-border-to-foreigners}}

Image

Brasilia International Airport in May. Brazil has barred foreign
visitors since March.Credit...Ueslei Marcelino/Reuters

Michelle Bolsonaro, the wife of President Jair Bolsonaro of Brazil,
tested positive on Thursday, just days after Mr. Bolsonaro said he had
been cured.

Mrs. Bolsonaro is the latest prominent figure in Brasília to get the
virus, which her husband has dismissed as a ``measly flu.''

The president's office disclosed her illness a day after Brazil reported
a record number of virus deaths. The government nevertheless decided to
\href{http://www.in.gov.br/en/web/dou/-/portaria-cc-pr/mjsp/minfra/ms-n-1-de-29-de-julho-de-2020-269235614}{reopen
its borders} to foreigners, doing away with restrictions that had been
in place since March. A decree published on Wednesday night said
visitors were now allowed to fly to Brazil as long as they could prove
that they were covered by health insurance for the duration of their
trip.

Other countries in Latin America, like Argentina and Colombia --- which
are reporting far fewer cases than Brazil --- are keeping their borders
closed to international flights.

Travelers crossing the border through land and sea are still barred,
with some exceptions, and most incoming foreigners are still are not
allowed at international airports in five of Brazil's 27 states. The
government didn't offer an explanation for its decision.

Brazil has now reported more than 90,000 deaths and 2.5 million cases,
the highest figures after the United States.

Here are other developments from around the globe:

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  Amid a steady rise in cases and deaths in the \textbf{Philippines},
  President Rodrigo Duterte announced the extension of virus
  restrictions in Manila until mid-August. A spokesman for Mr. Duterte
  said that in addition to wearing face masks in public, face shields
  would now be mandatory for Manila residents. Mr. Duterte said that he
  expects China to develop a vaccine by December, and that he would
  distribute a vaccine for free.
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  President Adama Barrow of \textbf{Gambia} went into isolation after
  the vice president, Isatou Touray, tested positive for the virus,
  Reuters reported.
\item
  On Friday, \textbf{Japan} announced 1,305 new cases, breaking a record
  set the day before. As cases spike in Tokyo, Gov. Yuriko Koike has
  requested that karaoke venues and bars and restaurants serving alcohol
  close by 10 p.m. from Aug. 3 through the end of the month. Businesses
  that cooperate will be offered 200,000 yen, or about \$1,900.
\item
  \textbf{Vietnam} also announced a record on Friday, with 45 new cases
  in one day, The Associated Press reported. The country is fighting a
  resurgence after going more than three months with no new cases.
\item
  The \textbf{Hong Kong} government on Friday began allowing restaurant
  dining until 6 p.m., only two days after banning dine-in arrangements
  for breakfast and lunch. The measure had quickly triggered a backlash,
  with social media filled with images of people eating outside in the
  rain and summer heat. Hong Kong is seeing its most severe surge in
  infections, with more than 100 new cases daily for the past week.
\item
  Quarantines are the latest way to
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/30/world/asia/coronavirus-china-qurantine.html}{silence
  dissent} in \textbf{China}, according to human rights activists.
  Activists in quarantine are often detained without their families'
  knowledge, according to Frances Eve, deputy director of research at
  Chinese Human Rights Defenders. ``This treatment is de facto enforced
  disappearance,'' she said.
\item
  Anyone with symptoms of Covid-19 in \textbf{Britain} will now have to
  isolate for 10 days instead of seven, as the authorities said they may
  take new measures to hold off a second wave of infections that has
  started to appear across Europe.
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{restrictions-in-senegal-led-to-a-sheep-shortage-before-the-countrys-biggest-holiday}{%
\subsection{Restrictions in Senegal led to a sheep shortage before the
country's biggest
holiday.}\label{restrictions-in-senegal-led-to-a-sheep-shortage-before-the-countrys-biggest-holiday}}

Image

Yaya Ka, a herder at one of Senegal's largest sheep markets in Missirah,
gathering his charges into a truck two weeks before the Eid al-Adha
holiday, known as Tabaski in Senegal.Credit...Ricci Shryock for The New
York Times

Tabaski, the Senegalese version of Eid al-Adha, is the biggest religious
celebration of the year in a country that is about 95 percent Muslim.
Properly celebrating it requires a sacrificial sheep.

But
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/29/world/africa/senegal-tabaski-sheep-eid-adha.html}{government-imposed
measures to contain the coronavirus} --- borders closing, markets
shuttering and travel severely restricted --- have been financially
devastating for many people. The sheep, a purchase of great cultural and
social significance, is beyond reach for many this year.

The sheep's role in the Tabaski celebration is far more central than
just providing a meal. Eid al-Adha honors the story of Ibrahim, whom God
asked to sacrifice his cherished son, Ismail, but then told him at the
last minute he could swap in a ram.

This year, in an effort to alleviate worries about catching the virus at
in-person markets, the livestock ministry set up a Tinder-like digital
matchmaking site where sellers could post appealing photos of their
sheep. Buyers were able to swipe left or right through hundreds of sheep
profiles, and then arrange a deal for the preferred animal, skipping
hours of risky face-to-face haggling.

But even if a would-be buyer finds a sheep, it may not be affordable. A
\$140 sheep last year now costs more than \$170, with the hike
attributable to the ripple effects of virus restrictions.

About half of Senegal's Tabaski sheep come from neighboring Mali and
Mauritania. Until late June, all the herds were stuck on the other side
of the border. And even though the bovid border has been reopened, the
expected surge of sheep has not materialized. One reason is that sheep
now must be transported only in trucks, and many drivers are charging
twice as much as usual to move the animals.

\hypertarget{with-us-cases-near-record-highs-trump-dismisses-wider-shutdowns-and-calls-again-for-schools-to-reopen}{%
\subsection{With U.S. cases near record highs, Trump dismisses wider
shutdowns and calls again for schools to
reopen.}\label{with-us-cases-near-record-highs-trump-dismisses-wider-shutdowns-and-calls-again-for-schools-to-reopen}}

Image

President Trump arriving for a news conference Thursday.Credit...Doug
Mills/The New York Times

Mr. Trump said Thursday that a renewed economic shutdown to contain the
virus is ``not a viable option'' for responding to the recent surge in
case numbers nationwide.

``The primary purpose of a shutdown was to `flatten the curve,''' to
prevent hospitals from becoming overwhelmed and to buy time for new
treatments and therapies, Mr. Trump said in a briefing at the White
House.

``And we've done that,'' he said.

Mr. Trump allowed that ``a small shutdown of certain areas'' might be
helpful for short periods. A federal report issued this week urged state
officials to impose more restrictions to try to curb the spread in 21
states considered to be in the ``red zone'' of outbreaks.

``A blanket shutdown to achieve a temporary reduction in cases is
certainly not a viable long-term strategy for any country,'' said Mr.
Trump, who noted that several U.S. states that once appeared to have
contained the virus, including California, have recently seen a steep
rise in cases.

Mr. Trump continued to press for schools to reopen, claiming that
``young people are almost immune'' to the virus.

While it is true that only a very small percentage of children have
shown symptoms and tested positive for the virus, there is a growing
body of evidence that children can spread the virus to others.

A large
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/18/health/coronavirus-children-schools.html}{study
from South Korea} found that children and teenagers between the ages of
10 and 19 can spread the virus at least as well as adults do, and that
while children younger than 10 transmit to others much less often than
adults do, the risk is not zero.

And a small
\href{https://jamanetwork.com/journals/jamapediatrics/fullarticle/2768952}{study}
published on Thursday found that infected children may have at least as
much of the virus in their noses and throats as infected adults, and
that children younger than 5 may host up to 100 times as much of the
virus in the upper respiratory tract as adults.

That
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/30/health/coronavirus-children.html}{does
not necessarily mean that children are passing the virus to others}.
Still, the findings should factor into the debate over reopening
schools, several experts said.

``I've heard lots of people saying, `Well, kids aren't susceptible, kids
don't get infected.' And this clearly shows that's not true,'' said
Stacey Schultz-Cherry, a virologist at St. Jude Children's Research
Hospital.

\hypertarget{the-us-economy-has-shrunk-at-the-fastest-pace-on-record}{%
\subsection{The U.S. economy has shrunk at the fastest pace on
record.}\label{the-us-economy-has-shrunk-at-the-fastest-pace-on-record}}

Image

A food bank in Davis, Calif., last week. The last quarter's economic
collapse was unprecedented in its speed and breathtaking in its
severity.Credit...Max Whittaker for The New York Times

Economic output fell at its fastest pace on record in spring as
businesses across the United States closed and kept millions shut in
their homes for weeks.

Gross domestic product --- the broadest measure of goods and services
produced --- fell 9.5 **** percent in the second quarter, the Commerce
Department said Thursday. On an annualized basis, G.D.P. fell at a rate
of 32.9 percent.

The collapse was unprecedented in its speed and breathtaking in its
severity. By comparison, economic output fell 4 percent during the
entirety of the Great Recession a decade ago --- and took 18 months to
sink that far. The only possible comparisons in modern American history
came during the Great Depression and the demobilization after World War
II, both of which occurred before the advent of modern economic
statistics.

What's more, fears are growing that after rebounding strongly in May and
June, the economy has run out of steam, with many states closing
businesses again after coronavirus cases surged.

Also on Thursday, the government reported that 1.43 million **** people
filed new claims for state unemployment benefits.

It was the 19th straight week that the tally exceeded a million, an
unheard-of figure before the coronavirus pandemic.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/03/03/us/coronavirus-us-cases-map-promo-1583277425489/coronavirus-us-cases-map-promo-1583277425489-articleLarge-v628.png}

\hypertarget{coronavirus-in-the-us-latest-map-and-case-count}{%
\subsection{Coronavirus in the U.S.: Latest Map and Case
Count}\label{coronavirus-in-the-us-latest-map-and-case-count}}

A detailed county map shows the extent of the coronavirus outbreak, with
tables of the number of cases by county.

Key Data of the day

\hypertarget{newly-compiled-statistics-show-the-viruss-deadly-path-across-europe-in-the-spring}{%
\subsection{Newly compiled statistics show the virus's deadly path
across Europe in the
spring.}\label{newly-compiled-statistics-show-the-viruss-deadly-path-across-europe-in-the-spring}}

Image

An intensive care ward in Surrey, England, in May. In its worst weeks of
the pandemic, England had more than twice the usual number of
deaths.Credit...Pool photo by Steve Parsons

Europe had nearly 50 percent more deaths than normal at the peak of the
outbreak, according to
\href{https://www.ons.gov.uk/peoplepopulationandcommunity/birthsdeathsandmarriages/deaths/articles/comparisonsofallcausemortalitybetweeneuropeancountriesandregions/januarytojune2020}{data
compiled by Britain's} and
\href{https://www.insee.fr/fr/statistiques/4637552}{France's} national
statistics agencies, with tens of thousands more people dying the last
week of March and the first week of April than in previous years.

As Europe
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/21/world/europe/italy-coronavirus-center-lessons.html}{became
the center of the pandemic} in the late winter and early spring, many
countries implemented nationwide lockdowns, which was already killing
thousands. Most of the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/04/21/world/coronavirus-missing-deaths.html}{excess
deaths} were in four big, hard-hit countries --- Britain, Italy, Spain
and France.

In their worst weeks, Belgium, England, France and Spain all had more
than twice as many deaths than was usual for the time of year.

England had the second-highest peak mortality after Spain in Europe, and
``the longest continuous period of excess mortality,'' according to a
report published by Britain's Office for National Statistics on
Wednesday. Britain had registered over
\href{https://www.ons.gov.uk/peoplepopulationandcommunity/birthsdeathsandmarriages/deaths/datasets/weeklyprovisionalfiguresondeathsregisteredinenglandandwales}{55,000
confirmed deaths} as of mid-July, and is the worst-hit country in
Europe.

Although European countries encountered wide discrepancies in their
excess deaths, most saw a rise over the course of two deadly weeks, from
March 30 to April 12. During the last week of March, the deadliest
across Europe with 33,000 excess deaths, Spain alone registered over
12,500 more deaths than would be expected when compared with data from
2016 to 2019, a 155 percent increase, and Italy over 6,500, according to
data provided by the French national statistics agency, INSEE. The
following week, Belgium recorded over 2,000 excess deaths, an increase
of nearly 110 percent compared with data from previous years.

The virus has
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/25/world/europe/Spain-coronavirus-nursing-homes.html}{depleted
nursing homes} across the continent,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/03/world/europe/coronavirus-health-workers-uk.html}{infected
thousands of health care workers}, and revealed how some of the most
stable countries in the world were
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/20/world/europe/coronavirus-mistakes-france-uk-italy.html}{unprepared
for a pandemic}, although several national security agencies had defined
it as one of the most critical threats that their countries could face.

The surge in deaths was highest among elderly people, according to the
statistics provided by Britain and France, with northern Italy and
central Spain the hardest-hit areas across the continent.

\hypertarget{need-help-confronting-the-stress-of-school-reopenings}{%
\subsection{Need help confronting the stress of school
reopenings?}\label{need-help-confronting-the-stress-of-school-reopenings}}

If you're dealing with uncertainty about school options this fall, here
are some ideas to consider.

SPORTS ROUNDUP

\hypertarget{the-nba-is-finally-back-tonight-heres-your-guide-to-the-action}{%
\subsection{The N.B.A. is finally back tonight. Here's your guide to the
action.}\label{the-nba-is-finally-back-tonight-heres-your-guide-to-the-action}}

Image

Games will take place inside a bubble at Walt Disney World near Orlando,
Fla.Credit...Ashley Landis/Associated Press

More than four months after the N.B.A. suspended its season,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/30/sports/basketball/nba-schedule.html}{the
league on Thursday night will stage a pair of real games} --- ones that
actually count in the standings --- inside its bubble at Walt Disney
World near Orlando, Fla.

After the Utah Jazz and the New Orleans Pelicans christen the
festivities at 6:30 p.m. Eastern time, they will clear the stage so that
the two heavyweights from Los Angeles --- the Clippers and the Lakers
--- can reacquaint themselves at 9 p.m. Eastern time in what could be a
preview of the Western Conference finals. The doubleheader will be
broadcast by TNT.

Thursday's games are the culmination of
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/nba-return-health-rules.html}{an
enormous gambit by the league}, which desperately hopes to finish the
season without any problems. (Looking at you,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/27/sports/baseball/marlins-game-canceled.html}{Major
League Baseball}.) So far, the N.B.A.'s highly restrictive campus has
remained secure. On Tuesday, the league reported that none of the 344
players in the bubble had tested positive since the results were last
announced on July 20.

Here's what else is happening in the sports world:

\begin{itemize}
\item
  A
  \textbf{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/30/sports/baseball/phillies-blue-jays-postponed-coronavirus.html}{Phillies}}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/30/sports/baseball/phillies-blue-jays-postponed-coronavirus.html}{coach
  and clubhouse attendant tested positive}, leading to more disorder in
  M.L.B.'s schedule.
\item
  The
  \textbf{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/30/sports/hockey/nwhl-postpone-season.html}{National
  Women's Hockey League}} announced plans on Wednesday to postpone the
  start of its season from November to January, becoming one of the
  first North American professional leagues to move its schedule to 2021
  because of the pandemic.
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{despite-virus-limits-trump-may-attend-the-un-general-assembly-in-person-an-envoy-says}{%
\subsection{Despite virus limits, Trump may attend the U.N. General
Assembly in person, an envoy
says.}\label{despite-virus-limits-trump-may-attend-the-un-general-assembly-in-person-an-envoy-says}}

The American ambassador to the United Nations raised the possibility on
Thursday that President Trump would travel to the world body in
September to deliver his General Assembly speech, even as other world
leaders and their entourages stay away because of virus restrictions.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{}

\hypertarget{the-coronavirus-outbreak-}{%
\subsubsection{The Coronavirus Outbreak
›}\label{the-coronavirus-outbreak-}}

\hypertarget{frequently-asked-questions}{%
\paragraph{Frequently Asked
Questions}\label{frequently-asked-questions}}

Updated July 27, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{should-i-refinance-my-mortgage}{%
  \paragraph{Should I refinance my
  mortgage?}\label{should-i-refinance-my-mortgage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/coronavirus-money-unemployment.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{It
    could be a good idea,} because mortgage rates have
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/16/business/mortgage-rates-below-3-percent.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{never
    been lower.} Refinancing requests have pushed mortgage applications
    to some of the highest levels since 2008, so be prepared to get in
    line. But defaults are also up, so if you're thinking about buying a
    home, be aware that some lenders have tightened their standards.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{what-is-school-going-to-look-like-in-september}{%
  \paragraph{What is school going to look like in
  September?}\label{what-is-school-going-to-look-like-in-september}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    It is unlikely that many schools will return to a normal schedule
    this fall, requiring the grind of
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/05/us/coronavirus-education-lost-learning.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{online
    learning},
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/29/us/coronavirus-child-care-centers.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{makeshift
    child care} and
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/03/business/economy/coronavirus-working-women.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{stunted
    workdays} to continue. California's two largest public school
    districts --- Los Angeles and San Diego --- said on July 13, that
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/13/us/lausd-san-diego-school-reopening.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{instruction
    will be remote-only in the fall}, citing concerns that surging
    coronavirus infections in their areas pose too dire a risk for
    students and teachers. Together, the two districts enroll some
    825,000 students. They are the largest in the country so far to
    abandon plans for even a partial physical return to classrooms when
    they reopen in August. For other districts, the solution won't be an
    all-or-nothing approach.
    \href{https://bioethics.jhu.edu/research-and-outreach/projects/eschool-initiative/school-policy-tracker/}{Many
    systems}, including the nation's largest, New York City, are
    devising
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/26/us/coronavirus-schools-reopen-fall.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{hybrid
    plans} that involve spending some days in classrooms and other days
    online. There's no national policy on this yet, so check with your
    municipal school system regularly to see what is happening in your
    community.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{is-the-coronavirus-airborne}{%
  \paragraph{Is the coronavirus
  airborne?}\label{is-the-coronavirus-airborne}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    The coronavirus
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/04/health/239-experts-with-one-big-claim-the-coronavirus-is-airborne.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{can
    stay aloft for hours in tiny droplets in stagnant air}, infecting
    people as they inhale, mounting scientific evidence suggests. This
    risk is highest in crowded indoor spaces with poor ventilation, and
    may help explain super-spreading events reported in meatpacking
    plants, churches and restaurants.
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/06/health/coronavirus-airborne-aerosols.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{It's
    unclear how often the virus is spread} via these tiny droplets, or
    aerosols, compared with larger droplets that are expelled when a
    sick person coughs or sneezes, or transmitted through contact with
    contaminated surfaces, said Linsey Marr, an aerosol expert at
    Virginia Tech. Aerosols are released even when a person without
    symptoms exhales, talks or sings, according to Dr. Marr and more
    than 200 other experts, who
    \href{https://academic.oup.com/cid/article/doi/10.1093/cid/ciaa939/5867798}{have
    outlined the evidence in an open letter to the World Health
    Organization}.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{what-are-the-symptoms-of-coronavirus}{%
  \paragraph{What are the symptoms of
  coronavirus?}\label{what-are-the-symptoms-of-coronavirus}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Common symptoms
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/symptoms-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{include
    fever, a dry cough, fatigue and difficulty breathing or shortness of
    breath.} Some of these symptoms overlap with those of the flu,
    making detection difficult, but runny noses and stuffy sinuses are
    less common.
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/27/health/coronavirus-symptoms-cdc.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{The
    C.D.C. has also} added chills, muscle pain, sore throat, headache
    and a new loss of the sense of taste or smell as symptoms to look
    out for. Most people fall ill five to seven days after exposure, but
    symptoms may appear in as few as two days or as many as 14 days.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{does-asymptomatic-transmission-of-covid-19-happen}{%
  \paragraph{Does asymptomatic transmission of Covid-19
  happen?}\label{does-asymptomatic-transmission-of-covid-19-happen}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    So far, the evidence seems to show it does. A widely cited
    \href{https://www.nature.com/articles/s41591-020-0869-5}{paper}
    published in April suggests that people are most infectious about
    two days before the onset of coronavirus symptoms and estimated that
    44 percent of new infections were a result of transmission from
    people who were not yet showing symptoms. Recently, a top expert at
    the World Health Organization stated that transmission of the
    coronavirus by people who did not have symptoms was ``very rare,''
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/09/world/coronavirus-updates.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq\#link-1f302e21}{but
    she later walked back that statement.}
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

United Nations diplomats have said that this year's annual General
Assembly would sharply be scaled back and that much of it would be held
virtually, with leaders of the 193 member states delivering speeches via
recorded messages. It would be the first time in the 75-year history of
the United Nations that the leaders will not gather physically for what
is known as the high-level week, the world's biggest diplomatic stage,
scheduled to start on Sept. 22.

The American ambassador, Kelly Craft, suggested that Mr. Trump might be
the exception and come anyway, as leader of the host country. ``We're
hoping that President Trump will be speaking in person in the General
Assembly,'' Ms. Craft said in a livestreamed interview with Stuart
Holliday, a former American diplomat and president of
\href{https://www.meridian.org/}{Meridian International}, a nonprofit
group that promotes diplomacy. ``He will be the only world leader that
will be speaking in person.''

There was no immediate confirmation from the White House press office
concerning Mr. Trump's General Assembly plans.

The president of the General Assembly, Tijjani Muhammad-Bande of
Nigeria, said last month that it would be impractical for world leaders
to attend the high-level event this year, given that most of them travel
with enormous retinues of aides, making it difficult or impossible to
adhere to the social-distancing requirements of the pandemic. ``We
cannot have them in person as we used to,'' Mr. Muhammad-Bande said,
referring to the past 74 years of the annual event.

\hypertarget{the-supreme-court-wont-allow-electronic-signatures-for-an-idaho-ballot-initiative}{%
\subsection{The Supreme Court won't allow electronic signatures for an
Idaho ballot
initiative.}\label{the-supreme-court-wont-allow-electronic-signatures-for-an-idaho-ballot-initiative}}

The Supreme Court on Thursday
\href{https://www.supremecourt.gov/opinions/19pdf/20a18_f2qg.pdf}{blocked
a judge's order} that would have allowed a group proposing a ballot
initiative in Idaho to collect signatures electronically because of the
pandemic.

The group, Reclaim Idaho, seeks to place a measure that would increase
spending on education on the November ballot. State law requires
hard-copy signatures.

The court's brief order was unsigned, and the vote count was impossible
to determine. But Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr., joined by Justices
Samuel A. Alito Jr., Neil M. Gorsuch and Brett M. Kavanaugh, issued an
opinion setting out his reasoning.

A stay of the Federal District Court judge's order was warranted, the
chief justice wrote, because the Supreme Court is likely to overturn it.
The order, he wrote, placed an unacceptable burden on state election
administrators.

``In addition to preparing for elections with a record number of
absentee ballot requests,'' the chief justice wrote, ``the county clerks
must now also learn, under extraordinary time pressures, how to verify
digital signatures through an entirely new system mandated by the
district court.''

Justice Sonia Sotomayor, joined by Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg,
dissented, saying that the justices should have waited for an appeals
court to rule before intervening in the case. This was, she added, part
of an unfortunate pattern.

``By jumping ahead of the court of appeals,'' she wrote, ``this court
once again forgets that it is `a court of review, not of first view' and
undermines the public's expectation that its highest court will act only
after considered deliberation.''

\hypertarget{the-diamond-princess-outbreak-offers-a-case-study-in-aerosol-transmission}{%
\subsection{The Diamond Princess outbreak offers a case study in aerosol
transmission.}\label{the-diamond-princess-outbreak-offers-a-case-study-in-aerosol-transmission}}

Image

The Diamond Princess cruise ship, docked in Yokohama, Japan, in
February. More than 700 of the 3,711 people on board tested positive for
the coronavirus.Credit...Kim Kyung Hoon/Reuters

A
\href{https://www.medrxiv.org/content/10.1101/2020.07.13.20153049v1}{new
analysis} of one of the most mysterious and dramatic virus outbreaks ---
aboard the Diamond Princess cruise ship early this year --- points to
small, floating droplets as a primary driver of virus transmission.

The analysis used computer simulations to model the outbreak on the
ship, in the same way disease modelers have reconstructed the virus's
spread with computer modeling. It found that small, floating particles
accounted for about 60 percent of new infections on the Diamond
Princess.

The new findings, if confirmed, would have major implications for making
indoor spaces safer and choosing among a panoply of personal protective
equipment.

The computer modeling adds a new dimension of support to an accumulating
body of evidence implicating small, airborne droplets in multiple
outbreaks, including at a
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/20/health/airflow-coronavirus-restaurants.html}{Chinese
restaurant} and among
\href{https://www.medrxiv.org/content/10.1101/2020.06.15.20132027v2}{choir
members in Washington State}.

``Many people have argued that airborne transmission is happening, but
no one had numbers for it,'' said Parham Azimi, an indoor-air researcher
at Harvard's T.H. Chan School of Public Health and the lead author of
the study. ``In this paper, we provide the first real estimates for what
that number could be, at least in the case of this cruise ship.''

One researcher not involved in the study, Julian Tang, an honorary
associate professor of respiratory sciences at the University of
Leicester in the United Kingdom, said the paper was ``the first attempt,
as far as I know, to formally compare the different routes of
coronavirus transmission, especially of short versus long-range
aerosols.''

\hypertarget{much-of-the-us-presidential-election-battleground-is-now-in-the-red-zone}{%
\subsection{Much of the U.S. presidential election battleground is now
in the `red
zone.'}\label{much-of-the-us-presidential-election-battleground-is-now-in-the-red-zone}}

Image

Miami Beach. Florida has reported two successive record daily death
tolls: 186 on Tuesday and 216 on Wednesday.Credit...Saul Martinez for
The New York Times

The virus has been spreading rapidly in four of six key
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/25/upshot/poll-2020-biden-battlegrounds.html}{battleground
states} crucial to the presidential election in November ---
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/arizona-coronavirus-cases.html}{Arizona},
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/florida-coronavirus-cases.html}{Florida},
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/north-carolina-coronavirus-cases.html}{North
Carolina} and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/wisconsin-coronavirus-cases.html}{Wisconsin}.
The states are among 21 recently declared to be in the ``red zone'' in a
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/07/28/us/states-report-virus-response-july-26.html}{report
by the federal government} because of the substantial number of new
virus cases reported there each day.

If the presumptive Democratic nominee and former vice president, Joseph
R. Biden Jr., wins the states won by Hillary Clinton four years ago,
many combinations of
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/29/us/politics/trump-swing-voters.html}{any
three of six swing states} would be enough to defeat Mr. Trump. In
addition to the four swing states labeled ``red zones,'' the list
includes
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/michigan-coronavirus-cases.html}{Michigan}
and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/pennsylvania-coronavirus-cases.html}{Pennsylvania},
which have not seen major spikes in cases in recent weeks.

Already many states are revisiting their mail-in voting policies, so
that voters will not have to go to polling stations and risk infection.
The six swing states have either always allowed relatively easy mail-in
voting or have recently made it easier.
\href{https://www.washingtonpost.com/graphics/2020/politics/vote-by-mail-states/}{Currently,
eight states} allow mail-in or absentee ballots only with an approved
excuse. The issue continues to be a point of contention between
Democrats and Republicans.

\href{https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/1288818160389558273}{Mr.
Trump on Thursday} raised the idea of delaying the election until people
could ``properly, securely and safely
vote???''\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/12/us/politics/kushner-election-november.html}{The
president, however, does not} have the authority to delay Election Day,
which by law
\href{https://www.loc.gov/law/help/statutes-at-large/28th-congress/session-2/c28s2ch1.pdf}{takes
place the Tuesday after the first Monday in November}.

A
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/28/upshot/polling-trump-virus-election.html}{recent
New York Times analysis} also suggests that the increasing number of
virus-related deaths is damaging Republican support in some communities.

\hypertarget{young-children-may-carry-the-virus-at-high-levels-a-small-study-finds}{%
\subsection{Young children may carry the virus at high levels, a small
study
finds.}\label{young-children-may-carry-the-virus-at-high-levels-a-small-study-finds}}

Image

Virus testing for young children in Kolkata, India. Experts said the
findings of a new study should factor in to the debate over reopening
schools.Credit...Dibyangshu Sarkar/Agence France-Presse --- Getty Images

\href{https://jamanetwork.com/journals/jamapediatrics/fullarticle/2768952}{A
study} published on Thursday introduced an unwelcome wrinkle into the
narrative about how young children are affected by the virus. Infected
children have at least as much of the virus in their noses and throats
as infected adults, according to the research.

Indeed, children younger than 5 may host up to 100 times as much of the
virus in the upper respiratory tract as adults, the authors found.

That measurement
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/30/health/coronavirus-children.html}{does
not necessarily prove children are passing the virus to others}. Still,
the findings should factor into the debate over reopening schools,
several experts said.

``I've heard lots of people saying, `Well, kids aren't susceptible, kids
don't get infected.' And this clearly shows that's not true,'' said
Stacey Schultz-Cherry, a virologist at St. Jude Children's Research
Hospital.

The researchers analyzed samples collected with nasopharyngeal swabs
from March 23 to April 27 at drive-through testing sites in Chicago and
from people who came to the hospital for any reason, including symptoms
of Covid-19.

They looked at swabs taken from 145 people: 46 children younger than age
5; 51 children ages 5 to 17; and 48 adults ages 18 to 65. Older children
and adults had similar levels of genetic fragments of the virus, by one
important measure. Children younger than 5 had significantly lower
levels. Still, the upper limit of the range was comparable to that of
older children and adults.

The study is not without caveats: It was small, and did not specify the
participants' race or sex, or whether they had underlying conditions.
The tests looked for viral RNA, genetic pieces of the coronavirus,
rather than the live virus itself. (Its genetic material is RNA, not
DNA.)

Still, experts were alarmed to learn that young children may carry
significant amounts of the coronavirus.

GLOBAL ROUNDUP

\hypertarget{the-who-forms-a-behavior-group-to-help-stem-the-spread-of-the-virus}{%
\subsection{The W.H.O. forms a `behavior group' to help stem the spread
of the
virus.}\label{the-who-forms-a-behavior-group-to-help-stem-the-spread-of-the-virus}}

Image

A sign to encourage mask wearing in New Orleans on
Tuesday.Credit...William Widmer for The New York Times

The World Health Organization on Thursday announced that it had formed a
``behavior group,'' an international panel of scientists from fields
like psychology, economics and anthropology, to advise people on how
best to influence and sustain habits that prevent the transmission of
the coronavirus.

In a conference call with reporters, Dr. Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, the
W.H.O.'s director general, said the group included 22 experts from 16
countries and would be led by Cass Sunstein, a legal scholar at Harvard
Law School who has studied and written widely about mass behavior
change.

At a time when coronavirus cases are surging in many communities where
people were ignoring mask requirements and social-distancing rules,
understanding what drives healthy decisions is crucial, Dr. Ghebreyesus
said. ``We are learning what works and what doesn't,'' he said, ``and
that's why behavioral science is so important --- it helps us know how
people make these decisions.''

Mr. Sunstein, appearing by video at the conference, said: ``One of the
few things we know, which is quite important, is that habits are
persistent even if they're not healthy. But habits can be altered, and
that can save lives.''

Asked to be specific about potential measures, Mr. Sunstein demurred.
``There are data points and evidence'' to inform the best approaches, he
said, ``but there are 22 people looking at those now,'' adding, ``We do
have great precedents, significant successes, where public health
messages have changed lives.''

\hypertarget{heres-what-else-is-happening-around-the-united-states}{%
\subsection{Here's what else is happening around the United
States:}\label{heres-what-else-is-happening-around-the-united-states}}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \textbf{Wisconsin}'s governor announced on Thursday that he will
  require people to wear face coverings indoors starting Saturday and
  strongly recommends that people wear them outdoors and when they
  cannot social distance.
\item
  Public schools in \textbf{Washington, D.C.,} will all rely on remote
  teaching until Nov. 6, the mayor on Thursday. The Washington Teachers'
  Union had petitioned the mayor to issue the order, as cases in the
  Washington metropolitan region continued to tick upward.
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  An experimental coronavirus vaccine developed by Johnson \& Johnson
  \textbf{protected}
  \textbf{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/30/health/covid-19-vaccine-monkeys.html}{monkeys
  from infection}} in a new study.
\item
  Several states broke records on Thursday for the most cases they have
  reported in a single day: \textbf{Mississippi} with 1,775 cases;
  \textbf{Missouri} with more than 1,600 cases; and \textbf{Ohio} with
  1,733 cases.
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{alaskas-fish-plants-are-seeing-virus-outbreaks}{%
\subsection{Alaska's fish plants are seeing virus
outbreaks.}\label{alaskas-fish-plants-are-seeing-virus-outbreaks}}

Image

A fishing fleet in Alaska in 2018.~Roughly 26,000 processing workers
head to plants in the state each year.Credit...Yereth Rosen/Reuters

Outbreaks have swept through three Alaska fish-processing facilities and
a factory trawler in recent weeks, stressing an industry already facing
an unstable market for seafood.

Roughly 26,000 processing workers head to plants in Alaska each year,
the bulk of them in the summertime. Many work the red salmon season out
of Bristol Bay, the largest red salmon fishery in the world and the
source of most of America's wild-caught salmon.

Conditions in fish plants mirror those in meat-processing plants, with
people living together and working long shifts in close quarters. Alaska
put in place strict procedures and required monitoring, quarantining and
testing out of concern that processing workers and fishermen, many who
come from out of state,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/14/us/coronavirus-alaska-fishing-copper-river.html}{would
spread the virus into Alaskan communities}.

Alaska's case total stayed low until July. But as cases began to spike
in recent weeks, resident workers --- not those from other states ---
brought the virus into fish plants, said Dr. Anne Zink, Alaska's chief
medical officer. ``It unfortunately has taken off pretty quickly,'' she
said. ``It's so hard to mitigate the spread once you get it in the
plant.''

Alaska has had 20 deaths and about 3,500 cases,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/alaska-coronavirus-cases.html}{according
to a New York Times database}.

At the Copper River Seafoods plant in Anchorage, 76 out of 135 people
had tested positive as of Wednesday, Dr. Zink said. In Seward, a small
town south of Anchorage, 139 out of 252 workers tested positive. And the
American Triumph, a factory trawler that docked in Dutch Harbor, had 85
cases out of the 119 people on board, she said.

Outbreaks at plants force production to cease while facilities are
cleaned and workers are tested, further pressing a salmon industry that
analysts say is facing decreased restaurant demand and a glut in the
retail sector.

\hypertarget{with-a-record-death-toll-brazil-opens-its-borders-to-foreign-travelers}{%
\subsection{With a record death toll, Brazil opens its borders to
foreign
travelers.}\label{with-a-record-death-toll-brazil-opens-its-borders-to-foreign-travelers}}

Image

Brasilia International Airport in May. Brazil has barred foreign
visitors since March.Credit...Ueslei Marcelino/Reuters

On a day it reported a record number of coronavirus deaths, the
Brazilian government decided to
\href{http://www.in.gov.br/en/web/dou/-/portaria-cc-pr/mjsp/minfra/ms-n-1-de-29-de-julho-de-2020-269235614}{reopen
its borders} to foreigners, who have been barred since March.

The decree published on Wednesday night said visitors were now allowed
to fly to Brazil, as long as they could prove that they were covered by
health insurance for the duration of their travels.

Other countries in Latin America, like Argentina and Colombia, that are
reporting far fewer cases than Brazil are keeping their borders closed
to international flights.

Travelers crossing the border through land and sea are still barred with
some exceptions, and international airports in five of Brazil's 27
states are still forbidden to most incoming foreigners. The government
didn't offer an explanation for its decision.

Brazil has now reported more than 90,000 deaths and 2.5 million cases of
Covid-19, the highest figures after the United States.

The president of the council of state health departments, Carlos Eduardo
de Oliveira Lula, told the
\href{https://oglobo.globo.com/sociedade/coronavirus/governo-decide-reabrir-fronteiras-aereas-para-turistas-24557302}{newspaper
O Globo} that he didn't believe the new decision would have much of an
impact on the country's raging public health crisis.

``With the number of cases we have, the biggest risk is the opposite, to
other countries,'' he said. ``I very much doubt any would want to come
here at this moment.''

\hypertarget{the-death-toll-rises-in-australia-which-once-had-the-outbreak-under-control}{%
\subsection{The death toll rises in Australia, which once had the
outbreak under
control.}\label{the-death-toll-rises-in-australia-which-once-had-the-outbreak-under-control}}

Image

Australian Defence Force personnel at a nursing home in Melbourne,
Victoria. Such facilities account for many of the new coronavirus
cases.Credit...William West/Agence France-Presse --- Getty Images

Australia has recorded its deadliest day since the pandemic began, with
13 deaths reported on Wednesday, all in the southern state of Victoria,
which also had 723 new cases. A total of 21 new cases were recorded in
other states, as the authorities tightened borders and local
restrictions.

The record numbers are largely the result of outbreaks in nursing homes,
as well as people going into work while symptomatic, the authorities
said.

``This is incredibly serious. And every time somebody doesn't do the
right thing, every time somebody contributes to the spread of the virus,
then that means that another family will be having to plan a funeral,''
Daniel Andrews, the premier of Victoria, told reporters at a news
conference on Thursday.

``Unless everyone plays their part, this lockdown will not end anytime
soon,'' he added.

While Australia's figures pale in comparison to the tens of thousands of
new cases each day in the United States, they are significant in a
country that had appeared to contain the virus to manageable levels
before an outbreak in early July, which
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/02/world/australia/melbourne-coronavirus-outbreak.html}{is
thought to have spread from hotel quarantine} facilities in Melbourne.

Masks, which the health authorities had advised only for those
experiencing symptoms, have since become mandatory in the city. Starting
on Sunday they will be enforced across the state of Victoria, where
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/17/world/australia/melbourne-lockdown-readers.html}{restrictions}
on private gatherings have also increased.

``We have now been in this lockdown now for some weeks, and we are not
getting the results we would hope for,'' Australia's prime minister,
Scott Morrison, told reporters in Canberra. The high rates of community
transmission, he added, were of ``great concern.''

\hypertarget{after-a-rare-double-lung-transplant-a-covid-19-patient-is-released-from-the-hospital}{%
\subsection{After a rare double lung transplant, a Covid-19 patient is
released from the
hospital.}\label{after-a-rare-double-lung-transplant-a-covid-19-patient-is-released-from-the-hospital}}

Image

``I want people to see what this virus does to a person,'' said Mayra
Ramirez of Chicago, the recipient of the double transplant.
Credit...Sebastian Hidalgo for The New York Times

She was the first Covid-19 patient in the United States to receive a
double lung transplant, and now she is back home.

The last thing Mayra Ramirez, 28, remembers is calling her family from
the emergency room at Northwestern Memorial Hospital in Chicago and
telling them she was about to be put on a ventilator. She needed her
mother to make medical decisions for her.

Ms. Ramirez did not wake up for more than six weeks, in early June, and
only then did she learn about the double transplant.

On Wednesday, she went home from the hospital.

``I'm pretty sure that if I had been at another center, they would have
just ended care and let me die,'' she said in an interview on Wednesday.

Ms. Ramirez is one of a small but growing number of patients whose lungs
have been destroyed by the coronavirus, and whose only hope of survival
is a lung transplant.

The surgery is considered a desperate measure, and is reserved for
people with fatal, irreversible lung damage. Doctors do not want to
remove a person's lungs if there is any chance they will heal. Over all,
only \href{https://unos.org/data/transplant-trends/}{about 2,700 lung
transplants} were performed in the United States last year.

Patients must be sick enough to need a transplant, and yet also strong
enough to recover from the operation. With a new disease, doctors are
still learning how to strike that balance.

``It's such a paradigm change,'' said Dr. Ankit Bharat, who operated on
Ms. Ramirez. ``Lung transplant has not been considered a treatment
option for an infectious disease, so people need to get a little bit
more of a comfort level with it.''

Reporting was contributed by Manuela Andreoni, Maggie Astor, **** Livia
Albeck-Ripka, Luke Broadwater, Julia Calderone, Benedict Carey, Ben
Casselman, Emily Cochrane, Michael Cooper, Reid J. Epstein, Marie Fazio,
Jim Glanz**,** Denise Grady, Jason Gutierrez, Annie Karni, Ernesto
Londoño, Apoorva Mandavilli, **** Zach Montague, **** Julia O'Malley,
Elian Peltier, Austin Ramzy, Motoko Rich, Jeanna Smialek, Nelson D.
Schwartz, Mitch Smith, Eliza Shapiro, Eileen Sullivan, Tracey Tully,
Neil Vigdor, Noah Weiland and Carl Zimmer.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
