\href{/section/theater}{Theater}\textbar{}Adam Driver and Keri Russell
Share a Stage and Then, Maybe, Lightsabers

\url{https://nyti.ms/2Hp0vAS}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2019/03/10/arts/10ADAM-KERI-MAIN/merlin_151452093_cced39cd-6a0d-416d-b1f0-cb28c63559ff-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Sections

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\hypertarget{adam-driver-and-keri-russell-share-a-stage-and-then-maybe-lightsabers}{%
\section{Adam Driver and Keri Russell Share a Stage and Then, Maybe,
Lightsabers}\label{adam-driver-and-keri-russell-share-a-stage-and-then-maybe-lightsabers}}

Before the force is with them, Keri Russell and Adam Driver, who will
both appear in ``Star Wars: Episode IX,'' bring an unruly love story to
Broadway.

Credit...Erik Tanner for The New York Times

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/alexis-soloski}{Alexis
Soloski}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  March 7, 2019
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Nine floors above Times Square, Adam Driver hurtled through a door ---
or what would become a door once the set was fully built --- thundering
about the traffic, the parking, the trash. ``This street's dying of
crotch rot,'' he bellowed.

``Do I know you?'' Keri Russell asked coolly.

It was the second week of rehearsals for
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2011/03/25/theater/lanford-wilson-pulitzer-prize-winning-playwright-dies-at-73.html}{Lanford
Wilson's}
\href{http://www.thehudsonbroadway.com/whatson/burn-this/}{``Burn
This,''} a combustible 1987 play about the unlikely romance between Anna
(Ms. Russell), a serious-minded choreographer, and Pale (Mr. Driver), a
hothead restaurant manager. Anna has a gentlemanly boyfriend, Burton.
Pale has a wife, two kids and a line of cocaine where his superego
should be. If you tried to match them on Tinder, your phone might
explode. Still, anguish and pheromones jolt them into love or lust or
something more relentless.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2019/03/10/arts/10adam-keri3/merlin_151452102_8e8bb200-0b59-4037-8a0d-0fd55aaf15b2-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

``It's a weird love story,'' Ms. Russell said once rehearsal had paused.
``It's a unique one. It's a good one.'' And it's one that collides two
masterly, if hugely dissimilar actors --- Mr. Driver, 35, who brings a
Method hyperintensity to every project, even the brash traumedy
``Girls,'' and Ms. Russell, 42, a former teen star who perfected steely
interiority on the espionage drama ``The Americans.''

``Burn This,'' which begins previews at the Hudson Theater on March 15,
was originally announced with Jake Gyllenhaal attached. (Other famous
Pales:
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/1987/10/15/theater/stage-burn-this-by-wilson.html}{John
Malkovich},
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2002/09/20/movies/theater-review-revival-works-a-transformation.html}{Edward
Norton}.) After some
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2016/10/22/theater/jake-gyllenhaal-broadway-burn-this.html}{scheduling
zigzags},
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2016/12/28/movies/adam-driver-interview-paterson-silence.html}{Mr.
Driver} replaced him.
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2016/03/20/arts/television/keri-russell-discusses-the-americans-her-pregnancy-and-life-at-40.html}{Ms.
Russell} joined the director Michael Mayer's production last summer,
just after she signed on for ``Star Wars: Episode IX,'' the ultrasecret
final installment of the current saga in which Mr. Driver plays the
angsty villain Kylo Ren. Whom does Ms. Russell play in ``Star Wars''?
She starred as a superspy for six seasons. Good luck getting her to
talk.

Mr. Driver, a recent Oscar nominee for
``\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/08/09/movies/blackkklansman-review-spike-lee.html}{BlacKkKlansman},''
enrolled at Juilliard after a stint in the Marines and spent his
post-grad years in the theater. But ``Burn This'' is his first play
since he began shooting ``Girls'' in 2013. Ms. Russell was a Mouseketeer
and then a fickle college student in
\href{https://abc.go.com/shows/felicity}{``Felicity.''} She has appeared
in only one other play, Neil LaBute's
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2004/12/16/theater/reviews/shes-fat-hes-a-man-can-they-find-love.html}{``Fat
Pig''} in 2004. Until her partner and ``The Americans'' co-star,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2012/01/22/theater/matthew-rhys-in-look-back-in-anger-on-new-york-stage.html}{Matthew
Rhys}, talked her into a reading of ``Burn This,'' she hadn't wanted to
do another one.

Image

``It's a weird love story,'' Keri Russell said. ``It's a unique one.
It's a good one.''Credit...Erik Tanner for The New York Times

Ms. Russell and Mr. Driver know each other through Mr. Rhys, who
appeared with Mr. Driver in the moody 2012 revival of
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2012/02/03/theater/reviews/look-back-in-anger-starring-matthew-rhys.html}{``Look
Back in Anger.''} The two couples (Mr. Driver is married to the actress
Joanne Tucker) live just down the street from each other in Brooklyn
Heights and are friendly. Which probably explains why, during a brief
photo shoot that morning, Mr. Driver messed with Ms. Russell's boot when
he was meant to lie reverently at her feet and why she suffocated him
with her shirt just when he was looking especially sultry. It can be
hard to smolder at 10 a.m.

Once they'd collected themselves, they sat down on the ``Burn This'' set
to discuss big feelings, fierce chemistry and whether or not they cross
lightsabers. These are edited excerpts from the conversation.

\textbf{Why did you want to work on ``Burn This''?}

\textbf{ADAM DRIVER} If I'm going to do a play, I like the idea of it
being something contemporary, something American, kind of at a fever
pitch. I knew this play from before, from Juilliard. I had played Pale,
which is embarrassing, a kid in a costume at 23, being like, ``I know
what I'm talking about!'' I had no idea.

\textbf{KERI RUSSELL} I hadn't been actively searching to do a play. But
I thought, I guess I'll do the reading. And then it just felt like such
an escape. We're so inundated with all of this political stuff and
obviously it's very important. But it felt so nice to read something
just about feelings. And it touched me. Everyone talks about the
fireworks of Pale and how crazy he is. But there's something about the
relationship that really moved me. I cried.

\textbf{DRIVER} These people need to live gigantic lives in order to
feel something. These people want to feel something big. We're not often
given that space to feel. Or probably we are, but we don't take it.
We're too distracted by everything else.

\textbf{RUSSELL} \href{http://www.tanyaberezin.com/}{Tanya Berezin}, she
holds the rights to ``Burn This.'' Before we started, she came in and
said Lanford's characters need everything about their lives to feel
humongous. They wanted to do the best possible art, they wanted to fall
in love in the best possible way. Everything had to mean something and
it had to be huge.

And you sort of go, `Well, I did want to do that, but I guess I needed
to make money, too.'' Or, ``I did really like that guy, but he was a lot
of work.'' Life moves in.

\textbf{These characters are in so much pain. What's the experience of
rehearsing that kind of pain?}

\textbf{DRIVER} The rehearsals are six hours long. You get in that
mind-set for six hours and you go home, you're still pumping, and it's
hard to not make everything urgent. My dog will do something pretty
mundane and my first impulse will be like, ``WHAT THE --- '' {[}The rest
of Mr. Driver's sentence was too colorful for publication.{]} I'm not
good at letting things go. Other people are and I envy that. I'm always
working. It's always in the back of my mind. There's a benefit to
constantly asking yourself questions about it. The disadvantage is you
drive yourself insane.

\textbf{In the play, Anna says that she and Pale are apples and oranges.
I'm not sure they're both even fruit. What attracts them to each other?}

\textbf{RUSSELL} Pale's feelings are so loud and he's not embarrassed by
them, he's not ashamed of them. I know a few people like that and
they're so fun to be around. Pale, he's so alive. Burton is a great guy.
He's rich and he's polite and he's nice. But he doesn't have the stuff,
the excitement. That's what Anna wants desperately.

\textbf{DRIVER} I think there's hopefully a physical attraction, though
------

\textbf{RUSSELL} I'm not going to do that.

\textbf{This play only works if we feel that connection, pheromones that
hit the back row. How do you find that?}

\textbf{DRIVER} I don't know if that's something we really work on. I
feel like either it's there ------

\textbf{RUSSELL} Or it's not.

\textbf{DRIVER} We don't sit around and consciously work on chemistry.
We have such affection for each other, but that doesn't really matter.
It's what the play is.

\textbf{RUSSELL} But when someone is truly vulnerable in front of you,
there's this immediate connection, an instant intimacy. This crazy first
moment where they meet, it's so intimate, so raw. There's definitely an
animal thing in this connection. But I don't know that you can work on
it.

\textbf{Do you think most people want what these people want, to feel
overwhelmed by emotion, attraction?}

\textbf{RUSSELL} Of course! Yes! That's what everyone wants. Although
these days all I want is a hotel room. Alone. Someone to connect with,
who cares about that? I want room service. {[}Laughs.{]}

Image

Mr. Driver as Kylo Ren in ``Star Wars: The Last
Jedi.''Credit...Industrial Light \& Magic/Lucasfilm

\textbf{DRIVER} Your laugh is becoming more and more maniacal.

\textbf{So the sex in this play occurs offstage ------}

\textbf{DRIVER} Except this time.

\textbf{RUSSELL} {[}deadpan{]} We are doing it onstage. Twice.

\textbf{DRIVER} No. {[}Laughing.{]} It's offstage.

\textbf{Still, there's some kissing, and some hands under Anna's robe.
Are you working with an}
\textbf{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2017/06/15/theater/need-to-fake-an-orgasm-theres-an-intimacy-choreographer-for-that.html}{intimacy
choreographer}?}

\textbf{RUSSELL} No, there's nothing too crazytown. It's pretty tame. I
think we've both done a lot worse. There was one Tuesday morning on
``The Americans,'' 7 a.m., Staten Island, I show up and they were like,
``This is the threesome on the bed.'' I said to the sweet little
assistant director, ``I need a beer in my hand in the next 15 minutes or
this is not going to happen.''

\textbf{You have very different backgrounds. Keri, you've been working
since you were 15. Adam, you had formal training at one of the best
conservatories in the country. Do you feel like you approach acting
differently?}

\textbf{RUSSELL} I'm sure. My stage career is so limited and this is a
new crazy leap of faith. I was not going to do it and Matthew was like,
``Do it, do it. It'll be fine.'' I was like, will it? Knowing Adam a
little bit, his sensitivity, I thought, Oh, I could do this with him.
Because it's not my world, it's a different style altogether, which is
very daunting.

\textbf{DRIVER} But it \emph{is} your world.

\textbf{RUSSELL} It's not my experience. Right now, I'm losing about 15
pounds of weight every day. Sweat and nerves.

Image

Russell and Matthew Rhys in ``The Americans.''Credit...Patrick
Harbron/FX

\textbf{Why do theater at all? Theater is very exposing. It doesn't
really pay. You don't get to grow with characters as you did on your
television series}.

\textbf{RUSSELL} I don't have an answer right now.

\textbf{DRIVER} Good, I'll vamp. In theater, it's different every night.
The audiences are different. I mean, I came from a theater background
where there's always a new question to ask yourself. I got used to that.
It was hard to adjust to suddenly doing a TV show or a huge franchise.
That's why I can't watch anything I do. I know the potential of not
having a right answer, of not settling. In the theater you get to
explore it again tomorrow. Whereas in film, that's it. Your mistakes,
that's it.

\textbf{You've recently ended prestige series, ``The Americans'' and
``Girls.'' Are you consciously trying to choose different projects and
different characters?}

\textbf{RUSSELL} I like what I like. Probably if something came across
that was like a 1980s spy I probably wouldn't want to do it.

\textbf{DRIVER} You try to work with the good filmmakers if you can,
then just because they're different people, the things you work on are
different. And you want to work with the best playwrights. But I don't
sort of consciously think, O.K., now I have to do a thing.

Image

The actors will appear this month in ``Burn This,'' a combustible 1987
play about an unlikely romance.Credit...Erik Tanner for The New York
Times

\textbf{Adam, you're just back from the Oscars. Spike Lee finally has a
win. How did you ------}

\textbf{DRIVER} It was a great moment. To be there to share that with
him was pretty special. Being there for that, watching him talking about
it all afterward was a pretty thrilling night.

\textbf{This isn't your only collaboration this year. You also both
appear in ``Star Wars: Episode IX.'' What can you tell me? Did you have
scenes together?}

\textbf{DRIVER} Don't know. Don't know if we did.

\textbf{RUSSELL} Nothing nothing nothing.

\textbf{DRIVER} I can't say if we had any scenes together.

\textbf{No climactic lightsaber battle then?}

\textbf{DRIVER} Someone had a lightsaber.

\textbf{RUSSELL} It was pretty cool, that's all I have to say.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
