Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}Bolton Says Trump
Impeachment Inquiry Missed Other Troubling Episodes

\url{https://nyti.ms/2ChLgtf}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{bolton-says-trump-impeachment-inquiry-missed-other-troubling-episodes}{%
\section{Bolton Says Trump Impeachment Inquiry Missed Other Troubling
Episodes}\label{bolton-says-trump-impeachment-inquiry-missed-other-troubling-episodes}}

In his new book, John R. Bolton, the former national security adviser,
describes instances when the president sought to halt criminal
inquiries. He also says President Trump's loyalists mocked him behind
his back.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/06/17/us/politics/17dc-bolton/17dc-bolton-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/peter-baker}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/06/13/multimedia/peter-baker/peter-baker-thumbLarge-v2.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/peter-baker}{Peter Baker}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  June 17, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://cn.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/usa/20200618/bolton-book-trump-impeached/}{阅读简体中文版}\href{https://cn.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/usa/20200618/bolton-book-trump-impeached/zh-han}{閱讀繁體中文版}

\emph{{[}Read our 5 takeaways from}
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/18/us/politics/john-bolton-memoir-takeaways.html}{\emph{John
Bolton's book}}\emph{.{]}}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/10/us/politics/trump-john-bolton-book.html}{John
R. Bolton}, the former national security adviser, says in
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/20/us/politics/john-bolton-book-ruling.html}{his
new book} that the House in its impeachment inquiry should have
investigated
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/01/27/us/politics/john-bolton-trump.html}{President
Trump} not just for pressuring
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/01/27/us/politics/john-bolton-trump.html}{Ukraine}
but for a variety of instances when he sought to use trade negotiations
and criminal investigations to further his political interests.

Mr. Bolton describes several episodes where the president expressed a
willingness to halt criminal investigations ``to, in effect, give
personal favors to dictators he liked,'' citing cases involving major
firms in China and Turkey. ``The pattern looked like obstruction of
justice as a way of life, which we couldn't accept,'' Mr. Bolton writes,
saying that he reported his concerns to Attorney General William P.
Barr.

Mr. Bolton also adds a striking new accusation by describing how Mr.
Trump overtly linked tariff talks with China to his own political
fortunes by asking President Xi Jinping to buy
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/10/11/business/economy/us-china-trade-deal.html}{American
agricultural products} to help him win farm states in this year's
election. Mr. Trump, he writes, was ``pleading with Xi to ensure he'd
win.'' Mr. Bolton said that Mr. Trump ``stressed the importance of
farmers, and increased Chinese purchases of soybeans and wheat in the
electoral outcome.''

The book, ``The Room Where It Happened,'' was obtained by The New York
Times in advance of its scheduled publication next Tuesday and has
already become a political lightning rod in the thick of an election
campaign and a
\href{https://www.amazon.com/best-sellers-books-Amazon/zgbs/books/ref=zg_bs_nav_0}{No.
1 best seller on Amazon.com} even before it hits the bookstores. The
Justice Department
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/17/us/politics/john-bolton-lawsuit.html}{went
to court on Wednesday for the second time this week} seeking to stop
publication even as Mr. Trump's critics complained that Mr. Bolton
should have come forward during impeachment proceedings rather than save
his account for a \$2 million book contract.

While other
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/09/05/books/review-fear-trump-in-white-house-bob-woodward.html}{books
by journalists}, lower-level
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/08/12/us/politics/omarosa-trump-tape.html}{former
aides} and even
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/11/07/books/review/a-warning-anonymous-book-review-trump.html}{an
anonymous senior official} have revealed much about the Trump White
House, Mr. Bolton's volume is the first tell-all memoir by such a
high-ranking official who participated in major foreign policy events
and has a lifetime of conservative credentials. It is a withering
portrait of a president ignorant of even basic facts about the world,
susceptible to transparent flattery by authoritarian leaders
manipulating him and prone to false statements, foul-mouthed eruptions
and snap decisions that aides try to manage or reverse.

Mr. Trump did not seem to know, for example, that Britain was a nuclear
power and asked if Finland was a part of Russia, Mr. Bolton writes. The
president never tired of assailing allied leaders and came closer to
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/01/14/us/politics/nato-president-trump.html}{withdrawing}
the United States from NATO than previously known. He said it would be
``cool'' to invade Venezuela.

At times, Mr. Trump seemed to almost mimic the authoritarian leaders he
appeared to admire. ``These people should be executed,'' Mr. Trump once
said of journalists. ``They are scumbags.'' When Mr. Xi explained why he
was building concentration camps in China, the book says, Mr. Trump
``said that Xi should go ahead with building the camps, which he thought
was exactly the right thing to do.'' He repeatedly badgered Mr. Barr to
prosecute former Secretary of State John F. Kerry for talking with Iran
in what he insisted was a violation of the Logan Act.

In the face of such behavior, even top advisers who position themselves
as unswervingly loyal mock Mr. Trump behind his back. During the
president's 2018 meeting with North Korea's leader, according to the
book, Secretary of State Mike Pompeo slipped Mr. Bolton a note
disparaging the president, saying, ``He is so full of shit.'' A month
later, Mr. Bolton writes, Mr. Pompeo dismissed the president's North
Korea diplomacy, declaring that there was ``zero probability of
success.''

The State Department had no comment, but Mr. Trump
\href{https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/1273468029712707584}{fired
back on Twitter} just after midnight. ``Wacko John Bolton's `exceedingly
tedious'(New York Times) book is made up of lies \& fake stories,'' he
wrote early Thursday morning, adding: ``A disgruntled boring fool who
only wanted to go to war. Never had a clue, was ostracized \& happily
dumped. What a dope!''

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/21/us/politics/presidents-daily-brief-trump.html}{Intelligence
briefings} with the president were a waste of time, Mr. Bolton writes,
``since much of the time was spent listening to Trump, rather than Trump
listening to the briefers.'' Mr. Trump likes pitting staff members
against one another, at one point telling Mr. Bolton that former
Secretary of State Rex W. Tillerson had once referred to Nikki R. Haley,
then the ambassador to the United Nations, by a sexist obscenity --- an
assertion Mr. Bolton seemed to doubt but found telling that the
president would make.

Mr. Trump said so many things that were wrong or false that Mr. Bolton
in the book regularly includes phrases like ``(the opposite of the
truth)'' after some quote from the president. And Mr. Trump in this
telling has no overarching philosophy of governance or foreign policy,
but rather a series of gut-driven instincts that sometimes mirrored Mr.
Bolton's but other times were, in his view, dangerous and reckless.

``His thinking was like an archipelago of dots (like individual real
estate deals), leaving the rest of us to discern --- or create ---
policy,'' Mr. Bolton writes. ``That had its pros and cons.''

Mr. Bolton is a complicated, controversial figure. An official under
Presidents Ronald Reagan and George Bush and George W. Bush's United
Nations ambassador, Mr. Bolton has been one of Washington's most vocal
advocates for a hard-line foreign policy, a supporter of the Iraq war
who has favored possible military action against rogue states like North
Korea and Iran.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/06/17/us/politics/17dc-bolton-2/merlin_173590968_b183252c-92b4-44f5-a350-e7cd302edc5c-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Like Mr. Tillerson and other officials who went to work for Mr. Trump
believing they could manage him, Mr. Bolton agreed to become the
president's third national security adviser in 2018 thinking he
understood the risks and limits.

But unlike some of the so-called axis of adults, as he calls Mr.
Tillerson and former Defense Secretary Jim Mattis, who tried to minimize
what they saw as the damage of the president's tenure, Mr. Bolton used
his 17 months in the White House to accomplish policy goals that were
important to him, like withdrawing the United States from a host of
international agreements he considers flawed, like
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/05/08/world/middleeast/trump-iran-nuclear-deal.html}{the
Iran nuclear accord}, the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/08/01/world/asia/inf-missile-treaty.html}{Intermediate-Range
Nuclear Forces Treaty} and others.

Mr. Bolton thought Mr. Trump's diplomatic flirtation with the likes of
North Korea's leader, Kim Jong-un, and President Vladimir V. Putin of
Russia were ill advised and even ``foolish'' and spent much of his
tenure trying to stop the president from making what he deemed bad
deals. He eventually
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/09/10/us/politics/john-bolton-national-security-adviser-trump.html}{resigned
last September} --- Mr. Trump claimed he fired him --- after they
clashed over Iran, North Korea, Ukraine and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/09/08/world/asia/afghanistan-trump-camp-david-taliban.html}{a
peace deal with the Taliban in Afghanistan}.

Mr. Bolton did not agree to testify during the House impeachment inquiry
last fall, saying he would wait to see if a judge would rule that former
aides like him should do so over White House objections. But after
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/12/18/us/politics/trump-impeached.html}{the
House impeached Mr. Trump} for abuse of power for withholding security
aid while pressuring Ukraine to publicly announce investigations into
Democrats, including former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr., Mr.
Bolton offered to testify in the Senate trial if subpoenaed.

Senate Republicans
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/01/31/us/politics/trump-impeachment-trial.html?action=click\&module=RelatedLinks\&pgtype=Article}{blocked
calling Mr. Bolton} as a witness even after
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/01/26/us/politics/trump-bolton-book-ukraine.html}{The
Times reported} in January that his then-unpublished book confirmed that
Mr. Trump linked the suspended security aid to his insistence that
Ukraine investigate his political rivals.
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/02/05/us/politics/trump-acquitted-impeachment.html}{The
Senate went on to acquit Mr. Trump} almost entirely along party lines.
But Mr. Bolton greatly angered critics of the president for waiting to
make his account public until now.

The book confirms House testimony that Mr. Bolton was
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/10/14/us/politics/bolton-giuliani-fiona-hill-testimony.html}{wary
all along of the president's actions} with regard to Ukraine and
provides firsthand evidence of his own that Mr. Trump explicitly linked
the security aid to investigations involving Mr. Biden and Hillary
Clinton.

On Aug. 20, Mr. Bolton writes, Mr. Trump ``said he wasn't in favor of
sending them anything until all the Russia-investigation materials
related to Clinton and Biden had been turned over.'' Mr. Bolton writes
that he, Mr. Pompeo and Defense Secretary Mark T. Esper tried eight to
10 times to get Mr. Trump to release the aid.

Mr. Bolton, however, had nothing but scorn for the House Democrats who
impeached Mr. Trump, saying they committed ``impeachment malpractice''
by limiting their inquiry to the Ukraine matter and moving too quickly
for their own political reasons. Instead, he says they should have also
looked at how
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/01/27/us/politics/john-bolton-trump-book-barr.html}{Mr.
Trump was willing to intervene in investigations} into companies like
Turkey's Halkbank to curry favor with President Recep Tayyip Erdogan of
Turkey or China's ZTE to favor Mr. Xi.

Mr. Bolton writes that he raised concerns about both cases with Mr.
Barr, who shared them. ``Barr said he was very worried about the
appearances Trump was creating,'' Mr. Bolton writes. Similarly, he
recalls, Pat A. Cipollone, the White House counsel, ``was plainly
stunned at Trump's approach to law enforcement, or lack thereof.''

Just as Mr. Trump sought Ukraine's help against his domestic rivals, he
similarly married his own political interests with policy during a
meeting with Mr. Xi on the sidelines of the Group of 20 summit meeting
last summer in Osaka, Japan, according to the book. Mr. Xi told Mr.
Trump that unnamed political figures in the United States were trying to
start a new cold war with China.

``Trump immediately assumed Xi meant the Democrats,'' Mr. Bolton writes.
``Trump said approvingly that there was great hostility among the
Democrats. He then, stunningly, turned the conversation to the coming
U.S. presidential election, alluding to China's economic capability to
affect the ongoing campaigns, pleading with Xi to ensure he'd win.''
(Mr. Bolton says he would have printed Mr. Trump's exact words, ``but
the government's prepublication review process has decided otherwise.'')

Robert Lighthizer, the president's trade representative, denied on
Wednesday that Mr. Trump sought election help from China during that
meeting. ``Absolutely untrue,'' he said when asked during a Senate
hearing. ``Never happened. I was there. I have no recollection of that
ever happening. I don't believe it's true.''

At a daily news conference on Friday, Zhao Lijian, a spokesman for
China's Foreign Ministry, said Chinese officials ``have no intention and
will not interfere in the internal affairs and elections of the United
States.''

Mr. Barr, for his part, denied Mr. Bolton's version of their
conversations. ``There was no discussion of `personal favors' or `undue
influence' on investigations, nor did Attorney General Barr state that
the president's conversations with foreign leaders was improper,'' said
Kerri Kupec, a Justice Department spokeswoman.

Mr. Bolton does not say these were necessarily impeachable offenses and
adds that he does not know everything that happened with regard to all
of these episodes, but he reported at least some of them to Mr. Barr and
Mr. Cipollone. They should have been investigated by the House, Mr.
Bolton says, and at the very least they constituted abuses of a
president's duty to put the nation's interests ahead of his own.

``A president may not misuse the national government's legitimate powers
by defining his own personal interest as synonymous with the national
interest, or by inventing pretexts to mask the pursuit of personal
interest under the guise of national interest,'' Mr. Bolton writes.
``Had the House not focused solely on the Ukraine aspects of Trump's
confusion of his personal interests,'' he adds, then ``there might have
been a greater chance to persuade others that `high crimes and
misdemeanors' had been perpetrated.''

Katie Benner, Ana Swanson and Edward Wong contributed reporting.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
