Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/books}{Books}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/books}{Books}\textbar{}The Serious Business of the
Literary Party

\url{https://nyti.ms/2HTfWOy}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{the-serious-business-of-the-literary-party}{%
\section{The Serious Business of the Literary
Party}\label{the-serious-business-of-the-literary-party}}

Building buzz and raising cash --- the publishing social circuit is good
for more than free booze.

By Rumaan Alam

\begin{itemize}
\item
  June 15, 2018
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/06/14/books/review/00people-bookparty1/merlin_139080525_4b02bf9d-a786-4d5a-ab25-e6dcfcf7bc3d-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Last month, while mingling in a crowded (and very air-conditioned) room,
Nan Graham, the senior vice president and publisher of Scribner, relayed
an anecdote she'd heard at a recent memorial service: ``In the olden
days you could never buy dinner from Labor Day until Memorial Day,
because there were so many publishing parties.''

Scribner is an imprint of Simon \& Schuster, one of the ``big five''
book publishers and one of many institutions that hosted a party during
Book Expo America, a major trade gathering that drew publishers,
distributors and other players in the industry to New York at the end of
May.

Because of corporate consolidation and slimmer margins, the social
calendar is no longer as crowded, but it's still the case that in
publishing, parties are business. A publisher choosing to fete authors
during Book Expo --- introducing them to the news media, readers and,
most important, booksellers who attend the show --- is a signal that the
house is betting big on them. And for nonprofits both large and small,
Instagram-ready parties are the best way to raise awareness as well as
money. Here's a look at the recently concluded party season.

\hypertarget{people-magazine}{%
\subsection{People Magazine}\label{people-magazine}}

The magazine's party, on Thursday, May 31, to mark Book Expo America was
crowded with the celebrities who write books (Martha Stewart, D.L.
Hughley, Taye Diggs, Martina McBride) as well as the writers who,
against all odds, have become celebrities by writing books (Michael
Wolff, Amor Towles, Jodi Picoult). The music was very loud.

Image

Shane W. Evans (left), an illustrator, and the actor and writer Taye
Diggs, who are collaborators on three books for
children.Credit...Rebecca Smeyne for The New York Times

Image

Eva Chen, of Instagram, and the writer Jodi Picoult.Credit...Rebecca
Smeyne for The New York Times

Image

Roz Chast, the cartoonist, and Marie Coolman, of Bloomsbury
Publishing.Credit...Rebecca Smeyne for The New York Times

Image

Maria Dahvana Headley (left), the author of the forthcoming ``The Mere
Wife,'' and Eileen Myles, the poet.Credit...Rebecca Smeyne for The New
York Times

Image

Michael Wolff (left), the author of ``Fire and Fury,'' and Gary
Shteyngart, the author of the forthcoming ``Lake
Success.''Credit...Rebecca Smeyne for The New York Times

Image

D.L. Hughley, the actor and author of the forthcoming ``How Not to Get
Shot: And Other Advice From White People.''Credit...Rebecca Smeyne for
The New York Times

\hypertarget{one-story}{%
\subsection{One Story}\label{one-story}}

True to its name, this literary magazine, founded in 2002, publishes
just one piece of short fiction in every issue. On Friday, May 4, it
held its annual fund-raiser (ticket sales, but there was also an auction
of manuscript pages from the likes of Ann Patchett and Colson
Whitehead), which is also an occasion to toast alumnae who have, in the
last calendar year, published their first book. Thus, it's a debutante
ball.

``You can dress up or you can wear whatever you want, everyone talks
about books, then eats finger sandwiches and gets drunk, and then dances
to Lil Jon,'' said the novelist Angelica Baker, who was a One Story
debutante in 2017. ``It's the perfect party.''

Image

Gretchen ZukCredit...Rebecca Smeyne for The New York Times

Image

Kendra Fortmeyer, a 2018 One Story debutante.Credit...Rebecca Smeyne for
The New York Times

Image

The One Story Debutante Ball at Roulette, in Brooklyn.Credit...Rebecca
Smeyne for The New York Times

Image

``If we're going to throw a party, we want it to tell the story of who
we are, and what we care most about. So we decided on this sort of spoof
of a debutante party. I don't really like going to those sit down
dinners where it's just speech after speech,'' said Hannah Tinti, One
Story's executive editor.Credit...Rebecca Smeyne for The New York Times

Image

There were free books, including debutante Cheston Knapp's essay
collection, ``Up Up, Down Down.''Credit...Rebecca Smeyne for The New
York Times

Image

Christopher Hermelin, a literary agent and writer, dances at the One
Story Debutante Ball.Credit...Rebecca Smeyne for The New York Times

Image

The writer Alexander Chee, recognized as a literary mentor, wore a cape
fashioned from old tote bags as he took the stage at the One Story
Debutante Ball.Credit...Rebecca Smeyne for The New York Times

\hypertarget{amazon}{%
\subsection{Amazon}\label{amazon}}

Amazon hosted a reception on Wednesday, May 30, to celebrate Book Expo
America. The rooftop venue afforded a beautiful view, though as the sun
vanished the evening grew quite cold.

Image

Eva Chen, the director of fashion partnerships at Instagram, will
publish a children's book, ``Juno Valentine and the Magical Shoes,''
this November.Credit...Rebecca Smeyne for The New York Times

Image

B.A. Shapiro, the author of several novels, including the forthcoming
``The Collector's Apprentice.''Credit...Rebecca Smeyne for The New York
Times

Image

Guests at Amazon's party on the rooftop of the Ink48
Hotel.Credit...Rebecca Smeyne for The New York Times

Image

The writer Gary Shteyngart holds court.Credit...Rebecca Smeyne for The
New York Times

Image

Morgan Entrekin, the president and publisher of Grove
Atlantic.Credit...Rebecca Smeyne for The New York Times

Image

Seira Wilson, of Amazon, and Ina Garten.Credit...Rebecca Smeyne for The
New York Times

\hypertarget{the-knopf-doubleday-publishing-group}{%
\subsection{The Knopf Doubleday Publishing
Group}\label{the-knopf-doubleday-publishing-group}}

Stepping into the Midtown French restaurant where this imprint of
Penguin Random House celebrated Book Expo America was like being
transported to the days when John Cheever supported a family by
publishing short stories and chat shows were eager to book Truman
Capote. Editor in chief and chairman Sonny Mehta lingered outside,
perhaps in deference to the city's smoking laws. There were so many hors
d'oeuvres that by the time the petit fours came out no one was eating.
The novelist Tara Isabella Burton took off her heels and padded around
the restaurant in bare feet.

Image

Tommy Orange (center), the author of ``There There.''Credit...Rebecca
Smeyne for The New York Times

Image

Free books, free bubbly.Credit...Rebecca Smeyne for The New York Times

Image

It's not a book party without tote bags.Credit...Rebecca Smeyne for The
New York Times

Image

Kevin Kwan, the author of ``Crazy Rich Asians,'' signs books at the
Knopf Doubleday party.Credit...Rebecca Smeyne for The New York Times

Image

Writer Amitava Kumar, Sonny Mehta (center), the editor in chief and
chairman of the Knopf Doubleday Publishing Group, and a guest outside of
Brasserie Cognac, in New York.Credit...Rebecca Smeyne for The New York
Times

\hypertarget{simon--schuster}{%
\subsection{Simon \& Schuster}\label{simon--schuster}}

During Book Expo America, the publisher hosted its stalwarts and stars,
like Mary Higgins Clark, Doris Kearns Goodwin and Susan Orlean, as well
as debut writers like the actress Ellie Kemper, whose book ``My Squirrel
Days,'' will be published this October. Asked how a New York publishing
party compared to a Hollywood party, Kemper was thoughtful (and jokey).
``How does anything compare to a Hollywood party? I haven't been to a
lot of Hollywood parties. I'm not a party person. Even tonight, I said
`O.K., it's a big night, you've got an event that starts at six
o'clock.' I'll be home by 8:30. It won't be too wild.''

Image

Jenny Han, the author of several books, most recently, ``Always and
Forever, Lara Jean.'' Credit...Rebecca Smeyne for The New York Times

Image

Jason Reynolds, the author of, most recently, ``For Every
One.''\href{https://www.amazon.com/Every-One-Jason-Reynolds/dp/1481486241/ref=sr_1_2?s=books\&ie=UTF8\&qid=1529026841\&sr=1-2\&keywords=jayson+reynolds}{\\
}Credit...Rebecca Smeyne for The New York Times

Image

Susan Orlean, the author of the forthcoming ``The Library
Book.''\href{https://www.amazon.com/Library-Book-Susan-Orlean/dp/1476740186/ref=sr_1_1?ie=UTF8\&qid=1529026912\&sr=8-1\&keywords=susan+orlean}{\\
}Credit...Rebecca Smeyne for The New York Times

Image

Simon \& Schuster hosted a party during Book Expo America, at Legacy
Records, a New York restaurant.Credit...Rebecca Smeyne for The New York
Times

Image

Mary Higgins Clark, the author of dozens of bestsellers.Credit...Rebecca
Smeyne for The New York Times

Image

Ellie Kemper (left) and Doris Kearns Goodwin.Credit...Rebecca Smeyne for
The New York Times

\hypertarget{new-york-public-library-young-lions-fiction-award}{%
\subsection{New York Public Library Young Lions Fiction
Award}\label{new-york-public-library-young-lions-fiction-award}}

This prize celebrates an American writer under the age of 35. The
ceremony inside the New York Public Library's Celeste Bartos Forum
featured actors (Miriam Shor, Hugh Dancy and others) reading selections
from nominated works; the celebration afterward was upstairs, the D.J.'s
music echoing in the grand marbled halls. The prize was awarded to
Lesley Nneka Arimah, author of the story collection ``What It Means When
a Man Falls from the Sky.'' In her remarks, Arimah spoke about moving to
the United States from Nigeria when she was 13. ``We were left to our
own devices, and for my sister and I, being left to our own devices
meant going to the library with my father's duffel bag and stuffing them
with the maximum amount of volumes we could take out, which was 50. I'd
read my 50, she'd read her 50, then we'd trade and read each other's 50,
then take them back to the library and do it over and over again.''

Image

Lesley Nneka Arimah (center), recipient of the Young Lions Fiction
Award, celebrates.Credit...Joel Barhamand for The New York Times

Image

The actors Stephen Conrad Moore and Nikohl Boosheri, who performed
readings from the nominated books.Credit...Joel Barhamand for The New
York Times

Image

Alice Sola Kim (center), a writer, and other guests before the
ceremony.Credit...Joel Barhamand for The New York Times

Image

Guests at the New York Public Library Young Lions Fiction Award
celebration.Credit...Joel Barhamand for The New York Times

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
