Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/opinion/sunday}{Sunday
Review}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/opinion/sunday}{Sunday Review}\textbar{}Covid Dreams,
Trump Nightmares

\url{https://nyti.ms/3ggB2Zr}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

\href{/section/opinion}{Opinion}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{covid-dreams-trump-nightmares}{%
\section{Covid Dreams, Trump
Nightmares}\label{covid-dreams-trump-nightmares}}

Of masks, unmasking and dropping our professional masks for our medical
ones.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/maureen-dowd}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/04/02/opinion/maureen-dowd/maureen-dowd-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/maureen-dowd}{Maureen
Dowd}

Opinion Columnist

\begin{itemize}
\item
  May 23, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/05/24/opinion/sunday/24Dowd/24Dowd-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

WASHINGTON --- My corona dreams are so crazy and vibrant, with star
turns by politicians, celebrities, zombies and my late mother, that
sometimes as I wake, I groggily think the virus that devoured the globe
has to be a dystopian vision.

Then, still sliding into consciousness, I muse that Donald Trump
lumbering around the White House must have been a dream, too. How is it
possible that this man is actually president?

But the Trump carnival of dread, with its twin fixations on masks and
unmasking, is all too real.

On Thursday, as China played
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/22/world/asia/hong-kong-china-protest.html}{King
Kong with Hong Kong}; as unemployment
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/21/us/coronavirus-news-tracker.html}{rose
to 38.6 million}; as broken dams
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/20/us/michigan-dams.html}{unleashed
a flood} in Central Michigan; as the president continued to stubbornly
and recklessly claim he was taking hydroxychloroquine,
\href{https://www.cnn.com/2020/05/22/health/hydroxychloroquine-sales-covid-19-trump-invs/index.html}{causing
sales to soar}; as the news sank in that if the U.S. had acted even a
week sooner on social distancing that 36,000 people
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/20/us/coronavirus-distancing-deaths.html}{might
still be alive}; as Senate Republicans finally cemented themselves to
Trump and his crazy schemes; as Trump stuck to his threat of
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/20/us/politics/trump-michigan-vote-by-mail.html}{withholding
federal funds} to Michigan and Nevada if those states enabled voters to
vote; as a partisan know-nothing
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/21/us/politics/john-ratcliffe-intelligence-director.html}{was
put in charge} of all our intelligence; as Trump
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/21/us/politics/trump-open-skies-treaty-arms-control.html}{pulled
out of} another major arms control pact; as Mike Pompeo basked in
getting Trump
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/22/us/politics/trump-inspectors-general.html}{to
fire another} inspector general
(\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/19/opinion/pompeo-state-department-inspector-general.html}{this
one looking into} a backdoor deal to sell arms to Saudi Arabia and
brazen grifting by the Pompeos), the cliffhanger president made sure the
focus was on just one little thing: Would he or wouldn't he wear a mask
as he toured the Ford plant in Ypsilanti?

After donning it for a few private moments with Ford executives, Trump
removed the mask for the public part of the tour, saying he ``didn't
want to give the press the pleasure of seeing it.''

While you know Barack Obama would have been all about the mask, showing
the nation the proper example, Trump is afraid his followers will think
he's a wimp if he wears it, that he's conceding the danger of a pandemic
many in MAGA-land think is exaggerated or some sort of hoax.

The mask should be a medical signal, not a political one. But Trump
rejects the mask because of a misbegotten image of masculinity and
power. In denying the mask, he denies reality, science and the fact that
the country is in a crouch. Trump has proved that people wearing a mask
can present more truth than people not wearing a mask.

His latest con, something that he stupidly refers to as ``Obamagate,'' a
scandal about unmasking, is also misbegotten. You can't create a scandal
about Obama out of nothing just because you hate the fact that he went
by the book while you dwell in a murky world of transgressions, that he
glides while you lurch.

Even as Trump tries to paint Joe Biden as gaga, he is doing something
truly gaga: He is running the government that is responding to the worst
pandemic in a century at the same time he is the leader of the
resistance to his own government, urging people and states to open up
whenever they see fit, recommending Clorox injections, stifling Dr.
Fauci, refusing to wear the mask.

The fact is that Donald Trump has been wearing a mask for a long time,
like Eleanor Rigby ``wearing the face that she keeps in a jar by the
door.'' He studied larger-than-life titans like George Steinbrenner and
Lee Iacocca and invented a swaggering character called Donald Trump with
a career marked by evasions, deceptions and disguises.

The young builder was intent, as T.S. Eliot wrote, to take the time ``to
prepare a face to meet the faces that you meet.'' Early on, Donald
locked in his costume for the masquerade, the look of a C.E.O. in the
'80s. His body armor was a dark suit, white shirt and monochromatic silk
tie. His hair was a blond helmet, his war paint was orange.

``He is the most vaudevillian performance artist who ever inhabited the
White House,'' says his biographer Tim O'Brien. ``He has a consuming
desire to always be center stage, yet he never wants to reveal who he
really is. He masks his finances, his taxes, his friendships, his
ongoing family conflicts of interest, his ignorance and his
inadequacies. He's constantly making up areas of expertise he doesn't
have.

``He doesn't read the Bible and he doesn't live as a Christian and love
thy neighbor. But he is demanding that the churches be reopened because
his evangelical base will love that. Everything he's doing right now is
to stave off a loss in November.''

Just as Obama
\href{https://www.theatlantic.com/magazine/archive/2016/04/the-obama-doctrine/471525/}{admitted
at the end of his presidency} that he had not always been ``attentive
enough'' to the parts of the job he did not care for, the theatrics, the
``simplistic'' displays of feelings and emotions designed ``to satisfy
the cable news hype-fest,'' Trump's presidency is the reductio ad
absurdum of all that. It is all theatrics, all performance, all form
with no content. His script is the only truth.

Those of us who have donned protective masks to fight the virus have
taken off our professional masks --- makeup, fashion, artifice. Now we
see celebrities and journalists in their own habitats without hair and
makeup, and that has made them seem more fully human.

Humanity is showing through --- everywhere except, ironically, with the
unmasked Trump.

As we saw with Joe Biden's latest contretemps,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/22/us/politics/joe-biden-black-breakfast-club.html}{telling
Charlamagne Tha God}, ``If you have a problem figuring out whether
you're for me or Trump, then you ain't black,'' Biden has his flaws. God
love him.

But Trump without a mask is more of a masked person than Biden with a
mask.

\emph{The Times is committed to publishing}
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/01/31/opinion/letters/letters-to-editor-new-york-times-women.html}{\emph{a
diversity of letters}} \emph{to the editor. We'd like to hear what you
think about this or any of our articles. Here are some}
\href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014925288-How-to-submit-a-letter-to-the-editor}{\emph{tips}}\emph{.
And here's our email:}
\href{mailto:letters@NYTimes.com}{\emph{letters@NYTimes.com}}\emph{.}

\emph{Follow The New York Times Opinion section on}
\href{https://www.facebookcorewwwi.onion/nytopinion}{\emph{Facebook}}\emph{,}
\href{http://twitter.com/NYTOpinion}{\emph{Twitter (@NYTopinion)}}
\emph{and}
\href{https://www.instagram.com/nytopinion/}{\emph{Instagram}}\emph{.}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{Â©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
