Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/nyregion}{New York}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/nyregion}{New York}\textbar{}D.A. Is Investigating Trump
and His Company Over Fraud, Filing Suggests

\url{https://nyti.ms/3k4sBlX}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/20/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{D.N.C.
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/20/us/politics/biden-presidential-nomination-dnc.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Biden's
  Speech}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/us/elections/2020-presidential-election-calendar.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Election
  Calendar}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/11/us/politics/vote-by-mail-us-states.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Voting
  by Mail}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Politics
  Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{da-is-investigating-trump-and-his-company-over-fraud-filing-suggests}{%
\section{D.A. Is Investigating Trump and His Company Over Fraud, Filing
Suggests}\label{da-is-investigating-trump-and-his-company-over-fraud-filing-suggests}}

The office of the district attorney, Cyrus R. Vance Jr., made the
disclosure in a new court filing arguing Mr. Trump's accountants should
turn over his tax returns.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/03/nyregion/03nytrumptaxes-1/merlin_175135443_00d32206-d9dc-45e2-880b-bd8595afc00e-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/william-k-rashbaum}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/06/13/multimedia/author-william-k-rashbaum/author-william-k-rashbaum-thumbLarge.jpg}}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/benjamin-weiser}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/07/16/multimedia/author-benjamin-weiser/author-benjamin-weiser-thumbLarge.png}}

By
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/william-k-rashbaum}{William
K. Rashbaum} and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/benjamin-weiser}{Benjamin
Weiser}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Published Aug. 3, 2020Updated Aug. 20, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

The Manhattan district attorney's office suggested on Monday that it had
been investigating
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/05/nyregion/trump-taxes-vance-deutsche-bank.html}{President
Trump} and his company for possible
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/20/nyregion/donald-trump-taxes-cyrus-vance.html}{bank
and insurance fraud}, a significantly broader inquiry than the
prosecutors have acknowledged in the past.

The suggestion by the office of the district attorney,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/05/nyregion/trump-taxes-vance-deutsche-bank.html}{Cyrus
R. Vance Jr}., came in a new federal court filing arguing that Mr.
Trump's accountants should have to comply with a grand jury subpoena
seeking eight years of his personal and corporate
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/05/nyregion/trump-taxes-vance-deutsche-bank.html}{tax
returns}. Mr. Trump has asked a judge to declare the subpoena invalid.

Until now, the district attorney's inquiry had appeared largely focused
on hush-money payments made in the run-up to the 2016 presidential
election to two women who said they had affairs with Mr. Trump.

In the new filing, the prosecutors did not explicitly identify the
matters under scrutiny in the grand jury inquiry, which by law is
conducted in secret. But they said that ``undisputed'' assertions in
earlier court papers and several news reports about Mr. Trump's business
practices showed that the office had a wide legal basis for the
subpoena.

``In light of these public reports of possibly extensive and protracted
criminal conduct at the Trump Organization,'' there was nothing improper
or even unusual about the subpoena, the filing said.

The prosecutors cited newspaper reports, including
\href{https://www.washingtonpost.com/graphics/2019/politics/trump-statements-of-financial-condition/}{one
that concluded the president may have illegally inflated his net worth
and the value of his properties to lenders and insurers}. They also
included
\href{https://www.wsj.com/articles/cohen-to-say-trump-knew-about-wikileaks-talks-engaged-in-criminal-conduct-while-in-office-11551249532}{an
article on the congressional testimony of his former lawyer and fixer,
Michael D. Cohen}, who told lawmakers last year that the president had
committed insurance fraud. Lawyers for the president have denied
wrongdoing.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-2020-election}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/19/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: 2020
Election}}{Latest Updates: 2020 Election}}\label{latest-updates-2020-election}}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/19/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#night-3-featured-more-policy-a-focus-on-women-and-a-full-throated-rejection-of-trump-by-his-predecessor}{7h
ago}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/19/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#night-3-featured-more-policy-a-focus-on-women-and-a-full-throated-rejection-of-trump-by-his-predecessor}{Night
3 featured more policy, a focus on women and a full-throated rejection
of Trump by his predecessor.}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/19/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#trump-live-tweeted-obamas-speech-tonight-hell-appear-on-fox-news-right-before-bidens-tomorrow}{9h
ago}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/19/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#trump-live-tweeted-obamas-speech-tonight-hell-appear-on-fox-news-right-before-bidens-tomorrow}{Trump
live-tweeted Obama's speech tonight. He'll appear on Fox News right
before Biden's tomorrow.}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/19/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#advocates-for-domestic-violence-survivors-praised-biden-in-a-video}{9h
ago}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/19/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#advocates-for-domestic-violence-survivors-praised-biden-in-a-video}{Advocates
for domestic violence survivors praised Biden in a video.}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/19/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

The suggestion that the investigation, which has gone on for nearly two
years, was broader than Mr. Vance's office had previously acknowledged
could raise the stakes for Mr. Trump, his company and its executives, if
the inquiry were ever to lead to charges of bank or insurance fraud,
which are felonies.

The inquiry into the hush-money payments seemed to center on a less
serious crime, the filing of false business records.

A spokesman for Mr. Vance's office declined to comment. Lawyers for Mr.
Trump did not reply to requests for comment.

Asked about the investigation at a White House briefing, Mr. Trump
called it a ``continuation of the worst witch hunt in American
history.''

``It's a terrible thing that they do,'' Mr. Trump said, referring to
Democrats. ``It's really a terrible thing.''

Mr. Trump and Mr. Vance have been locked in battle
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2018/10/02/us/politics/donald-trump-tax-schemes-fred-trump.html}{over
the subpoena for almost a year in a case that already has gone to the
Supreme Court}. The district attorney's office has said that fight has
slowed the investigation, and it remains unclear how much work
prosecutors have been able to do in the interim or whether charges are
likely to result.

It is also unknown whether prosecutors are investigating other possible
crimes that were not suggested in the new filing.

Rebecca Roiphe, a former assistant district attorney in Manhattan who
now teaches at New York Law School, said Mr. Vance's decision to cite
public accusations of wrongdoing allowed his office to defend its
subpoena without revealing the actual focus of its investigation.

``They could be going on a totally different tangent,'' Professor Roiphe
said. ``The prosecutor is just doing what he has to do in order to
suggest this is a broad white-collar investigation, which generally
justifies fairly broad subpoenas to financial institutions.''

Mr. Vance, a Democrat,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/09/16/nyregion/trump-tax-returns-cy-vance.html}{subpoenaed
Mr. Trump's accounting firm, Mazars USA, in August 2019 for the tax
returns} and other financial records dating to 2011. Mr. Trump tried to
block the subpoena almost immediately, initially arguing that as a
sitting president,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/09/19/nyregion/trump-tax-returns-lawsuit.html}{he
was immune from state criminal investigation.}

The case wound its way through the federal courts until last month, when
the Supreme Court soundly rejected that argument in a major ruling on
the limits of presidential power. The decision cleared the way for
prosecutors to seek Mr. Trump's financial records, but the court also
said Mr. Trump could return to the lower court in Manhattan, where he
first sued to stop the subpoena, and raise new objections.

Mr. Trump's lawyers argued last week that
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/27/nyregion/donald-trump-taxes-cyrus-vance.html}{the
subpoena was overbroad and politically motivated}, asking the federal
judge, Victor Marrero, to block it and declare it unenforceable.

Mr. Vance's office responded with the filing on Monday, contending that
Mr. Trump's argument ``rests on the false premise that the grand jury's
investigation is limited to so-called `hush-money' payments'' made by
Mr. Cohen in 2016.

``This court is already aware that this assertion is fatally undermined
by undisputed information in the public record,'' the prosecutors wrote,
before citing the media accounts.

Mr. Cohen had arranged payments to the adult film star Stormy Daniels
and another woman, Karen McDougal, a former Playboy model. Mr. Vance's
office has been looking into whether any New York State laws were broken
when those payments were made.

Mr. Cohen,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/11/29/nyregion/michael-cohen-trump-russia-mueller.html}{who
pleaded guilty to federal campaign finance violations for his role in
the payments}, is
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/23/nyregion/michael-cohen-trump-book.html}{serving
a three-year prison sentence in home confinement in his apartment} in
Manhattan.
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/07/17/nyregion/michael-cohen-trump-investigation.html}{Federal
prosectors concluded their investigation} into the matter last year and
have not charged anyone else.

In a recent federal court hearing, Mr. Vance's office accused
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/16/nyregion/donald-trump-taxes-cyrus-vance.html}{Mr.
Trump of dragging out the legal fight in order to effectively shield
himself from criminal investigation}.

``What the president's lawyers are seeking here is delay,'' Carey R.
Dunne, a lawyer in Mr. Vance's office, told Judge Marrero.

Mr. Dunne said that the longer Mr. Trump fought the case, the greater
the chance that the statute of limitations would expire for any
potential crimes that might have been committed, effectively granting
the president immunity.

``Let's not let delay kill this case,'' Mr. Dunne argued.

Jay Sekulow, a lawyer for the president, denied after the hearing that
Mr. Trump's lawyers were pursing a strategy of delay. ``Our strategy
seeks due process,'' Mr. Sekulow said in an email at the time.

If Mr. Vance succeeds in eventually obtaining Mr. Trump's records, they
are unlikely to become public anytime soon because they will be shielded
by grand jury secrecy rules. The records might only emerge later if
criminal charges are brought and the records are introduced in a trial.

\hypertarget{our-2020-election-guide}{%
\section{Our 2020 Election Guide}\label{our-2020-election-guide}}

Updated Aug. 20, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{convention-recap}{%
  \subsection{Convention Recap}\label{convention-recap}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Joe Biden accepted the Democratic nomination, urging Americans to
    have faith that they could
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/20/us/politics/Joe-Biden-accepts-democratic-nomination.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{``overcome
    this season of darkness.''}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{news-analysis}{%
  \subsection{News Analysis}\label{news-analysis}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Looming over Mr. Biden's nomination was the ever-present shadow of
    another man who's poised to dominate the campaign:
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/20/us/politics/biden-dnc-speech-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Donald
    J. Trump}.
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{keep-up-with-our-coverage}{%
  \subsection{Keep Up With Our
  Coverage}\label{keep-up-with-our-coverage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Get an
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{email}
    recapping the day's news
  \end{itemize}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Download our mobile app on
    \href{https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nytimes/id284862083?ls=1\&mat_click_id=5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\&referrer=mat_click_id\%3D5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\%26link_click_id\%3D722930677036718082}{iOS}
    and
    \href{http://a.localytics.com/android?id=com.nytimes.android\&referrer=utm_source\%3Dother_nyt_mobile_web\%26utm_medium\%3DWeb\%2520page\%26utm_term\%3DGeneral\%2520Mobile\%2520Page\%26utm_campaign\%3DNYT\%2520Mobile\%2520General\%2520Page}{Android}
    and turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
