Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/us}{U.S.}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/us}{U.S.}\textbar{}Motoko Fujishiro Huthwaite, 92, Last
of the `Monuments Women,' Dies

\url{https://nyti.ms/2Wg2lez}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/news-event/coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{The
Coronavirus Outbreak}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  live\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/03/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Latest
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Maps
  and Cases}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Vaccine
  Tracker}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/02/us/covid-college-reopening.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{College
  Reopening}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/live/2020/08/03/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Economy}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

Those We've Lost

\hypertarget{motoko-fujishiro-huthwaite-92-last-of-the-monuments-women-dies}{%
\section{Motoko Fujishiro Huthwaite, 92, Last of the `Monuments Women,'
Dies}\label{motoko-fujishiro-huthwaite-92-last-of-the-monuments-women-dies}}

An American who was sent to Japan after Pearl Harbor, she was one of 345
people from 14 countries who helped preserve cultural treasures.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/05/09/obituaries/09Huthwaite-obit1/07Huthwaite1-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/katharine-q-seelye}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/03/23/reader-center/author-katharine-q-seelye/author-katharine-q-seelye-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/katharine-q-seelye}{Katharine Q.
Seelye}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  May 8, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

\emph{This obituary is part of a series about people who have died in
the coronavirus pandemic. Read about others}
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/series/people-who-have-died-of-the-coronavirus}{\emph{here}}\emph{.}

Motoko Fujishiro Huthwaite, part of a team of 345 people from 14
countries --- collectively known as the Monuments Men and Monuments
Women --- who preserved cultural treasures and artworks during and after
World War II, died on Monday in Taylor, Mich., outside Detroit. She was
92.

Robert M. Edsel, founder and chairman of the Monuments Men Foundation,
said the cause was complications of the coronavirus. She died in a
rehabilitation center.

Ms. Huthwaite was the last of the Monuments Women, who originally
numbered 27.
\href{https://www.monumentsmenfoundation.org/barancik-pfc-richard-m}{Richard
M. Barancik remains}the last of the 318 Monuments Men.

They were immortalized in a
\href{https://www.imdb.com/title/tt2177771/}{2014 movie,} ``The
Monuments Men,'' directed by George Clooney and starring him and Matt
Damon. The movie was based on the 2009 book of the same title by Mr.
Edsel and Bret Witter. Mr. Edsel is now writing a book on the Monuments
Women.

During the war, a small, special force of American and British art
historians, museum directors, curators and others started out steering
Allied bombers away from cultural targets in Europe and overseeing
temporary repairs when damage occurred. Their numbers grew, and after
the war they tracked down more than four million objects stolen by Nazi
Germany and returned them to the countries from which they came.

In the Pacific theater, their mission was chiefly to assess the damage
to cultural treasures, prevent looting and return stolen objects. In the
course of their work they came across many works of art that no one from
the West had ever seen. This required a tremendous amount of
inventorying and record keeping.

That was where Ms. Huthwaite came in.

When the war was over, a family friend,
\href{https://www.monumentsmenfoundation.org/warner-langdon}{Langdon
Warner} --- said to be a model for Indiana Jones --- became an adviser
to the Monuments Men in the Pacific. He encouraged Ms. Huthwaite, who
had been sent to Japan after the Japanese bombed Pearl Harbor, to apply
for a job. As an American who spoke both English and Japanese, and who
was vouched for by Mr. Warner, she was hired as a clerk-typist and
became a valuable asset.

She prepared field reports and correspondence. She also worked directly
for Lt. Commander
\href{https://www.monumentsmenfoundation.org/stout-lt-cdr-george-l-usnr}{George
L. Stout,}who helped create the Monuments Men.

In 2015,
\href{https://www.mcclatchydc.com/news/politics-government/congress/article41044539.html}{Congress
presented}the Monuments Men and Women with the Congressional Gold Medal.
Four of the six then-surviving members attended, including Ms.
Huthwaite.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/05/09/obituaries/09Huthwaite-obit2/merlin_172271751_f2e823c3-fad9-4615-b630-7ef2e1942f69-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Motoko Fujishiro was born on Aug. 24, 1927, in Boston to Japanese
immigrant parents. Her father, Shinji Fujishiro, was a professor of
dentistry at Harvard; her mother, Yasuko (Matsudaira) Fujishiro, was a
homemaker.

After the Japanese bombed Pearl Harbor in 1941, Motoko, who was 14 at
the time, and her mother and brother, Katakazu, were relocated to Japan
as part of an exchange of nationals while their father stayed behind to
continue to teach and practice dentistry.

The F.B.I. later arrested him as an enemy alien and sent him to an alien
detention center in Montana. After a year, he, too, was sent to Japan.

The family, settled in Tokyo, survived the American firebombing of that
city. But by then Mr. Fujishiro was a broken man, Mr. Edsel said. Ms.
Huthwaite told him that when air raid sirens would go off, her father
would sit and stare out the window while the rest of the family ran to a
shelter. They were in Tokyo when the United States dropped atomic bombs
on Hiroshima and Nagasaki. Mr. Fujishiro died shortly after the war.

With her Monuments work over, Ms. Huthwaite, achieving a childhood
dream, was accepted to Radcliffe College in Cambridge, Mass., in 1948.
After graduating in 1952 with a major in English, she returned to Japan,
where her mother was still living.

Finally, in 1955, she was able to start the career she had always
wanted, as a teacher. She taught at the American School in Japan for
nearly 10 years before she and her mother moved to South Carolina, where
her brother had settled.

She earned her master's degree in education from the University of South
Carolina in 1967 and her doctorate in elementary curriculum and
instruction in 1974 at Wayne State University in Michigan. She stayed in
Michigan and continued teaching.

``I spent 30 years of my life as a teacher,'' she told Mr. Edsel.
``Elementary, high school, college, and grad school. I liked 4th grade
the best.''

She married William Ernest Cecil Huthwaite, a U.S. Naval officer during
World War II, in 1971. He died in 1997. In addition to her brother, she
is survived by five stepchildren.

In her later years Ms. Huthwaite became a member of the ``Raging
Grannies,'' a group of women who demonstrated for peace and social
justice causes. They wore outlandish attire and sang songs. Ms.
Huthwaite made her mark writing protest songs set to popular tunes.

She told Mr. Edsel that after the war, when the Americans occupied
Japan, she had to choose whether to become a Japanese citizen or have
her American citizenship reinstated.

As she pondered her choice, she looked at her family tree, and what she
saw persuaded her to remain an American.

``All the girls had no names,'' she said. ```Child girl, child girl.'
Girls would not keep their name. We girls just didn't count. Nameless.
In Japan, it was only the men that counted.''

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/obituaries/people-died-coronavirus-obituaries.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=covid_obits_promo}{}

\hypertarget{those-weve-lost}{%
\section{Those We've Lost}\label{those-weve-lost}}

The coronavirus pandemic has taken an incalculable death toll. This
series is designed to put names and faces to the numbers.

Read more

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/07/30/obituaries/30Pedro/30Pedro-square640.jpg}

\hypertarget{bernaldina-josuxe9-pedro}{%
\section{Bernaldina Jos√© Pedro}\label{bernaldina-josuxe9-pedro}}

d. Boa Vista, Brazil

Leader among the Indigenous Macuxi

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/07/31/obituaries/31Swing/merlin_175167783_8913bc90-0d64-43f3-a655-1bb1bf1601c9-square640.jpg}

\hypertarget{john-eric-swing}{%
\section{John Eric Swing}\label{john-eric-swing}}

d. Fountain Valley, Calif.

Champion of Filipino-Americans

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/07/27/obituaries/27Victor/merlin_175001436_38b11f8e-227a-4e2c-9821-7618af9b2524-square640.jpg}

\hypertarget{victor-victor}{%
\section{Victor Victor}\label{victor-victor}}

d. Santo Domingo, Dominican Republic

Beloved musician of the Dominican Republic

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/07/31/obituaries/31Negron/merlin_175160169_516322ae-fd23-4969-b6b2-193ced371105-square640.jpg}

\hypertarget{dr-eddie-negruxf3n}{%
\section{Dr. Eddie Negr√≥n}\label{dr-eddie-negruxf3n}}

d. Fort Walton Beach, Fla.

Internist on Florida's Emerald Coast

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/07/30/obituaries/30Dobson/merlin_175115928_f6b9271c-8f05-4fe1-a38a-5ca4a58f8935-square640.jpg}

\hypertarget{dobby-dobson}{%
\section{Dobby Dobson}\label{dobby-dobson}}

d. Coral Springs, Fla.

Jamaican singer and songwriter

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/08/01/obituaries/28Gonzalez/merlin_175002771_beb57888-3951-409a-ae13-03a94b2e962e-square640.jpg}

\hypertarget{waldemar-gonzalez}{%
\section{Waldemar Gonzalez}\label{waldemar-gonzalez}}

d. White Plains, N.Y.

Teacher and social worker

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{¬©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
