Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/health}{Health}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/health}{Health}\textbar{}The Coronavirus Patients
Betrayed by Their Own Immune Systems

\url{https://nyti.ms/3bOln0J}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/news-event/coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{The
Coronavirus Outbreak}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  live\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/04/world/coronavirus-cases.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Latest
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Maps
  and Cases}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Vaccine
  Tracker}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/02/us/covid-college-reopening.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{College
  Reopening}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/live/2020/08/04/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Economy}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{the-coronavirus-patients-betrayed-by-their-own-immune-systems}{%
\section{The Coronavirus Patients Betrayed by Their Own Immune
Systems}\label{the-coronavirus-patients-betrayed-by-their-own-immune-systems}}

A ``cytokine storm'' becomes an all-too-frequent phenomenon,
particularly among the young. But treatments are being tested.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/04/01/science/01VIRUS-CYTOKINESTORM1/01VIRUS-CYTOKINESTORM1-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By Apoorva Mandavilli

\begin{itemize}
\item
  April 1, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

The 42-year-old man arrived at a hospital in Paris on March 17 with a
fever, cough and the ``ground glass opacities'' in both lungs that are a
trademark of infection with the new coronavirus.

Two days later, his condition suddenly worsened and his oxygen levels
dropped. His body, doctors suspected, was in the grip of a cytokine
storm, a dangerous overreaction of the immune system. The phenomenon has
become all too common in the coronavirus pandemic, but it is also
pointing to potentially helpful drug treatments.

When the body first encounters a virus or a bacterium, the immune system
ramps up and begins to fight the invader. The foot soldiers in this
fight are molecules called cytokines that set off a cascade of signals
to cells to marshal a response. Usually, the stronger this immune
response, the stronger the chance of vanquishing the infection, which is
partly why children and younger people are
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/02/05/health/coronavirus-children.html}{less
vulnerable over all} to coronavirus. And once the enemy is defeated, the
immune system is hard-wired to shut itself off.

``For most people and most infections, that's what happens,'' said Dr.
Randy Cron, an expert on cytokine storms at the University of Alabama at
Birmingham.

But in some cases --- as much as 15 percent of people battling any
serious infection, according to Dr. Cron's team --- the immune system
keeps raging long after the virus is no longer a threat. It continues to
release cytokines that keep the body on an exhausting full alert. In
their misguided bid to keep the body safe, these cytokines attack
multiple organs including the lungs and liver, and may eventually lead
to death.

In these people, it's their body's response, rather than the virus, that
ultimately causes harm.

Cytokine storms can overtake people of any age, but some scientists
believe that they may explain why healthy young people died during the
1918 pandemic and more recently during the SARS, MERS and H1N1
epidemics. They are also a complication of various autoimmune diseases
like lupus and Still's disease, a form of arthritis. And they may offer
clues as to why otherwise healthy young people with coronavirus
infection are succumbing to acute respiratory distress syndrome, a
common consequence of a cytokine storm.

Reports from China and Italy have described young patients with clinical
outcomes that seem consistent with this phenomenon. It's very likely
that some of these patients developed a cytokine storm, Dr. Cron said.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-global-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/04/world/coronavirus-cases.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: Global Coronavirus
Outbreak}}{Latest Updates: Global Coronavirus Outbreak}}\label{latest-updates-global-coronavirus-outbreak}}

Updated 2020-08-05T07:58:24.076Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/04/world/coronavirus-cases.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-762df92}{As
  talks drag on, McConnell signals openness to jobless aid extension,
  and negotiators agree on a deadline.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/04/world/coronavirus-cases.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-1228a480}{Novavax
  sees encouraging results from two studies of its experimental
  vaccine.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/04/world/coronavirus-cases.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-794484ed}{Mississippians
  must now wear masks in public, governor says.}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/04/world/coronavirus-cases.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

More live coverage:
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/live/2020/08/04/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Markets}

In the case of the 42-year-old patient, the suspected cytokine storm led
his doctors to eventually try tocilizumab, a drug they have sometimes
used to soothe an immune system in distress.

After just two doses of the drug, spaced eight hours apart, the
patient's fever rapidly disappeared, his oxygen levels rose and a chest
scan showed his lungs clearing. The case report, described in an
upcoming paper in Annals of Oncology, joins dozens of accounts from
Italy and China, all indicating that tocilizumab might be an effective
antidote to the coronavirus in some people.

On March 5, China approved the drug to treat serious cases of Covid-19,
the disease caused by the coronavirus, and authorized clinical trials.
On March 23, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration granted approval to
the pharmaceutical company Roche to test the drug in hundreds of people
with coronavirus infection.

Tocilizumab is approved to quieten the chatter of immune molecules in
rheumatoid arthritis and in some types of cancer. It mutes the activity
of a specific cytokine called interleukin-6 that is associated with an
over-exuberant immune response.

``That's the rationale for using the drug,'' said Dr. Laurence Albiges,
who cared for the patient at the Gustave Roussy Cancer Center in Paris.

Even as researchers look for treatments, they are trying to learn more
about why some people's immune systems go into this dangerous overdrive.
Genetic factors explain the risk, at least in some kinds of cytokine
storms.

There are many variations on the phenomenon, and they go by many names:
systemic inflammatory response syndrome, cytokine release syndrome,
macrophage activation syndrome, hemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis.

Broadly speaking, they are all marked by an unbridled surge in immune
molecules, and may all result in the fatal shutdown of multiple organs.

But many doctors are unfamiliar with this niche concept or how to treat
it, experts said.

``Everyone's talking about cytokine storm as if it were a
well-recognized phenomenon, but you could have asked medics two weeks
ago and they wouldn't have heard of it,'' said Dr. Jessica Manson, an
immunologist at University College London Hospital.

A patient battling a cytokine storm may have an abnormally fast heart
rate, fever and a drop in blood pressure. Apart from a surge in
interleukin-6, the body may also show high swirling levels of molecules
called interleukin-1, interferon-gamma, C-reactive protein and tumor
necrosis factor-alpha.

This storm, if it develops, becomes obvious a few days into the
infection. But the sooner doctors catch on to it and treat it, the more
likely the patient is to survive. Too late, and the storm may be beyond
control, or may already have caused too much damage.

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/news-event/coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{}

\hypertarget{the-coronavirus-outbreak-}{%
\subsubsection{The Coronavirus Outbreak
â€º}\label{the-coronavirus-outbreak-}}

\hypertarget{frequently-asked-questions}{%
\paragraph{Frequently Asked
Questions}\label{frequently-asked-questions}}

Updated August 4, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{i-have-antibodies-am-i-now-immune}{%
  \paragraph{I have antibodies. Am I now
  immune?}\label{i-have-antibodies-am-i-now-immune}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    As of right
    now,\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/22/health/covid-antibodies-herd-immunity.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{that
    seems likely, for at least several months.} There have been
    frightening accounts of people suffering what seems to be a second
    bout of Covid-19. But experts say these patients may have a
    drawn-out course of infection, with the virus taking a slow toll
    weeks to months after initial exposure. People infected with the
    coronavirus typically
    \href{https://www.nature.com/articles/s41586-020-2456-9}{produce}
    immune molecules called antibodies, which are
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/05/07/health/coronavirus-antibody-prevalence.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{protective
    proteins made in response to an
    infection}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/05/07/health/coronavirus-antibody-prevalence.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{.
    These antibodies may} last in the body
    \href{https://www.nature.com/articles/s41591-020-0965-6}{only two to
    three months}, which may seem worrisome, but that's perfectly normal
    after an acute infection subsides, said Dr. Michael Mina, an
    immunologist at Harvard University. It may be possible to get the
    coronavirus again, but it's highly unlikely that it would be
    possible in a short window of time from initial infection or make
    people sicker the second time.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{im-a-small-business-owner-can-i-get-relief}{%
  \paragraph{I'm a small-business owner. Can I get
  relief?}\label{im-a-small-business-owner-can-i-get-relief}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    The
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/small-business-loans-stimulus-grants-freelancers-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{stimulus
    bills enacted in March} offer help for the millions of American
    small businesses. Those eligible for aid are businesses and
    nonprofit organizations with fewer than 500 workers, including sole
    proprietorships, independent contractors and freelancers. Some
    larger companies in some industries are also eligible. The help
    being offered, which is being managed by the Small Business
    Administration, includes the Paycheck Protection Program and the
    Economic Injury Disaster Loan program. But lots of folks have
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/05/07/business/small-business-loans-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{not
    yet seen payouts.} Even those who have received help are confused:
    The rules are draconian, and some are stuck sitting on
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/05/02/business/economy/loans-coronavirus-small-business.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{money
    they don't know how to use.} Many small-business owners are getting
    less than they expected or
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/10/business/Small-business-loans-ppp.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{not
    hearing anything at all.}
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{what-are-my-rights-if-i-am-worried-about-going-back-to-work}{%
  \paragraph{What are my rights if I am worried about going back to
  work?}\label{what-are-my-rights-if-i-am-worried-about-going-back-to-work}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Employers have to provide
    \href{https://www.osha.gov/SLTC/covid-19/standards.html}{a safe
    workplace} with policies that protect everyone equally.
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/coronavirus-money-unemployment.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{And
    if one of your co-workers tests positive for the coronavirus, the
    C.D.C.} has said that
    \href{https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/community/guidance-business-response.html}{employers
    should tell their employees} -\/- without giving you the sick
    employee's name -\/- that they may have been exposed to the virus.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{should-i-refinance-my-mortgage}{%
  \paragraph{Should I refinance my
  mortgage?}\label{should-i-refinance-my-mortgage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/coronavirus-money-unemployment.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{It
    could be a good idea,} because mortgage rates have
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/16/business/mortgage-rates-below-3-percent.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{never
    been lower.} Refinancing requests have pushed mortgage applications
    to some of the highest levels since 2008, so be prepared to get in
    line. But defaults are also up, so if you're thinking about buying a
    home, be aware that some lenders have tightened their standards.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{what-is-school-going-to-look-like-in-september}{%
  \paragraph{What is school going to look like in
  September?}\label{what-is-school-going-to-look-like-in-september}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    It is unlikely that many schools will return to a normal schedule
    this fall, requiring the grind of
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/05/us/coronavirus-education-lost-learning.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{online
    learning},
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/05/29/us/coronavirus-child-care-centers.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{makeshift
    child care} and
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/03/business/economy/coronavirus-working-women.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{stunted
    workdays} to continue. California's two largest public school
    districts --- Los Angeles and San Diego --- said on July 13, that
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/13/us/lausd-san-diego-school-reopening.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{instruction
    will be remote-only in the fall}, citing concerns that surging
    coronavirus infections in their areas pose too dire a risk for
    students and teachers. Together, the two districts enroll some
    825,000 students. They are the largest in the country so far to
    abandon plans for even a partial physical return to classrooms when
    they reopen in August. For other districts, the solution won't be an
    all-or-nothing approach.
    \href{https://bioethics.jhu.edu/research-and-outreach/projects/eschool-initiative/school-policy-tracker/}{Many
    systems}, including the nation's largest, New York City, are
    devising
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/26/us/coronavirus-schools-reopen-fall.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{hybrid
    plans} that involve spending some days in classrooms and other days
    online. There's no national policy on this yet, so check with your
    municipal school system regularly to see what is happening in your
    community.
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

There is a relatively simple, rapid and easily available test that can
detect whether a patient's body has been taken over by a cytokine storm.
It looks for high levels of a protein called ferritin.

But if the test does suggest a cytokine storm is underway, what then?

The seemingly obvious solution is to quell the storm, Dr. Cron said:
``If it's the body's response to the infection that's killing you, you
need to treat that.''

The reality is trickier, especially given the lack of reliable data for
Covid-19. But noting that drugs like tocilizumab are taken regularly by
people with arthritis, Dr. Cron said the benefit would probably outweigh
potential harm if someone is facing death.

``We need evidence-based data, but in a pandemic, where we're flying by
the seat of our pants, we always have to treat the patient in front of
us,'' he said.

Other drugs might also be useful against cytokine storms. For example, a
drug called anakinra mutes interleukin-1, another of the wayward
proteins. Clinical trials of anakinra for Covid-19 are also underway. A
report published this week suggested that
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/04/01/health/hydroxychloroquine-coronavirus-malaria.html}{hydroxychloroquine},
a much-spotlighted malaria drug that also calms an overactive immune
response, might also be effective as a treatment for those who are
mildly ill from coronavirus.

Doctors could also turn to corticosteroids, which broadly turn down the
entire immune response. That poses its own danger, by exposing the
patient to other opportunistic infections, especially in a hospital.
``It's about getting the balance right between suppression of the
over-exuberant immune response and still allowing the immune response to
fight the virus,'' Dr. Manson said.

A group of experts convened two weeks ago to discuss the best ways to
collect more data and to treat patients who appear to have cytokine
storm. It's already clear that the complexities of the immune system and
the course of coronavirus mean there is no single best treatment.

At the Gustave Roussy Cancer Center, doctors treated another coronavirus
patient with tocilizumab. That individual did not show any improvement
with the drug.

``The response to the pathogen, the virus, is totally different in
different individuals,'' said Dr. Fabrice AndrÃ©, an oncologist at the
center. ``The trials will determine in which patients it works.''

\textbf{\emph{{[}}\href{http://on.fb.me/1paTQ1h}{\emph{Like the Science
Times page on Facebook.}}} ****** \emph{\textbar{} Sign up for the}
\textbf{\href{http://nyti.ms/1MbHaRU}{\emph{Science Times
newsletter.}}\emph{{]}}}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{Â©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
