 **NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please
upgrade your browser.
\href{http://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/content/help/site/ie9-support.html}{LEARN
MORE »}

**Sections

**Home

**Search

\hypertarget{the-new-york-times}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\href{http://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/}{The
New York Times}}{The New York Times}}\label{the-new-york-times}}

 \href{/section/world/middleeast}{Middle East} \textbar{}How Syrians Are
Dying

Log In

**0

**Settings

**Close search

\hypertarget{site-search-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Search Navigation}\label{site-search-navigation}}

Search NYTimes.com

**Clear this text input

Go

\url{https://nyti.ms/1KlD32t}

\begin{enumerate}
\def\labelenumi{\arabic{enumi}.}
\item
  Loading...
\end{enumerate}

See next articles

See previous articles

\hypertarget{site-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Navigation}\label{site-navigation}}

\hypertarget{site-mobile-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Mobile Navigation}\label{site-mobile-navigation}}

Advertisement

\hypertarget{-middle-east-}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{ \href{/section/world/middleeast}{Middle
East} }{ Middle East }}\label{-middle-east-}}

\hypertarget{how-syrians-are-dying}{%
\section{How Syrians Are Dying}\label{how-syrians-are-dying}}

\includegraphics{https://graphics8.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsgraphics/2015/09/02/syria-deaths/560ac6e3abd9ec3dd11787805365acbdb64d1186/blank.gif}
\includegraphics{https://graphics8.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsgraphics/2015/09/02/syria-deaths/560ac6e3abd9ec3dd11787805365acbdb64d1186/blank.gif}
\includegraphics{https://graphics8.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsgraphics/2015/09/02/syria-deaths/560ac6e3abd9ec3dd11787805365acbdb64d1186/blank.gif}

More than \textbf{200,000} people

\hypertarget{have-been-killed-in-the-four-and-a-half-year-syrian-civil-war}{%
\subsection{have been killed in the four-and-a-half-year Syrian civil
war.}\label{have-been-killed-in-the-four-and-a-half-year-syrian-civil-war}}

The constant violence has forced more than four million to flee the
country, fueling a refugee crisis in the Middle East and Europe. The
country is so dangerous that a definitive tally of deaths is not
possible, but several groups are trying to document how many Syrians
have died, and what killed them.

Each of these dots represents one person who was killed during the
conflict.

``With each passing day there are fewer safe places in Syria,'' Paulo
Sérgio Pinheiro, chairman of the United Nations panel investigating
human rights abuses in Syria, wrote in a recent report. ``Everyday
decisions --- whether to visit a neighbor, to go out to buy bread ---
have become, potentially, decisions about life and death.''

\includegraphics{https://graphics8.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsgraphics/2015/09/02/syria-deaths/560ac6e3abd9ec3dd11787805365acbdb64d1186/blank.gif}
\includegraphics{https://graphics8.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsgraphics/2015/09/02/syria-deaths/560ac6e3abd9ec3dd11787805365acbdb64d1186/blank.gif}
\includegraphics{https://graphics8.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsgraphics/2015/09/02/syria-deaths/560ac6e3abd9ec3dd11787805365acbdb64d1186/blank.gif}

At least \textbf{28,277} civilians

\hypertarget{have-died-in-shootings-and-mass-killings}{%
\subsection{have died in shootings and mass
killings.}\label{have-died-in-shootings-and-mass-killings}}

Thousands of civilians have been victims of mass shootings and gunfire
between government forces and insurgents. In one
\href{http://www.un.org/en/ga/search/view_doc.asp?symbol=S/2014/31}{case
documented by the United Nations}, more than 100 people, including at
least 49 children, were killed in Homs on May 25, 2012. Most were shot
at close range.

The U.N. reports that armed opposition groups have also executed
children, but lack of access in areas controlled by the Islamic State
has prevented systematic documentation. ``In places like Raqqa and Deir
Ezzor, it's almost impossible to verify the information,'' said Bassam
al-Ahmad, spokesman for the Violation Documentation Center in Syria.

Reported deaths caused by random shootings or mass killings

March 2011 - August 2015

TURKEY

Kobani

Aleppo

Raqqa

Areas of ISIS

control and

support

Deir Ezzor

1,213 civilian

deaths

SYRIA

Homs

307

civilian deaths

LEBANON

IRAQ

Fewer deaths have been reported in \textbf{ISIS-controlled areas}, where
access to information is especially limited.

Damascus

Number of

civilian deaths

3,720

civilian deaths

1,000

500

ISRAEL

100

JORDAN

Reported deaths caused by random shootings

or mass killings, March 2011 - Aug. 2015

TURKEY

Aleppo

Areas of ISIS

control and support

SYRIA

1,213 civilian

deaths

307 civ.

deaths

IRAQ

LEB.

Damascus

Fewer deaths have been reported in \textbf{areas controlled by ISIS},
where access to information is especially limited.

3,720 civ.

deaths

JORDAN

The New York Times\textbar{}Source:
\href{https://www.vdc-sy.info/index.php/en/}{Violations Documentation
Center}, East View Geospatial, Institute for the Study of War

\includegraphics{https://graphics8.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsgraphics/2015/09/02/syria-deaths/560ac6e3abd9ec3dd11787805365acbdb64d1186/blank.gif}
\includegraphics{https://graphics8.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsgraphics/2015/09/02/syria-deaths/560ac6e3abd9ec3dd11787805365acbdb64d1186/blank.gif}
\includegraphics{https://graphics8.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsgraphics/2015/09/02/syria-deaths/560ac6e3abd9ec3dd11787805365acbdb64d1186/blank.gif}

At least \textbf{27,006} civilians

\hypertarget{were-killed-in-mortar-artillery-and-rocket-attacks}{%
\subsection{were killed in mortar, artillery and rocket
attacks.}\label{were-killed-in-mortar-artillery-and-rocket-attacks}}

Both government and insurgent forces have used ``weapons that are
guaranteed to cause civilian damage,'' said Geoffrey Mock, a Middle East
specialist at Amnesty International. Children account for about 20
percent of these deaths.

The Syrian government has repeatedly fired imprecise rockets and
unguided bombs, according to the United Nations and other monitoring
groups. Insurgent groups have used so-called ``hell cannons'' ---
improvised artillery devices fitted with explosive gas canisters that
cause widespread damage.

``What we are seeing in Syria is war crime on both sides,'' Mr. Mock
said.

\includegraphics{https://graphics8.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsgraphics/2015/09/02/syria-deaths/560ac6e3abd9ec3dd11787805365acbdb64d1186/SYRIA-CRISIS_.jpg}

Shelling from forces loyal to President Bashar Al-Assad in Aleppo's
Bustan al-Qasr neighborhood. Yaman Al Halabi/Reuters

\includegraphics{https://graphics8.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsgraphics/2015/09/02/syria-deaths/560ac6e3abd9ec3dd11787805365acbdb64d1186/blank.gif}
\includegraphics{https://graphics8.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsgraphics/2015/09/02/syria-deaths/560ac6e3abd9ec3dd11787805365acbdb64d1186/blank.gif}
\includegraphics{https://graphics8.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsgraphics/2015/09/02/syria-deaths/560ac6e3abd9ec3dd11787805365acbdb64d1186/blank.gif}

At least \textbf{18,866} civilians

\hypertarget{were-killed-in-syrian-government-air-attacks}{%
\subsection{were killed in Syrian government air
attacks.}\label{were-killed-in-syrian-government-air-attacks}}

Syrian warplanes and helicopters have blasted civilian targets like
mosques, schools and shopping markets in insurgent-controlled areas with
barrel bombs --- large containers filled with explosives and projectiles
--- and other weapons. As the government lost control of the country,
said Mr. Ahmad of the Violations Documentation Center, ``they began
using new tactics by dropping air bombs.'' More than a quarter of the
dead are children.

Civilian deaths caused by government air attacks

1,055

1,000

Government air attacks intensified in mid-2012, a little over a year
after the war began.

800

600

400

200

Jan. 2012

Jan. 2013

Feb. 2014

Jan. 2015

Civilian deaths caused by government air attacks

Government air attacks intensified in mid-2012, a little over a year
after the war began.

1,055

800

600

400

200

Jan. 2012

Jan. 2013

Feb. 2014

Jan. 2015

Civilian deaths caused by government air attacks

Government air attacks intensified in mid-2012, a little over a year
after the war began.

1,055

1,000

800

600

400

200

Jan. 2012

Jan. 2013

Feb. 2014

Jan. 2015

The New York Times\textbar{}Source: Violations Documentation Center

\includegraphics{https://graphics8.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsgraphics/2015/09/02/syria-deaths/560ac6e3abd9ec3dd11787805365acbdb64d1186/blank.gif}
\includegraphics{https://graphics8.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsgraphics/2015/09/02/syria-deaths/560ac6e3abd9ec3dd11787805365acbdb64d1186/blank.gif}
\includegraphics{https://graphics8.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsgraphics/2015/09/02/syria-deaths/560ac6e3abd9ec3dd11787805365acbdb64d1186/blank.gif}

At least \textbf{8,871} civilians

\hypertarget{were-killed-after-being-kidnapped-detained-andor-tortured}{%
\subsection{were killed after being kidnapped, detained and/or
tortured.}\label{were-killed-after-being-kidnapped-detained-andor-tortured}}

The United Nations and others have documented rampant use of torture by
both government and opposition forces, including crimes against children
targeted for appearing to be pro-government. In March, thousands of
photos surfaced showing detainees who were said to have died in Syrian
prisons. The photos were smuggled out of Syria by a former Syrian
military photographer. Secretary of State John Kerry said that the
photos showed evidence of torture.

\includegraphics{https://graphics8.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsgraphics/2015/09/02/syria-deaths/560ac6e3abd9ec3dd11787805365acbdb64d1186/blank.gif}
\includegraphics{https://graphics8.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsgraphics/2015/09/02/syria-deaths/560ac6e3abd9ec3dd11787805365acbdb64d1186/blank.gif}
\includegraphics{https://graphics8.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsgraphics/2015/09/02/syria-deaths/560ac6e3abd9ec3dd11787805365acbdb64d1186/blank.gif}

At least \textbf{984} civilians

\hypertarget{were-killed-by-exposure-to-chemical-or-toxic-substances}{%
\subsection{were killed by exposure to chemical or toxic
substances.}\label{were-killed-by-exposure-to-chemical-or-toxic-substances}}

The Syrian government has been accused of using chlorine-filled barrel
bombs. An attack in 2013 killed hundreds of people (some estimates were
upward of 1,500) in Ghouta, a suburb of Damascus controlled by the
opposition, when the area was struck by several rockets containing
sarin, a nerve agent known to be part of the Syrian military's
stockpile. There are also reports that the Islamic State, also known as
ISIS or ISIL, has used mustard gas in northern Syria.

\includegraphics{https://graphics8.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsgraphics/2015/09/02/syria-deaths/560ac6e3abd9ec3dd11787805365acbdb64d1186/POY_.jpg}

Hundreds of people were killed in a nerve gas attack in the Ghouta
region near Damascus. Bassam Khabieh/Reuters

\includegraphics{https://graphics8.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsgraphics/2015/09/02/syria-deaths/560ac6e3abd9ec3dd11787805365acbdb64d1186/blank.gif}
\includegraphics{https://graphics8.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsgraphics/2015/09/02/syria-deaths/560ac6e3abd9ec3dd11787805365acbdb64d1186/blank.gif}
\includegraphics{https://graphics8.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsgraphics/2015/09/02/syria-deaths/560ac6e3abd9ec3dd11787805365acbdb64d1186/blank.gif}

At least \textbf{654} medical workers

\hypertarget{were-killed-in-attacks-on-hospitals}{%
\subsection{were killed in attacks on
hospitals.}\label{were-killed-in-attacks-on-hospitals}}

The United Nations has accused the Syrian government of using attacks on
hospitals as a ``weapon of war.''
\href{https://s3.amazonaws.com/PHR_syria_map/web/index.html}{Physicians
for Human Rights documented} nearly 300 attacks on hospitals through
July, most of them carried out by pro-Assad forces in
opposition-controlled areas.

\includegraphics{https://graphics8.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsgraphics/2015/09/02/syria-deaths/560ac6e3abd9ec3dd11787805365acbdb64d1186/blank.gif}
\includegraphics{https://graphics8.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsgraphics/2015/09/02/syria-deaths/560ac6e3abd9ec3dd11787805365acbdb64d1186/blank.gif}
\includegraphics{https://graphics8.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsgraphics/2015/09/02/syria-deaths/560ac6e3abd9ec3dd11787805365acbdb64d1186/blank.gif}

At least \textbf{565} civilians

\hypertarget{died-from-starvation-dehydration-or-lack-of-basic-medical-care}{%
\subsection{died from starvation, dehydration or lack of basic medical
care.}\label{died-from-starvation-dehydration-or-lack-of-basic-medical-care}}

The death toll, documented by the Syrian American Medical Society
through January 2015, does not capture the many people --- estimates
range from 200,000 to more than 600,000 --- who have been under siege
for more than a year and are at risk of starving to death or dying from
other preventable causes. The majority of those besieged are trapped by
the Syrian government in the Damascus area, according to Valerie
Szybala, the primary author of a
\href{http://syriaundersiege.org/wp-content/uploads/2015/03/For-web-_REPORT.pdf}{report
by the Syrian American Medical Society} and executive directive of the
Syria Institute, a new think tank.

SYRIA

Area of detail

DAMASCUS

Areas besieged

by government forces

SYRIA

Area of detail

Areas besieged

by government forces

DAMASCUS

The New York Times\textbar{}Source: Syrian American Medical Society,
East View Geospatial

\includegraphics{https://graphics8.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsgraphics/2015/09/02/syria-deaths/560ac6e3abd9ec3dd11787805365acbdb64d1186/blank.gif}
\includegraphics{https://graphics8.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsgraphics/2015/09/02/syria-deaths/560ac6e3abd9ec3dd11787805365acbdb64d1186/blank.gif}
\includegraphics{https://graphics8.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsgraphics/2015/09/02/syria-deaths/560ac6e3abd9ec3dd11787805365acbdb64d1186/blank.gif}

An estimated \textbf{181} civilians

\hypertarget{were-killed-in-the-american-led-air-campaign-against-isis}{%
\subsection{were killed in the American-led air campaign against
ISIS.}\label{were-killed-in-the-american-led-air-campaign-against-isis}}

The Syrian Observatory for Human Rights has estimated that 181 civilians
have been killed in the coalition airstrike campaign against the Islamic
State, as of mid-August. Other groups have given higher estimates, and
all say that the United States and its allies understate the civilian
toll. The United States Central Command says it has confirmed the deaths
of only two civilians since the start of the campaign.

American-led airstrikes against the Islamic State in Syria, by week

91

83

80

73

60

40

20

First week of Oct. 2014

April

Aug.

Jan. 2015

American-led airstrikes against the Islamic State in Syria, by week

91

83

80

73

60

40

20

First week

of Oct. 2014

Jan. 2015

April

Aug.

The New York Times\textbar{}Source: United States Central Command

Note: Estimates of deaths caused by shootings and mass killings; mortar,
artillery and rocket attacks; Syrian government air attacks;
kidnappings/torture; and exposure to chemical or toxic substances are
provided by the Violations Documentation Center and are as of Sept. 9,
2015.

\subsection{}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2015/02/12/world/middleeast/syria-civil-war-damage-maps.html}{}

  \includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2015/02/12/world/middleeast/syria-civil-war-damage-maps-1423847241439/syria-civil-war-damage-maps-1423847241439-mediumThreeByTwo225.png}

  \hypertarget{from-syria-an-atlas-of-a-country-in-ruins}{%
  \subsection{From Syria, an Atlas of a Country in
  Ruins}\label{from-syria-an-atlas-of-a-country-in-ruins}}

  May 26, 2016
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2015/03/12/world/middleeast/syria-civil-war-after-four-years-map.html}{}

  \includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2015/03/12/world/middleeast/syria-civil-war-after-four-years-map-1426137761520/syria-civil-war-after-four-years-map-1426137761520-mediumThreeByTwo225.png}

  \hypertarget{syria-after-four-years-of-mayhem}{%
  \subsection{Syria After Four Years of
  Mayhem}\label{syria-after-four-years-of-mayhem}}

  May 26, 2016
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2015/09/10/world/europe/scale-of-migrant-crisis-in-europe.html}{}

  \includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2015/09/10/world/europe/scale-of-migrant-crisis-in-europe-1441861545376/scale-of-migrant-crisis-in-europe-1441861545376-mediumThreeByTwo225-v4.png}

  \hypertarget{the-scale-of-the-migrant-crisis-from-160-to-millions}{%
  \subsection{The Scale of the Migrant Crisis, From 160 to
  Millions}\label{the-scale-of-the-migrant-crisis-from-160-to-millions}}

  June 1, 2017
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2015/09/04/world/europe/europe-refugee-distribution.html}{}

  \includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2015/09/04/world/europe/europe-refugee-distribution-1441378590300/europe-refugee-distribution-1441378590300-mediumThreeByTwo225-v3.png}

  \hypertarget{seeking-a-fair-distribution-of-migrants-in-europe}{%
  \subsection{Seeking a Fair Distribution of Migrants in
  Europe}\label{seeking-a-fair-distribution-of-migrants-in-europe}}

  June 1, 2017
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2015/08/28/world/europe/countries-under-strain-from-european-migration-crisis.html}{}

  \includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2015/08/28/world/europe/countries-under-strain-from-european-migration-crisis-1440804652315/countries-under-strain-from-european-migration-crisis-1440804652315-mediumThreeByTwo225-v2.png}

  \hypertarget{countries-under-the-most-strain-in-the-european-migration-crisis}{%
  \subsection{Countries Under the Most Strain in the European Migration
  Crisis}\label{countries-under-the-most-strain-in-the-european-migration-crisis}}

  June 1, 2017
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2015/06/09/world/migrants-global-refugee-crisis-mediterranean-ukraine-syria-rohingya-malaysia-iraq.html}{}

  \includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2015/06/08/world/migrants-global-refugee-crisis-mediterranean-ukraine-syria-rohingya-malaysia-iraq-1433790614233/migrants-global-refugee-crisis-mediterranean-ukraine-syria-rohingya-malaysia-iraq-1433790614233-mediumThreeByTwo225-v9.jpg}

  \hypertarget{the-global-refugee-crisis-region-by-region}{%
  \subsection{The Global Refugee Crisis, Region by
  Region}\label{the-global-refugee-crisis-region-by-region}}

  June 1, 2017
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©
  2020 The New York Times Company}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Home}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/search/}{Search}
\item
  Accessibility concerns? Email us at
  \href{mailto:accessibility@NYTimes.com}{\nolinkurl{accessibility@NYTimes.com}}.
  We would love to hear from you.
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014892108-Privacy-policy\#pp}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014892108-Privacy-policy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation-1}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation-1}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us?redir=myacc}{Site
  Feedback}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
