Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/world/europe}{Europe}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/world/europe}{Europe}\textbar{}As They Console
Coronavirus's Victims, Italy's Priests Are Dying, Too

\url{https://nyti.ms/2UZhFLQ}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{The
Coronavirus Outbreak}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  live\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/02/world/coronavirus-updates.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Latest
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Maps
  and Cases}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Vaccine
  Tracker}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/07/29/us/schools-reopening-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{What
  School May Look Like}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/07/31/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Economy}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{as-they-console-coronaviruss-victims-italys-priests-are-dying-too}{%
\section{As They Console Coronavirus's Victims, Italy's Priests Are
Dying,
Too}\label{as-they-console-coronaviruss-victims-italys-priests-are-dying-too}}

Doctors and nurses on the front line have become symbols of sacrifice,
but priests and nuns have also joined the fight, often at great risk.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/04/12/world/12Italy-Priests1/merlin_171497892_95673bbd-4e37-4eb7-ad7e-e416ad0ee2a0-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/jason-horowitz}{Jason
Horowitz} and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/elisabetta-povoledo}{Elisabetta
Povoledo}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  April 11, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

ROME --- On the Sunday before Easter, the priest's phone rang.

The Rev. Claudio Del Monte carried the phone, given to him by staff in
the Bergamo hospital, along with a small cross and some homemade
sanitizer. Instead of his usual cleric's collar, he wore disposable
scrubs, a surgical mask covered with another mask, protective eyewear
and a cap over his head. On his chest he had drawn a black cross with a
felt pen.

He excused himself from two coronavirus patients he was visiting in the
hospital and answered the call. But he already knew what it meant.
Minutes later, he arrived at the bedside of an older man he had met days
earlier. An oxygen mask now obscured the man's face, and intensive care
staff huddled around his bed.

``I blessed him and absolved him from sins, he squeezed my hand tightly
and I stayed there with him until his eyes closed,'' Father Del Monte,
53, said. ``And then I said the prayer for the dead, and then I changed
my gloves and continued my round.''

Italy's coronavirus outbreak is one of the world's deadliest, and while
the doctors and nurses on the northern
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/04/07/magazine/italy-hospitals-covid.html}{Italian
front line have become symbols of sacrifice} against an invisible enemy,
priests and nuns have also joined the fight. Especially in
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/03/27/world/europe/coronavirus-italy-bergamo.html}{deeply
infected areas like Bergamo}, they are risking, and sometimes giving,
their lives to attend to the spiritual needs of the often older and
devout Italians hardest hit by the virus.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/04/12/world/12Italy-Priests2/merlin_171497925_35e90e41-c586-4de2-986b-a27e69c8c343-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Across Italy, the virus has killed more than 100 priests, many of them
retired and especially vulnerable to a scourge that preys on older
people, whether it be in nursing homes or monasteries. Avvenire, the
newspaper run by the Italian bishops conference, is honoring the dead
with the hashtag ``PriestsForever.''

But some priests have also fallen in service, and in a Holy Thursday
Mass in an empty St. Peter's Basilica, Pope Francis remembered them.

``In these days, more than 60 have died here in Italy, attending to the
sick in the hospitals,'' he said, calling them ``the saints next door,
priests who gave their lives in service.''

Francesco Beschi, the bishop of Bergamo, said he had lost 24 priests in
20 days, in a region where more than 2,600 people have died of the virus
by the official count. About half the priests were retired and out of
service, but others still tended to pastoral duties.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-global-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/01/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: Global Coronavirus
Outbreak}}{Latest Updates: Global Coronavirus Outbreak}}\label{latest-updates-global-coronavirus-outbreak}}

Updated 2020-08-02T17:52:35.962Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/01/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-34047410}{The
  U.S. reels as July cases more than double the total of any other
  month.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/01/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-780ec966}{Top
  U.S. officials work to break an impasse over the federal jobless
  benefit.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/01/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-2bc8948}{Its
  outbreak untamed, Melbourne goes into even greater lockdown.}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/01/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

More live coverage:
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/07/31/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Markets}

They offer solace through WhatsApp groups, wave from behind car windows
as they bring food to the sick, lean against the door frames of infected
bedrooms as they deliver last rites and shroud themselves in personal
protective equipment as they whisper prayers and encouragement at
hospital bed sides.

They complain they cannot get closer, that the last touch the faithful
feel is a gloved one, that the last face they see is often on a screen.
With a virus that separates families and spouses as it kills, priests
said that they were also pained to be distanced from their flock when
they were needed most.

Image

Coronavirus patients in the intensive care unit of Policlinico San
Pietro in Ponte San Pietro.Credit...Fabio Bucciarelli for The New York
Times

One of those was the Rev. Fausto Resmini, 67, esteemed as the chaplain
of Bergamo's prison for nearly 30 years and the founder of a center for
troubled youth. His fellow priests said that in the course of his work
last month, he caught the virus. He received treatment at the Humanitas
Gavazzeni hospital where Father Del Monte does his rounds, before dying
on March 23.

Local residents are trying to name a new field hospital after him.

``His death is a huge loss for the Bergamo church,'' said the Rev.
Roberto Trussardi, director of Bergamo Caritas, the church's charitable
arm.

Such sacrifices have not deterred many other priests from ministering to
the sick.

``Staying home is the right thing to do,'' said the Rev. Giovanni
Paolini, 85, in the central Italian town of Pesaro. ``But I am a priest
and sometimes it is necessary to bend the law to meet people's needs.''

On Monday, he said a burial prayer for one of the 15 members of a local
parish killed by the virus.

He said he used the phone or social media when possible to console. But
he also said he puts on his mask and other protective gear to visit old
people fearing death, often alone.

``You choose this life to be useful to others,'' he said.

Image

Pope Francis celebrating Good Friday in an empty St. Peter's Square at
the Vatican.Credit...Nadia Shira Cohen for The New York Times

Those priests embody a vision of the church articulated by Pope Francis,
who has often invoked the image of a field hospital and the characters
of the Italian masterpiece, ``The Betrothed,'' in which heroic Milanese
priests selflessly treat those afflicted by the plague.

On March 10, Francis prayed in a morning Mass, ``for our priests, so
that they have the courage to go out, and go to those who are sick.''

That encouragement seemed in violation of restrictions Italy adopted
that very day that sought to keep people in their homes to prevent the
spread of the virus, but the Vatican's spokesman immediately argued that
the pope's appeal clearly understood the need for priests to act ``while
respecting the health measures established by Italian authorities.''

Cardinal Michael Czerny, a close adviser to Francis, said that the
pontiff has seemed calm but also intensely involved in the church's
response to the virus in recent days.

``What makes him most happy are the priests who don't need to be told,
but who know that this is what they should do,'' he said. ``If he had
his druthers, he would be on the front lines, too.''

``He wants us at the frontiers,'' Cardinal Czerny said. ``And beyond the
limits.''

Image

A private funeral in Alzano Lombardo.Credit...Fabio Bucciarelli for The
New York Times

Those limits are not safely placed. And once the danger of contagion
became clear, Bishop Beschi said, priests began adopting the appropriate
precautions. He had sent a letter to his own priests telling them, ``We
want to bring Christ to people but not contagion.'' He added, ``This was
a painful choice, because it was a limitation.''

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{}

\hypertarget{the-coronavirus-outbreak-}{%
\subsubsection{The Coronavirus Outbreak
›}\label{the-coronavirus-outbreak-}}

\hypertarget{frequently-asked-questions}{%
\paragraph{Frequently Asked
Questions}\label{frequently-asked-questions}}

Updated July 27, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{should-i-refinance-my-mortgage}{%
  \paragraph{Should I refinance my
  mortgage?}\label{should-i-refinance-my-mortgage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/coronavirus-money-unemployment.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{It
    could be a good idea,} because mortgage rates have
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/16/business/mortgage-rates-below-3-percent.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{never
    been lower.} Refinancing requests have pushed mortgage applications
    to some of the highest levels since 2008, so be prepared to get in
    line. But defaults are also up, so if you're thinking about buying a
    home, be aware that some lenders have tightened their standards.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{what-is-school-going-to-look-like-in-september}{%
  \paragraph{What is school going to look like in
  September?}\label{what-is-school-going-to-look-like-in-september}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    It is unlikely that many schools will return to a normal schedule
    this fall, requiring the grind of
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/05/us/coronavirus-education-lost-learning.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{online
    learning},
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/29/us/coronavirus-child-care-centers.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{makeshift
    child care} and
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/03/business/economy/coronavirus-working-women.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{stunted
    workdays} to continue. California's two largest public school
    districts --- Los Angeles and San Diego --- said on July 13, that
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/13/us/lausd-san-diego-school-reopening.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{instruction
    will be remote-only in the fall}, citing concerns that surging
    coronavirus infections in their areas pose too dire a risk for
    students and teachers. Together, the two districts enroll some
    825,000 students. They are the largest in the country so far to
    abandon plans for even a partial physical return to classrooms when
    they reopen in August. For other districts, the solution won't be an
    all-or-nothing approach.
    \href{https://bioethics.jhu.edu/research-and-outreach/projects/eschool-initiative/school-policy-tracker/}{Many
    systems}, including the nation's largest, New York City, are
    devising
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/26/us/coronavirus-schools-reopen-fall.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{hybrid
    plans} that involve spending some days in classrooms and other days
    online. There's no national policy on this yet, so check with your
    municipal school system regularly to see what is happening in your
    community.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{is-the-coronavirus-airborne}{%
  \paragraph{Is the coronavirus
  airborne?}\label{is-the-coronavirus-airborne}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    The coronavirus
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/04/health/239-experts-with-one-big-claim-the-coronavirus-is-airborne.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{can
    stay aloft for hours in tiny droplets in stagnant air}, infecting
    people as they inhale, mounting scientific evidence suggests. This
    risk is highest in crowded indoor spaces with poor ventilation, and
    may help explain super-spreading events reported in meatpacking
    plants, churches and restaurants.
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/06/health/coronavirus-airborne-aerosols.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{It's
    unclear how often the virus is spread} via these tiny droplets, or
    aerosols, compared with larger droplets that are expelled when a
    sick person coughs or sneezes, or transmitted through contact with
    contaminated surfaces, said Linsey Marr, an aerosol expert at
    Virginia Tech. Aerosols are released even when a person without
    symptoms exhales, talks or sings, according to Dr. Marr and more
    than 200 other experts, who
    \href{https://academic.oup.com/cid/article/doi/10.1093/cid/ciaa939/5867798}{have
    outlined the evidence in an open letter to the World Health
    Organization}.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{what-are-the-symptoms-of-coronavirus}{%
  \paragraph{What are the symptoms of
  coronavirus?}\label{what-are-the-symptoms-of-coronavirus}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Common symptoms
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/symptoms-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{include
    fever, a dry cough, fatigue and difficulty breathing or shortness of
    breath.} Some of these symptoms overlap with those of the flu,
    making detection difficult, but runny noses and stuffy sinuses are
    less common.
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/27/health/coronavirus-symptoms-cdc.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{The
    C.D.C. has also} added chills, muscle pain, sore throat, headache
    and a new loss of the sense of taste or smell as symptoms to look
    out for. Most people fall ill five to seven days after exposure, but
    symptoms may appear in as few as two days or as many as 14 days.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{does-asymptomatic-transmission-of-covid-19-happen}{%
  \paragraph{Does asymptomatic transmission of Covid-19
  happen?}\label{does-asymptomatic-transmission-of-covid-19-happen}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    So far, the evidence seems to show it does. A widely cited
    \href{https://www.nature.com/articles/s41591-020-0869-5}{paper}
    published in April suggests that people are most infectious about
    two days before the onset of coronavirus symptoms and estimated that
    44 percent of new infections were a result of transmission from
    people who were not yet showing symptoms. Recently, a top expert at
    the World Health Organization stated that transmission of the
    coronavirus by people who did not have symptoms was ``very rare,''
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/09/world/coronavirus-updates.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq\#link-1f302e21}{but
    she later walked back that statement.}
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

In Castiglione d'Adda, one of the first towns quarantined by the Italian
government during the initial February outbreak, nearly all public
religious ceremonies and services have ceased. The Rev. Gabriele
Bernardelli, 58, said he kept contact with his parishioners through
WhatsApp and Instagram. The phone, he said, ``becomes a pastoral
instrument.''

But he said that the vast majority of the 67 people his town lost in the
last 40 days had died in the hospital, and that he had not been able to
see them. He took some solace in the fact that local bishops had
deputized devout medical workers in hospitals to make the sign of the
cross on a dying patient's forehead.

Last month, during the explosion of cases, Father Bernardelli visited
the home of an older man, the father of a priest, as he lay dying in his
bedroom.

``I used to be close to a dying person, like a doctor next to the
sick,'' he said. This time he stayed at the threshold of the door
watching the man clutch a tank of oxygen. Father Bernardelli delivered
last rites through a mask from outside the door frame.

``This is what you can do,'' he said.

Image

Father Del Monte in the courtyard of the Church of Santa Croce in
Bergamo.Credit...Fabio Bucciarelli for The New York Times

Father Del Monte also visits the sick at home. A chemist by training, he
has made vats of disinfectant. He dabs it in his nostrils and rubs it on
his hands.

The precautions were both to protect himself and to make sure that he
did not inadvertently spread the virus himself, as he goes home to home.

``Like all my priest friends, we go around to the houses,'' he said,
``so we cannot be the ones who bring the contagion. We cannot only get
the sickness, we can give it. Maybe we are asymptomatic, and then it's a
disaster.''

Last week, he too delivered last rites in a mask from the threshold of a
bedroom, this time for a woman in his parish. He added that on Monday
morning, he said simple prayers at the Bergamo cemetery during a burial.

``Three or four minutes,'' he said.

Before 3 every afternoon, he leaves his parish, changes out of his
clerical clothing and gets dressed for visits in the hospital, which
falls within his parish.

He has comforted wives whose husbands died in other hospitals and
lingered when doctors rushed off.

``The priest's time is freer,'' he said, adding, ``It's not about
looking for it, it's about accepting the suffering that comes.''

Sometimes he sees new patients taking the place of the dead he prayed
with the day before. But he has also found a letter on the bed of a
patient who survived.

``Until next time,'' it read.

Image

Father Del Monte praying with the Holy Cross after the private Via
Crucis on Good Friday.Credit...Fabio Bucciarelli for The New York Times

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
