Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/pages/business/media/index.html}{Media}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/pages/business/media/index.html}{Media}\textbar{}Gawker Case
Calls Attention to a Go-To Hollywood Lawyer

\url{https://nyti.ms/1OWCfQw}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{gawker-case-calls-attention-to-a-go-to-hollywood-lawyer}{%
\section{Gawker Case Calls Attention to a Go-To Hollywood
Lawyer}\label{gawker-case-calls-attention-to-a-go-to-hollywood-lawyer}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2016/05/30/business/30harder/30harder-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By \href{http://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/michael-cieply}{Michael
Cieply}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  May 29, 2016
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

LOS ANGELES --- In Hollywood, everyone knows the go-to lawyers.

For divorce, there's Laura Wasser, now representing Johnny Depp in
\href{http://www.people.com/article/johnny-depp-amber-heard-alleged-abuse-financial-gain}{his
split} with Amber Heard.

For a potential criminal charge, think Blair Berk, who
\href{http://www.latimes.com/local/lanow/la-me-ln-charges-declined-caitlyn-jenner-20150930-story.html}{helped}
Caitlyn Jenner avoid one after a traffic accident in which one person
died, or Thomas Mesereau, who got Michael Jackson
\href{http://www.today.com/id/8208361/ns/today-today_entertainment/t/mez-dominated-jackson-courtroom/\#.V0s_zfkrK70}{acquitted}.

And if it just seems to be a
\href{http://www.hollywoodreporter.com/thr-esq/hollywood-docket-reese-witherspoon-settles-866160}{workaday
violation} of a famous person's rights, like slapping Reese
Witherspoon's name on jewelry without her permission? That was the sort
of case Charles J. Harder was known for --- until now.

Mr. Harder and his boutique Hollywood firm,
\href{http://hmafirm.com/}{Harder, Mirell \& Abrams}, are suddenly in
the limelight. Last week it was revealed that their legal victory for
the former professional wrestler Hulk Hogan, in his suit against Gawker
Media over publication of a sex video, was
\href{http://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2016/05/26/business/dealbook/peter-thiel-tech-billionaire-reveals-secret-war-with-gawker.html}{secretly
underwritten} by the Silicon Valley billionaire Peter Thiel. Hulk Hogan,
whose real name is Terry Gene Bollea, was awarded \$140 million.

Mr. Thiel, a PayPal founder, had a longstanding dispute with Gawker,
which published an article in 2007 saying he was gay.

The case, and Mr. Thiel's place in it, have sent a shudder through many
in the news media. At issue is whether Mr. Thiel's role in the case will
motivate other wealthy and powerful people to settle scores by giving
money to litigants whose causes they support.

(The Gawker case is likely to continue with appeals, and a
\href{http://www.hollywoodreporter.com/thr-esq/judge-upholds-hulk-hogans-140-897301}{June
10 hearing} into matters that are still pending.)

A smaller question, but almost as fascinating in Los Angeles legal
circles, is this: How did Mr. Harder, a 46-year-old Beverly Hills lawyer
who has specialized in protecting stars from having their rights
infringed upon by retailers and marketers, wind up in the middle of this
free speech fight?

Mr. Harder would not comment for this article. But a close look at his
résumé, and conversations with people familiar with his background, who
spoke on the condition of anonymity because of confidentiality
strictures, suggest that Mr. Harder's emergence as a power player
happened as most things do in Hollywood. That is, through a combination
of grit, talent, shrewd calculation --- and knowing the right people.

Mr. Harder's growing connections with celebrities, their representatives
and well-heeled entrepreneurs was clearly rooted in a legal action filed
in 2009 in state and federal courts here.

In those interrelated cases, Mr. Harder represented six famous actresses
--- Sandra Bullock, Michelle Pfeiffer, Cameron Diaz, Mandy Moore, Kate
Hudson and Diane Keaton --- against a group of computer retailers and
other companies accused of a somewhat mundane violation. The actresses'
images appeared in catalogs and on websites, on the screens of various
devices offered for sale.

After working its way through the courts and mediation, that dispute
ended in confidential settlements and dismissal. For Mr. Harder, the
outcome was successful enough to set a pattern for succeeding cases that
found him and his colleagues, in quick succession, filing various
privacy rights claims for a growing client list that included George
Clooney, Julia Roberts, Bradley Cooper, Liam Neeson, Jude Law, Halle
Berry, Tyra Banks, Clint Eastwood and Ms. Witherspoon.

The claims and the outcomes --- settlements, rather than trials --- were
often similar. In one departure, Mr. Harder in 2011 fought all the way
through trial to a
\href{http://variety.com/2011/biz/news/cecchi-gori-awarded-15-mil-in-suit-1118034590/}{\$15
million verdict} for the producer Vittorio Cecchi Gori in a complicated
dispute with a former colleague, Gianni Nunnari, over rights in films
that included ``300,'' ``The Departed'' and ``Shutter Island.''

At least once before, Mr. Harder has tangled with Gawker, in 2012 on
behalf of Lena Dunham. He demanded that the site take down a posting of
Ms. Dunham's book proposal, which it largely did, though it continued to
display fragments and commentary.

In early October 2012, Gawker refused a demand by Mr. Bollea's longtime
lawyer, David Houston, that it remove the sex video from its site. Mr.
Harder --- then at the firm Wolf, Rifkin, Shapiro, Schulman \& Rabkin
--- was retained and quickly filed suit.

Whether Mr. Thiel had assured funding at that point is unclear. But Mr.
Harder and his colleagues were confident enough of their footing to
\href{http://www.hollywoodreporter.com/thr-esq/new-hollywood-law-firm-launched-428945}{start
their own firm} the following January, taking Mr. Bollea and other
clients with them.

During the Gawker trial, Mr. Harder, though lead counsel, played a
relatively small role in the handling of witnesses, who were often
questioned by others. But he currently represents clients in
\href{http://finance.yahoo.com/news/lawsuits-hulk-hogan-gawker-charles-harder-182257284.html}{two
additional suits} against Gawker. One was filed this month in a Boston
federal court by Shiva Ayyadurai, who claims he invented email, and
another was filed in January in a Manhattan federal court by Ashley
Terrill, a journalist. It is not known if Mr. Thiel has played any role
in supporting those suits.

Harder, Mirell \& Abrams currently has its offices in a small,
fashionable building adjoining the Beverly Wilshire Hotel on Rodeo
Drive. It is near the Century City quarters of much larger law firms
like Ziffren Brittenham and Jackoway Tyerman, and talent representatives
like the Creative Artists Agency.

It is also a short drive from the San Fernando Valley, where Mr. Harder
grew up. He attended Montclair College Preparatory School, now closed,
in Van Nuys, and did his undergraduate work at the University of
California, Santa Cruz.

After receiving a law degree from Loyola Law School in Los Angeles, Mr.
Harder clerked briefly for Judge A. Andrew Hauk, who was then at the
United States District Court for the Central District of California in
Los Angeles.

Mr. Harder then spent about a year with the Lavely \& Singer law firm.
The firm and its principal partners, John H. Lavely Jr. and Martin D.
Singer, are known as
\href{http://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2011/05/22/business/22singer.html}{fierce
defenders} of prominent celebrities like Arnold Schwarzenegger and
Sylvester Stallone.

But Mr. Harder did little trial work for the firm, either then or during
a second stint at Lavely \& Singer. In between, he worked for a web
company, Load Media Network.

In 2001, a case he was working on
\href{http://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2001/08/01/jobs/spurned-new-hires-have-their-say.html}{received
attention} in The New York Times. His client, Wendy Withers, was told
not to report to work at a financially troubled New York ad agency after
having left her previous job.

It was a modest claim, and --- unlike the Hulk Hogan case, with its huge
award --- it was settled. Ms. Withers collected two months' pay.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
