Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/books}{Books}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/books}{Books}\textbar{}`Girl, Woman, Other,' a Big, Busy
Novel About New Ways of Living

\url{https://nyti.ms/2JMmZMQ}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\href{/column/books-of-the-times}{Books of The Times}

\hypertarget{girl-woman-other-a-big-busy-novel-about-new-ways-of-living}{%
\section{`Girl, Woman, Other,' a Big, Busy Novel About New Ways of
Living}\label{girl-woman-other-a-big-busy-novel-about-new-ways-of-living}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/dwight-garner}{Dwight
Garner}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Nov. 4, 2019
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2019/11/05/books/01Evaristo2/01Evaristo2-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Buy Book ▾

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.amazon.com/gp/search?index=books\&tag=NYTBSREV-20\&field-keywords=Girl\%2C+Woman\%2C+Other+Bernardine+Evaristo}{Amazon}
\item
  \href{https://du-gae-books-dot-nyt-du-prd.appspot.com/buy?title=Girl\%2C+Woman\%2C+Other\&author=Bernardine+Evaristo}{Apple
  Books}
\item
  \href{https://www.anrdoezrs.net/click-7990613-11819508?url=https\%3A\%2F\%2Fwww.barnesandnoble.com\%2Fw\%2F\%3Fean\%3D9780802156983}{Barnes
  and Noble}
\item
  \href{https://www.anrdoezrs.net/click-7990613-35140?url=https\%3A\%2F\%2Fwww.booksamillion.com\%2Fp\%2FGirl\%252C\%2BWoman\%252C\%2BOther\%2FBernardine\%2BEvaristo\%2F9780802156983}{Books-A-Million}
\item
  \href{https://bookshop.org/a/3546/9780802156983}{Bookshop}
\item
  \href{https://www.indiebound.org/book/9780802156983?aff=NYT}{Indiebound}
\end{itemize}

When you purchase an independently reviewed book through our site, we
earn an affiliate commission.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/11/01/books/bernardine-evaristo-girl-woman-other-booker-prize.html}{Bernardine
Evaristo}'s eighth work of fiction, ``Girl, Woman, Other,''
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/10/14/books/booker-prize-winner-atwood-evaristo.html}{shared
the Booker Prize this year} with Margaret Atwood's ``The Testaments,'' a
sequel to ``The Handmaid's Tale.'' These novels are linked for posterity
now, like conjoined siblings.

Was this split decision a dereliction of duty on the jury's part or is
more the merrier?
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/10/10/books/nobel-literature.html}{Two
Nobel Prizes in Literature were distributed this year} as well, for a
different reason. (The gold medal, diploma and check were withheld last
year because of sexual harassment and corruption in the Academy.)

Perhaps this is a health-giving direction. Iris Murdoch, in 1967, wanted
the Beatles to be jointly named Poet Laureate in England. After scanning
the cable news most nights, I'd hardly be averse to voting for the cast
of ``Oklahoma!'' for president in 2020.

``Girl, Woman, Other'' is a big, busy novel with a large root system.
The characters start to arrive (Amma, Yazz, Dominique, Carole, Bummi and
LaTisha) and they keep arriving (Shirley, Winsome, Penelope,
Megan/Morgan, Hattie and Grace). Everyone should be provided with a
latte and a nametag.

We meet these characters' friends and sometimes their families, too.
Lorrie Moore has written that Ann Beattie's fiction is a valentine to
friendships. The same is true of Evaristo's. This novel is a densely
populated village where everyone leans on one another in order to scrape
by.

\emph{{[}Bernardine Evaristo, the first black woman to win the Booker
Prize,}
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/11/01/books/bernardine-evaristo-girl-woman-other-booker-prize.html}{\emph{talks
about her mission to write about the African diaspora}}\emph{.{]}}

The primary character is probably Amma, a black lesbian playwright, now
in her 50s, whose new play is being produced at the National Theater in
London. Success has taken her out of range of some of her old anxieties
about life, and put her in range of awkward new ones.

After a life spent on the margins, criticizing the center of the
culture, is Amma selling out? If privilege is the original sin of
wokeness, what happens when you accumulate privilege yourself?

This slice of the story is semi-autobiographical. Amma founds a theater
company with a friend. Evaristo was co-founder, with two other women, of
the Theater of Black Women in the early 1980s.

Amma's story is followed by 11 others that drift back and forth in time.
One character, Carole, attends Oxford (she complains about the
``revolting Stone Age food'') and becomes an investment banker. Another,
Hattie, is 93 and lives on a farm in Northern England. Still others are
young and live in contemporary London.

This polyphonic novel, packed with interconnected stories, is similar in
some ways to the monologues in Ntozake Shange's
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/10/22/theater/for-colored-girls-review-ntozake-shange.html}{``For
Colored Girls Who Have Considered Suicide/When the Rainbow Is Enuf.''}
It may also remind some readers of Alison Bechdel's warm and
sophisticated comic strip ``Dykes to Watch Out For.''

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2019/11/05/books/01BookEvaristo/merlin_163218651_95027958-d022-4f3a-808e-497b56b79121-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Like that comic, ``Girl, Woman, Other'' presents a landscape of abiding
multicultural sensitivity. Evaristo's dedication sets the tone: ``For
the sisters \& the sistas \& the sistahs \& the sistren \& the women \&
the womxn \& the wimmin \& the womyn \& our brethren \& our bredrin \&
our brothers \& our bruvs \& our men \& our mandem \& the LGBTQI+
members of the human family.''

This dedication will prompt many readers of my acquaintance to rush
inside, and just as many others to flee in the opposite direction. A
few, like squirrels on two-lane blacktop, will lose all composure and
become roadkill.

A reason to stick around: Like Bechdel, Evaristo has a gift for
appraising the lives of her characters with sympathy and grace while
gently skewering some of their pretensions. When you are feeling your
way into new ways of living, she understands, there must be room for
error.

Carole keeps Vivaldi's ``Four Seasons'' as her ringtone because she
wants to appear classy, and repeats a morning mantra: ``I am highly
presentable, likable, clubbable, relatable, promotable and successful.''

Dominique dates an American woman named Nzinga, a ``radical feminist
separatist lesbian housebuilder'' with epic dreadlocks and a
``swamp-diva-voodoo-queen'' vibe, only to discover that her real name is
Cindy. Cindy is tough; she aims her cultural commentary as if into a
spittoon. She's even tougher on Dominique. Escape will be necessary.

``Girl, Woman, Other'' is written in a hybrid form that falls somewhere
between prose and poetry. Evaristo's lines are long, like Walt Whitman's
or Allen Ginsberg's, and there are no periods at the ends of them.

There's a looseness to her tone that gives this novel its buoyancy.
Evaristo's wit helps, too. Yazz describes herself as ``part '90s Goth,
part post-hip hop, part slutty ho, part alien.'' We learn how useful a
hijab can be when you want to have a hands-free cellphone conversation.

This looseness can detract as well. There is sometimes the sense that
Evaristo loves all of her sentences a little bit but few of them quite
enough. This essentially plotless novel grows longer, but it does not
always appear to grow richer.

There comes a point in this narrative where you'd rather settle into the
characters you've met than be introduced to still more new ones. You
begin to feel you are always between terminals at a very large airport,
your clothes and toiletries in a little wheelie suitcase behind you.
It's possible to admire this deeply humane novel while permitting your
enthusiasm to remain under control.

A lot of human experience is packed into ``Girl, Woman, Other.''
Penelope, who hasn't had sex in ages, thinks to herself: ``It had been a
long time since she'd been seen in a state of undress by anyone other
than the matronly bra-fitter at Marks \& Spencer.''

Dominique worries that her penchant for sleeping with blonde women means
that she's been brainwashed by a beauty ideal. Amma turns around in her
mind the implied whiteness of a British accent.

Amma's play opens at the National. Dominique greets her backstage and
says, ``afro-gynocentricism caused a femquake tonight.'' The ground
rattles further for another character when she gets the results of a
mail-order DNA test.

Identity --- artistic, cultural, familial --- is slippery in ``Girl,
Woman, Other.'' Yazz gets a surprise when she opens a drawer under her
father's bed. It's a surprise she deserves. She thinks: ``You never know
people until you've been through their drawers / and computer history.''

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
