Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}Why Joe Biden Resonates With
Blue-Collar Voters

\url{https://nyti.ms/2rS6etk}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/20/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{D.N.C.
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/20/us/politics/biden-presidential-nomination-dnc.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Biden's
  Speech}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/us/elections/2020-presidential-election-calendar.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Election
  Calendar}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/11/us/politics/vote-by-mail-us-states.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Voting
  by Mail}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Politics
  Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{why-joe-biden-resonates-with-blue-collar-voters}{%
\section{Why Joe Biden Resonates With Blue-Collar
Voters}\label{why-joe-biden-resonates-with-blue-collar-voters}}

Joseph R. Biden Jr. has durable support from a multiracial coalition of
working-class voters who view him as one of their own.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2019/09/24/us/politics/24bidenbluecollar1/24bidenbluecollar1-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/katie-glueck}{Katie
Glueck} and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/jonathan-martin}{Jonathan
Martin}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Nov. 19, 2019
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

WEST POINT, Iowa --- They are white and nonwhite alike, prefer Facebook
over Twitter, if they are on social media at all, and can be hard to
find at Democratic campaign events dominated by ** activists from the
professional class. But these blue-collar voters could go a long way
toward determining who captures the Democratic presidential nomination
--- and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/joe-biden.html}{Joseph
R. Biden Jr.} is racing to press his advantage with that constituency.

With less than three months to go before voting begins in the 2020
primary, and on the eve of the fifth presidential primary debate, Mr.
Biden faces
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/11/16/us/politics/iowa-poll-democrats.html}{significant
challenges} in the key early states of
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/08/22/us/politics/joe-biden-trump-2020.html}{Iowa}
and
\href{https://www.realclearpolitics.com/epolls/2020/president/nh/new_hampshire_democratic_presidential_primary-6276.html\#polls}{New
Hampshire}, a
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/10/16/us/politics/democratic-fundraising-joe-biden.html}{cash
crunch} and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/11/15/us/politics/deval-patrick-michael-bloomberg-2020.html}{several
Democrats threatening} his
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/11/04/us/politics/pete-buttigieg-iowa.html}{standing
with centrist voters}.

But his greatest compensating advantage right now is notably durable
support from a multiracial coalition of working-class voters who feel a
kinship with the former vice president and believe he is the Democrats'
strongest general election prospect.

At fund-raisers and on campaign stops, Mr. Biden is warning his party
against overlooking voters who were once a core Democratic constituency
but had found some elements of President Trump's message compelling in
2016. His campaign believes the Democratic Party risks narrowing its
Electoral College path in 2020, and hurting its standing on Capitol
Hill, if candidates do not appeal directly to these more moderate voters
in battleground states in the Midwest and Sun Belt.

And both explicitly and more subtly, Mr. Biden is portraying his chief
rival, Senator
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/elizabeth-warren.html}{Elizabeth
Warren}, and another top candidate, Senator
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/bernie-sanders.html}{Bernie
Sanders}, as liberals who are overly focused on expensive and
theoretical government overhauls.

``Growing up in a middle-class neighborhood, the last thing I liked is
people telling my family and me what we should know, what we should
believe,'' Mr. Biden said as he criticized Ms. Warren's advocacy style,
speaking at a recent CNN town hall in Iowa. ``As if somehow we weren't
informed, that we --- just because we didn't have money we weren't
knowledgeable. I resent that.''

Ms. Warren, who is running as a corruption-battling economic populist,
surpassed Mr. Biden in a number of polls this fall, and she is often the
favorite of white, college-educated voters --- but Mr. Biden still leads
comfortably with high school-educated Democrats in many surveys. That
dynamic has stymied Ms. Warren's growth after her early-autumn surge,
and it has sometimes benefited Mr. Sanders, who also has strong
connections to blue-collar voters.

In dozens of interviews, from parades and union rallies to black
churches and political picnics, working-class Democrats who support Mr.
Biden explained their views in practical terms: they know and trust the
Scranton native from his long tenure as a Delaware senator and as Barack
Obama's vice president, they find his incremental policy proposals
realistic and they think he can win.

``I liked what him and Barack did together,'' said Doris Stuekerjuergen,
who worked at a fireplace factory and attended an October event with Mr.
Biden in this small rural community of West Point. ``Hopefully he leads
us back to where we were. The world we live in now is pretty scary.''

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2019/11/18/us/politics/18bidenbluecollar-03/merlin_163208694_f4b94396-e178-45b2-9ae6-65b9b385bb93-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

The Democrat who forges a cross-racial coalition of working-class voters
almost always wins the party's presidential nomination. It is a path
that was disrupted only in 2008 when Mr. Obama was able to achieve what
few of his predecessors had --- fuse the support of upscale whites with
black Democrats.

But surveys in this race indicate a return to the longstanding tradition
in Democratic primaries of voters splitting along class lines, and
illuminate a key slice of Mr. Biden's base.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-2020-election}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/19/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: 2020
Election}}{Latest Updates: 2020 Election}}\label{latest-updates-2020-election}}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/19/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#night-3-featured-more-policy-a-focus-on-women-and-a-full-throated-rejection-of-trump-by-his-predecessor}{7h
ago}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/19/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#night-3-featured-more-policy-a-focus-on-women-and-a-full-throated-rejection-of-trump-by-his-predecessor}{Night
3 featured more policy, a focus on women and a full-throated rejection
of Trump by his predecessor.}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/19/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#trump-live-tweeted-obamas-speech-tonight-hell-appear-on-fox-news-right-before-bidens-tomorrow}{9h
ago}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/19/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#trump-live-tweeted-obamas-speech-tonight-hell-appear-on-fox-news-right-before-bidens-tomorrow}{Trump
live-tweeted Obama's speech tonight. He'll appear on Fox News right
before Biden's tomorrow.}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/19/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#advocates-for-domestic-violence-survivors-praised-biden-in-a-video}{9h
ago}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/19/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#advocates-for-domestic-violence-survivors-praised-biden-in-a-video}{Advocates
for domestic violence survivors praised Biden in a video.}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/19/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

A recent
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/11/08/us/politics/democrats-poll-moderates-battleground.html}{New
York Times/Siena College poll} of Democratic primary voters in general
election battleground states found that among white voters without a
four-year degree, Mr. Biden had double the support --- 30 percent --- of
Ms. Warren and Mr. Sanders. But the numbers for Mr. Biden and Ms. Warren
were nearly reversed among white college graduates. In Iowa, where Mr.
Biden
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/11/01/us/politics/iowa-poll-warren-biden.html}{is
struggling}, he was still the strong favorite of voters who did not go
past high school in another recent
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/11/01/us/politics/iowa-poll-warren-biden.html}{New
York Times/Siena College poll} of likely Democratic caucusgoers.

And in South Carolina, where the Democratic electorate is dominated by
black voters and where Mr. Biden is strong across the board, a
\href{https://www.monmouth.edu/polling-institute/documents/monmouthpoll_sc_102319.pdf/}{Monmouth
University poll} from late last month showed him receiving the support
of 38 percent of voters without college degrees, well ahead of his
rivals.

``He is the only candidate right now that I feel can beat Trump,'' said
Ivie Barnwell, who stood in the shade selling her handmade sweetgrass
baskets in Galivants Ferry, S.C. Around her, T-shirt-clad activists and
a host of presidential candidates descended on the town for a political
festival earlier this fall. ``This Trump man has got to go,'' she said.

For some voters, Mr. Biden appeals because there are strategic
assumptions at work: many black working-class Democrats believe that
white America will only support a well-known white male, such as Mr.
Biden, while a number of working-class white Democrats also believe he
is the most acceptable nominee. Some voters cited
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/07/03/us/politics/women-presidential-candidates-2020.html}{the
misogyny} and racism that female candidates and candidates of color have
experienced in previous races.

And then there is the crucial fact that many of these voters --- whether
because of his down-to-earth persona, the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/05/30/us/politics/joe-biden-beau-biden-death.html}{tragedies
he has endured} or a combination of both --- simply have warm feelings
for the man they often address as Joe when they see him.

``He relates well to blue-collar voters and to non-college voters,''
Jeff Link, a veteran Iowa Democratic strategist, said. ``Those Scranton
roots kind of come through.''

Despite this advantage, some Democrats are skeptical that Mr. Biden, who
turns 77 on Wednesday, can sustain this support.

Since he entered the race in April, Mr. Biden's poll numbers have
dipped, he has suffered from a series of
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/08/12/us/politics/joe-biden-gaffes.html}{self-inflicted
errors} that
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/07/29/us/politics/joe-biden-age.html}{raised
concerns about his age}, and he has absorbed ferocious attacks from
Democrats and Republicans alike --- including baseless attacks on his
family from Mr. Trump.

Ty Livesay, the operations manager at a mall in Conway, S.C., said he
connected with Mr. Biden --- ``I'm a common Joe, he's a common Joe'' ---
but acknowledged having doubts about Mr. Biden's strength in the
primary. ``Is Joe going to be able to handle it?'' he asked.

Others harbor no such reservations.

``I don't care about his personal opinion, gaffes or comments he makes
--- what means most to me is what type of man he is,'' said Pete
Garrett, who works at an auto parts production company and wore an Obama
campaign pin to a Biden appearance in Birmingham, Ala.

For all of his advantages with blue-collar voters in the Democratic
primary, Mr. Biden so far
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/11/12/upshot/democratic-polls-battleground-states.html}{does
not appear} to significantly cut into Mr. Trump's base of white
working-class voters. And he is not the only Democratic candidate
perceived as electable. Early
\href{https://www.realclearpolitics.com/epolls/latest_polls/general_election/}{polls,}
which are parsed by some
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/08/22/us/politics/joe-biden-trump-2020.html}{committed
voters} but are not predictive at this stage, show several Democrats
beating Mr. Trump in head-to-head matchups.

Still, Mr. Biden's rivals recognize the advantage he has built up with
blue-collar voters and are seeking their own inroads with them.

Even as she has unveiled a lengthy roster of detailed policy plans that
thrill college-educated liberals, Ms. Warren, for example, also
highlights her modest Oklahoma roots, her brothers' military service and
her own time as a teacher.

Image

John Stankiewicz, an ironworker, applauded Mr. Sanders at a labor forum
in Philadelphia this fall.Credit...Michelle Gustafson for The New York
Times

Mr. Sanders also enjoys a blue-collar following, polls show. While the
most politically muscular element of the Democratic working-class ---
the labor unions --- has largely remained on the sideline, after feeling
regret over their early intervention on behalf of Hillary Clinton in
2016, Mr. Sanders has recently notched some endorsements. They include
the country's biggest
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/11/12/us/politics/bernie-sanders-nurses-endorsement.html}{nurses'
union} and a
\href{https://www.washingtonpost.com/education/2019/11/15/teachers-union-los-angeles-endorses-presidential-candidate-its-bernie-sanders/}{teachers'
union} in Los Angeles. Senator
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/kamala-harris.html}{Kamala
Harris}, who is struggling in the polls, was
\href{https://www.sfchronicle.com/politics/article/Exclusive-Kamala-Harris-picks-up-major-union-14839354.php}{endorsed}
by the United Farm Workers.

Mr. Sanders in particular is sitting on voters Mr. Biden could use,
especially if Ms. Warren continues to make gains with college-educated
Democrats --- though she increasingly faces competition for those voters
from Mayor
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/pete-buttigieg.html}{Pete
Buttigieg} of South Bend, Ind.

One union that does support Mr. Biden is the International Association
of Fire Fighters. And that union's president, Harold Schaitberger, said
Democrats should be wary of again losing some of the voters who sided
with Mr. Trump in 2016.

Mr. Schaitberger said these voters want to feel ``that they are
connected with someone who wants to be president of the United States
but isn't, if you will, looking down on them or preaching down to
them.''

Asked whether he meant those remarks as a swipe at any of Mr. Biden's
opponents, Mr. Schaitberger, himself a high-school educated voter,
demurred. But he noted that ``there are some candidates that, you know,
speak in a very high intellectual, professorial'' fashion.

Ms. Warren is a former Harvard professor.

Mr. Biden has also scolded Democrats over their drift from
bread-and-butter issues like wages, pensions and union rights.

``I bet some of you voted for Donald Trump because we stopped talking to
you,'' he said at a campaign stop in Newton, Iowa, over the summer,
adding, ``We sort of stopped talking to our base: high school-educated
Americans.''

Mr. Biden's research has indicated that such voters respond particularly
well when reminded of Mr. Biden's
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2008/10/24/us/politics/24biden.html}{middle-class
youth} as a car dealer's son and that he had lost his first wife and
daughter in a car accident and his elder son to brain cancer. He made
his biography central to his
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/08/27/us/politics/joe-biden-ad-personal.html}{initial
advertising}, linking his support for the Affordable Care Act to his
searing family story.

Image

A crowd gathers for Mr. Biden at a fire fighter event in Concord,
N.H.Credit...Tristan Spinski for The New York Times

Steve Buchmeier, a 54-year-old farmer from Kellogg, Iowa, has seen Mr.
Biden's campaign ads, and he was one of the Obama-Trump voters in
attendance at Mr. Biden's campaign stop in Newton.

``The U.S. isn't ready for a girl,'' he said as he reflected on the 2016
election, stressing that his own decisions are not influenced by gender.

This time around, Mr. Buchmeier said, he found Mr. Biden's experience as
vice president impressive, though he was not committed to switching back
to the Democrats in 2020.

But, he said, ``this guy is on the top of my list if I do.''

\hypertarget{our-2020-election-guide}{%
\section{Our 2020 Election Guide}\label{our-2020-election-guide}}

Updated Aug. 20, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{convention-recap}{%
  \subsection{Convention Recap}\label{convention-recap}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Joe Biden accepted the Democratic nomination, urging Americans to
    have faith that they could
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/20/us/politics/Joe-Biden-accepts-democratic-nomination.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{``overcome
    this season of darkness.''}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{news-analysis}{%
  \subsection{News Analysis}\label{news-analysis}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Looming over Mr. Biden's nomination was the ever-present shadow of
    another man who's poised to dominate the campaign:
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/20/us/politics/biden-dnc-speech-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Donald
    J. Trump}.
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{keep-up-with-our-coverage}{%
  \subsection{Keep Up With Our
  Coverage}\label{keep-up-with-our-coverage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Get an
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{email}
    recapping the day's news
  \end{itemize}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Download our mobile app on
    \href{https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nytimes/id284862083?ls=1\&mat_click_id=5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\&referrer=mat_click_id\%3D5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\%26link_click_id\%3D722930677036718082}{iOS}
    and
    \href{http://a.localytics.com/android?id=com.nytimes.android\&referrer=utm_source\%3Dother_nyt_mobile_web\%26utm_medium\%3DWeb\%2520page\%26utm_term\%3DGeneral\%2520Mobile\%2520Page\%26utm_campaign\%3DNYT\%2520Mobile\%2520General\%2520Page}{Android}
    and turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
