Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{/section/arts/music}{Music}\textbar{}Into the Wild With Kanye West

\url{https://nyti.ms/2IqeyTN}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/07/01/arts/01interview/merlin_139917588_dc988cca-e04f-4594-a2f6-e14ea0c47244-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\hypertarget{into-the-wild}{%
\section{Into the Wild}\label{into-the-wild}}

With Kanye West

Three days in Wyoming as the hip-hop firebrand tends to his scars.

Credit...Julian Berman for The New York Times

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/jon-caramanica}{Jon
Caramanica}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  June 25, 2018
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

JACKSON, Wyo. --- One afternoon early last year,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/11/25/arts/music/kanye-west-nebuchadnezzar-opera.html}{Kanye
West} walked into the living room of his California home and found
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/video/business/100000003456202/tony-robbins-reveals-his-secret.html}{Tony
Robbins} --- the Hulk-sized, concrete-grinned motivational speaker ---
waiting for him.

It had been just a few months since the rapper, producer, fashion
designer and cultural fire starter had gone through one of the most
taxing periods of his public life:
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2016/10/04/world/europe/kim-kardashian-robbed.html}{His
wife was robbed at gunpoint}, and a
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2016/11/21/arts/music/kanye-west-beyonce-donald-trump-speech.html}{series
of erratic concert appearances} followed, culminating in a
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2016/11/21/arts/music/kanye-west-hospitalized-exhaustion.html}{nine-day
stint} in the U.C.L.A. Medical Center. He was in a state of shambles,
and it showed.

``He could look at me and you know, I don't know why he mentioned
suicide, but he could tell that I was very low,''
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/11/25/arts/music/kanye-west-nebuchadnezzar-opera.html}{Kanye}
recalled in early June over breakfast at the rustic modernist home here
that he's been renting and making music in. ``Really medicated,
shoulders slumped down, and my confidence was gone, which is a lot of
the root of my superpower, because if you truly have self-confidence, no
one can say anything to you.''

Mr. Robbins, who is known for his boisterous seminars that feature
hot-coal walking, had been summoned by
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/11/25/arts/music/kanye-west-nebuchadnezzar-opera.html}{Kanye's
wife, Kim Kardashian West}, to stage something like an intervention.

And so Mr. Robbins looked Kanye in the eyes and started issuing
instructions. Made him stand up, get into a warrior pose and scream.

``I was so self-conscious about the nanny and the housekeeper that I
didn't want them to hear me screaming in the living room,''
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/11/25/arts/music/kanye-west-nebuchadnezzar-opera.html}{Kanye}
said. ``I think that that's such a metaphor of something for the
existence of so-called well-off people that they're not really well-off
--- they won't even scream in their own house.''

He was reluctant. But he screamed.

The fix wasn't instantaneous. ``I still felt self-conscious,'' Kanye
said. ``I didn't have my confidence back.'' But it was a start.

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

\hypertarget{we-need-to-be-able-to-be-in-situations-where-you-can-be-irresponsible-thats-one-of-the-great-privileges-of-an-artist-an-artist-should-be-irresponsible-in-a-way--a-3-year-old}{%
\subsection{``We need to be able to be in situations where you can be
irresponsible. That's one of the great privileges of an artist. An
artist should be irresponsible in a way --- a
3-year-old.''}\label{we-need-to-be-able-to-be-in-situations-where-you-can-be-irresponsible-thats-one-of-the-great-privileges-of-an-artist-an-artist-should-be-irresponsible-in-a-way--a-3-year-old}}

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

\textbf{Kanye's last two} years have included wild stretches of chaos,
public trauma, divisive flirtations with partisan politics, and health
struggles that played out both in public and in private. Depending on
the moment, he has been the subject of empathy, enthusiasm or scorn. For
many, his embrace of President Trump and his
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/05/01/arts/music/kanye-west-charlamagne-interview-tmz.html}{controversial}
conversation about slavery with TMZ in May have been too toxic.

Certainly, casual dismissal of Kanye has always been a built-in feature
of his fame, but in terms of public perception, it's possible he's never
been more radioactive. The world is now more skeptical and less patient.
Over the past decade and a half, objection has tended to roll off him;
now it's sticking.

But over two days of extended interviews that took place in his rented
Amangani Resort home, on long walks through Jackson, and in lengthy car
rides spanning eastern Idaho to Yellowstone National Park --- edited
excerpts from which are included below --- Kanye was calm, measured,
verging on beatific, and also self-aware and willing to reckon with the
challenges he'd created for himself.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/07/01/arts/01interview-fire/merlin_138948663_fc56db8a-5dd5-48bb-8798-efeaf14c70bd-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

He is still given to flights of conversational fancy and grandiloquence,
but the Kanye of this moment is not the overeager attention seeker of
the ``College Dropout'' era, the difficult aesthete who made ``My
Beautiful Dark Twisted Fantasy'' and proclaimed himself the greatest,
nor is he
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2013/06/16/arts/music/kanye-west-talks-about-his-career-and-album-yeezus.html}{the
stern warrior of the ``Yeezus'' era}, prone to interrupting concerts to
deliver extemporaneous speeches.

He is, comparatively, pragmatic --- attuned to his own limitations,
mindful of the shifting pecking orders in hip-hop and fashion,
interested in coexistence rather than conflict.

{[}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/louder}{\emph{Never
miss a pop music story like this one: Sign up for our weekly newsletter,
Louder.}}{]}

Over the past few weeks, he has worked on the release of five albums:
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/06/03/arts/music/kanye-west-ye-review.html}{His
eighth LP, ``Ye,''} and his collaboration with Kid Cudi, ``Kids See
Ghosts,'' as well as records by Pusha-T, Nas and Teyana Taylor that he
produced.

Much of that music was made here. He's been coming to this area
regularly since early 2017, a couple of months after his hospital stay.
``We came here just for healing,'' he said earlier in the day. ``Getting
my brain together and {[}expletive{]}.'' He was medicated then --- he'd
recently received a diagnosis of bipolar disorder --- but over time, he
began ``learning how to not be on meds,'' adding proudly, ``I took one
pill in the last seven days.''

The night before, he'd
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/06/01/arts/music/kanye-west-album-ye.html}{hosted
a listening party for ``Ye,''} flying in hundreds of fellow artists,
coastal cool kids, and representatives of the press, radio and streaming
services to eat barbecue and dance around a bonfire. After everyone who
had been imported for the affair was exported back home --- ``We turned
jumbo jets to Uber,'' he said, grinning --- Kanye was taking a slow
Friday. At Big Hole BBQ, the restaurant that had catered the event, he
had a half-slab of ribs, wings, fries, slaw and beans, and washed it
down with a Mary's Nipple, a vodka-lemonade concoction.

{[}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/06/01/arts/music/kanye-west-album-ye.html?action=click\&module=Intentional\&pgtype=Article}{\emph{Kanye
West debuts ``Ye'' on a wide-open field in Wyoming.}}\emph{{]}}

And though it was almost two miles from the restaurant to the Movieworks
Cinema 4, where he wanted to see ``Solo: A Star Wars Story,'' he decided
to walk.

The day was bright, crisp, a little cool, and his step was brisk. He was
wearing a black-gray-and-white flannel shirt, black Patagonia fleece
pants, unreleased Yeezy 700s and an industrial-orange ski cap. His
security was pacing him in a pair of black Suburbans, going slow in the
fast lane, or slipping in and out of adjacent parking lots.

Kanye barely acknowledged them, though --- instead he focused on the
kids. Dozens of them. They ran out of restaurants and asked for
pictures, or pulled their cars over to the side of the road, some of
them blasting ``Ye.'' The unplanned attention might have unnerved Kanye
in the past, but now he looked pleased to be interrupted. And he made
sure to ask what every single kid's favorite song was.

Image

President-elect Trump with Kanye in 2016. In an April tweetstorm, the
rapper said the two share ``dragon energy.''Credit...Drew Angerer/Getty
Images

\textbf{The Wyoming listening} session was up there with the golden-era
Kanye West exploits:
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2016/02/12/arts/music/kanye-west-yeezy-season-3-life-of-pablo.html}{an
absurdist stunt}, an immense display of ego and a genuinely new
contribution to the rich history of hip-hop excess**.**

If it was baptismal, it felt doubly so given the few weeks that preceded
it. Beginning in mid-April,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/04/19/arts/music/kanye-west-new-album-twitter.html}{Kanye
returned to Twitter} with gale force, posting a torrent of old photos,
self-help-speak, cult-leader aphorisms, clothing-line updates and, most
disruptive,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/04/27/arts/music/kanye-west-trump-conservatives.html}{continued
amplification of conservative voices} and doubled-down support for
President Trump, citing their shared ``dragon energy.''

``There were people who said Trump would never win,'' Kanye said. ``I'm
talking about the it-will-never-happens of the world, people in high
school told you things would never happen.''

To his mind, he was supporting a friend and kindred spirit, and also
speaking up in a way others wouldn't --- as is his wont, generally.

``I felt that I knew people who voted for Trump that were celebrities
that were scared to say that they liked him. But they told me, and I
liked him, and I'm not scared to say what I like,'' he said. ``Let me
come over here and get in this fight with you.''

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/05/02/arts/music/kanye-west-truth-twitter-trump.html}{The
battle for Kanye's soul} went into overdrive in the hours and days
following his tweets. John Legend and J. Cole all urged him to
reconsider his position. Kim instructed him to announce that he doesn't
agree with all of President Trump's policies. When his father came to
visit Wyoming for a few days, Kanye said, ``He expressed that he felt
that some of the policies were hurtful and that I'm a person that does
not intend to hurt people, never hurts people with intention.'' He
added, ``I expressed the example that I have a cousin that's locked up
for doing something bad, and I still love him, so I don't base my love
for a person on if they doing something good or bad.''

\textbf{Is there anything a person could do that is so beyond the pale
that you would not support them, even if you liked them?}

I wanted to make my album cover the doctor that performed my mom's last
surgery. I think that's pretty big on the cancel-culture territory. I'm
starting saying, ``I'm not canceling him,'' 'cause the world canceled
him. I believe in the court of public opinion that that thought has to
change.

\textbf{Do you feel there is an expectation of you --- because you're a
successful black man in this country --- to take on certain political or
cultural positions?}

Oh yeah, definitely. When I was in high school, most of my opinions
were, like, only me and a couple people who thought like me.

\textbf{But now you feel the pressure to speak for a whole group of
people?}

Nah. It's a rhetorical dumbass question --- you could just say yes ---
but do you think there are a lot of husband-and-wife situations where
the husband in the household liked Trump and voted on Trump and maybe
the wife didn't, or vice versa?

\textbf{Of course.}

Man, I had my {[}expletive{]} {[}expletive{]} castrated: ``You have to
like Hillary. That's got to be your choice.''

\textbf{That's what the family was telling you?}

The family meaning the world --- because you're black, because you make
very sensitive music, because you're a very sensitive soul, it was like
an arranged marriage or something. And I'm like, that's not who I want
to marry. I don't feel that. I believe that I'm actually a better father
because I got my {[}expletive{]} voice back, I'm a better artist because
I got my voice back. I was living inside of some universe that was
created by the mob-thought, and I had lost who I was, so that's when I
was in the sunken place. You look in my eyes right now --- you see no
sunken place.

\textbf{When did that change happen?}

Getting out, learning how to not be highly medicated and, you know, just
standing up saying I know I could lose a lot of things, but just
standing up and saying what you feel, and not even doing a lot of
research on it. Having a political opinion that's overly informed, it's
like knowing how to dress, as opposed to being a child --- ``I like
this.'' I hear Trump talk and I'm like, I like the way it sounds,
knowing that there's people who like me that don't like the way it
sounds.

\textbf{But if he says something like he doesn't want to let Muslims
into the country, do you like the way that sounds?}

No, I don't agree with all of his policies.

Image

Credit...Ryan Dorgan for The New York Times

\textbf{Ordinarily, public figures} see microphones as natural enemies,
designed to undo them.

But this is not how Kanye treats them. He speaks in long, jagged
discursions, moving fluidly between subjects **** --- saying he wished
Bernie Sanders could have been Trump's vice president one moment,
lamenting the awkwardness of a lyric about Tristan Thompson (the father
of Khloé Kardashian's daughter) the next. **** He is in a constant state
of self-revision. More than any other famous person of his stature, he
shares his rough drafts.

If he'd come into the public eye via technology, not music --- if he
were white, not black --- Kanye might be viewed as a lovable,
idiosyncratic futurist, not a perennial agitator.

``We need to be able to be in situations where you can be
irresponsible,'' he said. ``That's one of the great privileges of an
artist. An artist should be irresponsible in a way --- a 3-year-old.''

Even though this is the sort of behavior that gets Kanye labeled
inconsistent, it is perhaps his most enduringly consistent feature. He
is congenitally honest, almost shockingly
\href{https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zIUzLpO1kxI}{unguarded in his
speech}. **** You can almost watch him as he lobs a new thought into the
public consciousness, then stands back and watches as it's either
embraced or swatted down.

Fully rendering his speech would require something akin to musical
notation --- markings to denote speed, spacing, emphasis, even the
words' seriousness or lack thereof, or the percent to which he was
certain of what he was saying as opposed to just trying a thought out.
(Twitter is in some ways the medium least well suited to his thought
process. He isn't gnomic, or pithy; he's roundabout, elaborative.)

This is, generally speaking, an approach incompatible with a media
environment that ruthlessly records, dissects and parses each moment,
examining it hard for flaws.

That hasn't changed Kanye's methodology, though. Not long after his
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/04/25/us/politics/kanye-west-trump-twitter-maga.html}{April
Trump tweetstorm}, Kanye posted a
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/05/01/arts/music/kanye-west-charlamagne-interview-tmz.html}{longform
video interview on his website} with the acidic New York radio host
Charlamagne Tha God. The setup was tasteful, all neutral tones. It
showed Kanye at his most lucid and sharp, and suggested that perhaps
smoother waters were ahead.

Or not. ``I felt like it was something missing,'' Kanye said. ``I just
had a gut innate feeling to go to TMZ.''

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

\hypertarget{half-the-people-that-are-listening-to-the-album-are-supposed-to-not-listen-to-the-album-right-now-im-canceled}{%
\subsection{``Half the people that are listening to the album are
supposed to not listen to the album right now. I'm
canceled.''}\label{half-the-people-that-are-listening-to-the-album-are-supposed-to-not-listen-to-the-album-right-now-im-canceled}}

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

The Kanye who appeared on TMZ's daily TV show is much more familiar:
loose-tongued, provocative, searching. There was also a vulnerability
that was easy to overlook, as when he admitted to having had
liposuction. (By way of elaboration about the procedure, he said, ``As
holy as I am and all that {[}expletive{]}, I still do some rich
{[}expletive phrase{]} sometimes.'')

But most crucially, and most alarmingly, he said that 400 years of
slavery ``sound like a choice.''

To Kanye's mind, what happened on TMZ was a failure of language, not
ideas. ``I said the idea of sitting in something for 400 years sounds
--- \emph{sounds} --- like a choice to me, I never said it's a choice. I
never said slavery itself --- like being shackled in chains --- was a
choice,'' he said. ``That's why I went from slave to 400 years to mental
prison to this and that. If you look at the clip you see the way my mind
works.''

He continued, delineating the path of many a Kanye West public
conflagration. ``I think an extreme thing; I adjust it, I adjust it, I
adjust it,'' he explained. ``That's the way I get to it, but I have to
push to, you know, the furthest concept possible.''

Image

Credit...

Image

Credit... TMZ

The TMZ appearance essentially squandered all of the public good will
Kanye had accumulated earlier in the day --- except in the view of
Kanye, who naturally saw the two media appearances as part of the same
continuum.

``I think it was totally beautiful, both of them,'' he said. ``The
Charlamagne one was like the most beautiful funeral you've ever been to,
and you close the casket, and say this is done.''

\textbf{And the TMZ one?}

And the TMZ one was the {[}expletive{]}, the casket like {[}makes
opening motion and screams{]} and the people in church is like {[}mimes
shock and horror and shrieks{]} ``slave?!'' \emph{Ahhh! Ahhh!}

\textbf{How does it make you feel when you know an experiment didn't
work?}

Awesome. I learned so much. I learned about the context of the idea of
the word slave. I didn't take it in that context. I think that my
personality and energy mirrors Nat Turner, or it had in the past, but
that showed me that also that Nat Turner approach would land me in the
same place Nat Turner landed, and that I would be legendary but also
just a martyr. But I guess we're all martyrs eventually, and we're all
guaranteed to die.

\textbf{To clarify, do you believe that slavery in this country was a
choice?}

Well, I never said that.

\textbf{If you could say it again how would you frame it?}

I wouldn't frame a one-liner or a headline. What I would say is actually
it's literally like I feel like I'm in court having to justify a robbery
that I didn't actually commit, where I'm having to somehow reframe
something that I never said. I feel stupid to have to say out loud that
I know that being put on the boat was --- but also I'm not backing down,
bro. What I will do is I'll take responsibility for the fact that I
allowed my voice to be used back to back in ways that were not
protective of it when my voice means too much.

\textbf{Back to back?}

Wearing the {[}Trump{]} hat, because my voice is unprotected, and I
believe that the black community wants to protect my voice. By me saying
slave in any way at TMZ left my voice unprotected. So it's not a matter
of the facts of if I said that exact line or not, it's the fact that I
put myself in a position to be unprotected by my tribe.

\textbf{Do you feel that if black fans abandon you, that's something
that you could come back from? Do you think that is a death blow?}

It's not going to happen.

\textbf{It's just not going to happen?}

Like I said, wouldn't leave. Like yes, got a bunch of different
opinions. You're not always going to agree, but they're not going to
leave.

\textbf{Earlier} \textbf{Friday} \textbf{afternoon,} Kanye was in the
back seat of the Suburban when he spied Victor Outdoor Seconds, a
smallish purveyor of secondhand outdoor clothing in Victor, Idaho, a
blink-and-you'll-miss-it town about 40 minutes west of Jackson.

Within a minute, he was fixated on the store's offerings: well-worn ski
jackets, fleeces, snow pants and more. Nothing fancy or luxury, just
styles so mainstream as to be almost vernacular.

What Kanye saw, though, was pure Yeezy. ``I want to purchase a lot of
stuff,'' he said to the store's proprietress. ``I don't know where I
should put it, though.'' He settled on the floor, starting with a
molehill pile and, over the course of a half-hour, turning it into a
mountain. Later, the owner posted a photo on Facebook of 13
bursting-full white trash bags and a thank you to Kanye: ``Biggest sale
EVER!!!!''

While selecting items, he got a call from Virgil Abloh, who was recently
named the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/06/22/fashion/louis-vuitton-virgil-abloh-paris.html}{artistic
director of men's wear at Louis Vuitton}. Mr. Abloh was Kanye's mentee
for years, the chosen son who broke free to make his own way. They spoke
about the clothes Kanye was finding, about Drake, about the colors of
the ``Ye'' album cover. Mr. Abloh complimented Kanye's facility with
earth tones --- visual and aural --- and gave Kanye his assessment of
the album.

Image

Kanye embracing Virgil Abloh, the new artistic director of men's wear at
Louis Vuitton, at his mentee's first show in Paris.Credit...Swan
Gallet/WWD/REX, via Shutterstock

Kanye pressed Mr. Abloh for more: ``I'm not canceled out the culture?
People are listening to it?''

``You see me and Virgil's relationship,'' he said in the S.U.V. on the
ride back from the secondhand store. ``I don't know what might have been
in your mind, but there might have been some place where you wonder if
those dudes still talk like that. And you saw, we do.''

\textbf{What did you have to cleanse to get to that place, to be back at
that rhythm?}

Jealousy and fear.

\textbf{Fear of what?}

Losing ``ruler,'' ``king,'' ``crown.'' And it was this thing where it's
like O.K., you're not the No. 1 rapper, Drake's the No. 1 rapper, but
you're the No. 1 with shoes, or this or that. And it's like yo, no more
No. 1s. What's the No. 1 tree over there? Just be one of them. All of
them are beautiful. If you cut one of those trees down, what would it be
worth? Those look like \$400,000 trees, just one of them, and look at
how many of them are.

\textbf{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/06/06/arts/music/popcast-kanye-west-ye.html}{``Ye''
is an
album}}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/06/06/arts/music/popcast-kanye-west-ye.html}{of
deep vulnerability}, Kanye's rawest since ``808s \& Heartbreak.'' It
reckons with the internal chemistry that causes mental illness, and with
the real-life consequences of his public behavior. It feels immediate,
an in-the-moment emotional reckoning delivered with the alacrity of a
mid-2000s mixtape. Perhaps it is not surprising to learn that eight days
before its release, Kanye said, he'd had none of the lyrics of ``Ye''
written. And he still went to see ``Deadpool 2.'' Twice.

At just seven songs, ``Ye'' is less carefully constructed than the works
from his most popular era. But it has familiar Kanye hallmarks --- the
scars of
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2008/11/25/arts/music/25kany.html}{``808s
\& Heartbreak''} and the soul-drenched production of
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2005/07/24/arts/music/kanye-wests-argument-with-himself.html}{``Late
Registration''} --- even if the finished product has a far more
unbuttoned feel than, say, the magnum opus
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2011/01/03/arts/music/03kanye.html}{``My
Beautiful Dark Twisted Fantasy.''}

Perhaps the most consequential lyrics of this Kanye era are about mental
health. On Pusha-T's ``What Would Meek Do?'' he declaims, ``No more
hidin' the scars/I show 'em like Seal, right?'' On ``Yikes,'' from
``Ye,'' he announced the bipolar disorder diagnosis. ``That's my
superpower,'' he scream-rapped. ``Ain't no disability/I'm a superhero!
I'm a superhero!''

And on the ``Ye'' opener, ``I Thought About Killing You,'' the clouds
get darker: ``Today I thought about killing you, premeditated murder/I
think about killing myself/And I, I love myself way more than I love
you.''

Image

"When I was in high school, most of my opinions were, like, only me and
a couple people who thought like me," Kanye said.Credit...Ryan Dorgan
for The New York Times

\textbf{On ``I Thought About Killing You,'' to what degree is that
literal and to what degree is that metaphor?}

Oh yeah, I've thought about killing myself all the time. It's always a
option and {[}expletive{]}. Like Louis C.K. said: I flip through the
manual. I weigh all the options.

Later, he added: ``I'm just having this epiphany now, 'cause I didn't do
it, but I did think it all the way through. But if I didn't think it all
the way through, then it's actually maybe more of a chance of it
happening.''

\textbf{The following morning,} Kanye arrived in the dining area for
breakfast around 10 a.m., wearing a red hoodie over a long-sleeved gray
Calabasas T-shirt. His personal chef brought him his plate, showing him
a slip of paper with the meal's nutritional information before he dug
in.

``Did you see my tweet?'' he asked. Overnight, he'd sent out a missive
putting an end to the reignited feud between Pusha-T and Drake, in so
much as someone who was not one of the primary participants can do that.

Friction between Kanye and Drake has replaced friction between Kanye and
Jay-Z as hip-hop's central Oedipal drama even if at this point the two
are, for all intents and purposes, peers. (At one point, they were
recording music for a possible collaborative album.)

But then
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/05/31/arts/music/popcast-drake-pusha-t.html}{Pusha-T
and Drake got to quarreling}, and on ``Duppy Freestyle,'' Drake took aim
at Kanye, saying he'd written for him and ``let him repeat.'' Yes, Drake
had written on ``The Life of Pablo,'' which was not a secret. And as it
happens, he wrote for Kanye on ``Ye'' as well --- the hook for ``Yikes''
is his. (He also wrote a whole first verse, Kanye said, though it didn't
make the final album.)

This acknowledgment is a shock for those who still see hip-hop as one
kind of auteur music, the sort in which the vocalist is relating
true-life tales, unembellished and autobiographical, and not the other
kind of auteur music, in which one figurehead orchestrates a creative
enterprise, drawing on a wide and deep range of talent in search of
completing a complex but coherent puzzle.

Image

In one of his acts of artistic audaciousness, Kanye reinvented the
performance space inside an arena for his "Saint Pablo" tour.Credit...A
J Mast for The New York Times

Kanye has long worked with songwriters --- something that, because it's
perceived as heterodoxy, is rarely discussed openly. In this moment of
increased transparency, though, he's become Zen about sharing the
details.

``It's incredible how we just sit there and just think and rethink and
rewrite and rewrite and rewrite,'' he said of his studio sessions.
``We're not pulling off a magic trick here. We're like Tesla, we're not
`The Prestige.'''

His initial approach to a beat is melodic and rhythmic, finding a
cadence that suits his voice, an energy level at which the vocals will
be delivered, and maybe a rhyme scheme. From there, he colors in the
outlines, bouncing ideas back and forth with any number of writers.

Since leaving the hospital, Kanye had been compiling notes about his
experiences and feelings. For ``Ye,'' he turned them over to various
writers, so that they might help put structure to the thoughts.

Many are people he's worked with for years and trusts implicitly. CyHi
the Prynce is, he said, the best at finding those shapes. The line on
``All Mine'' about Stormy Daniels, that came from Consequence.
``Sometimes I take all the shine/talk like I drank all the wine,'' on
``Ghost Town,'' was contributed by Malik Yusef.

After hearing Cardi B rap ``I gotta stay out of Gucci/I'm finna run out
of hangers'' on her song ``Drip,'' Kanye tracked down her co-writer,
Pardison Fontaine, and brought him to Wyoming: ``I was just like, that's
something that I would have thought of and would like to say.''

In the same way the clothes in the secondhand store struck Kanye as very
Yeezy, the same goes for other rappers' words and flows. And like the
clothes, he chooses freely among them for inspiration, building his
public, creative self from all the parts available to him. He even cited
the way Tony Robbins delivers his messages as a songwriting inspiration.

``This is a really interesting moment,'' he said of discussing this
process openly. ``It's kind of a controversial moment, right?''

\textbf{By this point} in the day, breakfast was far in the rear view
and Kanye was back in the Suburban, enjoying another day of relative
calm. He'd directed his driver north on Route 191, into Grand Teton
National Park, driving past the same mountains that appear in the iPhone
photo he shot for the cover of ``Ye.''

Jumping out of the car at a rest stop, he said, ``I hope they got a
fresh-ass T-shirt.'' They don't, but he buys some small toys for his
children, and stocks up on Doritos and jerky for the road.

As the Suburban pushed onward into Yellowstone National Park, he tried
to call Kim, but reception was bad and he couldn't get through. ``I'm
just trying to tell my girl I'm going to Yellowstone, 'cause we never
did it,'' he said. A few minutes later, he added with a shrug, ``I'm not
going to lie, it looks the same as where we stay.''

Image

Kim Kardashian West, Kanye and their daughter North.Credit...Emilee
McGovern/SOPA Images/LightRocket, via Getty Images

If there has been a corrective force during this tumultuous period, it's
been Kim, whom Kanye married in 2014. They now have three children:
5-year-old North; 2-year-old Saint and 5-month-old Chicago. Their lives
and businesses are symbiotic. She flew to Wyoming to celebrate at the
ranch with Kanye, and over the next two days, they checked in regularly
by phone. At one point, she sent him a video of North singing the chorus
of ``No Mistakes,'' and he watched it dozens of times, ignoring everyone
in the room.

One of the most affecting songs on ``Ye'' is ``Wouldn't Leave,'' in
which Kanye suggests that his TMZ appearance put his marriage at risk.

``There was a moment where I felt like after TMZ, maybe a week after
that, I felt like the energy levels were low, and I called different
family members and was asking, you know, `Was Kim thinking about leaving
me after TMZ?''' he said. ``So that was a real conversation.''

Like many of the songs on ``Ye,'' this one functions as both personal
and professional, micro and macro, individual and universal. Kanye is
serenading not just his wife, but also the fans who stuck by him during
this most trying period.

Or as he put it on ``No Mistakes,'' ``For all my dogs that stayed down,
we up again.''

Staying down, he understands, has not been a given. ``Half that audience
that was there last night, half the people that are listening to the
album are supposed to not listen to the album right now,'' he said.
``I'm canceled. I'm canceled because I didn't cancel Trump.'' (On a call
earlier in the day with Khloé, he acknowledged the challenge: ``I set
the video game on the hardest setting possible, the most hate
possible.'')

And yet
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/06/11/arts/music/kanye-west-ye-billboard-no-1-chart.html}{``Ye''
still debuted at the top of the Billboard album chart}. That underscores
the real tension endemic to contemporary cancel culture: It's possible
to be canceled and thrive at the same time.

Getting comfortable with the dissonance, that's the thing. For someone
who spent the whole of his early career in conquer mode, constantly
questioning anyone who doubted him, accepting that you can't always
control your own narrative is a kind of growth. Along the way, there
will be missteps, setbacks, even upheavals. The healthiest choice, Kanye
has discovered, is to learn from them, accept them and absorb them into
who he's becoming.

``My existence is selvage denim at this point, it's a vintage Hermès
bag,'' Kanye said. ``All the stains just make it better.''

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
