Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/nyregion}{New York}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/nyregion}{New York}\textbar{}Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez
Defeats Joseph Crowley in Major Democratic House Upset

\url{https://nyti.ms/2lCUpkg}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{alexandria-ocasio-cortez-defeats-joseph-crowley-in-major-democratic-house-upset}{%
\section{Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez Defeats Joseph Crowley in Major
Democratic House
Upset}\label{alexandria-ocasio-cortez-defeats-joseph-crowley-in-major-democratic-house-upset}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/06/27/us/politics/06272018_Nez-46/06272018_Nez-46-videoSixteenByNine3000.jpg}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/shane-goldmacher}{Shane
Goldmacher} and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/jonathan-martin}{Jonathan
Martin}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  June 26, 2018
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Representative Joseph Crowley of New York, once seen as a possible
successor to Nancy Pelosi as Democratic leader of the House, suffered a
shocking primary defeat on Tuesday, the most significant loss for a
Democratic incumbent in more than a decade, and one that will
reverberate across the party and the country.

Mr. Crowley was defeated by a 28-year-old political newcomer, Alexandria
Ocasio-Cortez, a former organizer for Bernie Sanders's presidential
campaign, who had declared it was time for generational, racial and
ideological change.

The last time Mr. Crowley, 56, even had a primary challenger, in 2004,
Ms. Ocasio-Cortez was not old enough to vote.

Mr. Crowley, the No. 4 Democrat in the House, had drastically outspent
his lesser-known rival to no avail, as Ms. Ocasio-Cortez's campaign was
lifted by an aggressive social media presence and fueled by attention
from national progressives hoping to flex their muscle in a race against
a potential future speaker.

Ms. Ocasio-Cortez had used Mr. Crowley's role in the leadership, and the
fact that he was the head of the local Democratic Party machine, against
him in her bid to upend the existing political class. She will face
Anthony Pappas, the Republican candidate, in the November general
election.

{[}\emph{Read more on who}
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/06/27/nyregion/alexandria-ocasio-cortez.html?action=click\&module=Intentional\&pgtype=Article}{\emph{Alexandria
Ocasio-Cortez}} \emph{is and her history}{]}

Mr. Crowley is the first House Democrat in the nation to lose a primary
in 2018. His loss is most significant for a congressional incumbent
since Eric Cantor, then the No. 2 Republican in the House, was defeated
in 2014 to a Tea Party activist, David Brat.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/06/27/us/27crowley1sub/27crowley1-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Like that contest, the Crowley defeat is expected to shake up Congress,
where Mr. Crowley was seen as a top contender to replace Ms. Pelosi, if
she stepped aside after the midterms.

The race was not close. Ms. Ocasio-Cortez had more than 57 percent of
the vote, with almost all precincts reporting.

``It's surreal,'' Ms. Ocasio-Cortez said in a live television interview
as the votes were being tallied.

By then, no television showed results at what was supposed to have been
Mr. Crowley's victory party.

Mr. Crowley appeared rattled when he spoke. ``I know you're all trying
your best to make me cry, but it's not going to happen,'' he told
supporters.

The guitar-strumming incumbent later played Bruce Springsteen's ``Born
to Run,'' and dedicated it to Ms. Ocasio-Cortez.

Ms. Ocasio-Cortez is a native of the Bronx and a Latina in a Queens and
Bronx district that is majority-minority, a fact she emphasized
repeatedly on the trail against Mr. Crowley, who is white. In hindsight,
the seat represented perhaps a perfect brew for an upset: a rusty
incumbent, a charismatic challenger and a liberal district that gave Mr.
Sanders more than 41 percent of the vote against Hillary Clinton.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/06/29/nyregion/27crowley3NEW/27crowley3-videoSixteenByNine3000-v3.jpg}

``Women like me aren't supposed to run for office,'' Ms. Ocasio-Cortez
said at the start of
\href{https://twitter.com/Ocasio2018/status/1001795660524457985}{a
biographical video} that went viral last month and was viewed more than
half-a-million times.

She ran as a woman, as a young person, as a working-class champion, as
an unabashed liberal and as a person of color. She piled up endorsements
from national progressive groups in recent weeks and from Cynthia Nixon,
who is running her own insurgent bid for governor against Gov. Andrew M.
Cuomo. Ms. Nixon attended the Ocasio-Cortez victory party.

``What I see is that the Democratic Party takes working class
communities for granted, they take people of color for granted and they
just assume that we're going to turn out no matter how bland or
half-stepping these proposals are,'' Ms. Ocasio-Cortez said in a recent
interview about why she was running.

{[}\emph{Our Politics editor is answering readers' questions about our
political coverage.}
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/06/26/reader-center/politics-election-coverage.html}{\emph{Submit
your questions here.}}{]}

A member of the Democratic Socialists of America, Ms. Ocasio-Cortez
gathered endorsements from liberal groups like MoveOn, Democracy for
America and People for Bernie. The news site The Intercept had urged her
on, publishing a drumbeat of negative stories about Mr. Crowley, and
glowing stories about her, in the campaign's closing weeks.

President Trump, who like Mr. Crowley is from Queens, waded in on
Twitter. ``That is a big one that nobody saw happening,'' Mr. Trump
wrote. ``Perhaps he should have been nicer, and more respectful, to his
President!''

Days before the election, Ms. Ocasio-Cortez had unexpectedly left New
York entirely to travel to Texas to protest the ongoing separation of
children from their parents who crossed the border illegally.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2018/06/26/us/elections/results-new-york-primary-elections.html}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/06/26/us/elections/results-new-york-primary-elections-1529960682345/results-new-york-primary-elections-1529960682345-articleLarge.png}

\hypertarget{new-york-primary-election-results}{%
\subsection{New York Primary Election
Results}\label{new-york-primary-election-results}}

See full results and maps from the New York primaries.

That came on the heels of her call to abolish the Immigration and
Customs Enforcement agency. Mr. Crowley heated up his own rhetoric in
response to her challenge, calling it a ``fascist organization,'' but
stopped short of saying it should be dissolved.

Ten days before the primary, Mr. Crowley skipped a debate against Ms.
Ocasio-Cortez, and instead sent a surrogate, a Latina former city
councilwoman. Ms. Ocasio-Cortez called it ``a bizarre twist'' on Twitter
to be seated across from someone ``with slight resemblance to me''
instead of her opponent.

Ms. Ocasio-Cortez used the moment to generate a fresh wave of publicity
in the race's crucial closing days.

Waging a sharp and sometimes personal campaign, she attacked Mr. Crowley
for not living in New York and, specifically, sending his children to
school near Washington. When there was tear gas released on protesters
in Puerto Rico, she tagged Mr. Crowley on Twitter and wrote, ``You are
responsible for this.'' And when he asked her at a debate if she would
endorse him, if he prevailed, she pointedly refused.

Mr. Crowley was not caught totally off guard. He had campaigned
aggressively in the last six weeks, pouring hundreds of thousands of
dollars into television ads and mailers, often highlighting his
opposition to Mr. Trump.

But in an indication of how disparate the two camps were and how much of
an outsider Ms. Ocasio-Cortez was, Mr. Crowley said that, as of 11 p.m.,
they had yet to speak. He did not have her number and he did not believe
she had his.

Ms. Ocasio-Cortez's triumph echoed some of the past upsets in New York
City races that turned on a yearning for generational or racial change.

In 1992, for example, Nydia Vel√°zquez, then 39, became the first
Hispanic woman to represent New York City when she defeated a veteran
congressman in a newly drawn district that was filled with Puerto Rican
voters.

And two decades earlier, Elizabeth Holtzman, then only 31, unseated
84-year-old Representative Emanuel Celler, the chairman of the House
Judiciary Committee, who had come to Congress during the Harding
administration.

Mr. Crowley's loss left Democrats in Washington stunned. In recent
months, he had begun meeting with lawmakers in small groups in a quiet
effort to prepare for a bid for the speakership.

His departure leaves a gaping vacuum in the House, where he is the
top-ranked Democrat under the age of 70.

``Hi Nance,'' Mr. Crowley greeted Ms. Pelosi when she called him shortly
after his defeat. He later told reporters, ``She called me to tell me
how much she loves me.''

Representative Steny Hoyer, a longtime rival of Ms. Pelosi's, now is
freed from having to worry about Mr. Crowley in his ambition to be
leader. But some House Democrats, speaking anonymously to discuss a
delicate topic, said Tuesday night that given the party's changing face,
it would be difficult to dump Ms. Pelosi for an older, white male
lawmaker.

In a flurry of phone calls and text messages, Democratic lawmakers
floated names such as Cheri Bustos of Illinois, Linda Sanchez of
California, Joseph Kennedy of Massachusetts and Seth Moulton of
Massachusetts as potential younger alternatives to Ms. Pelosi. But Ms.
Pelosi has made clear she intends to seek the post again if Democrats
take back the House and it is not clear that any potential alternative
candidate could build a coalition to defeat her.

As for Ms. Ocasio-Cortez, she had complained in recent weeks about media
coverage that didn't include her name but only that of the better-known
man she was running against.

``Headlines from the Political Patriarchy,'' she wrote on Twitter of one
recent story.

Now, she is likely to be in headlines for years to come.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{¬©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
