Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}Trump Seeks Push to Speed
Vaccine, Despite Safety Concerns

\url{https://nyti.ms/35gkXy1}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Election
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/biden-vice-president-2020.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Biden's
  V.P. Search}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/07/24/us/politics/trump-biden-campaign-donors.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Map
  of Donations}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/elections/delegate-count-primary-results.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Delegate
  Count}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2019/us/politics/2020-presidential-candidates.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{The
  Candidates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Politics
  Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{trump-seeks-push-to-speed-vaccine-despite-safety-concerns}{%
\section{Trump Seeks Push to Speed Vaccine, Despite Safety
Concerns}\label{trump-seeks-push-to-speed-vaccine-despite-safety-concerns}}

The president wants a coronavirus vaccine widely available by the end of
the year, even though his public health experts say it will take at
least a year to 18 months.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/04/29/us/politics/29dc-virus-vaccine/29dc-virus-vaccine-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/david-e-sanger}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/10/03/multimedia/author-david-e-sanger/author-david-e-sanger-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/david-e-sanger}{David E. Sanger}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  April 29, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

WASHINGTON --- President Trump is pressing his health officials to
pursue a crash development program for a coronavirus vaccine that could
be widely distributed by the beginning of next year, despite widespread
skepticism that such an effort could succeed and considerable concern
about the implications for safety.

The White House has made no public announcement of the new effort,
called Operation Warp Speed, and some officials are apparently trying to
talk the president down, telling him that it would be more harmful to
set an unreasonably short deadline that might result in a faulty vaccine
than to wait for one that is proved safe and effective.

But after the existence of the effort was
\href{https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2020-04-29/trump-s-operation-warp-speed-aims-to-rush-coronavirus-vaccine}{first
reported on Wednesday by Bloomberg News}, the Department of Health and
Human Services confirmed it. ``Operation Warp Speed is clearly another
extension of President Trump's bold leadership and unwillingness to
accept `business as usual' approaches to addressing the Covid-19
crisis,'' said Michael Caputo, the department's assistant secretary for
public affairs.

Mr. Trump's order came after he grew frustrated by warnings from Dr.
Anthony S. Fauci, the director of the National Institute of Allergy and
Infectious Diseases, and other experts on the coronavirus task force,
that development of a vaccine would take a year to 18 months, and that
even that schedule might be ambitious. He told Alex M. Azar II, the
health and human services secretary, to come up with a faster program.

According to one official, the idea would be to indemnify the major
pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies from liability if the
vaccines cause sickness or death, and to involve the Pentagon in the
testing program. But most of the military's efforts have focused on
defenses against biological weapons, not viruses that arise naturally or
are transmitted by community spread.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-2020-election}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: 2020
Election}}{Latest Updates: 2020 Election}}\label{latest-updates-2020-election}}

Updated 2020-08-01T01:26:45.732Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-29fdff45}{Kamala
  Harris, a top vice-presidential contender, confronts double
  standards.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-13ec3d9c}{Karen
  Bass and Susan Rice are rising on Biden's vice-presidential
  shortlist.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-49e9a016}{Trump
  says Russian bounties to kill U.S. troops `never took place.'}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

Seventy to 100 companies, groups and academic institutions around the
world are working on vaccines, including
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/04/27/world/europe/coronavirus-vaccine-update-oxford.html}{Oxford
University} and several
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/04/10/business/coronavirus-vaccine-nationalism.html}{projects
in China}. But many of the most experienced vaccine makers and experts
are in the United States.

Mr. Trump's policymakers and image handlers may be trying to
consolidate, under one name, a series of efforts already underway.
Almost as soon as the coronavirus outbreak began, the
\href{https://www.phe.gov/about/barda/Pages/default.aspx}{Biomedical
Advanced Research and Development Authority}, part of the Department of
Health and Human Services, issued grants totaling about \$1 billion to
two big U.S.-based companies,
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/05/19/business/johnson-baby-powder-sales-stopped.html}{Johnson
\& Johnson} and
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/16/health/coronavirus-vaccine.html}{Moderna},
to speed
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/04/08/health/coronavirus-vaccines.html}{development
of different approaches} to a vaccine.

Most of that money is for research and clinical trials; Moderna is
headed into Phase 2 trials. Last week Johnson \& Johnson, which hopes to
begin trials of its most promising potential vaccine at latest by the
first week of September, announced that it had struck a deal with a firm
called Emergent BioSolutions in Maryland, to mass produce its product
--- even though it is far from approval. Emergent BioSolutions was
essentially created by the government years ago to provide a
manufacturing base for vaccines in case of an emergency.

It is not clear how much more money the administration is willing to put
behind the operation, or how advanced the project is. Mr. Azar was asked
to begin the effort, but he has been sidelined from many elements of the
administration's response amid clashes with other officials and is
believed to be
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/04/29/us/politics/coronavirus-trump-azar.html}{on
thin ice with Mr. Trump}.

Mr. Trump, in the middle of a re-election campaign, may be satisfied
with declarations that a vaccine is coming soon. And even before any
vaccine receives formal approval, it could be designated for ``emergency
use,'' meaning that it could be given to health professionals.

When companies say that it will take at least a year to 18 months to
develop a vaccine, they are sometimes counting from January --- when
China provided the genetic code of the virus --- and sometimes from when
the firms began to work toward a solution.

But the timing is not completely within their control. Much depends on
the success of the trials and review by the Food and Drug
Administration. Most other countries have a similar process.

In more normal times, a vaccine can take upward of a decade to get
through all the regulatory approvals. Some officials note the dangers of
rushing: During the Ford administration, a rushed vaccine for swine flu
caused several dozen deaths and damaging side effects.

But Mr. Trump has made no secret of his impatience with the warnings,
from Dr. Fauci and others, about how long it takes to prove both the
safety and the efficacy of a vaccine through clinical trials. In a
meeting with pharmaceutical and biotechnology executives on March 2,
before deaths from the virus started mounting in large numbers, Mr.
Trump interrupted several times to ask how long it would take for each
of the executives to get into production.

``So you're talking over the next few months, you think you could have a
vaccine,'' Mr. Trump said to one executive. He answered: ``Correct.
Correct. With Phase 2.''

Dr. Fauci intervened: ``Yeah, you won't have a vaccine. You'll have a
vaccine to go into testing.'' Then he added, ``A year to a year and a
half.''

Mr. Trump responded: ``A couple of months, right? I mean, I like the
sound of a couple of months better, I must be honest with you.''

Sheryl Gay Stolberg contributed reporting.

\hypertarget{our-2020-election-guide}{%
\section{Our 2020 Election Guide}\label{our-2020-election-guide}}

Updated July 31, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{the-latest}{%
  \subsection{The Latest}\label{the-latest}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    President Trump's assault on the Postal Service is intersecting with
    his attacks on mail-in voting.
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/politics/trump-usps-mail-delays.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Voting
    rights groups say it is a recipe for disaster.}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{bidens-vp-search}{%
  \subsection{Biden's V.P. Search}\label{bidens-vp-search}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/biden-vice-president-2020.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Here
    are 13 women} who have been under consideration to be Joe Biden's
    running mate, and why each might be chosen --- and might not be.
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{keep-up-with-our-coverage}{%
  \subsection{Keep Up With Our
  Coverage}\label{keep-up-with-our-coverage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Get an
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{email}
    recapping the day's news
  \end{itemize}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Download our mobile app on
    \href{https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nytimes/id284862083?ls=1\&mat_click_id=5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\&referrer=mat_click_id\%3D5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\%26link_click_id\%3D722930677036718082}{iOS}
    and
    \href{http://a.localytics.com/android?id=com.nytimes.android\&referrer=utm_source\%3Dother_nyt_mobile_web\%26utm_medium\%3DWeb\%2520page\%26utm_term\%3DGeneral\%2520Mobile\%2520Page\%26utm_campaign\%3DNYT\%2520Mobile\%2520General\%2520Page}{Android}
    and turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
