Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/style}{Style}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/style}{Style}\textbar{}You're Beginning to Look Dull

\url{https://nyti.ms/34BWu7X}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/spotlight/at-home?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=at_home_menu}{At
Home}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/07/travel/route-66.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=at_home_menu}{Cruise
  Along: Route 66}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/04/dining/sheet-pan-chicken.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=at_home_menu}{Roast:
  Chicken With Plums}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/04/arts/television/dark-shadows-stream.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=at_home_menu}{Watch:
  Dark Shadows}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/at-home/even-more-reporters-editors-diaries-lists-recommendations.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=at_home_menu}{Explore:
  Reporters' Google Docs}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

skin deep

\hypertarget{youre-beginning-to-look-dull}{%
\section{You're Beginning to Look
Dull}\label{youre-beginning-to-look-dull}}

How to get a healthy glow even if you've barely laid eyes on the sun all
summer.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/27/fashion/27SKIN/0027SKIN-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By Kristen Bateman

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Aug. 27, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

It has been a weird summer, many of us cooped up indoors, and our skin
has noticed. Now, in these last weeks of the season, skin care
obsessives as well as the more laid-back among us are getting sick of
the dull skin that has become something of a hallmark of the pandemic.

Luckily, there are ways to combat it. ``There are a lot of ways to get a
healthy glow,'' said Dr. Paul Jarrod Frank, a dermatologist in New York.
``The tricks that can help you get there are actually very easy.''

\hypertarget{protect-yourself-from-screens}{%
\subsection{Protect Yourself From
Screens}\label{protect-yourself-from-screens}}

Sunscreen is a necessity for long summer afternoons. But it's also
important to protect yourself from the increased screen time indoors.
This, according to some skin care experts, is one reason for skin
dullness.

Unlike the well-known dangers of ultraviolet light, science is still
debating the effects of the blue light from our mobile phones, tablets,
monitors and other digital devices. We know it can cause
hyperpigmentation but not how much exposure is harmful. Dr. Barbara
Sturm, the German aesthetics doctor who has a namesake skin-care line,
argues that the blue light emitted by our electronic screens can cause
significant damage.

``It penetrates deep into the skin, making it potentially more dangerous
than UV rays,'' Dr. Sturm said. Over time, she said, exposure to screens
can cause premature aging, uneven tone, loss of firmness, dryness and
impaired healing.

You can limit your exposure to blue light by switching to ``night
shift'' on some devices and wearing mineral sunscreens with iron oxides
(which have been shown to be more protective against visible light than
other sunscreen options). ****

Dr. Sturm recommends a quick fix with antipollution products. Her own
\href{https://www.drsturm.com/anti-pollution-drops/?gclid=EAIaIQobChMIz8Ltwt-a6wIVE4nICh1UywhyEAQYASABEgK-qvD_BwE}{Anti-Pollution
Drops contain} cocoa seed extract to form a shield to help protect
against environmental pollution, while purslane soothes and calms
irritation.

\hypertarget{give-yourself-a-massage}{%
\subsection{Give Yourself a Massage}\label{give-yourself-a-massage}}

Pati Dubroff, a makeup artist and Chanel makeup ambassador, typically
spends 20 minutes massaging her clients' faces to bring out a glow
before beginning a makeup application. She uses microcurrent devices,
face rollers and gua sha stones.

``I'll use a combination of those things to get the muscles awake and
oxygenated,'' Ms. Dubroff said.

Dr. Sturm also recommends facial massage, explaining that the lymphatic
system is one of the body's key methods of detoxification. ``It's
responsible for carrying away and filtering out toxins and waste from
every cell, tissue and organ,'' she said.

Dr. Sturm recommends applying a serum or oil all over your face and neck
to reduce friction. Beginning above the collarbone, gently massage the
skin using your fingertips in downward, circular motions for about a
minute. Repeat, moving up the neck, the forehead and then down, from the
temples to the jawline.

Continue the motion from your chin toward your ears and from the upper
lip and cheekbones outward, finally to the eye area. You'll instantly
see a bit of radiance in your complexion, she said.

\hypertarget{exfoliation-is-key}{%
\subsection{Exfoliation Is Key}\label{exfoliation-is-key}}

Similarly, Joanna Vargas, an aesthetician and the author of ``Glow From
Within,'' recommends dry brushing as a form of exfoliation to boost glow
and to prep for self-tanner.

``A dry brush is not a huge investment,'' Ms. Vargas said. (Prices range
from \$10 to \$30.) She suggests starting at the tops of your feet and
doing long strokes upward, always toward your heart. Dry brushing
exfoliates the skin and improves the texture.

``After you've done dry brushing for about a minute or a minute and a
half, and you do your whole body, you actually start to sweat,'' she
said. ``That's how much of an increase in circulation you can stimulate
with a simple one-minute dry-brushing routine.'' After dry brushing,
shower and cleanse off dead skin cells with a calming body wash.

Dr. Frank likes using chemical and physical exfoliators two to three
times a week to turn over dead skin cells. ``I recommend only mild
exfoliation at home,'' he said.

``There are a lot of great products out there,'' he added. ``Even
\href{https://www.neutrogena.com/products/skincare/acne-proofing-daily-scrub/6810003.html}{Neutrogena
Acne Proofing Daily Facial Scrub with Salicylic Acid}gives a nice little
turnover to the skin.''

\hypertarget{hydrate-from-head-to-toe}{%
\subsection{Hydrate From Head to Toe}\label{hydrate-from-head-to-toe}}

The most common cause of dull skin is dehydration. Ms. Vargas recommends
using a hyaluronic acid serum for hotter months to increase moisture and
luminosity.

``It absorbs very quickly into the skin without leaving a lot of heavy
product on the skin that could cause further breakouts,'' she said.
``I'm also a really big fan of a good body cream that makes you feel
hydrated all day.'' Ms. Vargas likes
\href{https://jordansamuelskin.com/products/hydrate-facial-serum?variant=32354815934573}{Jordan
Samuel Hydrate Facial Serum}and
\href{https://www.dior.com/en_us/products/beauty-Y0996011-sakura-body-cream}{Dior
Sakura Body Cream}.

It's important to also apply a moisturizer under makeup. ``Sometimes if
someone is excessively oily, I'll use a mattifying primer, but only
strategically on the sides of the nose, top of the chin, top of the
forehead,'' Ms. Dubroff said.

She also likes to mix a highlighting fluid like the
\href{https://www.chanel.com/us/makeup/p/186330/les-beiges-sheer-healthy-glow-highlighting-fluid/}{Chanel
Les Beiges Sheer Healthy Glow Highlighting Fluid in Pearly Glow and
Sunkissed} into a body moisturizer and applying all over. ``That's a
nice way to add a subtle glow but to not walk out looking like a disco
ball,'' she said.

\hypertarget{get-a-light-treatment}{%
\subsection{Get a Light Treatment}\label{get-a-light-treatment}}

LED light, red and infrared light devices are also excellent at making
skin brighter and more healthy looking. ``They're good for all skin
types, all skin tones,'' Ms. Vargas said. ``Again, that's something
that's a worthy investment.'' There are plenty of in-office treatments,
as well as at-home tools.

``There are some very summer-appropriate brightening lasers with zero
downtime,'' Dr. Frank said. A popular option at his office is a laser
called NeoElite, which evens out skin tone, redness and inflammation,
boosting brilliance. Dr. Frank's office is also doing a lot of Genesis
laser facials, which works to help with pores and brighten the skin.
``It's great for people who are just looking for skin maintenance
without having to worry about downtime,'' he said.

\hypertarget{theres-always-makeup}{%
\subsection{There's Always Makeup}\label{theres-always-makeup}}

The finishing touch for a lit-from-within look, say the makeup artists,
is a light wash of color. After moisturizing and priming, Ms. Dubroff
uses a bit of sheer foundation on the sides of the nose, top of the chin
and around the mouth where natural shadows occur, to get a natural
highlighted look.

Then she'll use a second, slightly deeper shade where any pigmentation
occurs, then top off any spots with a concealer. She uses light washes
of bronzer on the perimeter to bring more light to the face.

``It's adding that tone, which is just a sun-kissed wash of color,'' she
said.

The last step of Ms. Dubroff's glow routine is to tap a couple of drops
of highlighting fluid around the highest points. ``That last thing is
like the pop of sunlight,'' she said.

Patrick Ta, a makeup artist who recently introduced a makeup collection
called \href{https://patrickta.com/}{Major Glow}, is also a fan of
glow-y makeup products, all over the body. He prefers body oils over
self-tanners to get a bright look.

``Focus on the high points, like your shoulders, décolleté, cheekbones,
forehead, where you would naturally get more sun if you're standing
outside,'' Mr. Ta said. ``I would add glow to those areas, so everything
is cohesive.''

If in doubt about your makeup abilities, Ms. Dubroff has a simple and
easy solution to boosting skin's warmth. ``Get a jump rope or hula hoop,
just to get your blood pumping,'' she said. ``Even five minutes of
movement makes a big difference.''

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
