Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/business}{Business}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/business}{Business}\textbar{}Will the U.S. Soon Treat
Hong Kong Like China? Much Is at Stake

\url{https://nyti.ms/2AjdItv}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{will-the-us-soon-treat-hong-kong-like-china-much-is-at-stake}{%
\section{Will the U.S. Soon Treat Hong Kong Like China? Much Is at
Stake}\label{will-the-us-soon-treat-hong-kong-like-china-much-is-at-stake}}

Washington has long given the former British colony a special status on
trade and other issues. Changing that would threaten its position as a
global business hub.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/05/28/world/28hk-status-span-sub/merlin_172912023_bb35f42d-aecb-4b12-8260-59529fced0a9-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/alexandra-stevenson}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/02/20/multimedia/author-alexandra-stevenson/author-alexandra-stevenson-thumbLarge.jpg}}

By
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/alexandra-stevenson}{Alexandra
Stevenson}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Published May 28, 2020Updated June 29, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://cn.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/business/20200529/hong-kong-special-status-explained/}{阅读简体中文版}\href{https://cn.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/business/20200529/hong-kong-special-status-explained/zh-hant/}{閱讀繁體中文版}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/29/business/economy/us-halts-high-tech-exports-hong-kong.html}{Hong
Kong} risks becoming collateral damage in the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/28/world/asia/china-united-states.html}{growing
rivalry between China and the United States}.

Chinese leaders have moved to extend Beijing's grip over the former
British colony. In response, officials in Washington are considering
whether to strip away the
\href{https://hk.usconsulate.gov/our-relationship/policy-history/hkpa/}{special
status} they have long afforded the semiautonomous territory, which has
helped it build its status as a global financial hub and as a critical
gateway between China and the United States.

Should the United States revoke that designation,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/01/world/asia/Hong-kong-Tiananmen-vigil-banned.html}{Hong
Kong}'s status as a business capital will be in jeopardy.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/05/28/world/28hk-status-3/merlin_157070136_e7be602d-f7ba-4075-ab1c-34fc512be0b6-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\hypertarget{why-does-hong-kong-get-special-status}{%
\subsection{Why does Hong Kong get special
status?}\label{why-does-hong-kong-get-special-status}}

The United States has long had a special relationship with Hong Kong,
despite the fact that the former British colony is part of China.

Britain, which initially claimed the territory
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/07/03/world/asia/opium-war-book-china-britain.html}{during
the Opium Wars}, handed it
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/07/01/world/asia/hong-kong-china-handover.html}{back
to China} in 1997. Beijing in turn pledged that Hong Kong would keep a
high degree of autonomy under a
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2014/09/30/world/asia/the-hong-kong-protests-what-you-should-know.html}{``one
country, two systems''} understanding. Even though it is part of China,
Hong Kong operates under its own laws that include economic and civil
freedoms that cannot be found in mainland China.

The special status that Washington grants Hong Kong acknowledged this
difference. Under the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/1997/07/02/world/uncle-sam-s-new-role-hong-kong-s-advocate.html}{United
States-Hong Kong Policy Act of 1992}, Hong Kong is treated differently
by U.S. law when it comes to financial transactions, immigration and
trade.

That status has allowed annual
\href{https://hk.usconsulate.gov/n-2019032101/}{trade} between the two
to grow to some \$38 billion.

Image

China's leader, Xi Jinping, and other officials applauding after the
vote on the national security legislation for Hong Kong at the National
People's Congress in Beijing on Thursday.Credit...Carlos Garcia
Rawlins/Reuters

\hypertarget{why-is-that-status-in-jeopardy}{%
\subsection{Why is that status in
jeopardy?}\label{why-is-that-status-in-jeopardy}}

China's Communist Party has been frustrated by
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/27/world/asia/why-are-hong-kong-protesters.html}{the
anti-Beijing protests that} erupted in Hong Kong beginning last year. On
Thursday, Chinese leaders
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/28/world/asia/china-hong-kong-crackdown.html}{approved
a plan} that would include drafting a new law expected by September to
suppress terrorism, support national security and quell calls for Hong
Kong independence from China.

It is not yet clear what the new law would include. But
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/27/us/politics/china-hong-kong-pompeo-trade.html?action=click\&module=Top\%20Stories\&pgtype=Homepage}{diplomats}
and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/22/business/hong-kong-business-china.html}{business
leaders} worry that the legislation will politicize immigration,
infringe on Hong Kong's free speech and the free flow of information
online, and lead to meddling with financial market regulations.

China last week signaled it would approve the plan, and American
officials have expressed their dismay. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo on
Wednesday declared that he no longer considered Hong Kong to have a high
degree of autonomy from the mainland, paving the way for punitive
measures that could bring Washington's special economic relations with
the territory to an end.

Image

Hong Kong at night.Credit...Lam Yik Fei for The New York Times

\hypertarget{what-happens-if-the-status-changes}{%
\subsection{What happens if the status
changes?}\label{what-happens-if-the-status-changes}}

Under the special status, the U.S. dollar can be freely exchanged with
the Hong Kong dollar, which makes the city a particularly attractive
place for American companies to do business. Hong Kong gets preferential
treatment on trade, meaning little to no tariffs or other costs.
Americans enjoy visa-free travel, making it easy for business executives
to come and go.

If the United States removes Hong Kong's special status, all that could
come to an end.

Depending on Washington's response, the removal of the special status
could lead the United States to treat Hong Kong the same way it treats
any other Chinese city. That would mean higher tariffs, including those
enacted amid the trade war between the United States and China. Movement
between the two places would be restricted as well. Many American
businesses may choose to leave.

It would put Hong Kong under the same export controls over sensitive
technology that the United States places on Chinese buyers. The Trump
administration has
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/15/business/economy/commerce-department-huawei.html}{increasingly
limited the access of Chinese companies to American software and
hardware know-how} on national security grounds.

Removal of the special status could lead to greater scrutiny of
investments in the United States by Hong Kong companies, too. In recent
years, Washington has made
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/09/17/us/politics/china-foreign-investment-cfius.html}{increasingly
hard for Chinese companies} to invest there.

Hong Kong is considered a special administrative region of China, or
S.A.R., but ``the S in S.A.R. is only special in that the rest of the
world treats it differently from the mainland,'' said David Webb, a
former banker and investor in Hong Kong.

Image

Protesters turning out in November to support legislation in the United
States requiring American officials to assess Hong Kong's autonomy from
mainland China.Credit...Lam Yik Fei for The New York Times

\hypertarget{can-trump-change-the-status-himself}{%
\subsection{Can Trump change the status
himself?}\label{can-trump-change-the-status-himself}}

President Trump can change the status by himself, through an executive
order.

Congress, however, has increasingly pressed him to act. Last year, Mr.
Trump
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/11/27/us/politics/trump-hong-kong.html}{signed
the Hong Kong Human Rights and Democracy Act} after it was approved in
both the Senate and the House by wide margins. The act requires
government agencies to review Hong Kong's autonomy from mainland China
each year.

Removing the status carries political risks. It would make Mr. Trump
look tough on China ahead of November's election, an approach he has
taken to divert attention from the U.S. government's stumbles in
addressing the coronavirus outbreak. But it could also jeopardize his
trade war truce with China, one of the major accomplishments of his
administration.

Image

Protesters at a luxury shopping mall in Hong Kong on
Thursday.Credit...Lam Yik Fei for The New York Times

\hypertarget{does-the-us-risk-hurting-itself}{%
\subsection{Does the U.S. risk hurting
itself?}\label{does-the-us-risk-hurting-itself}}

On paper, the United States exports much more to Hong Kong than it
imports. Making business tougher in Hong Kong could also drive the
territory's population, which has broadly expressed sympathy with the
pro-democracy demonstrators, closer to Beijing.

``The harder the U.S. hits us in terms of cutting our ties, what will
happen is that will drive us towards mainland China, won't it?'' said
Regina Ip, the leader of the pro-Beijing New People's Party in Hong
Kong.

But Washington may calculate that the damage will be painful enough to
China to make its objections clear. Chinese companies, including
state-owned enterprises, use Hong Kong as a place to raise money. It is
home to complicated but essential financial plumbing used by Chinese
companies and individuals, who are limited in how much money they can
move in and out of China because of Beijing's tight limits over
financial flows past its borders. Ending its special status could
severely weaken those benefits.

Hong Kong is also the regional headquarters for many of the world's
biggest companies. China's vast economy remains a big draw. But if Hong
Kong loses its transparency and openness, those companies may decide to
set up shop elsewhere.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
