Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/business/dealbook}{DealBook}\textbar{}Disney Makes \$52.4
Billion Deal for 21st Century Fox in Big Bet on Streaming

\url{https://nyti.ms/2kv4jn4}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

DealBook Business and Policy

\hypertarget{disney-makes-524-billion-deal-for-21st-century-fox-in-big-bet-on-streaming}{%
\section{Disney Makes \$52.4 Billion Deal for 21st Century Fox in Big
Bet on
Streaming}\label{disney-makes-524-billion-deal-for-21st-century-fox-in-big-bet-on-streaming}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2017/12/15/business/15FOXDISNEY1/15FOXDISNEY1-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By \href{http://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/brooks-barnes}{Brooks
Barnes}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Dec. 14, 2017
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/es/2017/12/14/disney-adquisicion-21st-century-fox/}{Leer
en espa√±ol}

LOS ANGELES --- In a move that will reverberate from Hollywood and
Silicon Valley to TVs and smartphones around the world, the Walt Disney
Company said Thursday that it had reached a deal to buy most of 21st
Century Fox, the empire controlled by Rupert Murdoch, in an all-stock
transaction valued at roughly \$52.4 billion.

While the agreement is subject to the approval of antitrust regulators
--- and the Justice Department recently
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2017/11/20/business/dealbook/att-time-warner-merger.html?_r=0}{moved
to block} a big media company, AT\&T, from becoming even bigger ---
Disney is acknowledging that the future of television and movie viewing
is online. The acquisition, which would make Disney a colossus unlike
anything Hollywood has ever seen, is the biggest counterattack from a
traditional media company against the tech giants that have aggressively
moved into the entertainment business.

Disney has already announced an ambitious plan to introduce two
streaming services by 2019. With this deal and the wealth of movies, TV
shows and sports programming it provides, the company will now have the
muscle to challenge Netflix, Apple, Amazon, Google and Facebook in the
fast-growing realm of online video.

``The pace of disruption has only hastened,'' Robert A. Iger, Disney's
chief executive and chairman, said in an interview. ``This will allow us
to greatly accelerate our direct-to-consumer strategy, which is our
highest priority.''

At the same time, the agreement means that one of moviedom's most
celebrated studios, 20th Century Fox, will be downsized, with some
operations folded into Walt Disney Studios or refocused to make films
for online distribution. Founded in 1935, the Fox studio championed
Marilyn Monroe, produced classics like ``The Sound of Music,'' released
the first ``Star Wars'' movie and, more recently, turned ``Avatar'' into
the \href{http://www.boxofficemojo.com/alltime/world/}{biggest
ticket-seller of all time}.

But lately, as most of Hollywood has, 20th Century Fox has struggled to
keep pace with the changing way younger audiences view content ---
namely on an internet-connected device. Some analysts interpreted Mr.
Murdoch's sudden willingness to sell as his reading the writing on the
wall: The business climate is going to become tougher for old-line
Hollywood.

To complete the integration, a legacy-defining task, Mr. Iger, 66,
agreed to renew his contract for a fourth time, delaying retirement from
July 2019 to the end of 2021 and effectively ending speculation about
whether he might
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2017/10/08/business/media/for-disney-chief-robert-iger-an-unlikely-political-turn.html?_r=0}{run
for president} in 2020. Mr. Murdoch
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2017/12/06/business/media/disney-fox-iger.html}{asked
Mr. Iger to stay} as a condition of the deal, which was valued at \$66.1
billion including debt.

As part of the acquisition (if it goes through) and his extension
agreement, Mr. Iger will receive restricted stock awards --- many tied
to performance --- worth more than \$100 million, Disney disclosed on
Thursday in a
\href{https://otp.tools.investis.com/clients/us/the_walt_disney_company/SEC/sec-show.aspx?Type=html\&FilingId=12429073\&CIK=0001001039\&Index=10000}{regulatory
filing}. Once the combination is complete, Disney will bump up his
performance-based annual target bonus by 66 percent, to \$20 million.

Not included in the acquisition: Fox News, the Fox broadcast network and
the FS1 sports cable channel. In the news release announcing the Disney
deal, Mr. Murdoch said he would spin those businesses and a handful of
other properties, including the 20th Century Fox lot in Century City,
which Disney is not buying, into a newly listed company. Mr. Murdoch
also still controls his newspaper-focused company, News Corporation,
which has holdings that include The Wall Street Journal.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2017/12/15/autossell/Tony-Lewis-GettyImages-51570791/Tony-Lewis-GettyImages-51570791-videoSixteenByNine3000.jpg}

The deal got its start with a casual get-together over the summer at
Moraga Vineyards, Mr. Murdoch's Bel Air winery. There, Mr. Iger and Mr.
Murdoch chatted about the way technology was roiling the media business,
according to Mr. Iger, who came away thinking --- to his surprise ---
that Mr. Murdoch might be open to a merger discussion. Mr. Iger said he
called him a few weeks later in August to propose more serious talks.

There was at least one due-diligence meeting at Mr. Murdoch's apartment
in Manhattan with senior management. As the agreement was being
completed on Tuesday, Mr. Iger had lunch with Mr. Murdoch in London.
(Mr. Iger was in town for a premiere of ``Star Wars: The Last Jedi,''
which arrives in theaters on Friday.)

``I know a lot of people are wondering, `Why did the Murdochs come to
such a momentous decision?''' Mr. Murdoch said on a conference call with
investors. ``Are we retreating? Absolutely not. We are pivoting at a
pivotal moment.''

Mr. Murdoch's older son, Lachlan, 21st Century Fox's executive chairman,
added that the move was ``about returning to our roots as a lean,
aggressive challenger brand'' that would be ``focused at the beginning
on must-watch news and live sports.''

There has been speculation that Mr. Murdoch's other son, James, who is
chief executive of 21st Century Fox, would join Disney in a senior role.
Mr. Iger told investors on a conference call that that had not yet been
decided.

``He will be integral to helping us integrate these companies over the
next number of months,'' Mr. Iger said. ``Over that time, he and I will
continue to discuss whether there is a role for him here or not.''

The Murdochs declined an interview request.

Disney, which owns ABC and ESPN, hopes 21st Century Fox will supercharge
its plans to introduce
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2017/10/08/business/media/bamtech-disney-streaming.html}{two
Netflix-style streaming services}. Disney's first major streaming
effort, ESPN Plus, will arrive in the spring. A second and still unnamed
offering, built around the company's Disney, Marvel, Lucasfilm and Pixar
brands, will roll out late next year. Rounding out its streaming
portfolio will be \href{https://www.hulu.com/welcome}{Hulu}, an
established service that focuses on older viewers with programming that
includes ABC shows.

Mr. Iger is buying 21st Century Fox's minority stake in Hulu, resulting
in majority control of the streaming service by Disney, which previously
owned 30 percent. Comcast and Time Warner also have stakes in Hulu.

The Disney-Fox merger is happening as the Justice Department fights
AT\&T's \$85.4 billion acquisition of Time Warner in court. Mr. Iger
acknowledged that antitrust regulators would heavily scrutinize Disney's
purchase but expressed confidence about winning their approval. Sarah
Huckabee Sanders, the White House press secretary, said Thursday that
President Trump had spoken with Rupert Murdoch and ``congratulated him''
on the deal.

It was a striking contrast to Mr. Trump's negative view of the AT\&T
deal, which some have interpreted as an attempt to punish CNN, the Time
Warner-owned network that is often the focus of Mr. Trump's ire. AT\&T
and Time Warner are not direct competitors, however, and some antitrust
experts have said the Disney-Fox deal should receive similar
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2017/12/14/business/media/antitrust-disney-fox.html?hp\&action=click\&pgtype=Homepage\&clickSource=story-heading\&module=first-column-region\&region=top-news\&WT.nav=top-news}{scrutiny}.
Should it not, the Justice Department could face criticism regarding its
political independence.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2017/12/15/business/15FOXDISNEY2/merlin_32238772_ca8c625e-e4f8-4b7b-9329-4daec401399c-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

``If they look at it from a consumer point of view,'' Mr. Iger said,
``they should quickly conclude that the aim of this combination is to
create more high-quality product for consumers around the world and to
deliver it in more innovative, more compelling ways.''

When Mr. Iger announced Disney's streaming strategy in September, he
said, ``We're going to launch big, and we're going to launch hot.'' At
the time, his comment was viewed in Hollywood as old-fashioned
showboating.

Not anymore.

Disney is buying the Fox television studio, which has 36 series in
production, including ``The Simpsons,'' ``Homeland,'' ``This Is Us'' and
``Modern Family.'' Disney's significantly smaller TV factory, ABC
Studios, has delivered series of inconsistent quality and lost its
biggest hitmaker in August when the ``Grey's Anatomy'' producer Shonda
Rhimes
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2017/08/14/business/media/shonda-rhimes-netflix-deal.html?_r=0}{decamped
for Netflix}.

To augment ESPN Plus, Disney is adding 21st Century Fox's chain of 22
regional cable networks dedicated to sports, including the YES Network,
which carries New York Yankees games.

As part of the deal, Disney will also get the FX and National Geographic
cable networks, and stakes in two behemoth overseas television-service
providers, Sky of Britain and Star of India. That component of the deal
would seem to contradict Disney's push to lessen its reliance on
traditional television, a business built on third-party cable
subscriptions that is now in decline as people turn to streaming
services for home entertainment.

But those assets serve another of Mr. Iger's strategic goals: making
Disney more of an international player. Disney has major operations in
Europe, Japan and China, where it
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2016/06/17/business/international/disney-shanghai-opens.html?_r=0}{opened
Shanghai Disneyland} last year. But most of Disney's profit still comes
from the United States, where ESPN dominates, despite
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2017/11/09/business/media/disneys-earnings-star-wars.html}{recent
struggles}, and annual attendance at Walt Disney World in Florida and
the Disneyland Resort in California totals 162 million people.

With the acquisition, ``Disney goes from being a juggernaut to being a
megajuggernaut,'' Steven Cahall, an analyst with RBC Capital Markets,
wrote in a note to clients.

Mr. Cahall and other analysts said the acquisition would likely prompt
other entertainment companies to join forces as a competitive maneuver.
Speculation immediately surrounded Viacom and CBS, which share common
ownership; Lionsgate, which owns Starz; Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer, which
controls rights to the James Bond franchise; and Sony Pictures
Entertainment, which has struggled with low box office market share.

Since taking over as Disney's chief executive in 2005, Mr. Iger has
greatly expanded Disney's theme park operations, opening in Shanghai
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2016/06/15/business/international/china-disney.html?_r=0}{against
all odds} and nearly tripling the size of Disney Cruise Line. Walt
Disney Studios, bolstered by Mr. Iger's acquisitions of
\href{http://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2006/01/25/business/disney-agrees-to-acquire-pixar-in-a-74-billion-deal.html}{Pixar},
\href{https://mediadecoder.blogs.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2012/10/30/disney-buying-lucas-films-for-4-billion/}{Lucasfilm}
and
\href{http://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2009/09/01/business/media/01disney.html}{Marvel},
has become Hollywood's runaway leader.

But pulling off the acquisition of 21st Century Fox dwarfs those deals
and will create complex integration challenges. Some executives who work
at Fox's studio offices in Los Angeles have been complaining bitterly
about the prospect of Disney cost-cutting. Disney said it expected the
acquisition to yield at least \$2 billion in total cost savings.

And though Mr. Iger played down any antitrust issues, others in
Hollywood have already disagreed.

``The antitrust concerns raised by this deal are obvious and
significant,'' the screenwriters' union, the Writers Guild of America
West, said in a statement on Monday, calling media consolidation a
``relentless drive to eliminate competition.''

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{¬©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
