Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/sports/baseball}{Baseball}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/sports/baseball}{Baseball}\textbar{}After Marlins'
Outbreak, Yankees Stay Inside and Wait for Phillies

\url{https://nyti.ms/2CVU7kR}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{after-marlins-outbreak-yankees-stay-inside-and-wait-for-phillies}{%
\section{After Marlins' Outbreak, Yankees Stay Inside and Wait for
Phillies}\label{after-marlins-outbreak-yankees-stay-inside-and-wait-for-phillies}}

The positive coronavirus tests for the Miami Marlins disrupted the first
road trip of the season for the Yankees, who were scheduled to play in
Philadelphia on Monday night.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/07/27/sports/27YANKEES/merlin_174934632_138159e1-f761-49f9-b64c-b74e86811b32-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/james-wagner}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/06/13/multimedia/author-james-wagner/author-james-wagner-thumbLarge.jpg}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/james-wagner}{James
Wagner}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  July 27, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

PHILADELPHIA --- The news arrived Monday morning via a cellphone
application used for internal communication: The game scheduled hours
later between the Philadelphia Phillies and the Yankees is off, nobody
can go to Citizens Bank Park, and stand by for further updates.

Concerned Yankees players knew exactly why. The Phillies had just
completed a three-game series at home against the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/27/sports/baseball/marlins-game-canceled.html}{Miami
Marlins, which had 14 members of their traveling party test positive}
for the coronavirus.

While Phillies players and employees were tested on Monday and the
stadium was disinfected, the Yankees were instructed to sequester in
their hotel in Philadelphia as they awaited confirmation that they would
play Tuesday as originally planned. After breakfast, Yankees players met
around noon to discuss the situation and reiterate the fragility of the
season and the need to strictly follow health and safety protocols. Some
plotted ways to work out or play catch inside the hotel.

This is the downtime of Major League Baseball amid a pandemic, as its
teams --- with growing worry from baseball officials and health experts
--- attempt to play a 60-game season in 30 stadiums across the country.

``You try to do your absolute best on an individual level to follow the
rules to a T,'' Yankees relief pitcher Adam Ottavino said Monday. ``But
it's just a skating-on-thin-ice situation and I think it will be no
matter what.''

While there were relatively few cases as each team had three weeks of
preseason workouts at their home stadiums, this was always going to be a
hard part for M.L.B.: teams traveling for games and entering hot spots
like Florida, Georgia and Texas. The Marlins played two exhibition games
in Atlanta before their three-game set in Philadelphia.

It is unclear when and how the Marlins got infected, given the virus's
incubation period of at least a few days. But the episode further drove
home the message to the Yankees that reducing their exposure to the
virus requires a large dose of individual commitment on the
circumstances players can control.

``We've all got a responsibility to stay as safe as possible during
these times,'' Yankees outfielder Brett Gardner said last week, ``and
what one or two of us do can affect the whole team or the whole
league.''

To help prevent infections among players, coaches and key staff, the
league --- with input from the players' union --- instituted
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/24/sports/baseball/mlb-coronavirus-rules.html}{a
113-page operations manual for the season} which includes details on how
teams should behave while traveling. Among the many regulations: no
eating at public restaurants, a preference for private airports, an
empty seat next to each person on the team bus, and a private entrance,
check-in area and floors at each hotel.

Members of a team's traveling party should ``avoid leaving'' the hotel
for ``non-essential purposes,'' according to the M.L.B. manual. As far
as visitors at the hotel, the manual said that apart from ``immediate
family,'' members of a team's traveling party are discouraged from
socializing with other family and friends while on the road. If they
choose to do so, they ``must adhere to strict physical distancing
protocols, and wear proper face coverings and gloves,'' the manual
continued.

\hypertarget{sports-and-the-virus}{%
\subsubsection{Sports and the Virus}\label{sports-and-the-virus}}

\paragraph{}

Updated Sept. 9, 2020

Here's what's happening as the world of sports slowly comes back to
life:

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    September Saturdays at Penn State are usually the apex of a week of
    hype. Now, as at other college football destinations, the approach
    of autumn has been
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/09/sports/penn-state-college-football-canceled.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_2\&context=storylines_keepup}{unusually
    quiet}~there.
  \item
    More than half the players who made the quarterfinals at the U.S.
    Open were not supposed to be there. It's a
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/09/sports/us-open-crowd.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_2\&context=storylines_keepup}{little
    bit easier}~when there are no fans, some say.
  \item
    In a pandemic,
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/08/sports/ironman-tallinn-triathlon-pandemic.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_2\&context=storylines_keepup}{getting
    to a triathlon}~is as hard as finishing it. The first Ironman race
    since March, in Tallinn, Estonia, included travel restrictions,
    temperature checks, masked volunteers and medals handed over in
    bags.
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Instead of arriving at the stadium many hours before a road game like
usual, the Yankees (2-1) are doing so much later now and readying for a
game at the hotel. Players said the Yankees provided rooms at their
hotel in Washington and Philadelphia where they could pore over advance
scouting reports, and get a massage or treatment --- after making an
appointment with their training staff --- before arriving at the
stadium. And, as allowed by M.L.B.'s rules, they had exclusive use of
the hotel gym to work out.

``Being able to prepare and getting treatment at the hotel, it's
actually been great,'' Yankees relief pitcher Zack Britton said over the
weekend.

Instead of spending a day off doing whatever they wanted, like
sightseeing or grabbing a meal or drinks, Yankees players said Gerrit
Cole,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/22/sports/baseball/gerrit-cole-yankees.html}{the
team's new \$324-million pitcher}, and Gardner, the longest tenured
Yankee, organized a steak dinner inside a banquet hall of the team's
hotel during their day off in Washington on Friday. Players said they
sat at a distance and watched other baseball games on television.

``I'm not sure how it's going to look going forward, but the biggest
thing we're doing is we're trying to stay in the hotel and be safe and
be healthy,'' Britton said.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/07/27/sports/27YANKEES-2/merlin_174882177_7d3bd7a2-6d5b-425b-859c-878a28b9b183-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Before the Yankees departed on their first road trip this season, first
baseman Luke Voit said they were all given a travel kit that included
materials they could use to disinfect their hotel rooms. As another
precaution, the Yankees brought their own clubhouse personnel from
Yankee Stadium to avoid using the visiting clubhouse staff at Citizens
Bank Park.

Yankees starter J.A. Happ, who was originally scheduled to start Monday
against the Phillies, said on Sunday that the team was already falling
into a pattern of good habits, including keeping their distance and
wearing masks away from the field.

But this is an imperfect science. So much has to go right. Some players
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/17/sports/baseball/baseball-mlb-coronavirus-spitting.html}{still
high five and spit}, which are banned this season. Teams are charged
with policing themselves. Players not only have to worry about their own
behavior but that of the loved ones around them. In the N.B.A., a few
players have already been asked to seclude themselves after breaking the
rules of its so-called bubble outside Orlando, Fla.

The Yankees have already had one positive case emerge since the team
reunited in early July: All-Star closer Aroldis Chapman. Yankees General
Manager Brian Cashman said recently that 15 people who were around
Chapman underwent daily testing for a week but no other positive cases
emerged. Ottavino said that proved why the protocols beyond the testing
are so important.

``But now this shows you how easy it is to spread,'' he said, referring
to the Marlins' outbreak. ``The real issue is it's just so hard to
know.''

Ottavino said the results of the Phillies' testing will be telling. Two
of their players --- catcher J.T. Realmuto and first baseman Rhys
Hoskins --- were in the closest contact with the Marlins on the field
given their positions. The Yankees were also tested on Monday, but at
their hotel as part of their regularly scheduled every-other-day
testing.

Until the Phillies' results arrive and the Yankees learn what they will
be doing on Tuesday, they planned to stay indoors and wait.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
