Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/sports/baseball}{Baseball}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/sports/baseball}{Baseball}\textbar{}Miami Marlins
Outbreak Postpones 2 Games and Rocks M.L.B.'s Return

\url{https://nyti.ms/330Al2m}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{miami-marlins-outbreak-postpones-2-games-and-rocks-mlbs-return}{%
\section{Miami Marlins Outbreak Postpones 2 Games and Rocks M.L.B.'s
Return}\label{miami-marlins-outbreak-postpones-2-games-and-rocks-mlbs-return}}

Four days after baseball restarted its long-delayed season, a wave of
positive coronavirus tests cast the league's plans into serious doubt.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/07/27/sports/27marlins1/merlin_174925695_2c3ee74d-33d8-4cca-b2ff-c900ad78a9f1-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/tyler-kepner}{Tyler
Kepner}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Published July 27, 2020Updated July 28, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

The return of Major League Baseball took a troubling turn on Monday when
a looming threat became reality: an outbreak of positive coronavirus
tests within a team.

While league officials said there were no plans to suspend or cancel the
season --- which began just last Thursday --- two games were postponed
Monday after the Miami Marlins learned that at least 14 members of the
team's traveling party, including 12 players, had tested positive for
the virus.

The Marlins' games against the Baltimore Orioles on Monday and Tuesday
were postponed, as was the Yankees' game on Monday in Philadelphia,
where the Marlins spent the weekend.

``The health of our players and staff has been and will continue to be
our primary focus as we navigate through these uncharted waters,'' Derek
Jeter, the Marlins' chief executive, said in a statement, adding that
the team needed to ``take a collective pause and try to properly grasp
the totality of this situation.''

For many Americans, the long-delayed return of baseball was a sign of
normalcy during a pandemic that has shut down much of the nation and
thrown daily activities into disarray. Even without fans in the stands,
the league's return had seemed like a triumph, or at least a comforting
sight, after more than four months with a largely shuttered sports
landscape.

But the news about the Marlins was a stark reminder of the challenge
facing a country trying to find a more normal routine. If baseball, a
\$10 billion industry operating in a controlled environment and
employing frequent testing cannot prevent infections, then how are
schools, restaurants and other retail businesses going to do so?

``I think it's another indictment of the United States' overall approach
to Covid,'' said Dr. Michael Saag, an infectious diseases expert at the
University of Alabama at Birmingham. He added: ``We find ourselves
impatient. And that's what I think we're suffering from, both in terms
of not just Major League Baseball but for every other thing we're trying
to do.''

The crisis baseball is confronting also raises concerns for other sports
planning their return, particularly professional and college football,
given the shifting geography of the outbreak. While many leagues
preparing to start up again are doing so in contained environments,
playing all their games in one or two locations, the National Football
League is planning on holding games at its usual stadiums across the
country, like baseball.

The Marlins, for now, are staying in Philadelphia, Jeter said, while
awaiting the results of another round of testing for players and staff.
The Phillies were tested at their ballpark on Monday while the Yankees
stayed at their hotel, which the Marlins did not share.

The Orioles, who were in Miami, made plans to return to Baltimore, where
they are scheduled to host the Marlins on Wednesday and Thursday.

The Marlins news heightened a sense of dread among players and coaches
who opted to participate in this season. At least a dozen players opted
out before the restarted season.

``This thing really hits home now that you see half a team get infected
and go from one city to another,'' said Washington Nationals Manager
Dave Martinez.

He added: ``I'll be honest with you, I'm scared, I really am.''

Kansas City Royals first baseman Ryan O'Hearn, who returned to his team
Monday after missing the opening series following a positive coronavirus
test, said the Marlins' outbreak was sobering.

``It seems like it's spreading like wildfire,'' O'Hearn said. ``It's
definitely a scary situation. Everyone realizes the kind of risk we're
taking.''

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/07/27/sports/27marlins/merlin_175008888_99a8116a-bf1b-4247-93bb-cdbf847a254d-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

The Marlins played two exhibitions in Atlanta last week, then played
three games at Citizens Bank Park in Philadelphia over the weekend.
Before Sunday's series finale, Miami learned that four of its players
had tested positive. Manager Don Mattingly changed starting pitchers for
that game --- replacing Jose Urena, who was reportedly one of the
players who tested positive --- but told reporters later that the team
had ``never really considered not playing.''

On Friday, the first day of games for most teams, the league announced
that only six of 10,939 samples it had tested that week (or 0.05
percent) had returned new positives. But most of those tests were
conducted while teams were training at their home parks, before
traveling to road sites.

\hypertarget{the-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\subsubsection{The Coronavirus
Outbreak}\label{the-coronavirus-outbreak}}

\hypertarget{sports-and-the-virus}{%
\paragraph{Sports and the Virus}\label{sports-and-the-virus}}

Updated Sept. 9, 2020

Here's what's happening as the world of sports slowly comes back to
life:

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    September Saturdays at Penn State are usually the apex of a week of
    hype. Now, as at other college football destinations, the approach
    of autumn has been
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/09/sports/penn-state-college-football-canceled.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_2\&context=storylines_keepup}{unusually
    quiet}~there.
  \item
    More than half the players who made the quarterfinals at the U.S.
    Open were not supposed to be there. It's a
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/09/sports/us-open-crowd.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_2\&context=storylines_keepup}{little
    bit easier}~when there are no fans, some say.
  \item
    In a pandemic,
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/08/sports/ironman-tallinn-triathlon-pandemic.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_2\&context=storylines_keepup}{getting
    to a triathlon}~is as hard as finishing it. The first Ironman race
    since March, in Tallinn, Estonia, included travel restrictions,
    temperature checks, masked volunteers and medals handed over in
    bags.
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

The league is attempting to stage a 60-game regular season using 30
stadiums across the United States,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/24/sports/baseball/blue-jays-buffalo.html}{including
a Class AAA ballpark in Buffalo for the Toronto Blue Jays}, who were
barred from playing home games by the Canadian government because of the
risk of travel to and from the United States.

Baseball's decision to play games at home sites stands apart from
professional basketball and hockey, which are preparing to resume play
in contained environments, rather than across the continent.
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/27/sports/basketball/coronavirus-nba-season-bubble-disney-world.html}{The
National Basketball Association, which will resume its season on
Thursday, is housing players and holding games at Walt Disney World}
near Orlando, Fla., while the National Hockey League is using sites in
two cities when it restarts on Saturday: Toronto and Edmonton.

Those leagues are also using fewer teams and planning fewer games than
baseball is; both were deep into their seasons when sports shut down in
mid-March, so hockey teams will move directly to the playoffs, with 24
of 31 teams taking part, while the N.B.A.'s plan involves only 22 of its
30 teams for the end of its season.

The professional football season
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/24/sports/football/nfl-players-regular-season-start.html}{is
set to begin on} Sept. 10, while
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/16/sports/ncaafootball/ncaa-guidelines-fall-sports.html}{decisions
about fall college sports}, including football, have been largely left
to university presidents and conferences. While some conferences,
including the Ivy League, have canceled fall sports and others have
already pared down their schedules, most major universities are
expecting to move ahead with varsity sports. But
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/10/sports/ncaafootball/coronavirus-college-football-season-canceled.html}{even
they have acknowledged the tenuous nature} of those plans.

``I'm personally concerned about schools reopening in hot spot states,
and we know where they are,'' Dr. Saag said. ``I think Major League
Baseball is kind of the vanguard on this, and the other collections of
people --- be it students or campuses or the N.B.A. perhaps --- it's all
going to follow suit because we're in such a big hurry.''

In
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/24/podcasts/the-daily/mlb-baseball-season-coronavirus.html}{an
interview with The New York Times in May}, Commissioner Rob Manfred
outlined the challenges of planning baseball during the pandemic.

``One of the things that floated up from one of the experts is, `Gee
whiz, a way that you can do this is to quarantine players,''' Manfred
said, adding later, ``And then you're going to start a four and a half
month season, and your life is going to be hotel to ballpark, back to
hotel, room service, not see your family.''

``So then we realized, gee, that's pretty tough. So then we started
talking about including families, and you realize as you get into that
phase that you get into quarantine numbers that are insane.''

Image

Marlins Manager Don Mattingly, left, greeted Joe Girardi, the Phillies
manager, before their season-opening game on Friday in
Philadelphia.~Credit...Chris Szagola/Associated Press

Manfred said that the league had considered holding games in three hubs:
Arizona for teams in the Western divisions, Texas for teams in the
Central and Florida for teams in the East. At the time, Manfred said,
those states were most receptive to holding games.

As baseball considered that plan late in the spring, though, the spread
of the virus ebbed in some hard-hit parts of the country and businesses
began to reopen as states pushed for economic recovery. Baseball then
shifted its focus to playing in stadiums with no fans and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/24/sports/baseball/mlb-coronavirus-rules.html}{while
outlining extensive health and safety protocols}, even as the
coronavirus began to spread in wider swaths of the country.

While many players opposed the quarantine idea, some may now question
the wisdom of the path the sides chose.

``You just see comments, `Oh, this was expected,''' Yankees pitcher Adam
Ottavino said in an interview Monday. ``To me, OK, so, well, if it was
expected, it's just so reckless in my opinion. But a lot of guys didn't
want to do the bubble.

``I would've been willing to do the bubble. I thought, personally, that
was a no-brainer. But I don't speak for everybody,'' he said.

In an interview with MLB Network Monday evening, Manfred said, ``We knew
that we were going to have positives at some point in time. I remain
optimistic that the protocols are strong enough that it will allow us to
continue to play, even through an outbreak like this, and complete our
season.''

``I don't put this in the nightmare category,'' he added.

Baseball adjusted its schedule so that teams would play only within
their geographic divisions this season, yet reduced travel is still
travel, with all it entails --- flights, bus rides, checking in and out
of hotels, meals, hauling equipment from clubhouse to clubhouse, and so
on. Some of the official safety rules
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/17/sports/baseball/baseball-mlb-coronavirus-spitting.html}{seemed
unrealistic and have been routinely broken}, such as the ban on
high-fiving and spitting, strict social distancing in the dugout and
replacing any balls touched by multiple players.

Scott Servais, the manager of the Seattle Mariners, said Monday that
players and staff must be more vigilant. At big moments in games, he
said, safety protocols have been ignored.

``I think we're saying all the right stuff, but then you watch the
games,'' he said. ``We have to do the right thing. And sometimes you let
your emotions get in the way, you just react, and we weren't clearly
thinking and slowing it down enough in those spots.''

David Price, a veteran pitcher for the Los Angeles Dodgers who opted out
of playing this season, citing his family's health, questioned the
sincerity of baseball's commitment to players' well-being.

``Now we REALLY get to see if MLB is going to put players health
first,''
\href{https://twitter.com/DAVIDprice24/status/1287793458602635265}{Price
wrote on Twitter} on Monday. ``Remember when Manfred said players health
was PARAMOUNT?! Part of the reason I'm at home right now is because
players health wasn't being put first. I can see that hasn't changed.''

With player availability expected to be in flux because of the virus,
teams are carrying 30 active players (instead of the usual 26), with a
pool of 30 additional players available at an alternate training site
near home ballparks.

But the idea was to provide coverage for a few absences, not an outbreak
like the one the Marlins are experiencing. The league has known all
along that such an outcome could be devastating.

``If we have a team or two that's really decimated with a number of
people who had the virus and can't play for any significant period of
time, it could have a real impact on the competition,'' Manfred said in
an interview on ``The Dan Patrick Show'' on July 2. ``And we'd have to
think very, very hard about what we're doing.''

That day has arrived quickly.

James Wagner contributed reporting.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
