 **NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please
upgrade your browser.
\href{http://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/content/help/site/ie9-support.html}{LEARN
MORE Â»}

**Sections

**Home

**Search

\hypertarget{the-new-york-times}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\href{http://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/}{The
New York Times}}{The New York Times}}\label{the-new-york-times}}

 \href{/section/politics}{Politics} \textbar{}Read the Text Messages
Between U.S. and Ukrainian Officials

**Close search

\hypertarget{site-search-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Search Navigation}\label{site-search-navigation}}

Search NYTimes.com

**Clear this text input

Go

\url{https://nyti.ms/31N55Az}

\hypertarget{site-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Navigation}\label{site-navigation}}

\hypertarget{site-mobile-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Mobile Navigation}\label{site-mobile-navigation}}

\hypertarget{read-the-text-messages-between-us-and-ukrainian-officials}{%
\section{Read the Text Messages Between U.S. and Ukrainian
Officials}\label{read-the-text-messages-between-us-and-ukrainian-officials}}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/10/03/us/politics/kurt-volker-impeachment.html}{A
newly released set of text exchanges} revealed details about President
Trump's efforts to use American foreign policy to benefit himself.

The exchanges were released with a letter by the Democrats leading the
impeachment inquiry, shown at bottom.

The Text Exchanges

\begin{itemize}
\item
  The exchanges show how President Trump pressured Ukraine by tying two
  things that its president wanted --- a meeting with Mr. Trump and the
  release of military aid that the Trump administration was delaying ---
  to Mr. Trump's push for investigations that could benefit his 2020
  campaign.

  The messages involve: Kurt D. Volker, who resigned last month as the
  State Department's special envoy for Ukraine; William B. Taylor Jr.,
  the top American diplomat in Ukraine; and Gordon D. Sondland, a major
  Republican fundraiser whom Mr. Trump appointed as the ambassador to
  the European Union.
\end{itemize}

+ Show more

ATTACHMENT

Connecting Rudy Giuliani with Ukraine President Zelensky's Advisor: On
July 19, Ambassador Volker texted President Trump's agent, Rudy
Giuliani, to thank him for breakfast and to introduce him to Andrey
Yermak, a top advisor to President Zelensky:

{[}7/19/19, 4:48 PM{]} Kurt Volker: Mr Mayor -- really enjoyed breakfast
this morning. As discussed, connecting you here with Andrey Yermak, who
is very close to President Zelensky. I suggest we schedule a call
together on Monday - maybe 10am or 11am Washington time? Kurt

\textbf{Sondland Briefs Zelensky Ahead of Call with President Trump:}1
On July 19, 2019, Ambassador Volker, Ambassador Sondland, and Mr. Taylor
had the following exchange about the specific goal for the upcoming
telephone call between President Trump and the Ukrainian President:

{[}7/19/19, 4:49:42 PM{]} Kurt Volker: Can we three do a call
tomorrow---say noon WASHINGTON?

{[}7/19/19, 6:50:29 PM{]} Gordon Sondland: Looks like Potus call
tomorrow. I spike {[}sic{]} directly to Zelensky and gave him a full
briefing. He's got it.

{[}7/19/19, 6:52:57 PM{]} Gordon Sondland: Sure!

{[}7/19/19, 7:01:22 PM{]} Kurt Volker: Good. Had breakfast with Rudy
this morning-teeing up call w Yermak Monday. Must have helped. Most impt
is for Zelensky to say that he will help investigation---and address any
specific personnel issues---if there are any

\textbf{Concerns about Ukraine Becoming an ``Instrument'' in U.S.
Politics:}2 On July 21, 2019, Ambassador Taylor flagged President
Zelensky's desire for Ukraine not to be used by the Trump Administration
for its own domestic political purposes:

{[}7/21/19, 1:45:54 AM{]} Bill Taylor: Gordon, one thing Kurt and I
talked about yesterday was Sasha Danyliuk's point that President
Zelenskyy is sensitive about Ukraine being taken seriously, not merely
as an instrument in Washington domestic, reelection politics.

{[}7/21/19, 4:45:44 AM{]} Gordon Sondland: Absolutely, but we need to
get the conversation started and the relationship built, irrespective of
the pretext. I am worried about the alternative.

Giuliani Advocates for Trump-Zelensky Call: Mr. Yermak and Mr. Giuliani
agreed to speak on the morning of July 22. Later that evening,
Ambassador Volker informed Ambassadors Sondland and Taylor that Giuliani
was now "advocating" for a phone call between President Trump and
President Zelensky:

The Text Exchanges

\begin{itemize}
\item
  The exchanges show how President Trump pressured Ukraine by tying two
  things that its president wanted --- a meeting with Mr. Trump and the
  release of military aid that the Trump administration was delaying ---
  to Mr. Trump's push for investigations that could benefit his 2020
  campaign.

  The messages involve: Kurt D. Volker, who resigned last month as the
  State Department's special envoy for Ukraine; William B. Taylor Jr.,
  the top American diplomat in Ukraine; and Gordon D. Sondland, a major
  Republican fundraiser whom Mr. Trump appointed as the ambassador to
  the European Union.
\end{itemize}

New York Times Analysis:

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  1 \textbf{Before the call with Mr. Trump at the center of the scandal,
  American diplomats pressured President Volodymyr Zelensky of
  Ukraine.}\\
  Along with the president's personal lawyer, the officials pushed Mr.
  Zelensky to agree to open investigations potentially beneficial to Mr.
  Trump as Mr. Zelensky tried to secure a meeting with him.
\item
  2 \textbf{Ukrainian leaders disliked being used for domestic American
  campaign politics.}\\
  Days before the call, Mr. Taylor cited a top Ukrainian politician as
  suggesting that the United States was disrespecting Ukraine.
\end{itemize}

\protect\hyperlink{}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}

See Original Document

+ Show more

{[}7/22/19, 4:27:55 PM{]} Kurt Volker: Orchestrated a great phone call w
Rudy and Yermak. They are going to get together when Rudy goes to Madrid
in a couple of weeks.

{[}7/22/19, 4:28:08 PM{]} Kurt Volker: In the meantime Rudy is now
advocating for phone call.

{[}7/22/19, 4:28:26 PM{]} Kurt Volker: I have call into Fiona's
replacement and will call Bolton if needed.

{[}7/22/19, 4:28:48 PM Kurt Volker: But I can tell Bolton and you can
tell Mick that Rudy agrees on a call if that helps.

{[}7/22/19, 4:30:10 PM{]} Gordon Sondland: I talked to Tim Morrison
Fiona's replacement. He is pushing but feel free as well.

\textbf{Volker Advises Yermak Ahead of Trump-Zelensky Call}3: On the
morning of July 25, 2019---ahead of the planned call between President
Trump and President Zelensky- Ambassador Volker advised Andrey Yermak:

{[}7/25/19, 8:36:45 AM{]} Kurt Volker: Good lunch - thanks. Heard from
White House---assuming President Z convinces trump he will investigate /
``get to the bottom of what happened'' in 2016, we will nail down date
for visit to Washington. Good luck! See you tomorrow- kurt

Yermak's Informal Readout of the Trump-Zelensky Call: Following
President Trump's July 25 call, Ambassador Volker received the following
readout from Ukrainian Presidential Advisor Yermak and confirmed his
intent to meet Giuliani in Madrid:

{[}7/25/19, 10:15:06 AM{]} Andrey Yermak: Phone call went well.
President Trump proposed to choose any convenient dates. President
Zelenskiy chose 20,21,22 September for the White House Visit. Thank you
again for your help! Please remind Mr. Mayor to share the Madrid's dates

{[}7/25/19, 10:16:42 AM{]} Kurt Volker: Great ---thanks and will do!

\textbf{State Department Officials Discuss a White House Visit and
Ukraine Statement}4: On August 9, 2019, Ambassador Volker had the
following exchange with Ambassador Sondland about arranging a White
House meeting after the Ukrainian President makes a public statement:

{[}8/9/19, 5:35:53 PM{]} Gordon Sondland: Morrison ready to get dates as
soon as Yermak confirms.

{[}8/9/19, 5:46:21 PM{]} Kurt Volker: Excellent!! How did you sway him?
:)

New York Times Analysis:

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  3 \textbf{Before the call, the American officials made clear that Mr.
  Zelensky had to convince Mr. Trump that Ukraine would open an
  investigation in order to get a meeting with him.}\\
  Mr. Zelensky urgently sought a meeting to show that the United States
  has good relations with Ukraine, which is facing ongoing Russian
  aggression.
\item
  4 \textbf{Mr. Trump was intent on a "deliverable" --- an announcement
  of an investigation.}\\
  The Trump administration would not set a date for a meeting between
  the two presidents unless and until Mr. Zelensky publicly announced
  the investigation Mr. Trump sought.
\end{itemize}

\protect\hyperlink{}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}

See Original Document

+ Show more

{[}8/9/19, 5:47:34 PM{]} Gordon Sondland: Not sure i did. I think potus
really wants the deliverable

{[}8/9/19, 5:48:00 PM{]} Kurt Volker: But does he know that?

{[}8/9/19, 5:48:09 PM{]} Gordon Sondland: Yep

{[}8/9/19, 5:48:37 PM{]} Gordon Sondland: Clearly lots of convos going
on

{[}8/9/19, 5:48:38 PM{]} Kurt Volker: Ok---then that's good it's coming
from two separate sources

{[}8/9/19, 5:51:18 PM{]} Gordon Sondland: To avoid misundestandings,
might be helpful to ask Andrey for a draft statememt (embargoed) so that
we can see exactly what they propose to cover. Even though Ze does a
live presser they can still summarize in a brief statement. Thoughts?

{[}8/9/19, 5:51:42 PM{]} Kurt Volker: Agree!

State Department Officials Seek Giuliani's Guidance on Ukraine
Statement: On August 9, 2019, after Mr. Giuliani met with President
Zelensky's aide Andrey Yermak, Ambassador Volker asked to speak with Mr.
Giuliani about the Ukranian statement:

{[}8/9/19, 11:27 AM{]} Kurt Volker: Hi Mr Mayor! Had a good chat with
Yermak last night. He was pleased with your phone call. Mentioned Z
making a statement. Can we all get on the phone to make sure I advise Z
correctly as to what he should be saying? Want to make sure we get this
done right. Thanks!

Gordon Sondland: Good idea Kurt. I am on Pacific time.

Rudy Giuliani: Yes can you call now going to Fundraiser at 12:30

\textbf{Ukrainian Aide Seeks White House Date First}5: On August 10,
2019, President Zelensky's aide, Andrey Yermak, pressed Ambassador
Volker for a date for the White House visit before committing to a
statement announcing an investigation explicitly referencing the 2016
election and Burisma:

{[}8/10/19, 4:56:15 PM{]} Andrey Yermak: Hi Kurt. Please let me know
when you can talk. I think it's possible to make this declaration and
mention all these things. Which we discussed yesterday. But it will be
logic to do after we receive a confirmation of date. We inform about
date of visit and about our expectations and our guarantees for future
visit. Let discuss it

{[}8/10/19, 5:01:32 PM{]} Kurt Volker: Ok! It's late for you---why don't
we talk in my morning, your afternoon tomorrow? Say 10am/5pm?

New York Times Analysis:

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  5 \textbf{An aide to Mr. Zelensky suggested simultaneously announcing
  plans for a visit and for the investigations Mr. Trump wanted.}\\
  Mr. Yermak, the aide, made clear that he understood the Americans'
  message that a meeting between the presidents was contingent on the
  investigations --- including one into Burisma, the company whose board
  Mr. Biden's son Hunter sat on. But Mr. Zelensky ultimately made no
  public commitment to the inquiries
\end{itemize}

\protect\hyperlink{}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}

See Original Document

+ Show more

\protect\hyperlink{}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}

See Original Document

+ Show more

New York Times Analysis:

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  6 \textbf{Ukraine then became aware that military aid from the United
  States was delayed.}\\
  It came to light in late August that the Trump administration froze
  military assistance to help Ukraine defend itself from Russia. Though
  the White House decided before the July call to delay the aid, the
  texts suggest that Ukraine found out from later news reports. The next
  day, the White House canceled Mr. Trump's trip to Poland where he and
  Mr. Zelensky were to meet.
\item
  7 \textbf{Mr. Taylor made the subtext explicit, asking if the other
  Americans were to tell the Ukrainians that the release of the aid and
  any presidential meeting were conditioned on opening
  investigations.}\\
  This is one of several texts where Mr. Taylor appeared to be seeking
  to create a candid written record of what he thought was going on, and
  Mr. Sondland resisted.
\end{itemize}

\protect\hyperlink{}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}

See Original Document

+ Show more

New York Times Analysis:

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  8 \textbf{Mr. Taylor raised the prospect of Russian delight in the
  spectacle.}\\
  Mr. Taylor appeared to worry that even if the Ukrainians publicly said
  they were carrying out the investigations that Mr. Trump sought, he
  still might not release the aid --- delighting Moscow. Mr. Taylor said
  he would resign if that happened.
\item
  9 \textbf{Mr. Taylor memorialized a phone conversation in which he
  portrayed the United States as withholding military aid ``for help
  with a political campaign,'' prompting Mr. Sondland to write a stilted
  denial and to request that they stop texting about it.}\\
  Mr. Taylor reveals a phone discussion that explicitly tied the
  security assistance to Ukraine with its willingness to help Mr.
  Trump's campaign. Hours later, Mr. Sondland typed back a
  formal-sounding denial --- and asked Mr. Taylor to stop discussing the
  issue in writing.
\end{itemize}

\protect\hyperlink{}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}

See Original Document

Appendix

+ Show more

Appendix

\protect\hyperlink{}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}

See Original Document

Appendix

+ Show more

Appendix

\protect\hyperlink{}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}

See Original Document

Appendix

+ Show more

Appendix

\protect\hyperlink{}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}

See Original Document

Appendix

+ Show more

Appendix

\protect\hyperlink{}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}

See Original Document

Appendix

+ Show more

Appendix

\protect\hyperlink{}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}

See Original Document

Appendix

+ Show more

Appendix

\protect\hyperlink{}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}

See Original Document

Appendix

+ Show more

Appendix

\protect\hyperlink{}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}

See Original Document

Appendix

+ Show more

Appendix

\protect\hyperlink{}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}

See Original Document

Appendix

+ Show more

Appendix

\protect\hyperlink{}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}

See Original Document

Appendix

+ Show more

Appendix

\protect\hyperlink{}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}

See Original Document

Appendix

+ Show more

Appendix

\protect\hyperlink{}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}

See Original Document

Appendix

+ Show more

Appendix

\protect\hyperlink{}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}

See Original Document

Appendix

+ Show more

Appendix

\protect\hyperlink{}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}

See Original Document

Appendix

+ Show more

Appendix

\protect\hyperlink{}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}

See Original Document

Appendix

+ Show more

Appendix

\protect\hyperlink{}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}

See Original Document

Appendix

+ Show more

Appendix

\protect\hyperlink{}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}

See Original Document

Letter from House Committee Chairmen

+ Show more

Letter from House Committee Chairmen

\protect\hyperlink{}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}

See Original Document

+ Show more

\protect\hyperlink{}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}

See Original Document

+ Show more

\protect\hyperlink{}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}

See Original Document

\hypertarget{tk-explore-the-call-log}{%
\subparagraph{tk Explore the call log}\label{tk-explore-the-call-log}}

tk index summary

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}

Close

Additional production by Tiff Fehr and K.K. Rebecca Lai

\hypertarget{more-on-nytimescom}{%
\subsection{More on NYTimes.com}\label{more-on-nytimescom}}

Advertisement

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{Â©
  2020 The New York Times Company}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Home}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/search/}{Search}
\item
  Accessibility concerns? Email us at
  \href{mailto:accessibility@NYTimes.com}{\nolinkurl{accessibility@NYTimes.com}}.
  We would love to hear from you.
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014892108-Privacy-policy\#pp}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014892108-Privacy-policy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation-1}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation-1}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us?redir=myacc}{Site
  Feedback}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
