Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2018/briefing/global-morning-briefing-newsletter-signup.html}{Briefing}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/interactive/2018/briefing/global-morning-briefing-newsletter-signup.html}{Briefing}\textbar{}TikTok,
Spain's Monarchy, Turkey: Your Tuesday Briefing

\url{https://nyti.ms/2EHetyQ}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{tiktok-spains-monarchy-turkey-your-tuesday-briefing}{%
\section{TikTok, Spain's Monarchy, Turkey: Your Tuesday
Briefing}\label{tiktok-spains-monarchy-turkey-your-tuesday-briefing}}

Here's what you need to know.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/isabella-kwai}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2019/09/17/reader-center/author-isabella-kwai/author-isabella-kwai-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/isabella-kwai}{Isabella
Kwai}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Published Aug. 3, 2020Updated Aug. 4, 2020, 1:52 a.m. ET
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

(Want to get this briefing by email? Here's the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/morning-briefing}{sign-up}.)

\begin{quote}
Good morning.

We're covering Microsoft's potential purchase of part of
\textbf{TikTok,} worries in \textbf{NATO} over Turkey's aggression, and
the decision by \textbf{Spain's former king} to quit the country.
\end{quote}

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/03/business/03DC-TikTok-01-copy/03DC-Trump-CEO-01-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\hypertarget{microsoft-gets-green-light-to-buy-part-of-tiktok}{%
\subsection{Microsoft gets green light to buy part of
TikTok}\label{microsoft-gets-green-light-to-buy-part-of-tiktok}}

President
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/03/technology/trump-tiktok-microsoft.html?action=click\&module=Top\%20Stories\&pgtype=Homepage}{Trump
gave the go-ahead on Monday for Microsoft} to pursue a potential
acquisition of the Chinese-owned video app's operations in the U.S.
TikTok will shut down on Sept. 15 unless Microsoft or another company
buys it, he said on Monday.

It was a retreat from the president's earlier threats to ban TikTok, an
app that has come under scrutiny after lawmakers argued it could pose a
national security threat.

\textbf{What's next:} In a blog post on Sunday, Microsoft said it would
finish discussions with TikTok's parent company, the Chinese social
media giant ByteDance, by Sept. 15. The talks could result in the
purchase of the service in the U.S., Canada, Australia and New Zealand,
though discussions were still ``preliminary.''

\textbf{Tech on notice:} Executives at TikTok have insisted that it does
not take direction from ByteDance. From the start, TikTok was made
unavailable in China so that users wouldn't be subject to the Communist
Party's censorship requirements, and their data was stored in Virginia
and Singapore.

But suspicion never dissipated that TikTok might give into pressure from
Beijing. TikTok's sudden change of fortunes
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/03/technology/tiktok-bytedance-us-china.html}{might
cause other Chinese tech companies to re-evaluate their own
international ambitions.}

\textbf{Related:} A tide of
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/02/world/asia/china-hong-kong-national-security-law.html}{Chinese
scholars have turned against Western-inspired ideas} that once flowed in
China's universities, instead promoting the proudly authoritarian
worldview ascendant under Xi Jinping, the Communist Party leader.

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

Image

President Recep Tayyip~Erdogan and members of the Turkish military
council last month.Credit...Adem Altan/Agence France-Presse --- Getty
Images

\hypertarget{turkeys-aggression-worries-some-in-nato}{%
\subsection{Turkey's aggression worries some in
NATO}\label{turkeys-aggression-worries-some-in-nato}}

Turkey --- increasingly assertive, ambitious and authoritarian --- has
become
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/03/world/europe/turkey-nato.html}{``the
elephant in the room'' for NATO}, European diplomats say.

Despite being a NATO member, the country has bought a Russian air
defense system, and its energy ambitions and a recent push into Libya
nearly led to armed conflicts with France and Greece.

But alliance officials suggest it could be too big, powerful and
strategically important to allow an open confrontation, our diplomatic
correspondent writes.

Turkey has dismissed criticism of its behavior as unjustified. But some
NATO ambassadors believe the country is challenging the organization's
democratic values and its collective defense.

\textbf{Details:} Turkey is at odds with its Western allies over Libya,
Syria, Iraq and Russia, as well as the energy resources of the eastern
Mediterranean. The strongman rule of Turkey's president, Recep Tayyip
Erdogan, has also unsettled other NATO members. Without consistent U.S.
leadership, analysts say that Turkey is getting a kind of free pass.

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

Image

Credit...Rodrigo Jimenez/EPA, via Shutterstock

\hypertarget{spains-former-king-quits-the-country}{%
\subsection{Spain's former king quits the
country}\label{spains-former-king-quits-the-country}}

The former king of Spain, Juan Carlos, said on Monday that
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/03/world/europe/juan-carlos-leaves-spain.html}{he
was abandoning his country amid multiple financial inquiries}, including
a money laundering and tax evasion investigation.

In a letter addressed to King Felipe VI, his son and Spain's current
monarch, Juan Carlos said his decision to leave was taken ``with the
same eagerness to serve Spain that inspired my reign.''

Juan Carlos abdicated in 2014 amid health problems and scandals that
were undermining the reputation of Spain's monarchy. His legal problems
have continued, and his departure may fuel Spain's political and social
debate over the monarchy's future.

\textbf{Response:} Spain's left-wing deputy prime minister, Pablo
Iglesias, said Juan Carlos's decision to leave was a ``flight abroad,''
which he called ``unworthy of a former head of state.'' The government
said on Monday that it respected his decision. But the monarchy is a
point of divergence between the two parties that formed Spain's first
coalition government in January.

\textbf{In other news:}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  As the world races to find a vaccine, the head of the World Health
  Organization warned that a breakthrough was not yet within sight and
  that
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/03/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&module=styln-coronavirus\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{there
  might never be a simple solution to defeat the coronavirus.}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Prostitution is not illegal in Italy, nor is it regulated as an
  official occupation. But the coronavirus has led many sex workers to
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/03/world/europe/italy-coronavirus-prostitution-sex-work.html}{accept
  the risks of contracting the illness} in order to avoid poverty.

  Here are the
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/03/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&module=styln-coronavirus\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{latest
  updates} and
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/world/coronavirus-maps.html}{maps}
  of the pandemic.
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{if-you-have-7-minutes-this-is-worth-it}{%
\subsubsection{If you have 7 minutes, this is worth
it}\label{if-you-have-7-minutes-this-is-worth-it}}

\hypertarget{spearfishing-washes-pandemic-anxiety-away}{%
\subsection{Spearfishing washes pandemic anxiety
away}\label{spearfishing-washes-pandemic-anxiety-away}}

Image

Credit...Michaela Skovranova for The New York Times

Spear gear has been selling out at dive shops up and down the east coast
of Australia since March, when the country began locking down because of
the coronavirus outbreak.

To understand why, our Sydney bureau chief slipped on some fins and took
to the water. He found that ``spearfishing has become an increasingly
popular escape for people seeking calm, control and sustenance far from
the anxieties of land.'' The ``spearos,'' as they are called, ``all
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/03/world/australia/spearfishing-sydney-coronavirus.html}{find
something for their stomachs and souls} in an act that is ancient and
elemental.''

\hypertarget{heres-what-else-is-happening}{%
\subsubsection{Here's what else is
happening}\label{heres-what-else-is-happening}}

\textbf{Poland:} The Supreme Court on Monday upheld the results of
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/03/world/europe/poland-court-presidential-election.html}{President
Andrzej Duda's narrow victory} in elections last month, clearing the
path for the country's conservative Law and Justice party to continue in
power.

\textbf{Pakistan media:} The recent abduction of a prominent journalist,
Matiullah Jan, by state security officers has
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/03/world/asia/pakistan-media-abductions.html}{renewed
concerns about press freedom}. Two years into Prime Minister Imran
Khan's term, journalists and activists say censorship is on the rise.

\textbf{In memoriam:}
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/03/obituaries/john-hume-dies.html}{John
Hume}, a moderate Roman Catholic politician who was awarded the Nobel
Peace Prize for his dogged and ultimately successful campaign to end
decades of bloodshed in his native Northern Ireland, died on Monday. He
was 83.

Image

Credit...Saul Martinez for The New York Times

\textbf{Snapshot:} Above,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/03/us/isaias-storm-updates.html\#link-17297d4d}{Tropical
Storm Isaias} churning off the Florida coast. Forecasters said the
storm, which hit hurricane strength on Monday, would make landfall near
the Carolinas. Flash floods, storm surges and even tornadoes are
possible.

\textbf{What we're reading:} This
\href{https://www.gq.com/story/americas-best-wedding-band-the-sultans}{article
in GQ} on the power of the Sultans. ``This story about the country's
best wedding band is what we need right now,'' writes Matt Apuzzo, our
reporter based in Brussels.

\hypertarget{now-a-break-from-the-news}{%
\subsubsection{Now, a break from the
news}\label{now-a-break-from-the-news}}

Image

Credit...Craig Lee for The New York Times

\textbf{Cook:} This
\href{https://cooking.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/recipes/12194-field-day-poundcake}{poundcake}
is nothing fancy, but the result is equally befitting a school bake sale
or a fancy dinner party.

\textbf{Read:} Stephenie Meyer's retelling of ``Twilight,'' Isabel
Wilkerson's examination of American racism, a biography of the drug
kingpin El Chapo --- here are
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/30/books/new-august-books.html?action=click\&module=RelatedLinks\&pgtype=collection}{13
books to watch for in August}.

\textbf{Do:} For many of us, 2020 will not be known for road trips,
amusement parks or lakeside retreats. But families are finding small yet
meaningful ways to escape,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/24/parenting/summer-staycation-coronavirus.html?action=click\&module=RelatedLinks\&pgtype=collection}{have
fun during staycations and experience something new}.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/spotlight/at-home}{\emph{At
Home has our full collection of ideas}} \emph{on what to read, cook,
watch and do.}

\hypertarget{and-now-for-the-back-story-on-}{%
\subsubsection{And now for the Back Story on
\ldots{}}\label{and-now-for-the-back-story-on-}}

\hypertarget{the-next-best-thing-to-traveling}{%
\subsection{The next best thing to
traveling}\label{the-next-best-thing-to-traveling}}

\emph{When travel restrictions began to lock people in place all around
the world, our editors on the Travel desk began a new visual series
called}
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/column/the-world-through-a-lens}{\emph{The
World Through a Lens}}\emph{. The idea was to showcase beautiful and
intriguing places, and to introduce readers to aspects of global
culture. Here's an excerpt from}
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/03/insider/letting-their-cameras-transport-you.html}{\emph{what
the editors told Times Insider about the project}}\emph{.}

Our goal with this series is slightly different from that of our typical
Travel fare. Instead of inspiring travel among our readers or describing
the travels of our contributors, we're aiming to \emph{approximate}
elements of travel itself --- to provide a kind of virtual travel
substitute that soothes, transports and distracts.

Image

An aerial image taken in Vermont, at Sugar Hill Reservoir.Credit...Caleb
Kenna

But escapism isn't the only objective. At its best, travel can transform
us: It can awaken us to the restorative power of nature; it can broaden
our ability to understand and appreciate dissimilar cultures; it can
help us become more empathetic to people whose lives fall outside the
scope of our day-to-day routines. These, too, are things we hope the
series can provide, especially at a time when such transformations
aren't available to many of us via direct experience.

To achieve all of that, we've tried to create immersive visual
experiences; every story in the series is driven by images. (Instead of
assigning photographers to shoot new work, we are relying on
photojournalists with previously shot, and unpublished, portfolios.)

We've also tried to create a more intuitive and symbiotic relationship
between images and text. (In most cases, the journalist who took the
pictures is also the one who wrote the copy.) And as a general rule,
we've avoided ``service'' information: no hotel plugs or restaurant
reviews, no recommended itineraries. The focus is on the people and the
places themselves, as seen and captured by some of the best
photojournalists in the world.

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

\begin{quote}
That's it for this briefing. See you next time.

--- Isabella
\end{quote}

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

\textbf{Thank you}\\
To Theodore Kim and Jahaan Singh for the break from the news. You can
reach the team at
\href{mailto:briefing+midnight@NYTimes.com?subject=Briefing\%20Feedback}{briefing@NYTimes.com}.

\textbf{P.S.}\\
• We're listening to
``\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/thedaily}{The Daily}.'' Our
latest episode is about inequalities in the use of facial-recognition
technology as a crime-solving tool.\\
• Here's today's
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/crosswords/game/mini}{Mini
Crossword puzzle}, and a clue: Style of sweater (five letters).
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/crosswords}{You can find all
our puzzles here}.\\
• The Times
\href{https://www.nytco.com/press/introducing-the-opinion-audio-team/}{Opinion
audio team is expanding} with colleagues from a vast range of
experiences, to produce high-impact audio journalism.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
