Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}Former Postal Governor Tells
Congress Mnuchin Politicized Postal Service

\url{https://nyti.ms/2QbKZM6}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{the-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=e0ac8a30-f279-11ea-afab-150d323ee948\&variant=undefined}{The
Coronavirus
Outbreak}}{The Coronavirus Outbreak}}\label{the-coronavirus-outbreak}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  live\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/08/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=e0acb140-f279-11ea-afab-150d323ee948\&variant=undefined}{Latest
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=e0acb141-f279-11ea-afab-150d323ee948\&variant=undefined}{Maps
  and Cases}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=e0acb142-f279-11ea-afab-150d323ee948\&variant=undefined}{Vaccine
  Tracker}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/02/your-money/eviction-moratorium-covid.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=e0acb143-f279-11ea-afab-150d323ee948\&variant=undefined}{Eviction
  Moratorium}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/09/02/magazine/food-insecurity-hunger-us.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=e0acb144-f279-11ea-afab-150d323ee948\&variant=undefined}{American
  Hunger}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{former-postal-governor-tells-congress-mnuchin-politicized-postal-service}{%
\section{Former Postal Governor Tells Congress Mnuchin Politicized
Postal
Service}\label{former-postal-governor-tells-congress-mnuchin-politicized-postal-service}}

David C. Williams also said he raised concerns about Louis DeJoy, the
embattled postmaster general, before he was hired.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/20/us/politics/20dc-postal/20dc-postal-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/nicholas-fandos}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/11/06/multimedia/author-nicholas-fandos/author-nicholas-fandos-thumbLarge-v2.png}}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/alan-rappeport}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/06/12/multimedia/author-alan-rappeport/author-alan-rappeport-thumbLarge-v2.png}}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/kenneth-p-vogel}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/02/20/multimedia/author-kenneth-p-vogel/author-kenneth-p-vogel-thumbLarge-v3.png}}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/catie-edmondson}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2019/11/20/us/politics/catie-edmonson-twitter-chatblog/catie-edmonson-twitter-chatblog-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/nicholas-fandos}{Nicholas
Fandos},
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/alan-rappeport}{Alan
Rappeport},
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/kenneth-p-vogel}{Kenneth P.
Vogel} and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/catie-edmondson}{Catie
Edmondson}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Aug. 20, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

WASHINGTON --- The former vice chairman of the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/24/us/politics/postal-service-dejoy-testimony.html}{U.S.
Postal Service}'s board of governors accused Treasury Secretary Steven
Mnuchin on Thursday of trying to engineer a hostile takeover of the
service, telling lawmakers that Mr. Mnuchin required members of the
independent board to ``kiss the ring'' before they were confirmed and
issued demands that agency officials believed were ``illegal.''

In scathing testimony delivered before lawmakers in the Congressional
Progressive Caucus,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/20/us/politics/david-williams-postal-service.html?smid=tw-share}{David
C. Williams}, a former Postal Service inspector general who resigned as
vice chairman in protest in April, said the Trump administration
appeared to want to turn the agency into a ``political tool.'' The
Treasury Department, he said, was maneuvering to use its lending
authority to strong-arm the agency to adopt policies that would be
``ruinous,'' like raising prices and cutting back crucial services.

``If this is the beginning of what the president promised, it's the end
of the Postal Service,'' Mr. Williams said in his first public comments
since his resignation.

Mr. Williams, whose testimony came before a Senate hearing on Friday
with the embattled postmaster general, Louis DeJoy, issued a blistering
assessment of the new Postal Service leader. Mr. Williams, a Democrat
appointed to the bipartisan board by President Trump, told lawmakers
that Mr. DeJoy, a major donor to Mr. Trump and other Republicans,
``didn't strike me as a serious candidate'' during interviews with him
and other governors.

When he departed the board, on the eve of Mr. DeJoy's selection, Mr.
Williams said that no serious background investigation had been
conducted --- despite his request for one --- and that a brief review by
the agency's inspector general had surfaced potential concerns about
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/17/us/politics/dejoy-postal-service-mail-in-voting.html}{contract
work Mr. DeJoy's logistics firm} had done for the Postal Service.

John M. Barger, the Republican board member who led the search process
and whom Mr. Williams identified as having worked to advance Mr. DeJoy's
candidacy, disputed many of Mr. Williams's claims in an interview. He
asserted that Mr. Williams did not object to Mr. DeJoy's hiring during
the selection process. And he said Mr. DeJoy's finances and corporate
connections were subject to ``extensive'' review by the Postal Service's
general counsel, the Office of Government Ethics and a private security
firm. ``Everything checked out,'' he said.

The accusations come as the Postal Service is embroiled in a political
firestorm, with cost-cutting and other operational changes --- such as
reduced overtime for mail carriers --- causing widespread delays in the
mail system and raising concerns about the ability of voters to use
mail-in ballots during the coronavirus pandemic.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-the-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/08/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: The Coronavirus
Outbreak}}{Latest Updates: The Coronavirus Outbreak}}\label{latest-updates-the-coronavirus-outbreak}}

Updated 2020-09-09T08:22:37.235Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/08/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-313b443d}{AstraZeneca
  halts a vaccine trial to investigate a participant's illness.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/08/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-4438dd7}{Facing
  a surge in cases, Britain plans to limit most gatherings to six
  people.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/08/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-679303d7}{Nine
  drugmakers pledge to thoroughly vet any coronavirus vaccine.}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/08/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

More live coverage:
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/08/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Markets}

Those worries have been fueled by Mr. Trump, who has derided the Postal
Service as a ``joke'' and repeatedly raised questions about the
legitimacy of mail-in voting.

``The honorable thing to do is drop the Mail-In Scam before it is too
late!'' Mr. Trump
\href{https://twitter.com/realdonaldtrump/status/1294731591030378497}{said
on Twitter last week}.

Lawmakers, concerned about potential politicization of the Postal
Service, have summoned Mr. DeJoy to testify in hearings before the
Senate on Friday and the House on Monday.

Mr. DeJoy plans to offer a detailed defense of his rocky tenure,
justifying disruptive operational changes as long-planned and
well-considered attempts to balance the postal budget and assuring
lawmakers that the agency is fully prepared to handle November's
election.

According to prepared remarks submitted before Friday's hearing and
obtained by The New York Times, he planned to say that those actions
meant to improve efficiency were unfairly twisted for political ends to
suggest, incorrectly, that Republicans wanted to use the mail to help
erode confidence in the election.

``I recognize that it has become impossible to separate the necessary
long-term reform efforts we will need to undertake from the broader
political environment surrounding the election,'' Mr. DeJoy plans to
tell senators. ``And I do not want to pursue any immediate efforts that
might be utilized to tarnish the Postal Service brand, particularly as
it relates to our role in the democratic process.''

Thursday's hearing centered in part on the role played by Mr. Mnuchin,
one of Mr. Trump's longest-serving cabinet members, who has been focused
on overhauling the Postal Service. Mr. Trump assigned the Treasury
secretary in 2018 to lead a task force to study ways to reform the
Postal Service, which the president has accused of essentially
subsidizing e-commerce companies such as Amazon by charging too little.
He has demanded higher shipping prices.

Mr. Mnuchin on Thursday rebutted suggestions that he had done anything
but play a proper role as the federal government's lender to the Postal
Service and in fulfilling his duty to try to help fix its financial
woes. In a letter to Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, the Democratic
leader, Mr. Mnuchin explained his role as the chairman of the Federal
Financing Bank, the Postal Service's sole lender, and said he did not
intervene to pave the way for Mr. DeJoy to be the postmaster general.

``Neither I nor any other Treasury official played any role in
recruiting or suggesting Mr. DeJoy for the position of postmaster
general,'' Mr. Mnuchin wrote, adding that he was surprised to learn
about the selection.

Mr. Williams offered a starkly different picture of Mr. Mnuchin's
actions. He said the secretary sought to use his lending authority to
win guarantees that he could approve postal price changes, labor
agreements and service agreements negotiated with some of the agency's
largest customers like Amazon, UPS and FedEx.

He said the board balked at Mr. Mnuchin's demands, and he argued at the
time that ``a department cannot impose its will on another department.''

``The postal general counsel sent a letter saying that the transfer of
our duties and decision-making authority to him was illegal,'' he told
lawmakers. ``The Treasury went forward notwithstanding that.''

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{}

\hypertarget{the-coronavirus-outbreak-}{%
\subsubsection{The Coronavirus Outbreak
›}\label{the-coronavirus-outbreak-}}

\hypertarget{frequently-asked-questions}{%
\paragraph{Frequently Asked
Questions}\label{frequently-asked-questions}}

Updated September 4, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{what-are-the-symptoms-of-coronavirus}{%
  \paragraph{What are the symptoms of
  coronavirus?}\label{what-are-the-symptoms-of-coronavirus}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    In the beginning, the coronavirus
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/coronavirus-facts-history.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq\#link-6817bab5}{seemed
    like it was primarily a respiratory illness}~--- many patients had
    fever and chills, were weak and tired, and coughed a lot, though
    some people don't show many symptoms at all. Those who seemed
    sickest had pneumonia or acute respiratory distress syndrome and
    received supplemental oxygen. By now, doctors have identified many
    more symptoms and syndromes. In April,
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/27/health/coronavirus-symptoms-cdc.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{the
    C.D.C. added to the list of early signs}~sore throat, fever, chills
    and muscle aches. Gastrointestinal upset, such as diarrhea and
    nausea, has also been observed. Another telltale sign of infection
    may be a sudden, profound diminution of one's
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/22/health/coronavirus-symptoms-smell-taste.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{sense
    of smell and taste.}~Teenagers and young adults in some cases have
    developed painful red and purple lesions on their fingers and toes
    --- nicknamed ``Covid toe'' --- but few other serious symptoms.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{why-is-it-safer-to-spend-time-together-outside}{%
  \paragraph{Why is it safer to spend time together
  outside?}\label{why-is-it-safer-to-spend-time-together-outside}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/15/us/coronavirus-what-to-do-outside.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{Outdoor
    gatherings}~lower risk because wind disperses viral droplets, and
    sunlight can kill some of the virus. Open spaces prevent the virus
    from building up in concentrated amounts and being inhaled, which
    can happen when infected people exhale in a confined space for long
    stretches of time, said Dr. Julian W. Tang, a virologist at the
    University of Leicester.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{why-does-standing-six-feet-away-from-others-help}{%
  \paragraph{Why does standing six feet away from others
  help?}\label{why-does-standing-six-feet-away-from-others-help}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    The coronavirus spreads primarily through droplets from your mouth
    and nose, especially when you cough or sneeze. The C.D.C., one of
    the organizations using that measure,
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/14/health/coronavirus-six-feet.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{bases
    its recommendation of six feet}~on the idea that most large droplets
    that people expel when they cough or sneeze will fall to the ground
    within six feet. But six feet has never been a magic number that
    guarantees complete protection. Sneezes, for instance, can launch
    droplets a lot farther than six feet,
    \href{https://jamanetwork.com/journals/jama/fullarticle/2763852}{according
    to a recent study}. It's a rule of thumb: You should be safest
    standing six feet apart outside, especially when it's windy. But
    keep a mask on at all times, even when you think you're far enough
    apart.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{i-have-antibodies-am-i-now-immune}{%
  \paragraph{I have antibodies. Am I now
  immune?}\label{i-have-antibodies-am-i-now-immune}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    As of right
    now,\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/22/health/covid-antibodies-herd-immunity.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{~that
    seems likely, for at least several months.}~There have been
    frightening accounts of people suffering what seems to be a second
    bout of Covid-19. But experts say these patients may have a
    drawn-out course of infection, with the virus taking a slow toll
    weeks to months after initial exposure.~People infected with the
    coronavirus typically
    \href{https://www.nature.com/articles/s41586-020-2456-9}{produce}~immune
    molecules called antibodies, which are
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/07/health/coronavirus-antibody-prevalence.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{protective
    proteins made in response to an
    infection}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/07/health/coronavirus-antibody-prevalence.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{.
    These antibodies may}~last in the body
    \href{https://www.nature.com/articles/s41591-020-0965-6}{only two to
    three months}, which may seem worrisome, but that's~perfectly normal
    after an acute infection subsides, said Dr. Michael Mina, an
    immunologist at Harvard University. It may be possible to get the
    coronavirus again, but it's highly unlikely that it would be
    possible in a short window of time from initial infection or make
    people sicker the second time.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{what-are-my-rights-if-i-am-worried-about-going-back-to-work}{%
  \paragraph{What are my rights if I am worried about going back to
  work?}\label{what-are-my-rights-if-i-am-worried-about-going-back-to-work}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Employers have to provide
    \href{https://www.osha.gov/SLTC/covid-19/standards.html}{a safe
    workplace}~with policies that protect everyone equally.
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/coronavirus-money-unemployment.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{And
    if one of your co-workers tests positive for the coronavirus, the
    C.D.C.}~has said that
    \href{https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/community/guidance-business-response.html}{employers
    should tell their employees}~-\/- without giving you the sick
    employee's name -\/- that they may have been exposed to the virus.
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Mr. Williams had served for 13 years as the Postal Service's inspector
general before he was tapped as a Democratic appointee to the
Republican-controlled board. A former Army intelligence officer, he had
worked in similar watchdog roles at a handful of other agencies before
that.

Mr. Williams did not directly tie Mr. Mnuchin to the search for a new
postmaster general, but he described a process that left him so uneasy
he felt he had no choice but to quit.

The board of governors retained two outside firms, Chelsea Partners and
Russell Reynolds Associates, to help facilitate the search. But Mr.
Williams said he believed it was Mr. Barger who put Mr. DeJoy's name
into the mix ``late in the process'' and then championed his selection.
He said he did not know how the two men met.

Mr. Barger said Mr. DeJoy's name was included in a database of people
being assessed by Russell Reynolds. But Mr. Barger said Mr. DeJoy was
elevated into contention based on a recommendation by Robert M. Duncan,
the chairman of the board of governors and a former chairman of the
Republican National Committee.

Mr. Williams called Mr. DeJoy's interviews with the governors a disaster
and said he raised concerns at the time.

The candidate spent the first interview asking questions of the board
members, not the other way around, prompting one governor to joke that
they had better ask him at least one question or the session might not
qualify as an interview.

Mr. Williams said the second session ``went especially badly.'' Mr.
Barger, he recalled, repeatedly stepped in to clarify what Mr. DeJoy
meant to say. He said that Mr. DeJoy was the only candidate the board
interviewed who appeared to be unqualified for the job.

Mr. Barger said that all the candidates who made it to the interview
round of the selection process asked questions of the board. He said he
did not recall helping Mr. DeJoy answer questions, and he said Mr.
DeJoy's selection was unanimous, including a vote from Ron A. Bloom, a
Democratic appointee to the board.

Mr. DeJoy began the job in June and has quickly come under intense
scrutiny for his
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/17/us/politics/dejoy-postal-service-mail-in-voting.html}{continuing
financial ties} to his previous employer, which does business with the
Postal Service, as well as cost-cutting initiatives that have
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/31/us/politics/trump-usps-mail-delays.html}{slowed
mail delivery}.

Lawmakers of both parties, along with civil rights groups and state
attorneys general, have raised concerns about the operational changes
given the growing likelihood that many Americans will need to vote by
mail in November because of the pandemic.

Mr. DeJoy said on Tuesday that
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/19/business/economy/postal-service-changes-dejoy.html}{he
would suspend some of the changes}, but he has not committed to
Democrats' demands that he reverse some that are already in place, like
the removal of hundreds of mail-sorting machines. Democrats are now
trying to use Congress's power to force him to do so and infuse \$25
billion in emergency funding into the beleaguered agency, which has been
rattled by the pandemic.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
