Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/world/asia}{Asia Pacific}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/world/asia}{Asia Pacific}\textbar{}North Korean Defector
Says Kim Jong-Un's Control Is Crumbling

\url{https://nyti.ms/2ksEOVY}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{north-korean-defector-says-kim-jong-uns-control-is-crumbling}{%
\section{North Korean Defector Says Kim Jong-Un's Control Is
Crumbling}\label{north-korean-defector-says-kim-jong-uns-control-is-crumbling}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2017/01/26/world/26Korea/26Korea-articleInline.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By \href{http://www.nytimes.com/by/choe-sang-hun}{Choe Sang-Hun}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Jan. 25, 2017
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

SEOUL, South Korea --- The highest-ranking defector from North Korea in
years said on Wednesday that the days of the country's leadership were
``numbered,'' and that its attempts to control outside information were
not working because of corruption and discontent.

``I am sure that more defections of my colleagues will take place, since
North Korea is already on a slippery slope,'' the defector, Thae
Yong-ho, said during a news conference in Seoul, the capital of South
Korea. ``The traditional structures of the North Korean system are
crumbling.''

Mr. Thae had been the North's No. 2 diplomat in London until he
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2016/08/18/world/asia/north-korea-defector-thae-yong-ho-britain.html}{fled
to the South} last summer with his family. South Korea has hailed his
defection as a sign of growing disillusionment among North Korean elites
with the country's leader, Kim Jong-un. Since December, Mr. Thae has
given a series of interviews to share his dire view of today's North
Korea.

Mr. Thae's diagnosis of Mr. Kim's rule is hardly new. Defectors from the
North, as well as some conservative analysts and policy makers in the
South, widely share that view. Still, it signaled a drastic change of
roles for Mr. Thae.

Before his defection, he was a career diplomat, fluent in English, who
had served in Britain, Denmark and Sweden, often delivering passionate
speeches glorifying the Kim family that has ruled North Korea for seven
decades. In the South, Mr. Thae, now affiliated with the Institute for
National Security Strategy, a think tank arm of the National
Intelligence Service, has vowed to spend the rest of his life trying to
bring down the North Korean government.

Mr. Thae said he had high expectations when Mr. Kim took power after the
death of his father, Kim Jong-il, in 2011. Schooled for several years in
Switzerland, Mr. Kim was expected to help modernize his impoverished
country. Instead, he resorted to a ``reign of terror'' by executing
scores of officials, including his uncle Jang Song-thaek, whom he
thought posed a
\href{http://www.nytimes.com/2013/12/14/world/asia/execution-raises-doubts-about-kims-grip-on-north-korea.html}{challenge
to his power}, Mr. Thae said.

The former diplomat said he had come up with a detailed plan for his
defection, first ensuring that his two sons joined him and his wife in
London. (North Korean diplomats are required to leave a child in the
North, a measure intended to prevent their defection.) He declined to
reveal details of his defection plan and the circumstances.

While in London, his sons began asking questions, like why the North
Korean government executed people in public without a proper trial, Mr.
Thae said. Their English friends taunted them with questions, like why
Mr. Kim had \href{http://i.imgur.com/NjWEnVp.jpg}{smoked a cigarette
inside a nursery}.

The day Mr. Thae broached his plan for defection with his sons, he told
them that he wanted to break the ``chain of slavery'' for them, he
recalled. They wanted to know if they would have free access to the
internet, books and movies in the South, he said.

The best way to force change in the isolated North, he continued, is to
disseminate outside information there to help ordinary citizens
eventually rebel. South Korean TV dramas and movies smuggled from China
are already popular in the North, he said.

Another sign of Mr. Kim's weakening control, Mr. Thae said, is evident
at the unofficial markets in North Korea where women trade goods, mostly
smuggled from China. The vendors used to be called ``grasshoppers''
because they would pack and flee whenever they saw the police
approaching. Now, they are called ``ticks'' because they refuse to
budge, demanding a right to make a living, Mr. Thae said.

Such resistance, even if small in scale, is unprecedented, he added.

The spread of outside news and market activities could eventually doom
Mr. Kim because his government ``can be held in place and maintained
only by idolizing Kim Jong-un like a god,'' Mr. Thae said. ``If he tries
to introduce a market-oriented economy to North Korean society, then
there will be no place for Kim Jong-un in North Korea, and he knows
that.''

But the leader's efforts to clamp down on information and products from
outside North Korea have been unsuccessful because the police accept
bribes in exchange for freeing smugglers and people caught watching
banned movies and dramas.

``Kim Jong-un's days are numbered,'' Mr. Thae said on Wednesday.

After months of debriefing by the authorities in South Korea, Mr. Thae
used meetings with the country's politicians and the news media to
suggest that North Korea was determined
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2016/12/27/world/asia/thae-yong-ho-north-korea-defector.html}{to
be recognized as a nuclear power}, just as India and Pakistan are.

Last year, the North conducted two nuclear tests and launched more than
20 ballistic missiles, and it has openly vowed to develop the ability to
hit the United States with a nuclear warhead.

``\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2017/01/02/world/asia/trump-twitter-north-korea-missiles-china.html}{It
won't happen},'' Donald J. Trump, then president-elect, said at the
time. During the election campaign, Mr. Trump had said he was willing to
sit down with Mr. Kim and perhaps have a hamburger with him.

On Wednesday, Mr. Thae warned against compromising with the North,
arguing that sanctions were effective. In recent interviews with local
news outlets, he said that North Korea had lost annual income worth tens
of millions dollars, after Britain froze accounts last year held by its
state-run insurance company as part of sanctions recommended by the
United Nations. Until then, the company had claimed large insurance
payments through fabricated documents, he said.

Mr. Kim wanted to negotiate a compromise, under which the United States
and South Korea would cancel their annual joint military exercises and
lift sanctions on the North in return for a moratorium on North Korean
missile and nuclear tests, Mr. Thae said.

But such a deal would validate Mr. Kim's argument that he had been
forced to develop nuclear weapons as a reaction to American hostility,
he said.

``That is really a trap Kim Jong-un wants,'' Mr. Thae said.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{Â©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
