Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}Trump to Order Mexican
Border Wall and Curtail Immigration

\url{https://nyti.ms/2kqTEIA}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{trump-to-order-mexican-border-wall-and-curtail-immigration}{%
\section{Trump to Order Mexican Border Wall and Curtail
Immigration}\label{trump-to-order-mexican-border-wall-and-curtail-immigration}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2017/08/24/multimedia/24dc-wall/merlin-to-scoop-126242489-947823-videoSixteenByNine3000.jpg}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/julie-hirschfeld-davis}{Julie
Hirschfeld Davis}, \href{http://www.nytimes.com/by/david-e-sanger}{David
E. Sanger} and \href{http://www.nytimes.com/by/maggie-haberman}{Maggie
Haberman}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Jan. 24, 2017
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

WASHINGTON --- President Trump on Wednesday will order the construction
of a Mexican border wall --- the first in a series of actions this week
to crack down on immigrants and bolster national security, including
slashing the number of refugees who can resettle in the United States
and blocking Syrians and others from ``terror prone'' nations from
entering, at least temporarily.

The orders are among an array of national security directives Mr. Trump
is considering issuing in the coming days, according to people who have
seen the orders. They include reviewing whether to resume the
once-secret ``black site'' detention program; keep open the prison at
Guantánamo Bay; and designate the Muslim Brotherhood a terrorist
organization.

According to a draft, the order on detention policies would start a
review of ``whether to reinstate the program of interrogation of
high-value alien terrorists to be operated outside the United States,
and whether such a program should include the use of detention
facilities operated by the C.I.A.'' But one section of the draft would
require that ``no person in the custody of the United States shall at
any time be subjected to torture or cruel, inhuman or degrading
treatment or punishment, as proscribed by U.S. law.''

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2016/08/30/us/syrian-refugees-in-the-united-states.html}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2016/08/30/us/syrian-refugees-in-the-united-states-1472620254007/syrian-refugees-in-the-united-states-1472620254007-thumbLarge.png}

\hypertarget{us-reaches-goal-of-admitting-10000-syrian-refugees-heres-where-they-went}{%
\subsection{U.S. Reaches Goal of Admitting 10,000 Syrian Refugees.
Here's Where They
Went.}\label{us-reaches-goal-of-admitting-10000-syrian-refugees-heres-where-they-went}}

Where Syrian refugees have settled in the United States.

The proposed orders could lead to sweeping and controversial changes in
the way the United States conducts itself at home and around the globe
in the name of security, potentially leading to the reinstatement of
policies that have been repudiated by much of the world.

``Big day planned on NATIONAL SECURITY tomorrow,'' Mr. Trump wrote on
Twitter on Tuesday night. ``Among many other things, we will build the
wall!''

Mr. Trump will sign the executive order for the wall during an
appearance at the Department of Homeland Security on Wednesday, as
Mexico's foreign minister, Luis Videgaray, arrives in Washington to
prepare for
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2017/01/23/world/americas/trump-pena-nieto-mexico-meeting.html}{the
visit of President Enrique Peña Nieto} of Mexico. Mr. Peña Nieto will be
among the first foreign leaders to meet the new president at the end of
the month.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2017/01/09/us/360-borderholiday/360-borderholiday-videoSixteenByNine3000.jpg}

The border wall was a signature promise of Mr. Trump's campaign, during
which he argued it is vital to gaining control over the illegal flow of
immigrants into the United States.

Mr. Trump is also expected to target legal immigrants as early as this
week, White House officials said, by halting a decades-old program that
grants refuge to the world's most vulnerable people as he begins the
process of drastically curtailing it and enhancing screening procedures.

In the draft of a separate executive order now being circulated inside
the administration, Mr. Trump would examine the question of whether the
Central Intelligence Agency should reopen its so-called black sites,
secret interrogation and detention centers that it operated overseas.
Former President Barack Obama ordered the closings of all in the first
week of his presidency in 2009.

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2015/11/20/us/why-it-takes-two-years-for-syrian-refugees-to-apply-to-enter-the-united-states.html}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2015/11/20/us/why-it-takes-two-years-for-syrian-refugees-to-apply-to-enter-the-united-states-1448050604249/why-it-takes-two-years-for-syrian-refugees-to-apply-to-enter-the-united-states-1448050604249-videoLarge-v5.png}

\hypertarget{why-it-takes-two-years-for-syrian-refugees-to-enter-the-us}{%
\subsection{Why It Takes Two Years for Syrian Refugees to Enter the
U.S.}\label{why-it-takes-two-years-for-syrian-refugees-to-enter-the-us}}

Syrians must pass through many steps of security clearances before being
admitted to the United States.

The black sites were a highly classified program, so their mention in an
executive order would be highly unusual.

The draft of a second executive order would also order a review of the
Army Field Manual to determine whether to use certain enhanced
interrogation techniques.

Another executive order under consideration would direct the secretary
of state to determine whether to designate the Muslim Brotherhood a
foreign terrorist organization. That designation has been sought by
Egypt and the United Arab Emirates.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2017/01/24/us/24newsletter-top/24newsletter-top-articleInline-v2.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

The refugee policy under consideration would halt admissions from Syria
and suspend it from other majority-Muslim nations until the
administration can study how to properly vet them. This would pave the
way for the administration to slash the number of displaced people who
can be resettled on American soil, and would effectively bar the entry
of people from Muslim countries --- including Afghanistan, Iraq, Somalia
and Syria --- at least for some time.

The plan is in line with
\href{http://www.nytimes.com/politics/first-draft/2015/12/07/donald-trump-calls-for-banning-muslims-from-entering-u-s/}{a
ban on Muslim immigrants} that Mr. Trump proposed during his campaign,
arguing that such a step was warranted given concerns about terrorism.
He later said he wanted to impose ``extreme vetting'' of refugees from
Syria and other countries where terrorism was rampant, although the
Obama administration had already instituted strict screening procedures
for Syrian refugees that were designed to weed out anyone who posed a
danger.

The expected actions drew strong criticism from immigrant advocates and
human rights groups, which called them discriminatory moves that
rejected the American tradition of welcoming immigrants of all
backgrounds.

``To think that Trump's first 100 days are going to be marked by this
very shameful shutting of our doors to everybody who is seeking refuge
in this country is very concerning,'' said Marielena Hincapié, the
executive director of the National Immigration Law Center. ``Everything
points to this being simply a backdoor Muslim ban.''

For Mr. Trump, whose raucous campaign rallies frequently featured chants
of ``build the wall,'' the directive to fortify the border was not
unexpected, although it may not be enough by itself to accomplish the
task. Congress would need to approve any new funding necessary to build
the wall, which Mr. Trump has insisted Mexico will finance, despite its
leaders' protestations to the contrary. The order would shift already
appropriated federal funds to the wall's construction, but it was
unclear where the money would come from.

The Government Accountability Office
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2017/01/06/us/politics/trump-wall-mexico.html}{has
estimated} that it could cost \$6.5 million per mile to build a
single-layer fence, and an additional \$4.2 million per mile for roads
and more fencing, according to congressional officials. Those estimates
do not include maintenance of the fence along the nearly 2,000-mile
border with Mexico. Representative Nancy Pelosi of California, the
Democratic leader, said she thought even Republicans might balk at
spending what she said could be \$14 billion on a wall.

Mr. Trump has said immigration will be on the agenda when he meets with
Mr. Peña Nieto.

The order to build the wall is likely to complicate the visit of Mr.
Videgaray, who has a history with Mr. Trump. It was Mr. Videgaray, then
Mexico's finance minister, who orchestrated Mr. Trump's visit to Mexico
before the election, a move seen by many Mexicans as tantamount to
treason. He was forced to resign because of the fallout, but his
reputation was restored after Mr. Trump's victory, and he was given the
job of foreign minister, in part to capitalize on his relationship with
the new American leader.

It is unclear whether Mexican officials were informed of Mr. Trump's
decision to sign the executive order during Mr. Videgaray's visit.

Mr. Trump's refugee directive is expected to target a program the Obama
administration expanded last year in response to a global refugee
crisis, fueled in large part by a large flow of Syrians fleeing their
country's civil war. Mr. Obama increased the overall number of refugees
to be resettled in the United States to 85,000 and ordered that 10,000
of the slots be reserved for Syrians. He set the number of refugees to
be resettled this year at 110,000, more than double the 50,000 Mr. Trump
is now considering.

By the end of last month, more than 25,000 refugees had been resettled,
according to State Department figures, meaning the plan Mr. Trump is
considering would admit only 25,000 more by the end of September.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
