Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}How the G.O.P. Stretched
Hard to Defend Trump on Race and Gender

\url{https://nyti.ms/32AMjxZ}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/09/us/trump-vs-biden?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Election
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/09/08/us/elections/results-new-hampshire-primary-elections.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{New
  Hampshire Results}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/election-states-biden-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Paths
  to 270}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/31/us/politics/vote-by-mail-deadlines.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Voting
  by Mail}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/us/elections/2020-presidential-election-calendar.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Key
  Dates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Politics
  Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{how-the-gop-stretched-hard-to-defend-trump-on-race-and-gender}{%
\section{How the G.O.P. Stretched Hard to Defend Trump on Race and
Gender}\label{how-the-gop-stretched-hard-to-defend-trump-on-race-and-gender}}

Never before has a convention by a major party felt compelled to call
such a diverse array of speakers to defend the character of a sitting
president.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/30/us/politics/00convention-diversity1-sub1/merlin_176262033_980cd754-a203-4136-a7fd-b67e3b773a28-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/adam-nagourney}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/02/20/multimedia/author-adam-nagourney/author-adam-nagourney-thumbLarge-v3.png}}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/sydney-ember}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/06/12/multimedia/author-sydney-ember/author-sydney-ember-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/adam-nagourney}{Adam
Nagourney} and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/sydney-ember}{Sydney Ember}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Aug. 29, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

The Republican convention this week marked an extraordinary effort to
recast President Trump's image on issues of race and gender, with the
party stretching to find African-Americans who would testify that Mr.
Trump is not racist, and lining up women to describe him as sensitive
and empathetic --- qualities he rarely displays in public.

This vouching for Mr. Trump, as he was nominated for a second term, was
without precedent. Never before has a convention by either major party
felt compelled to call
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/28/us/politics/rnc-speakers-time.html}{such
a diverse array} of speakers to defend the character of a sitting
president.

And it was done with a crucial political goal in mind: making a divisive
leader appear more palatable to white moderate voters, who have
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/04/us/politics/super-tuesday-virginia-voter-turnout.html}{turned
against} the Trump-led G.O.P. in
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/11/14/us/kentucky-governor-race-matt-bevin.html}{recent
elections}, while also trying to peel away some nonwhite voters from
Joseph R. Biden Jr., the Democratic nominee.

\href{https://www.cnn.com/2020/07/21/politics/joe-biden-black-voters/index.html}{Some
polls} indicate that Mr. Trump has made slight gains among minority
voters over the past three years. A shift of even a sliver of voters
toward him --- or a strategy that dampens minority turnout by demonizing
Mr. Biden and presenting Mr. Trump as acceptable --- could make a
difference in critical states like North Carolina and Arizona.

``Many on the other side love to incite division by claiming that
President Trump is a racist,'' Ben Carson, the housing secretary and the
only African-American in the cabinet, said at the convention on Thursday
night, shortly before Mr. Trump delivered his acceptance speech. ``They
could not be more wrong.''

Herschel Walker, a former football star and longtime friend of the
president's, said he was offended that anyone might hold that negative
view of Mr. Trump. ``I take it as a personal insult that people would
think I've had a 37-year friendship with a racist,'' he said.

The Republicans were so intent on finding people of color to appear
onscreen that they seem to have put a number of them before convention
cameras without their knowledge, including several immigrants
participating in a naturalization ceremony and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/28/nyregion/nyc-tenants-rnc-video-trump.html}{three
New York public housing residents}.

And for a convention focused on race in America under Mr. Trump, there
was strikingly little talk about the crises facing racial minorities in
the nation. There were few mentions of Jacob Blake, the Black man shot
by a police officer in Kenosha, Wis., or George Floyd, Breonna Taylor
and other Black victims of police violence, episodes that have sparked a
summer of protests across the country. There was scant attention paid to
the racial disparities in the pandemic, with death rates that are
devastating minority families and communities across the United States.

Mr. Trump's own words at the convention were more hard-edge than
empathetic, as he sought to rally his conservative base as well as reach
out to moderates. He mentioned Kenosha only as part of a litany of
``Democrat-run cities'' that he claimed had been troubled by ``rioting,
looting, arson and violence.'' His ominous warnings --- ``no one will be
safe in Biden's America'' --- recalled the appeals to blue-collar white
voters used by Richard M. Nixon and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/30/us/politics/trump-wallace.html}{George
Wallace}.

``This week was symbolic gestures and hostile rhetoric,'' said the Rev.
Jesse L. Jackson, the longtime civil rights leader.

``There's no African-American in the inner circle of the Republican
Party,'' Mr. Jackson said. ``They keep referring to themselves as the
party of Lincoln --- that's not true.''

How Mr. Trump and Mr. Biden navigate issues of race and gender, and how
voters respond, looms as a critical test of the coming 10-week general
election campaign. The nationwide protests create a particularly
polarizing backdrop for both candidates, as they struggle to accommodate
demands from the ideological wings of their parties --- defunding the
police on the left, and a fierce crackdown on demonstrators on the right
--- while not alienating moderate voters.

It will be weeks before it is possible to judge how effective the
Republican convention strategy was, and some Democrats argued that Mr.
Trump is too defined in the American consciousness to succeed with this
kind of reinvention, especially this late in the contest. According to a
\href{https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1x9BCVUl-XCYEsBrglNC9iQoCB1vocCFNJNEsBvjsVgg/edit\#gid=1102682808}{Pew
Research poll} released two weeks ago, Mr. Biden led Mr. Trump among
Black voters by a margin of 89 percent to 8 percent. Among women, he led
by 56 percent to 42 percent.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/28/us/politics/00convention-diversity3/merlin_176262312_f3b6c1d5-f230-49b9-a701-585fa56c6efc-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

``This is not reparable,'' said Joel Benenson, a Democratic pollster who
was a senior adviser to Hillary Clinton, Mr. Trump's opponent in 2016.
``No credible person who pays attention to these issues, and I include
those people who spoke at the convention, can seriously believe that
Donald Trump doesn't harbor a series of racist attitudes.''

Still,
\href{https://www.cnn.com/2020/07/21/politics/joe-biden-black-voters/index.html}{recent
polling} indicates that Mr. Trump is performing somewhat better than he
was four years ago among African-Americans and Hispanics. He even
maintained his gains after the death of Mr. Floyd, when national
politics focused on issues that might have been expected to erode his
support in Black and Hispanic communities, like the president's handling
of race, criminal justice and protesters. Instead, Mr. Trump appeared to
lose ground among white voters.

To that end, at the convention, Mr. Trump and other Republicans
disparaged Mr. Biden's record on racial justice and his sponsorship of
the 1994 crime bill, and promoted the president's support of school
choice and federal funding for historically Black colleges, both issues
that polled well among Black voters.

``The days of blindly supporting the Democrats are coming to an end,''
Kimberly Klacik, a Black Republican running for Congress in Maryland,
said in a convention speech.

Mr. Trump's campaign is also intent on winning back at least some of the
women voters who polls show have abandoned him over his harsh policies,
inflammatory language and history of allegations of sexual assault.

The Democratic convention that took place a week earlier also heavily
featured women, African-Americans and other people of color. But
Democrats talked sympathetically about the protests in cities as well as
about systemic racism in America. The Democrats cast Mr. Biden as a true
believer in racial justice, and celebrated his choice of the first woman
of color as his running mate, Senator Kamala Harris of California.

In
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/21/us/politics/dnc-speakers-run-time.html}{filling
the stage} with Black and female speakers, Democratic officials assumed,
based on the history of previous Republican conventions, that they would
offer a stark contrast with Republicans and seem a party more in tune
with a changing America. But they may have miscalculated:
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/28/business/media/trump-biden-convention-ratings.html}{millions
of people who watched the conventions} saw the appearance of diversity
at the G.O.P. conclave, and the Democratic convention left the party
open to accusations that they were
\href{https://www.washingtonpost.com/opinions/2020/08/21/convention-shows-democrats-have-ceded-working-class-gop/}{overlooking}
white working-class voters. Some progressives also lamented that there
were few speakers from the left in prominent roles.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/2020-election}{Election
2020 ›}

\hypertarget{live-updates}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/09/us/trump-vs-biden}{Live
Updates}}{Live Updates}}\label{live-updates}}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/09/us/trump-vs-biden\#trump-admitted-to-bob-woodward-that-he-intentionally-downplayed-the-threat-of-the-coronavirus}{}

Sept. 9, 2020, 12:27 p.m. ET

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/09/us/trump-vs-biden\#trump-admitted-to-bob-woodward-that-he-intentionally-downplayed-the-threat-of-the-coronavirus}{Trump
admitted to Bob Woodward that he intentionally downplayed the threat of
the
coronavirus.}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/09/us/trump-vs-biden\#trumps-decision-to-go-maskless-at-a-north-carolina-rally-concerns-dr-fauci}{}

Sept. 9, 2020, 11:40 a.m. ET

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/09/us/trump-vs-biden\#trumps-decision-to-go-maskless-at-a-north-carolina-rally-concerns-dr-fauci}{Trump's
decision to go maskless at a North Carolina rally concerns Dr.
Fauci.}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/09/us/trump-vs-biden\#the-go-to-republican-election-lawyer-called-trumps-claims-of-voting-fraud-unsustainable}{}

Sept. 9, 2020, 11:33 a.m. ET

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/09/us/trump-vs-biden\#the-go-to-republican-election-lawyer-called-trumps-claims-of-voting-fraud-unsustainable}{The
go-to Republican election lawyer called Trump's claims of voting fraud
`unsustainable.'}

But the conventions themselves --- essentially eight nights of highly
produced and carefully controlled television --- can only go so far in
redefining long-held perceptions about the candidates and their parties
on matters of race and gender.

And Republican convention organizers had to scrape, in many cases, to
find Black and Hispanic speakers for Mr. Trump's convention --- and in
some cases, might have
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/28/nyregion/nyc-tenants-rnc-video-trump.html?referringSource=articleShare}{stepped
too far}.

A video featuring four tenants in a New York City Housing Authority
building complaining about conditions there and bashing Bill de Blasio,
the Democratic mayor of New York, was put to service for the Trump
campaign without permission, according to three of them.

``I am not a Trump supporter,'' said one of the tenants, Claudia Perez.
``I am not a supporter of his racist policies on immigration.''

Earlier in the week, the convention
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/26/us/politics/trump-naturalization-ceremony-rnc.html}{showed
five immigrants} being naturalized in the White House, as a beaming Mr.
Trump watched in one of many displays of presidential pageantry that
were highlighted in the convention. But several of the new American
citizens later said they were unaware that the video of the moment would
be used in the convention.

In a speech on the final night of the convention, Ann Dorn, fighting
back tears, recounted how her husband, David Dorn, a retired St. Louis
Police captain, was shot dead during the looting of a store following
protests of the killing of Mr. Floyd. ``President Trump knows we need
more Davids in our communities, not fewer,'' she said.

But Mr. Dorn himself did not support Mr. Trump,
\href{http://www.stlamerican.com/news/national_news/david-dorn-s-daughters-oppose-father-s-widow-speaking-at-rnc/article_da760964-e7fe-11ea-81fd-8f15f591da91.html}{his
daughters told} The St. Louis American. ``I know he would not want his
legacy to be for his death to be used to further Trump's law-and-order
agenda,'' said one of his daughters, Debra White.

And Jack Brewer, another former National Football League player and
member of Black Voices for Trump, who spoke for the president on
Wednesday night, was charged by the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission
\href{https://www.npr.org/2020/08/25/905953942/rnc-speaker-facing-federal-charges-of-insider-trading}{earlier
this month} with insider trading.

At the same time, the Republicans also had to cast a wide net to come up
with prominent minority figures to be speakers for the president.
Senator Tim Scott of South Carolina and Mr. Carson stood out for their
prominence. But another speaker, Ms. Klacik is the longest of long-shot
congressional candidates, trying to unseat Kweisi Mfume, a fixture in
Baltimore politics. Mr. Walker and another speaker, Burgess Owens, are
former football players; Mr. Owens is running for Congress in Utah.

``They have them but they don't have the depth that the Democrats
have,'' Christine Todd Whitman, the former Republican governor of New
Jersey and a critic of Mr. Trump, said of the G.O.P. and Black
supporters. ``And the question of whether they can make it seem real and
not just some kind of tokenism, not `some of my best friends are.'''

Image

During their convention, Democrats cast Joseph R. Biden Jr. as a true
believer in racial justice, and celebrated his choice of the first woman
of color as his running mate, Senator Kamala Harris.Credit...Erin
Schaff/The New York Times

The roles of women and people of color at both conventions also signaled
other, sharply different strategic priorities for Mr. Biden and Mr.
Trump as they head into the fall campaign.

At the Republican convention, speakers were clearly aiming to drive a
wedge between the Democratic Party and its base, arguing that Democrats
have achieved relatively little to improve the economic prosperity of
many Black Americans. The video featuring the New York City housing
tenants also seemed aimed at
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/26/us/politics/trump-naturalization-ceremony-rnc.html}{stoking
tensions} between African-Americans and immigrants, many of whom lean
Democratic.

Democrats, in turn, have an urgent need to appeal to Black voters,
Latinos and women --- key segments of a coalition that helped elect
Barack Obama in 2008 and 2012 --- even at the risk of being accused of
neglecting white working-class voters. Mr. Biden's nomination came in no
small part because Black voters rallied behind his candidacy in the
primary; in 2016, many pollsters say, Mrs. Clinton lost key states
because of depressed turnout among Black voters.

Representative Pramila Jayapal, a Democrat from Washington, said
Democrats presented themselves as the party of ``the future,'' and did a
``pretty good job of really highlighting the vast diversity of the
Democratic Party.''

Republican officials said the same thing about their convention.

``People from all walks of life are represented at our convention,''
said Tim Murtaugh, the communications director for Mr. Trump's campaign.
``And President Trump's record of accomplishment should appeal to all
voters, including Black Americans.''

\emph{Nate Cohn contributed reporting.}

\hypertarget{our-2020-election-guide}{%
\section{Our 2020 Election Guide}\label{our-2020-election-guide}}

Updated ~Sept. 9, 2020

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

\begin{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{the-latest}{%
  \subsection{The Latest}\label{the-latest}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Joe Biden heads today to Michigan, a battleground state where
    President Trump has resumed advertising ahead of a visit there on
    Thursday.
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/09/us/trump-vs-biden?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Read
    live updates}.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{how-to-win-270}{%
  \subsection{How to Win 270}\label{how-to-win-270}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Joe Biden and Donald Trump need 270 electoral votes to reach the
    White House. Try building
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/election-states-biden-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{your
    own coalition of battleground states}~to see potential outcomes.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{voting-by-mail}{%
  \subsection{Voting by Mail}\label{voting-by-mail}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Will you have enough time to vote by mail in your state? Yes, but
    it's risky to procrastinate.
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/31/us/politics/vote-by-mail-deadlines.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Check
    your state's deadline.}
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/joe-biden.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{}

    \hypertarget{joe-biden}{%
    \section{Joe Biden}\label{joe-biden}}

    \hypertarget{democrat}{%
    \subsection{Democrat}\label{democrat}}

    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/donald-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{}

    \hypertarget{donald-trump}{%
    \section{Donald Trump}\label{donald-trump}}

    \hypertarget{republican}{%
    \subsection{Republican}\label{republican}}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \hypertarget{keep-up-with-our-coverage}{%
  \subsection{Keep Up With Our
  Coverage}\label{keep-up-with-our-coverage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Get an
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{email}~recapping
    the day's news
  \item
    Download our mobile app on
    \href{https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nytimes/id284862083?ls=1\&mat_click_id=5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\&referrer=mat_click_id\%3D5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\%26link_click_id\%3D722930677036718082}{iOS}~and
    \href{http://a.localytics.com/android?id=com.nytimes.android\&referrer=utm_source\%3Dother_nyt_mobile_web\%26utm_medium\%3DWeb\%2520page\%26utm_term\%3DGeneral\%2520Mobile\%2520Page\%26utm_campaign\%3DNYT\%2520Mobile\%2520General\%2520Page}{Android}~and
    turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
