Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/sports}{Sports}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/sports}{Sports}\textbar{}Britain Tried to Bring Fans Back
to Indoor Sports. That Lasted a Day.

\url{https://nyti.ms/30lksBX}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{britain-tried-to-bring-fans-back-to-indoor-sports-that-lasted-a-day}{%
\section{Britain Tried to Bring Fans Back to Indoor Sports. That Lasted
a
Day.}\label{britain-tried-to-bring-fans-back-to-indoor-sports-that-lasted-a-day}}

The world snooker championship welcomed spectators last week, part of a
pilot program that offered hope to other events eager to follow suit. A
few hours later, the government pulled the plug.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/08/03/sports/02snooker1-print/merlin_175172742_296e5fcb-9743-4a0b-8e74-cf0e5ac34d90-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/karen-crouse}{Karen Crouse}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Aug. 2, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

SHEFFIELD, England --- The 2020 world snooker championship, which began
on Friday, had a familiar feel. The stage of the intimate Crucible
Theatre, the event's home for more than 40 years, was bathed in klieg
lights, the green cloth of the snooker tables and the red carpeting so
brightly illuminated it was like stepping inside a Skittles bag. Judd
Trump was back to defend his title, and for the first time in months,
there were fans in the seats.

On opening night, the event had a bigger audience than the one in the
theater. Originally scheduled for April but delayed by the coronavirus
pandemic, it had been designated by the British government as the first
indoor test event for the phased return of live crowds. That made the
championship, a staple of the British sports scene and a riveting
television mini-series with a global audience of more than 300 million,
suddenly of great interest to leagues and championship organizers in
dozens of other sports, especially those held indoors, all of them
invested economically and emotionally in the return of spectators.

How well the 17-day championship fared with a reduced fan presence, they
knew, might set the stage for similar experiments in other sports in
other places, like basketball and hockey in Europe and netball and
badminton in Asia.

The experiment lasted one day, undone by outside forces, renewed virus
fears and governmental second thoughts.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/08/03/sports/02snooker2-print/merlin_175172757_844bcb8c-18fc-49f1-bc8c-61b07553ce9b-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

``You can feel that something is not quite right,'' Trump said.

Ticket-holding fans, who were not subjected to temperature checks or
testing before entering the theater, emerged from Friday's three
sessions and spoke of the subdued atmosphere, as if their church had
turned into a funeral parlor. There had been only 137 spectators at the
first night session, including a few family members and friends of
Trump's who watched him
\href{http://livescores.worldsnookerdata.com/Matches/Result/14139/764763/betfred-world-championship-2020}{close
out his first-round match}.

To make the test event happen, the World Snooker Tour had walled off its
event as well as it could. It instituted regular coronavirus testing for
players, their support staff, contractors and television personnel, and
competitors were urged to maintain proper social distancing measures and
to self-isolate as much as possible.

Hand sanitizer was as ubiquitous as cue chalk, and the spectators
holding tickets for each session --- limited to 300, about a third of
the Crucible Theatre's capacity --- were required to provide contact
tracing information and to wear face coverings until they were in their
seats. Some of the restrictions defied logic. There were no concession
stands, the better to limit interactions between strangers, but one fan
in the evening match, in desperate need of a pick-me-up, left the arena
briefly and slipped into a convenience store around the corner for a
coffee that he brought back to his seat.

The one factor the tour could not control, however, was the behavior of
those well outside the theater. This led to the surreal juxtaposition
Friday of the prime minister of Britain, Boris Johnson, announcing a
policy U-turn and the end of the pilot program for live sports during a
news conference at the same moment that, roughly 180 miles away,
spectators were watching Trump and Tom Ford play the first nine frames
of their match.

Citing concerns about a second coronavirus outbreak and rising infection
numbers, Johnson announced that he was ordering a halt to the programs
the government had approved for select snooker, horse racing and cricket
events.

``We can't just ignore this evidence,'' Johnson said. The restrictions
will remain in place for at least two weeks, leaving a glimmer of hope
for snooker fans that they might still get to see their favorite players
in person before the championship ends.

Image

The championship runs for 17 days. The government's new restrictions on
public events were to be in place for two weeks.Credit...Benjamin Mole

The government's policy shift came a day after a snooker player with a
high profile, the five-time world champion Ronnie O'Sullivan, had
referred to the players as ``lab rats'' in an interview. O'Sullivan, who
opened play on Sunday, made his comments in a video teleconference with
reporters, but many suspected his words were directed at government
officials.

\hypertarget{the-games-resume}{%
\subsubsection{The Games Resume}\label{the-games-resume}}

\hypertarget{sports-and-the-virus}{%
\paragraph{Sports and the Virus}\label{sports-and-the-virus}}

Updated July 31, 2020

Here's what's happening as the world of sports slowly comes back to
life:

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    The
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/30/sports/basketball/clippers-lakers.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_2\&context=storylines_keepup}{N.B.A.
    returned}, and the Lakers held on to beat the Clippers in a
    thriller. Zion Williamson played in the first game of the night for
    the Pelicans.
  \item
    Players, coaches and analysts are watching this season's baseball
    games
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/sports/baseball/baseball-empty-stadiums-effects.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_2\&context=storylines_keepup}{to
    see what effect} the absence of fans has.
  \item
    With no summer tournaments to play in, top high school basketball
    stars are
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/30/sports/ncaabasketball/college-basketball-recruiting.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_2\&context=storylines_keepup}{committing
    to colleges earlier}. Villanova is one of the beneficiaries.
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

``He does carry a huge amount of influence in the U.K.,'' Shaun Murphy,
the 2005 world champion, said. ``When he speaks, people listen.''

Murphy, whose first match is scheduled for Monday, said he was
comfortable performing in front of fans again. But not every player felt
that way. Anthony Hamilton, who qualified for the field of 32 but
expressed reservations about competing because he has chronic asthma,
withdrew from the event on Thursday. Hamilton argued that the decision
to phase in fans was premature.

``They said it was a trial, and for me that word underlines
everything,'' Murphy said.

The crowd at Friday's morning session included two local snooker
enthusiasts, James Arthur and Karl Brownlow, who emerged from the arena
looking disoriented in the 90-degree heat. The men said they have been
regulars for decades at the event, which has been held annually at the
Crucible since 1977.

``Usually people are breathing down your neck,'' Arthur said, ``but the
atmosphere was totally muted today.''

Even when the Crucible is packed and the fans in the first row are close
enough to nearly reach out and touch the players, the atmosphere at
snooker --- a billiards game played on a 6-foot-by-12-foot table and
scored by players' pocketing 21 colored balls
\href{https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CjSWUTkupQo}{to earn points} ---
can have the solemnity of a church service.

Spectators clap for well-executed shots, but it can grow so quiet at
tense moments that the players can hear a commentator's voice leaking
from a front-row fan's earpiece. Fans don't often open their mouths
unless it's to cough, which in normal times can make spectators feel,
rather bizarrely, as if they were sitting in a doctor's office and a
snooker match broke out.

When O'Sullivan spoke to reporters last week, he recounted the
experience of riding in an elevator with someone who started coughing.
It reminded him, he said, of the risk every player is taking to compete.
His mother, Maria, has pneumonia, O'Sullivan said, and he worries about
infecting her.

Image

Plexiglass barriers between players' chairs were among the
precautions.Credit...Benjamin Mole

``I defy anybody, if they have been keeping their distance from people
for four months, to say, `Oh, right, now you've got to go into a room
full of people,' unless you have got a death wish, and some people have
in many ways, and they just don't care,'' O'Sullivan said.

And if the general public just don't care, said Django Fung, Trump's
manager, it doesn't matter how many precautions sports leagues take.
``You need the people of the country to be sensible to keep the numbers
down,'' he said.

By the time Fung spoke on Saturday, the government's edict had dispersed
the small snooker crowd like red balls on a poor opening break.

Hours earlier, Chris Ellis, a security guard at the Crucible, had been
stationed outside the theater's entrance when a fan with a ticket
approached him. The man explained that he had traveled from Ireland and
had tickets for a week of sessions. How could he get in? he asked.

It was left to Ellis to tell him that he couldn't. It was a safety shot
he took no joy in executing.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
