Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\hypertarget{how-the-chiefs-beat-the-titans-to-advance-to-the-super-bowl}{%
\section{How the Chiefs Beat the Titans to Advance to the Super
Bowl}\label{how-the-chiefs-beat-the-titans-to-advance-to-the-super-bowl}}

Last Updated

Jan. 20, 2020, 12:05 a.m. ET

Jan. 20, 2020, 12:05 a.m. ET

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/01/19/multimedia/chang-afc-championship-2020-226/chang-afc-championship-2020-226-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

The Kansas City Chiefs earned a trip to Super Bowl LIV by beating the
Tennessee Titans, 35-24. Patrick Mahomes threw for 294 yards and three
passing touchdowns and the Chiefs, after falling behind, 10-0, reeled
off 28 consecutive points to put the game out of reach.

We
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/packers-49ers}{tracked
the conference championship game} between Green Bay and San Francisco,
and took a look at
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/01/20/sports/football/49ers-chiefs-super-bowl.html}{what
we learned} from both games ahead of the Super Bowl on Feb. 2.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/benjamin-hoffman}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/10/17/multimedia/author-benjamin-hoffman/author-benjamin-hoffman-thumbLarge.png}}

Jan. 19, 2020, 6:24 p.m. ET

Jan. 19, 2020, 6:24 p.m. ET

By
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/benjamin-hoffman}{Benjamin
Hoffman}

\hypertarget{kansas-citys-firepower-proves-too-much-for-tennessee}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{kansas-citys-firepower-proves-too-much-for-tennessee}{Kansas
City's firepower proves too much for
Tennessee.}}{Kansas City's firepower proves too much for Tennessee.}}\label{kansas-citys-firepower-proves-too-much-for-tennessee}}

The Kansas City Chiefs are headed to Super Bowl LIV in Miami after
ending the Tennessee Titans' Cinderella-like run in the playoffs with a
35-24 victory at Arrowhead Stadium in the A.F.C. championship game on
Sunday.

Patrick Mahomes and the Chiefs simply had too much firepower for the
Titans, persevering through an early deficit for a second consecutive
playoff game and running away with things in a chilly second half during
which temperatures dipped as low as 18 degrees.

``We're not done yet,'' Mahomes said in a televised interview after the
game. ``We're going to get it.''

Unlike last year, when Kansas City's offense was undone by its defense
in an
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/01/21/sports/afc-championship-patriots-jaguars.html}{A.F.C.
championship game loss to New England}, the Chiefs showed some serious
balance for much of this game, largely limiting running back Derrick
Henry --- particularly in the second half --- and at one point reeling
off 28 unanswered points. A valiant comeback by Tennessee, which got
them back within 11, fell apart when Ryan Tannehill was sacked by Frank
Clark for a turnover on downs.

Mahomes finished the game having completed 23 of 35 passes for 294
yards, throwing two touchdowns to wide receiver Tyreek Hill and a
backbreaking 60-yarder to Sammy Watkins in the fourth quarter that put
the game out of reach. The most shocking statistic of the day, however,
was Kansas City out-rushing Tennessee, with 112 yards to the Titans' 85.

An ebullient tight end Travis Kelce heaped praise on Mahomes's ability
to carry the team with his arm and his legs.

``The best quarterback in the National Football League right here,'' he
said, wrapping his arm around Mahomes. ``And he shows it every time.''

Henry, who won the N.F.L. rushing title this season and had rushed for
588 yards over his last three games, was limited to 69 yards on 19
carries. And unlike the regular season, when Tannehill made teams pay
for
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/01/16/sports/derrick-henry-titans-playoffs.html}{focusing
on Henry}, Tennessee was unable to counter with the passing game as its
10-point lead turned into an 18-point deficit.

Tannehill came into the game as something of a punch line after he had
passed for fewer than 100 yards in each of Tennessee's first two playoff
games. He was far more productive in this game, completing 21 of 31
passes for 209 yards and two touchdowns. But in the brutal middle of the
game, in which Kansas City took control, Tannehill failed to deliver on
the signature deep strikes that had been so beneficial to Henry in the
past.

The game featured a wild first half in which only two drives --- a
Kansas City punt and a kneel-down by Tennessee at the end of the second
quarter --- did not end in a scoring play.

Tennessee took an early 10-0 lead, and answered Kansas City's first
touchdown of the day with one of their own, making it 17-7, but that is
where things started to fizzle.

Major early deficits in time of possession and total yardage faded away
quickly once Mahomes got into a rhythm. And Tennessee, which had been a
giant-killer in the first two rounds of the playoffs --- beating the New
England Patriots and the Baltimore Ravens on the road --- did not
respond well to playing on its heels, with its offense and defense
seeming to fall apart simultaneously.

The Chiefs, who lost Super Bowl I to Green Bay, will head to the
N.F.L.'s championship game for the first time since winning it following
the 1969 season. It is the longest gap between Super Bowl appearances in
N.F.L. history. They will face the winner of Sunday night's N.F.C.
championship game
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/packers-49ers/}{between
the Green Bay Packers and the San Francisco 49ers.}

Read more

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/benjamin-hoffman}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/10/17/multimedia/author-benjamin-hoffman/author-benjamin-hoffman-thumbLarge.png}}

Jan. 19, 2020, 6:13 p.m. ET

Jan. 19, 2020, 6:13 p.m. ET

By
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/benjamin-hoffman}{Benjamin
Hoffman}

\hypertarget{frank-clark-sack-all-but-guarantees-kansas-city-victory}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{frank-clark-sack-all-but-guarantees-kansas-city-victory}{Frank
Clark sack all but guarantees Kansas City
victory.}}{Frank Clark sack all but guarantees Kansas City victory.}}\label{frank-clark-sack-all-but-guarantees-kansas-city-victory}}

Image

Credit...Chang W. Lee/The New York Times

The Titans failed to convert on fourth-and-6 from their own 35-yard
line, with Ryan Tannehill being knocked backward by Frank Clark for a
sack, and this game is effectively over.

The Chiefs just have to kneel on the ball to clinch the victory.

\hypertarget{advertisement}{%
\subsubsection{Advertisement}\label{advertisement}}

\protect\hyperlink{after-dfp-ad-mid1}{Continue reading the main story}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/benjamin-hoffman}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/10/17/multimedia/author-benjamin-hoffman/author-benjamin-hoffman-thumbLarge.png}}

Jan. 19, 2020, 5:56 p.m. ET

Jan. 19, 2020, 5:56 p.m. ET

By
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/benjamin-hoffman}{Benjamin
Hoffman}

\hypertarget{tennessee-not-giving-up-just-yet}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{tennessee-not-giving-up-just-yet}{Tennessee
not giving up just
yet.}}{Tennessee not giving up just yet.}}\label{tennessee-not-giving-up-just-yet}}

Image

Credit...Chang W. Lee/The New York Times

It may be a case of too little too late, but Tennessee answered Kansas
City's latest touchdown by going 80 yards on eight plays, with Ryan
Tannehill finding tight end Anthony Firkser for a leaping 22-yard
touchdown which reduced the Titans' deficit to 35-24.

It was the first time in the second half that the Titans have been
aggressive in passing the ball, and the returns were good. Tennessee
kept the drive alive with a fake punt in which Brett Kern completed a
28-yard pass to Amani Hooker and Tannehill got a 22-yard catch-and-run
from Corey Davis.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/benjamin-hoffman}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/10/17/multimedia/author-benjamin-hoffman/author-benjamin-hoffman-thumbLarge.png}}

Jan. 19, 2020, 5:45 p.m. ET

Jan. 19, 2020, 5:45 p.m. ET

By
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/benjamin-hoffman}{Benjamin
Hoffman}

\hypertarget{sammy-watkins-outraces-defense-for-60-yard-touchdown}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{sammy-watkins-outraces-defense-for-60-yard-touchdown}{Sammy
Watkins outraces defense for 60-yard
touchdown.}}{Sammy Watkins outraces defense for 60-yard touchdown.}}\label{sammy-watkins-outraces-defense-for-60-yard-touchdown}}

Image

Credit...Chang W. Lee/The New York Times

After Kansas City had forced another Tennessee punt, Patrick Mahomes and
Sammy Watkins broke this game wide open with a 60-yard bomb of a
touchdown pass in which Watkins outran the entire Tennessee defense and
Mahomes threw deep across the field to find the speedy wide receiver. To
add insult to injury, Tennessee was called for holding on the play in
which they fell behind, 35-17.

The drive had been fairly nondescript ahead of the deep pass, which came
on third-and-6 from Kansas City's 40-yard line. And with just 7:33
remaining in the game, it seems like an absolutely backbreaker for a
Titans team that mostly relies on grinding out games with the run.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/benjamin-hoffman}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/10/17/multimedia/author-benjamin-hoffman/author-benjamin-hoffman-thumbLarge.png}}

Jan. 19, 2020, 5:31 p.m. ET

Jan. 19, 2020, 5:31 p.m. ET

By
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/benjamin-hoffman}{Benjamin
Hoffman}

\hypertarget{damien-williams-extends-kansas-citys-lead}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{damien-williams-extends-kansas-citys-lead}{Damien
Williams extends Kansas City's
lead.}}{Damien Williams extends Kansas City's lead.}}\label{damien-williams-extends-kansas-citys-lead}}

Image

Credit...Chang W. Lee/The New York Times

Think the Chiefs are just a passing team? Think again. Kansas City ran
the ball nine times for 51 yards, contributing the bulk of the yardage
on a 73-yard drive early in the fourth quarter before Damien Williams's
3-yard touchdown that extended the Chiefs' lead, 28-17.

The drive was a mix of handoffs to Williams and Darwin Thompson and
scrambles in which Mahomes read the coverage and decided to keep the
ball himself. For Williams, it was his fourth touchdown of this
postseason.

The Titans led by 10 at two points in the game, but now trail by 11.

\hypertarget{advertisement-1}{%
\subsubsection{Advertisement}\label{advertisement-1}}

\protect\hyperlink{after-dfp-ad-mid2}{Continue reading the main story}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/benjamin-hoffman}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/10/17/multimedia/author-benjamin-hoffman/author-benjamin-hoffman-thumbLarge.png}}

Jan. 19, 2020, 5:25 p.m. ET

Jan. 19, 2020, 5:25 p.m. ET

By
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/benjamin-hoffman}{Benjamin
Hoffman}

\hypertarget{kansas-city-cold-could-be-an-issue-in-the-fourth-quarter}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{kansas-city-cold-could-be-an-issue-in-the-fourth-quarter}{Kansas
City cold could be an issue in the fourth
quarter.}}{Kansas City cold could be an issue in the fourth quarter.}}\label{kansas-city-cold-could-be-an-issue-in-the-fourth-quarter}}

\begin{quote}
It's so cold in KC that Ryan Tannehill is advancing the screen on his
tablet WITH HIS NOSE!
\href{https://t.co/hj0rANPf2y}{pic.twitter.com/hj0rANPf2y}

--- NFLonCBS (@NFLonCBS)
\href{https://twitter.com/NFLonCBS/status/1219019916935942144?ref_src=twsrc\%5Etfw}{January
19, 2020}
\end{quote}

It's 19 degrees in Kansas City, and it will only get colder with the sun
going down at the start of the fourth quarter. The Chiefs are leading,
28-17, to start the fourth quarter after a scoreless third.

The weather does not particularly favor either team, as Kansas City is
used to it and Tennessee's run-heavy approach is weather agnostic,
though deep passes to A.J. Brown may be problematic.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/benjamin-hoffman}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/10/17/multimedia/author-benjamin-hoffman/author-benjamin-hoffman-thumbLarge.png}}

Jan. 19, 2020, 5:15 p.m. ET

Jan. 19, 2020, 5:15 p.m. ET

By
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/benjamin-hoffman}{Benjamin
Hoffman}

\hypertarget{a-slower-start-to-the-third-quarter}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{a-slower-start-to-the-third-quarter}{A
slower start to the third
quarter.}}{A slower start to the third quarter.}}\label{a-slower-start-to-the-third-quarter}}

It seemed like every drive of the first half ended in a scoring play ---
only two didn't --- but the third quarter began with consecutive punts.
The latest came by way of the Chiefs getting a huge stop on third-and-10
when safety Daniel Sorensen absolutely flattened Ryan Tannehill four
yards short of converting on a run in which Tannehill had been showing
off his underrated wheels.

Kansas City had given the ball back to Tennessee fairly quickly despite
having the opening drive of the half extended by way of a successful
challenge in which it was shown that Sammy Watkins was in-bounds on a
crucial third-down catch. The drive fizzled five plays later when
Patrick Mahomes's pass to Tyreek Hill fell incomplete on a third-and-10
from Kansas City's 47-yard line.

\begin{quote}
Catch? \href{https://t.co/4YT5EybFte}{pic.twitter.com/4YT5EybFte}

--- NFLonCBS (@NFLonCBS)
\href{https://twitter.com/NFLonCBS/status/1219014699729215490?ref_src=twsrc\%5Etfw}{January
19, 2020}
\end{quote}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/joe-ward}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/06/13/multimedia/author-joe-ward/author-joe-ward-thumbLarge.jpg}}

Jan. 19, 2020, 5:01 p.m. ET

Jan. 19, 2020, 5:01 p.m. ET

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/joe-ward}{Joe Ward}

\hypertarget{can-henry-wear-down-the-chiefs}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{can-henry-wear-down-the-chiefs}{Can
Henry wear down the
Chiefs?}}{Can Henry wear down the Chiefs?}}\label{can-henry-wear-down-the-chiefs}}

Derrick Henry averaged 188.5 yards rushing in the first two games of the
playoffs, wearing down New England's and Baltimore's defenses with his
bruising running style. Henry did much of his damage against the
Patriots in the first half, and simply ran over the Ravens in the second
half.

The Chiefs today moved many of its defenders up near the line of
scrimmage to help shut down Henry --- with mixed results. His 62 yards
on 16 carries in the first half resulted in one touchdown and allowed
the Titans to control the time of possession, limiting the time on the
field for the explosive Chiefs quarterback Patrick Mahomes. But Mahomes
made the most of his opportunities, giving the Chiefs the lead late in
the first half. Expect Tennessee to do more of the same in the second
half, relying on Henry to eat up yards and eat up time.

\hypertarget{advertisement-2}{%
\subsubsection{Advertisement}\label{advertisement-2}}

\protect\hyperlink{after-dfp-ad-mid3}{Continue reading the main story}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/icons/t_logo_291_black.png}

Jan. 19, 2020, 4:56 p.m. ET

Jan. 19, 2020, 4:56 p.m. ET

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/chang-w-lee}{Chang W.
Lee}

\hypertarget{patrick-mahomess-touchdown-run-changed-the-games-momentum}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{patrick-mahomess-touchdown-run-changed-the-games-momentum}{Patrick
Mahomes's touchdown run changed the game's
momentum.}}{Patrick Mahomes's touchdown run changed the game's momentum.}}\label{patrick-mahomess-touchdown-run-changed-the-games-momentum}}

Patrick Mahomes capped Kansas City's 86-yard drive by thundering into
the end zone himself.

Image

Image

Image

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/benjamin-hoffman}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/10/17/multimedia/author-benjamin-hoffman/author-benjamin-hoffman-thumbLarge.png}}

Jan. 19, 2020, 4:47 p.m. ET

Jan. 19, 2020, 4:47 p.m. ET

By
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/benjamin-hoffman}{Benjamin
Hoffman}

\hypertarget{game-slipping-away-from-titans-at-halftime}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{game-slipping-away-from-titans-at-halftime}{Game
slipping away from Titans at
halftime.}}{Game slipping away from Titans at halftime.}}\label{game-slipping-away-from-titans-at-halftime}}

It was a wild first half in Kansas City, with Tennessee largely being
able to do what it wanted on offense. Yet the Titans still went into
halftime trailing, 21-17.

The Titans got 62 rushing yards and a touchdown from Derrick Henry, and
120 passing yards and a touchdown from Ryan Tannehill, which helped them
build leads of 10-0 and 17-7. But Kansas City didn't relent after
punting on its first possession, following that with touchdowns on its
next three.

Patrick Mahomes is up to 172 passing yards and 36 rushing yards, and has
exploited the Titans' secondary thanks to the speed of Tyreek Hill, who
has 52 yards and two touchdowns.

\begin{quote}
Mahomes flexing all over today 💪
\href{https://twitter.com/PatrickMahomes?ref_src=twsrc\%5Etfw}{@PatrickMahomes}
\href{https://t.co/pGzgEHBOYH}{pic.twitter.com/pGzgEHBOYH}

--- The Checkdown (@thecheckdown)
\href{https://twitter.com/thecheckdown/status/1219009549027307520?ref_src=twsrc\%5Etfw}{January
19, 2020}
\end{quote}

The Titans only failed to score on one full possession --- beyond a
kneel-down with seven seconds left in the half --- and dominated time of
possession with 19:08 to Kansas City's 10:52. But the game was clearly
slipping away from them at the end of the first half, and Kansas City
getting the ball to start the second half won't help.

The saving grace for Tennessee is that the team has typically finished
games far stronger than it started, with the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/01/16/sports/derrick-henry-titans-playoffs.html}{run-heavy
strategy centered around Henry} to wear teams down creating
opportunities for Tannehill.

Read more

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/benjamin-hoffman}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/10/17/multimedia/author-benjamin-hoffman/author-benjamin-hoffman-thumbLarge.png}}

Jan. 19, 2020, 4:36 p.m. ET

Jan. 19, 2020, 4:36 p.m. ET

By
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/benjamin-hoffman}{Benjamin
Hoffman}

\hypertarget{patrick-mahomess-run-gives-kansas-city-its-first-lead}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{patrick-mahomess-run-gives-kansas-city-its-first-lead}{Patrick
Mahomes's run gives Kansas City its first
lead.}}{Patrick Mahomes's run gives Kansas City its first lead.}}\label{patrick-mahomess-run-gives-kansas-city-its-first-lead}}

Patrick Mahomes pulled off a run that looked like something from the
Lamar Jackson playbook, stepping out of two tackles, racing down the
sideline and fighting through traffic at the goal line for a 27-yard
touchdown. After having trailed, 10-0, at one point, the Kansas City
Chiefs are leading the Titans, 21-17.

The Chiefs are truly rolling, going 86 yards on nine plays after getting
the ball back just after the two-minute warning. The drive had been set
up when the Chiefs' defense finally came up with a great stretch of
plays, forcing a three-and-out. While Tennessee will get one more brief
possession in this half, Kansas City will receive the ball to start the
second half.

\begin{quote}
😳😳😳 Mahomes =
\href{https://twitter.com/hashtag/Baller?src=hash\&ref_src=twsrc\%5Etfw}{\#Baller}

--- Russell Wilson (@DangeRussWilson)
\href{https://twitter.com/DangeRussWilson/status/1219009810760208384?ref_src=twsrc\%5Etfw}{January
19, 2020}
\end{quote}

\hypertarget{advertisement-3}{%
\subsubsection{Advertisement}\label{advertisement-3}}

\protect\hyperlink{after-dfp-ad-mid4}{Continue reading the main story}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/icons/t_logo_291_black.png}

Jan. 19, 2020, 4:32 p.m. ET

Jan. 19, 2020, 4:32 p.m. ET

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/chang-w-lee}{Chang W.
Lee}

\hypertarget{kelly-is-the-heaviest-player-to-catch-a-postseason-touchdown-pass}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{kelly-is-the-heaviest-player-to-catch-a-postseason-touchdown-pass}{Kelly
is the heaviest player to catch a postseason touchdown
pass.}}{Kelly is the heaviest player to catch a postseason touchdown pass.}}\label{kelly-is-the-heaviest-player-to-catch-a-postseason-touchdown-pass}}

Titans quarterback Ryan Tannehill completed a 1-yard touchdown pass to
tackle Dennis Kelly to put Tennessee ahead, 17-7, early in the second
quarter.

Image

Image

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/benjamin-hoffman}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/10/17/multimedia/author-benjamin-hoffman/author-benjamin-hoffman-thumbLarge.png}}

Jan. 19, 2020, 4:18 p.m. ET

Jan. 19, 2020, 4:18 p.m. ET

By
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/benjamin-hoffman}{Benjamin
Hoffman}

\hypertarget{chiefs-quickly-answer-with-tyreek-hills-second-touchdown}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{chiefs-quickly-answer-with-tyreek-hills-second-touchdown}{Chiefs
quickly answer with Tyreek Hill's second
touchdown.}}{Chiefs quickly answer with Tyreek Hill's second touchdown.}}\label{chiefs-quickly-answer-with-tyreek-hills-second-touchdown}}

No one answers a scoring drive better than Patrick Mahomes, and the
Chiefs quarterback kept his team squarely in this game by following the
Titans' latest touchdown by going 63 yards on just five plays. He hit
wide receiver Tyreek Hill with a 20-yard touchdown pass in which Hill
barely seemed to be covered by Tennessee.

Mahomes is having no problem with the Titans' underwhelming pass defense
so far. He has completed 9 of 13 passes for 120 yards and two
touchdowns.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/benjamin-hoffman}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/10/17/multimedia/author-benjamin-hoffman/author-benjamin-hoffman-thumbLarge.png}}

Jan. 19, 2020, 4:12 p.m. ET

Jan. 19, 2020, 4:12 p.m. ET

By
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/benjamin-hoffman}{Benjamin
Hoffman}

\hypertarget{titans-take-advantage-of-penalty-to-extend-lead}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{titans-take-advantage-of-penalty-to-extend-lead}{Titans
take advantage of penalty to extend
lead.}}{Titans take advantage of penalty to extend lead.}}\label{titans-take-advantage-of-penalty-to-extend-lead}}

Tennessee was handed a huge gift in the form of a pass interference
penalty against Kansas City on a third-and-22 play, and that was just
the boost the Titans needed to finish off a 75-yard drive, culminating
with Ryan Tannehill completing a 1-yard touchdown pass to tackle Dennis
Kelly, who had been declared an eligible receiver in the jumbo package.
Tennessee now leads, 17-7, early in the second quarter.

\begin{quote}
The Titans cap a NINE-MINUTE DRIVE with a Tannehill touchdown throw to
his offensive lineman, UNREAL
\href{https://t.co/2Pgfh4XkCM}{pic.twitter.com/2Pgfh4XkCM}

--- NFLonCBS (@NFLonCBS)
\href{https://twitter.com/NFLonCBS/status/1219003200189059072?ref_src=twsrc\%5Etfw}{January
19, 2020}
\end{quote}

The biggest play of the drive --- beyond the touchdown pass to the
6-foot-8, 321-pound Kelly --- was the long third-down conversion attempt
in which Tannehill completed a pass to Corey Davis that was 12 yards
short of a first down. Kansas City was flagged for interference on the
play, giving Tennessee a short field and a first down. From there it
seemed like just a matter of time until the Titans scored. The drive
took 9 minutes 7 seconds of clock time, which is huge considering
Tennessee's best bet to win is keeping Patrick Mahomes off the field.

\hypertarget{advertisement-4}{%
\subsubsection{Advertisement}\label{advertisement-4}}

\protect\hyperlink{after-dfp-ad-mid5}{Continue reading the main story}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/benjamin-hoffman}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/10/17/multimedia/author-benjamin-hoffman/author-benjamin-hoffman-thumbLarge.png}}

Jan. 19, 2020, 3:58 p.m. ET

Jan. 19, 2020, 3:58 p.m. ET

By
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/benjamin-hoffman}{Benjamin
Hoffman}

\hypertarget{titans-lead-10-7-at-end-of-first-quarter}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{titans-lead-10-7-at-end-of-first-quarter}{Titans
lead, 10-7, at end of first
quarter.}}{Titans lead, 10-7, at end of first quarter.}}\label{titans-lead-10-7-at-end-of-first-quarter}}

At the end of the first quarter, this game has been as exciting
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/01/17/sports/football/nfl-playoffs-conference-picks.html}{as
Las Vegas expected} when setting an aggressive over/under at 52.5
points. The Titans moved down the field with ease on their first two
drives, and Kansas City, after a slow start, looked electric on its
second chance with the ball.

Going into the second quarter, Tennessee has the ball, a distinct
advantage in both total yards and time of possession, and a 10-7 lead.
Derrick Henry has 32 rushing yards on eight carries and Ryan Tannehill,
who was held to fewer than 100 passing yards in each of his first two
playoff games, is already at 83.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/benjamin-hoffman}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/10/17/multimedia/author-benjamin-hoffman/author-benjamin-hoffman-thumbLarge.png}}

Jan. 19, 2020, 3:52 p.m. ET

Jan. 19, 2020, 3:52 p.m. ET

By
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/benjamin-hoffman}{Benjamin
Hoffman}

\hypertarget{tyreek-hill-put-the-chiefs-on-the-board-with-a-touchdown-catch}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{tyreek-hill-put-the-chiefs-on-the-board-with-a-touchdown-catch}{Tyreek
Hill put the Chiefs on the board with a touchdown
catch.}}{Tyreek Hill put the Chiefs on the board with a touchdown catch.}}\label{tyreek-hill-put-the-chiefs-on-the-board-with-a-touchdown-catch}}

Image

Credit...Charlie Riedel/Associated Press

Kansas City waited until they were behind, 24-0,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/01/12/sports/football/chiefs-texans.html}{to
come alive last week}, but was spurred into action with just a 10-point
deficit this week. The team went 74 yards on 10 plays, scoring when
Tyreek Hill took a short pass from Patrick Mahomes in the backfield and
raced around the left corner for a 8-yard touchdown, narrowing the
Titans' lead to 10-7.

Just like Tennessee, Kansas City showed some aggressiveness by eschewing
the kicking game and going for a conversion on fourth-and-2 from
Tennessee's 28-yard line. They converted with a 4-yard pass from Mahomes
to Travis Kelce. The Titans have been sending quite a bit of pressure
early, but Mahomes has held strong, and managed to evade a sack to
complete a crucial 26-yard pass to Tyreek Hill, who showed some
awareness by coming back to the ball and trapping it just before it hit
the turf.

The Chiefs used their first timeout on the drive, and Tennessee had a
brief delay of game when linebacker Rashaan Evans had to come off the
field with an injury.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/benjamin-hoffman}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/10/17/multimedia/author-benjamin-hoffman/author-benjamin-hoffman-thumbLarge.png}}

Jan. 19, 2020, 3:35 p.m. ET

Jan. 19, 2020, 3:35 p.m. ET

By
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/benjamin-hoffman}{Benjamin
Hoffman}

\hypertarget{titans-extend-lead-with-henrys-touchdown-run}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{titans-extend-lead-with-henrys-touchdown-run}{Titans
extend lead with Henry's touchdown
run.}}{Titans extend lead with Henry's touchdown run.}}\label{titans-extend-lead-with-henrys-touchdown-run}}

Image

Credit...Tom Pennington/Getty Images

Derrick Henry took a direct snap and plowed his way into the end zone on
a 4-yard run, giving the Titans an early 10-0 lead. The run was the
culmination of a 58-yard drive in which Tennessee rolled the dice on a
fourth-and-2 play from Kansas City's 29-yard line rather than attempt a
long field goal.

The drive, which followed a three-and-out from Kansas City's offense,
had begun with two strong runs by Henry, which gained a total of 16
yards. Ryan Tannehill then got away with a rare mistake when cornerback
Bashaud Breeland stepped in front of a pass for a play that was
initially called an interception, but was ruled incomplete following a
review. A few penalties, a few more runs, and the huge fourth down pass
from Tannehill to wide receiver Adam Humphries let the Titans score
fairly easily.

\hypertarget{advertisement-5}{%
\subsubsection{Advertisement}\label{advertisement-5}}

\protect\hyperlink{after-dfp-ad-mid6}{Continue reading the main story}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/benjamin-hoffman}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/10/17/multimedia/author-benjamin-hoffman/author-benjamin-hoffman-thumbLarge.png}}

Jan. 19, 2020, 3:17 p.m. ET

Jan. 19, 2020, 3:17 p.m. ET

By
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/benjamin-hoffman}{Benjamin
Hoffman}

\hypertarget{titans-take-3-0-lead-with-rare-field-goal}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{titans-take-3-0-lead-with-rare-field-goal}{Titans
take 3-0 lead with rare field
goal.}}{Titans take 3-0 lead with rare field goal.}}\label{titans-take-3-0-lead-with-rare-field-goal}}

Image

Credit...Chang W. Lee/The New York Times

After a promising opening drive stalled out, the Titans got an early
lead with a 30-yard field goal by Greg Joseph, giving them an early 3-0
lead. The team had not made a field goal since Week 13.

Tennessee had looked far different on its first drive than it did in the
last two weeks. On the second play of the game, Ryan Tannehill made a
point about his passing ability by throwing long to rookie wide receiver
A.J. Brown, who cut through defenders for a 37-yard gain. Two plays
later, he picked up a second first down with a 12-yard catch-and-run to
Corey Davis. The team did not get much traction with running back
Derrick Henry, but his style lends itself more to wearing teams down
rather than big gains early in the day.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/benjamin-hoffman}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/10/17/multimedia/author-benjamin-hoffman/author-benjamin-hoffman-thumbLarge.png}}

Jan. 19, 2020, 3:00 p.m. ET

Jan. 19, 2020, 3:00 p.m. ET

By
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/benjamin-hoffman}{Benjamin
Hoffman}

\hypertarget{chris-jones-will-be-active-for-chiefs}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{chris-jones-will-be-active-for-chiefs}{Chris
Jones will be active for
Chiefs.}}{Chris Jones will be active for Chiefs.}}\label{chris-jones-will-be-active-for-chiefs}}

Image

Kansas City's Chris Jones was unable to play in last weekend's
divisional round win over Houston. He led the Chiefs with nine sacks
this season.Credit...Denny Medley/USA Today Sports, via Reuters

Chris Jones was not on Kansas City's final injury report heading into
the game, and is expected to be active. The defensive tackle missed
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/01/12/sports/football/chiefs-texans.html}{last
week's win over Houston} with a calf injury, but had a breakout season
in 2019, earning his first Pro Bowl selection. Jones led the team with
nine sacks, and could be key in helping slow down Tennessee's Derrick
Henry, but he had to pass a pregame workout to be declared active. The
Chiefs are also expecting tight end Travis Kelce to play through a
lingering knee injury. Running back LeSean McCoy is inactive for the
Chiefs, and Kansas City's biggest absence is one they knew of in
advance: rookie safety Juan Thornhill, who tore the anterior cruciate
ligament in his left knee in Week 17.

Tennessee, meanwhile, had several key players on its injury report
heading into today, but linebacker Jayon Brown (who missed last
weekend's game with a shoulder injury) and wide receiver Adam Humphries
(who has not played since Week 13) will be active.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/benjamin-hoffman}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/10/17/multimedia/author-benjamin-hoffman/author-benjamin-hoffman-thumbLarge.png}}

Jan. 19, 2020, 2:30 p.m. ET

Jan. 19, 2020, 2:30 p.m. ET

By
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/benjamin-hoffman}{Benjamin
Hoffman}

\hypertarget{head-coaches-have-plenty-of-conference-championship-experience}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{head-coaches-have-plenty-of-conference-championship-experience}{Head
coaches have plenty of conference championship
experience.}}{Head coaches have plenty of conference championship experience.}}\label{head-coaches-have-plenty-of-conference-championship-experience}}

Image

Mike Vrabel, left, of the Titans played in the conference championships
six times as a player. Andy Reid of the Chiefs has coached in this round
of the playoffs 10 times.Credit...Brett Carlsen/Getty Images

The head coaches of the Titans and Chiefs are no strangers to conference
championships. Coach Andy Reid has led Kansas City to the A.F.C.
championship game in each of the last two seasons and previously led the
Philadelphia Eagles to the N.F.C. championship game five times in 14
seasons --- winning once. As a Green Bay assistant from 1992 to 1997, he
went to the N.F.C. championship three times, winning twice.

Tennessee's Mike Vrabel is in the A.F.C. championship game for the first
time as a head coach, but he regularly advanced to the game as a player.
He played for a shot at a Super Bowl appearance as a rookie with the
Pittsburgh Steelers following the 1997 season --- losing to John Elway's
Denver Broncos --- and with the New England Patriots, where he played in
the conference championship five times over a span of eight seasons,
winning four times.

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
