Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/realestate}{Real Estate}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/realestate}{Real Estate}\textbar{}Harris Faulkner,
Working From Home in Shades of Blue

\url{https://nyti.ms/31mowku}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

What I Love

\hypertarget{harris-faulkner-working-from-home-in-shades-of-blue}{%
\section{Harris Faulkner, Working From Home in Shades of
Blue}\label{harris-faulkner-working-from-home-in-shades-of-blue}}

The Fox News anchor's mother gave her some decorating advice: `Just make
it beautiful.' And she's been trying.

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/slideshow/2020/08/04/realestate/things-dont-have-to-be-matchy-matchy-and-other-design-tips-from-harris-faulkners-mom.html}{}

\hypertarget{things-dont-have-to-be-matchy-matchy-and-other-design-tips-from-harris-faulkners-mom}{%
\subsection{`Things Don't Have to Be Matchy-Matchy' and Other Design
Tips From Harris Faulkner's
Mom}\label{things-dont-have-to-be-matchy-matchy-and-other-design-tips-from-harris-faulkners-mom}}

12 Photos

View Slide Show ›

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/08/09/realestate/04WHATILOVE-FAULKNER-slide-S4NT/04WHATILOVE-FAULKNER-slide-S4NT-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Stefano Ukmar for The New York Times

By Joanne Kaufman

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Aug. 4, 2020, 5:00 a.m. ET
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

When Harris Faulkner stands on the roof deck of her family's townhouse
in Edgewater, N.J., she has a fine view of the Hudson River agleam in
the sun, the George Washington Bridge off to the left and the ferry as
it pulls away from the terminal and heads for the Far West Side of
Manhattan.

In the days before the pandemic, Ms. Faulkner, 54, routinely took that
ferry to her anchor job at the Fox News Channel.

Since spring, however, she has been working from a home studio, an
interloper in the man cave of her husband, Tony Berlin, for the
broadcasts of her back-to-back weekday news and discussion programs,
``Outnumbered'' and ``Outnumbered Overtime.''

Nearly five years ago, Ms. Faulkner and Mr. Berlin, the owner of a media
relations company, decided they were outgrowing the townhouse they
shared with their daughters, Bella, now 13, and Danika, 11.

``I was out walking the neighborhood, and I looked down the street we
live on now, and I thought, `Wow, it looks like they're building
something down there,''' Ms. Faulkner said. ``And I thought, `Wow, I
have to keep my eye on that.'''

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/08/09/realestate/04WHATILOVE-FAULKNER-slide-NHMN/04WHATILOVE-FAULKNER-slide-NHMN-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

A few weeks later, she took a second reconnaissance stroll, this time
with Mr. Berlin, and by chance, the couple ran into the developer who
was visiting the construction site. They expressed their strong interest
in the property, and because they got in on the ground floor, were able
to add custom features --- among them, a garage for each of them and
dark-gray ash wood flooring on the stairs.

``The builder showed me a little sketch of the kitchen, and I said, `But
there's no laundry right there. And what about a pantry?' And the
builder looked at my husband,'' Ms. Faulkner recalled. ``Then I said,
`There isn't enough counter space,' and I sketched out a 12-foot-long
island.''

Once again, the builder shot Mr. Berlin a look that translated roughly
to ``She does realize she doesn't own this house yet, right?''

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

\hypertarget{harris-faulkner-54}{%
\subsection{Harris Faulkner, 54}\label{harris-faulkner-54}}

\textbf{Occupation:} Television journalist

\textbf{Getting in shape:} ``I'm glad we have the type of house we do,
with a lot of open square and rectangular rooms. I've lived in some
beautiful vintage houses with archways and weird angles, where you have
to put a chair in a certain place and you can't move it, because it
won't fit anywhere else.''

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

``I wanted to catch things very early,'' Ms. Faulkner said defensively.
``Because, obviously, I had a plan. And you know: He built the island
exactly the way I wanted.''

Partly because of its proximity to the water, partly because of the
expansive deck, the anchor mat outside the front door, the light, airy
rooms and the starring role played by the color blue, Ms. Faulkner's
home feels more beach house than townhouse.

Mr. Berlin, she said, was most assuredly not on the decorating committee
when the family moved in four years ago. She handled the job herself,
inspired by her mother, Shirley Harris, an Army wife who had a keen
sense of style joined with an ability to inject warmth and character
into the most featureless military housing. (Ms. Faulkner's father, Bob
Harris, known simply as Harris during his years in the service, was also
a source of inspiration. Daughter wanted to be like dad, and persuaded
her parents to change her first name to ``Harris.'' She took the last
name of a distant family member so as not to be Harris Harris.)

Image

Ms. Faulkner wanted lots of counter space. She sketched out what she had
in mind --- a 12-foot-long island --- for the developer.Credit...Stefano
Ukmar for The New York Times

``My mom's big thing was that the kitchen is not only where everyone
comes, but where everyone should \emph{want} to come, so there should
always be a treaty-treat out,'' Ms. Faulkner said of Mrs. Harris, who
died in late November of 2016 and never got to see the house. ``Her
whole thing was that you should have a clear counter space to leave out
snacks.''

Thus, the marble-topped island that was hastily drawn for the property
developer.

Let's just say that mother gave daughter her marching orders. ``Blue is
important to me, so what my mom would say is, `Then let me see blue
everyplace you go in the house --- but in different textures, and don't
make it obvious,''' Ms. Faulkner said.

She pointed, first, to the tufted navy-blue velvet sofa in the family
room, just off the kitchen, with the blue theme picked up on accent
pillows in the living room. Blue is also represented in the pattern of
the cushions on the chairs around the dining table and in a custom-made
abstract painting.

A plant on a shelf in the living room nestles in an azure pot. Nearby is
a photo of a beach Ms. Faulkner and Mr. Berlin hiked on the big island
of Hawaii; an expanse of royal-blue water features prominently.
(Admittedly, it's pure coincidence that the mats on the living room
floor, an accommodation to the resident gymnasts, Danika and Bella, are
also blue.)

``My mother used to tell me that my taste --- how did she put it? ---
she said it didn't have texture,'' Ms. Faulkner said. ``She told me I
had a very flat-page way of decorating. She used to say, `Let's make
life more beautiful. Just make it beautiful.'''

Message received, Mom. On a wall in the dining room hangs an artwork
made from trash, a work by women living in a village outside of Cape
Town. During a trip to Amsterdam several years ago, Ms. Faulkner, a
self-described bovine lover, had a ceramic cow made in her favorite
colors --- blue included, of course. It stands on the white acrylic
buffet in the dining room next to a multicolored string bowl made by
Danika for a fund-raiser to feed the hungry in Hoboken, N.J.

``My mother challenged me,'' Ms. Faulkner said. ``She said, `Let your
life experience help you decorate, and be part of the texture. Things
don't have to be matchy-matchy, and they don't have to have meaning to
anyone but you.'''

Image

``The red chest sat in my parents' dining room for years and years. I'm
grateful to have it,'' she said, recalling that her mother ``used to
say, `Let's make life more beautiful. Just make it
beautiful.'''Credit...Stefano Ukmar for The New York Times

In fact, the pieces that seem to have the greatest meaning to Ms.
Faulkner are those that once belonged to Mrs. Harris: the blue-gray
china stored in a glass-fronted cabinet in the dining room; the doll
collection; a crystal dog; an elaborate wooden birdhouse (``She loved
birdhouses and bird cages because they were emblems of hope,'' Ms.
Faulkner said); a red Asian-style chest that holds hundreds of recipes
written out in Mrs. Harris's meticulous cursive.

``You can see the markings on the chest. It has made a lot of moves, and
I'm so grateful that I've got it here now,'' Ms. Faulkner said.

``My mother would tell me, `If there's something you want when I'm gone,
let me know and you can have it,''' she continued. ``And I would say,
`Mom, that's a terrible thing to say!' And she said, `Well, you won't
feel that way when I'm gone, because your house is going to look
better.'''

For weekly email updates on residential real estate news,
\href{http://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/realestate/}{sign up here}.
Follow us on Twitter:
\href{https://twitter.com/nytrealestate}{@nytrealestate}.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
