Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/realestate}{Real Estate}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/realestate}{Real Estate}\textbar{}5 Things You Need to
Upgrade Your Tiny Outdoor Space

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/spotlight/at-home?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=at_home_menu}{At
Home}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/03/well/family/the-benefits-of-talking-to-strangers.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=at_home_menu}{Talk:
  To Strangers}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/01/at-home/coronavirus-make-pizza-on-a-grill.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=at_home_menu}{Make:
  Grilled Pizza}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/arts/television/goldbergs-abc-stream.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=at_home_menu}{Watch:
  'The Goldbergs'}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/at-home/even-more-reporters-editors-diaries-lists-recommendations.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=at_home_menu}{Explore:
  Reporters' Google Docs}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{5-things-you-need-to-upgrade-your-tiny-outdoor-space}{%
\section{5 Things You Need to Upgrade Your Tiny Outdoor
Space}\label{5-things-you-need-to-upgrade-your-tiny-outdoor-space}}

It's never been more important to make your balcony, terrace, or patch
of cement cozy and hospitable. Here's how.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/08/04/realestate/04wirecutter-outdoors5/04wirecutter-outdoors5-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By Dorie Chevlen

\emph{Ms. Chevlen is an associate staff writer at Wirecutter, a product
recommendation site owned by The New York Times Company.}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Aug. 4, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Growing up in a squat ranch house in Ohio, I dreamed of moving to the
Big City (any big city) and serenading dewy-eyed writer boys on a
ukulele from my very own urban veranda. Now that I work at
\href{http://www.nytimes.com/wirecutter?utm_source=nytimes\&utm_medium=referral\&utm_campaign=outdoor-space}{Wirecutter}
and live in New York --- which is cramped under the best circumstances,
let alone during a pandemic --- I've found that wandering into my small
outdoor space has many more benefits, helping to alleviate the boxed-in
feeling I get from waking, working, relaxing and sleeping under one
roof. It's a restlessness people are experiencing no matter where they
live during this summer of quarantine.

A few accessories can help the outdoors feel as comfortable as possible.
Whether you have a terrace, a balcony or a sunny patch of cement, here
are five things you can buy to make that small outdoor space more
pleasure than pain.

\hypertarget{better-flooring}{%
\subsection{Better Flooring}\label{better-flooring}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/08/04/realestate/04wirecutter-outdoors6/04wirecutter-outdoors6-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

To reduce the risk that you'll drop your phone through the cracks in
your balcony or suffer a sore tush from sitting on cement, you'll want
some sort of floor cover.

Obviously the nicest fix is to install legitimate deck tiles, but if
you're a renter --- or, like me, you're useless with home-improvement
projects --- you'll want a no-installation option. One easy solution is
a
wood\href{https://www.nytimes.com/wirecutter/reviews/best-bathroom-rugs-and-bath-mats/?utm_source=nytimes\&utm_medium=referral\&utm_campaign=outdoor-space}{bath
mat}. The
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/wirecutter/reviews/best-bathroom-rugs-and-bath-mats/?utm_source=nytimes\&utm_medium=referral\&utm_campaign=outdoor-space\#a-spa-style-wood-platform-toilettree-products-bamboo-bath-mat}{ToiletTree
Products Bamboo Bath Mat} (about \$50) is waterproof, vented to allow
drainage without pooling (which attracts mosquitoes), and durable enough
to withstand years of use. Plus, it has a nonskid surface and rubber
feet to stop it from sliding across your floor. The ToiletTree mat is
also extremely cute, and two or three of them should cover a small space
with no effort.

If you'd rather not create a hard surface, you can use a
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/wirecutter/reviews/best-yoga-mats/?utm_source=nytimes\&utm_medium=referral\&utm_campaign=outdoor-space}{yoga
mat} or a
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/wirecutter/reviews/best-picnic-blanket/?utm_source=nytimes\&utm_medium=referral\&utm_campaign=outdoor-space}{picnic
blanket} as a comfortable seat in a pinch. In our tests,
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/wirecutter/reviews/best-yoga-mats/?utm_source=nytimes\&utm_medium=referral\&utm_campaign=outdoor-space\#our-pick-lululemon-the-reversible-mat-5mm}{Lululemon
The Reversible Mat 5mm} (about \$70) and the
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/wirecutter/reviews/best-picnic-blanket/?utm_source=nytimes\&utm_medium=referral\&utm_campaign=outdoor-space\#best-overall-picnic-blanket-nemo-victory-blanket}{Nemo
Victory Blanket} (about \$50) emerged as the favorites for comfort.
Neither will be good for putting furniture on, and you won't be able to
leave them outside, but if you just want to sit in the sun and gaze
slackly into the middle distance, both offer better padding than the
hard floor.

\hypertarget{outdoor-lights}{%
\subsection{Outdoor Lights}\label{outdoor-lights}}

Image

Wirecutter has several suggestions for good outdoor lighting that can
stand up to wind and water, including the Newhouse Lighting 48 ft.
11-Watt Outdoor Weatherproof String Light.Credit...Rozette Rago

Even if you're not trying to read on your balcony after sunset, a set of
string lights or a lantern can achieve more than pure function: It sets
a mood, transforming your anodyne patio into something dreamy.
Wirecutter has several suggestions
for\href{https://www.nytimes.com/wirecutter/reviews/best-led-lantern/?utm_source=nytimes\&utm_medium=referral\&utm_campaign=outdoor-space}{good
outdoor lighting} that can stand up to wind and water. The
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/wirecutter/reviews/best-led-lantern/?utm_source=nytimes\&utm_medium=referral\&utm_campaign=outdoor-space\#string-light-newhouse-lighting-48-ft-11-watt-outdoor-weatherproof-string-light}{Newhouse
Lighting 48 ft. 11-Watt Outdoor Weatherproof String Light} (about \$40)
will look equally festive tacked to a wall or braided through a railing.
(Neither installation option will eat up any precious square footage.)

This set of lights comes with a five-year warranty, it's UL-listed for
outdoor use, and its Edison-style bulbs (75 lumens each) emit a cozy,
warm cast to show passers-by that you are the main character on the
stage that is your block. If you want a more concentrated source of
light or would like to read on your balcony, the rugged and powerful
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/wirecutter/reviews/best-led-lantern/?utm_source=nytimes\&utm_medium=referral\&utm_campaign=outdoor-space\#tabletop-lantern-ust-60-day-duro-lantern}{UST
60-Day Duro Lantern} (about \$50) is one of our favorites.

\hypertarget{a-bluetooth-speaker}{%
\subsection{A Bluetooth Speaker}\label{a-bluetooth-speaker}}

Image

Wirecutter's favorite Bluetooth speaker,, the UE Wonderboom 2, connects
easily to any smartphone, offers great sound quality and can play for up
to eight hours on a single charge.Credit...Rozette Rago

If you live in a big city, your outdoor space is likely accompanied by
honking horns, sirens and, lately, fireworks. The problem with a lot of
Bluetooth speakers is that they're simply not loud enough to drown out
the din. Also, they don't hold a charge especially well. Our favorite
Bluetooth speaker solves both these problems in a vibrantly colored
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/wirecutter/reviews/best-bluetooth-speaker/?utm_source=nytimes\&utm_medium=referral\&utm_campaign=outdoor-space}{unit}
that's about the size of a grapefruit.
The\href{https://www.nytimes.com/wirecutter/reviews/best-bluetooth-speaker/?utm_source=nytimes\&utm_medium=referral\&utm_campaign=outdoor-space\#our-pick-ue-wonderboom-2}{UE
Wonderboom 2} (about \$100), connects easily to any smartphone, offers
great sound quality and can play for up to eight hours on a single
charge.

If you're seeking the outdoors to escape sound altogether,
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/wirecutter/reviews/best-noise-cancelling-headphones/?utm_source=nytimes\&utm_medium=referral\&utm_campaign=outdoor-space}{noise-cancelling
headphones} may provide the silence you crave. For less than \$100, our
budget pick,
the\href{https://www.nytimes.com/wirecutter/reviews/best-noise-cancelling-headphones/\#best-budget-over-ear-noise-cancelling-headphones-anker-soundcore-life-q20}{Anker
Soundcore Life Q20}, provides great noise cancellation, feels
comfortable over the ears and can last 30 hours without a charge.

\hypertarget{a-portable-chair}{%
\subsection{A Portable Chair}\label{a-portable-chair}}

Image

 The HDX Black Plastic Seat Foldable Folding Chair is handsome,
lightweight and surprisingly comfortable, even after hours of
sitting.Credit...Sarah Kobos

It's absolutely not OK to leave furniture on your fire escape (not just
according to me ---
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2017/10/22/realestate/can-a-neighbor-keep-flowerpots-on-a-fire-escape.html}{it's
the law}), and you don't want to have your furniture stolen from a
ground-floor terrace. The solution?
A\href{https://www.nytimes.com/wirecutter/reviews/best-folding-chairs/?utm_source=nytimes\&utm_medium=referral\&utm_campaign=outdoor-space}{foldable
chair} that stores easily inside your apartment and can be carried
through your open window with minimal effort. For those of you thinking
back with a shudder to the creak, badly designed folding chairs used in
many an outdated office, fret not. The
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/wirecutter/reviews/best-folding-chairs/?utm_source=nytimes\&utm_medium=referral\&utm_campaign=outdoor-space\#our-pick-hdx-black-plastic-seat-foldable-folding-chair}{HDX
Black Plastic Seat Foldable Folding Chair} (about \$25) is handsome,
lightweight and surprisingly comfortable, even after hours of sitting.

Another great option is a
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/wirecutter/reviews/best-portable-outdoor-chairs/?utm_source=nytimes\&utm_medium=referral\&utm_campaign=outdoor-space}{camping
chair}.
The\href{https://www.nytimes.com/wirecutter/reviews/best-portable-outdoor-chairs/?utm_source=nytimes\&utm_medium=referral\&utm_campaign=outdoor-space\#our-pick-coleman-oversized-quad-chair-with-cooler}{Coleman
Oversized Quad Chair With Cooler} (about \$30) --- which provides two
cup holders, a pouch for magazines and a built-in cooler bag with room
for four beers or sodas --- is our longtime pick, thanks to those
features as well as its unparalleled comfort.

\hypertarget{a-folding-table}{%
\subsection{A Folding Table}\label{a-folding-table}}

Image

If you need a flat surface on which to balance your laptop or papers
while working outside, a lap desk is a cheap, portable option.
Credit...Sarah Kobos

Any flat surface that you'll want for your tiny outdoor space ---
whether to catch up on emails or balance a plate of palak paneer ---
should be compact and lightweight. But it's even better if it folds,
allowing you to take it to and from your terrace or porch rather than
leaving it out in the rain. One option we like is the
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/wirecutter/reviews/best-folding-tables/?utm_source=nytimes\&utm_medium=referral\&utm_campaign=outdoor-space\#a-small-table-for-kids-or-crafts-lifetime-commercial-height-adjustable-folding-utility-table}{Lifetime
80160 Commercial Height Adjustable Folding Utility Table} (about \$55).
At only 4 feet long, with adjustable legs, it's small enough to store in
a closet or under a bed.

If, on the other hand, you just need a flat surface on which to balance
your laptop or papers while working outside, a
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/wirecutter/reviews/best-lap-desk/?utm_source=nytimes\&utm_medium=referral\&utm_campaign=outdoor-space}{lap
desk is a cheap, portable option}. The
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/wirecutter/reviews/best-lap-desk/?utm_source=nytimes\&utm_medium=referral\&utm_campaign=outdoor-space\#our-pick-lapgear-designer}{LapGear
Designer} (about \$30) is our favorite for its comfort and stability.
But if you prefer something that hovers over your lap rather than
directly on it, try the
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/wirecutter/reviews/best-lap-desk/?utm_source=nytimes\&utm_medium=referral\&utm_campaign=outdoor-space\#also-great-avantree-multifunctional}{Avantree
Multifunctional} (about \$70), which keeps your lap cool during warmer
months and has adjustable legs, too.

\emph{Interested in learning more about the best things to buy and how
to use them? Visit}
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/wirecutter/?utm_source=nytimes\&utm_medium=referral\&utm_campaign=wcrealestate\&utm_content=outdoor-space}{\emph{Wirecutter}}\emph{,
where you can read the latest}
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/wirecutter/reviews?utm_source=nytimes\&utm_medium=referral\&utm_campaign=wcrealestate\&utm_content=outdoor-space}{\emph{reviews}}
\emph{and find}
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/wirecutter/deals/?utm_source=nytimes\&utm_medium=referral\&utm_campaign=wcrealestate\&utm_content=outdoor-space}{\emph{daily
deals}}\emph{.}

For weekly email updates on residential real estate news,
\href{http://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/realestate/}{sign up here}.
Follow us on Twitter:
\href{https://twitter.com/nytrealestate}{@nytrealestate}.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
