Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}Inside Wisconsin's Election
Mess: Thousands of Missing or Nullified Ballots

\url{https://nyti.ms/2VgJr5t}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/20/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{D.N.C.
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/20/us/politics/biden-presidential-nomination-dnc.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Biden's
  Speech}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/us/elections/2020-presidential-election-calendar.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Election
  Calendar}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/11/us/politics/vote-by-mail-us-states.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Voting
  by Mail}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Politics
  Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{inside-wisconsins-election-mess-thousands-of-missing-or-nullified-ballots}{%
\section{Inside Wisconsin's Election Mess: Thousands of Missing or
Nullified
Ballots}\label{inside-wisconsins-election-mess-thousands-of-missing-or-nullified-ballots}}

As Wisconsin scrambled to expand voting by mail for its election on
Tuesday, many absentee voters said their ballots went undelivered.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/04/09/us/politics/09wisconsin/merlin_171407025_a354ea0c-f063-46bb-b20c-70e3bbd0e33c-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/nick-corasaniti}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/06/13/multimedia/author-nick-corasaniti/author-nick-corasaniti-thumbLarge-v2.png}}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/stephanie-saul}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/02/06/reader-center/author-stephanie-saul/author-stephanie-saul-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/nick-corasaniti}{Nick
Corasaniti} and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/stephanie-saul}{Stephanie
Saul}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  April 9, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Three tubs of absentee ballots that never reached voters were discovered
in a postal center outside Milwaukee. At least 9,000 absentee ballots
requested by voters were never sent, and others recorded as sent were
never received. Even when voters did return their completed ballots in
the mail, thousands were postmarked too late to count --- or not at all.

Cracks in Wisconsin's vote-by-mail operation are now emerging after the
state's scramble to expand that effort on the fly for voters who feared
going to the polls in Tuesday's elections. The takeaways --- that the
election network and the Postal Service were pushed to the brink of
their capabilities, and that mistakes were clearly made --- are
instructive for other states if they choose to broaden vote-by-mail
methods without sufficient time, money and planning.

More than 860,000 completed absentee ballots had been returned by
Tuesday, already a record for Wisconsin spring elections. But for
thousands of other voters, who never received their ballots, there was
only one recourse: putting their health at risk and defying a
stay-at-home order to vote in person during the coronavirus pandemic.
Many chose not to show up.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/08/us/politics/republicans-vote-by-mail.html}{Federal
health officials have suggested} that expanding voting by mail could
help reduce crowds at polling places and therefore make elections safer
amid the outbreak. The issues that have arisen in Wisconsin offer a
warning for other states of the potential pitfalls of a rapid,
last-minute expansion of absentee balloting, particularly one marred by
a flurry of court challenges and 11th-hour rulings that created
confusion and chaos.

The mix of missing and mismarked ballots suggests that thousands of
Wisconsin voters were effectively disenfranchised, an issue that Justice
Ruth Bader Ginsburg warned of in her dissent to a Supreme Court decision
on Monday that blocked extended absentee balloting in the state. Tens of
thousands of people who did not receive their ballots in time, Justice
Ginsburg wrote, ``will be left quite literally without a vote.''

But many Republicans, and even some Democrats, have continued to cast
concerns on the security and veracity of vote-by-mail systems,
especially ones expanded so rapidly.

``It's a harder system to administer, and obviously it's a harder system
to police writ large,'' Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo, Democrat of New York, said
in a radio interview on Thursday, when asked about the downsides to
expanding voting by mail. ``People showing up, people actually showing
ID, is still the easiest system to assure total integrity.''

\hypertarget{latest-updates-2020-election}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/19/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: 2020
Election}}{Latest Updates: 2020 Election}}\label{latest-updates-2020-election}}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/19/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#night-3-featured-more-policy-a-focus-on-women-and-a-full-throated-rejection-of-trump-by-his-predecessor}{7h
ago}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/19/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#night-3-featured-more-policy-a-focus-on-women-and-a-full-throated-rejection-of-trump-by-his-predecessor}{Night
3 featured more policy, a focus on women and a full-throated rejection
of Trump by his predecessor.}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/19/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#trump-live-tweeted-obamas-speech-tonight-hell-appear-on-fox-news-right-before-bidens-tomorrow}{9h
ago}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/19/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#trump-live-tweeted-obamas-speech-tonight-hell-appear-on-fox-news-right-before-bidens-tomorrow}{Trump
live-tweeted Obama's speech tonight. He'll appear on Fox News right
before Biden's tomorrow.}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/19/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#advocates-for-domestic-violence-survivors-praised-biden-in-a-video}{9h
ago}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/19/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#advocates-for-domestic-violence-survivors-praised-biden-in-a-video}{Advocates
for domestic violence survivors praised Biden in a video.}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/19/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

In Wisconsin, the missing votes could also portend a long legal battle
over the results; one race on Tuesday's ballot was a hotly contested
State Supreme Court seat that, in a normal election, was expected to be
extremely close. The margin in the state's 2019 Supreme Court race was
about 6,000 votes.

``This has all the makings of a Florida 2000 if we have a close race,''
said Gordon Hintz, the Democratic minority leader in the Wisconsin State
Assembly. Mr. Hintz, who lives in Oshkosh, was one of the voters who
never received his absentee ballot --- even though the state's website
said it had been mailed to him. He chose not to vote in person.

Others in Mr. Hintz's district may have encountered the same problem. On
Tuesday, calls began flooding the office of Dan Feyen, the state senator
whose district includes Oshkosh, from voters saying they never received
their ballots, even though they were told their ballots had been sent
out. Nearly every one of those voters had requested their ballots on one
of three dates: March 18, March 22 and March 23, more than two weeks
before the election.

Mr. Feyen, a Republican, filed a complaint with the Wisconsin Elections
Commission, asking it to investigate. He also wants those voters to be
given a chance to fill out and return ballots.

On Wednesday, the commission received a phone call from a postal worker
in Milwaukee who said three bins of absentee ballots had been located
that had never reached their destinations, mostly in Oshkosh and nearby
Appleton. The number of ballots in the bins was not clear.

A spokeswoman for the Postal Service, Martha Johnson, said Thursday that
officials were ``aware of potential issues with absentee ballots in
Wisconsin and are currently conducting an investigation into the
claims.''

Meagan Wolfe, the elections commission's administrator, said she did not
think the U.S. Supreme Court decision left any room for ballots to be
counted if they were not postmarked by Tuesday's deadline. ``There
really isn't any additional things for this election that a voter could
do if their ballot didn't make it by the deadline,'' she said in a news
conference on Wednesday.

Many of the complaints from voters came from the Oshkosh and Appleton
areas, but voters from all over the state said they had not received the
absentee ballots they requested.

Dianne Ostrowski of Waukesha, about 20 miles west of Milwaukee, said she
had filed an online request for an absentee ballot but never received
one.

``I'm talking via Facebook with my family in Madison. Same thing. They
never got their ballot either,'' said Ms. Ostrowski, who is retired from
the financial services industry. Madison, the capital, is more than an
hour west of Waukesha.

Tamera Goodwin and her husband, who live in Madison, also said they
hadn't received ballots. ``I was looking all over the place, I was
looking on the news, Facebook, my state assemblyman's page, talking to
neighbors at a distance, but everyone was confused,'' Ms. Goodwin said.
``None of us has gotten our ballots and none of us had clarity of where
to go.''

Lacking other options, Ms. Goodwin and her husband went to vote in
person on Tuesday.

In Racine, about 40 minutes south of Milwaukee, Dawn and Jeff Loken,
also retired, complained that they did not receive their ballots. The
two Democrats finally trudged to the polls Tuesday night, not to be
deterred by what Mr. Loken, who describes himself as a ``die-hard
Democrat'' viewed as an intentional effort by Republicans to suppress
his vote. (State Republican lawmakers
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/06/us/politics/wisconsin-primary-voting-coronavirus.html}{rebuffed
the Democratic governor's request} to postpone the election.)

Some absentee voters who received their ballots and mailed them back in
time are running into a separate issue: postmarking.

After much legal wrangling over this year's absentee ballot deadlines,
the Supreme Court's decision held that ballots must be postmarked by
Election Day to count. But in at least one city, Madison, a number of
ballots received by the clerk were never even postmarked to begin with.

``We are still receiving mail now from the post office, and about half
of it is postmarked,'' said Maribeth Witzel-Behl, the city clerk. ``It's
probably by now a couple thousand that we've received from the post
office with no postmark.''

She said her office is dating the ballots with its own stamp as soon as
they arrive, and is working with the city attorney to determine what to
do with them.

Even when postmarks are applied, they can prove problematic,
particularly for some rural voters. Michelle Schwenneker, who lives in
rural Jackson County, said that the mail truck in her town comes once a
day, at 7:30 a.m., so if she put her ballot in the mailbox on Election
Day it wouldn't be postmarked in time.

``For me, basically, mailing your ballot and having it postmarked are
basically two different things,'' said Ms. Schwenneker.

With ballots still trickling in and results yet to be released, there
has been no major legal challenge to Tuesday's election. But activist
groups and election lawyers in Wisconsin are still reviewing their
options and monitoring reports of missing ballots.

Even in states that already vote entirely by mail, lost ballots can
plague a system. In Colorado, Secretary of State Jena Griswold
\href{https://www.denverpost.com/2019/11/08/election-2019-jena-griswold/}{excoriated
the Postal Service last November} after 828 ballots arrived in
Denver-area mailboxes on the afternoon of a tight mayoral race in
suburban Aurora --- too late for many people to vote.

But perhaps nothing presented as great a challenge for Wisconsin as the
vast expansion of the absentee system in such a short period of time.
More than 1.2 million ballots were requested this year; only about
250,000 were issued in Wisconsin's 2016 spring election.

Kim Wyman, the secretary of state in Washington, a mail-voting state,
said it is important for elections officials to work with local postal
systems to make sure they can handle the sudden increase in volume.

``These states are going from 0 to 100,'' she said.

Isabella Grullón Paz contributed reporting.

\hypertarget{our-2020-election-guide}{%
\section{Our 2020 Election Guide}\label{our-2020-election-guide}}

Updated Aug. 20, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{convention-recap}{%
  \subsection{Convention Recap}\label{convention-recap}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Joe Biden accepted the Democratic nomination, urging Americans to
    have faith that they could
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/20/us/politics/Joe-Biden-accepts-democratic-nomination.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{``overcome
    this season of darkness.''}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{news-analysis}{%
  \subsection{News Analysis}\label{news-analysis}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Looming over Mr. Biden's nomination was the ever-present shadow of
    another man who's poised to dominate the campaign:
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/20/us/politics/biden-dnc-speech-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Donald
    J. Trump}.
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{keep-up-with-our-coverage}{%
  \subsection{Keep Up With Our
  Coverage}\label{keep-up-with-our-coverage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Get an
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{email}
    recapping the day's news
  \end{itemize}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Download our mobile app on
    \href{https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nytimes/id284862083?ls=1\&mat_click_id=5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\&referrer=mat_click_id\%3D5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\%26link_click_id\%3D722930677036718082}{iOS}
    and
    \href{http://a.localytics.com/android?id=com.nytimes.android\&referrer=utm_source\%3Dother_nyt_mobile_web\%26utm_medium\%3DWeb\%2520page\%26utm_term\%3DGeneral\%2520Mobile\%2520Page\%26utm_campaign\%3DNYT\%2520Mobile\%2520General\%2520Page}{Android}
    and turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
