Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/books/review}{Book
Review}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/books/review}{Book Review}\textbar{}Groomed to Be
President

\url{https://nyti.ms/2ZjBvn3}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

nonfiction

\hypertarget{groomed-to-be-president}{%
\section{Groomed to Be President}\label{groomed-to-be-president}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/09/20/books/review/20Kennedy/20Kennedy-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Buy Book â–¾

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.amazon.com/gp/search?index=books\&tag=NYTBSREV-20\&field-keywords=JFK+Logevall\%2C+Fredrik}{Amazon}
\item
  \href{https://du-gae-books-dot-nyt-du-prd.appspot.com/buy?title=JFK\&author=Logevall\%2C+Fredrik}{Apple
  Books}
\item
  \href{https://www.anrdoezrs.net/click-7990613-11819508?url=https\%3A\%2F\%2Fwww.barnesandnoble.com\%2Fw\%2F\%3Fean\%3D9780812997132}{Barnes
  and Noble}
\item
  \href{https://www.anrdoezrs.net/click-7990613-35140?url=https\%3A\%2F\%2Fwww.booksamillion.com\%2Fp\%2FJFK\%2FLogevall\%252C\%2BFredrik\%2F9780812997132}{Books-A-Million}
\item
  \href{https://bookshop.org/a/3546/9780812997132}{Bookshop}
\item
  \href{https://www.indiebound.org/book/9780812997132?aff=NYT}{Indiebound}
\end{itemize}

When you purchase an independently reviewed book through our site, we
earn an affiliate commission.

By David M. Kennedy

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Sept. 8, 2020, 5:00 a.m. ET
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

\textbf{JFK}\\
\textbf{Coming of Age in the American Century, 1917-1956}

By Fredrik Logevall

He ensorcells us still. They all do, the whole impossibly glamorous,
snakebit Kennedy tribe, from the Irish Catholic famine refugees
scrambling for footing in forbiddingly Protestant 19th-century Boston to
the imperious patriarch building a fabulous fortune while pushing his
children to the summits of power and fame in 20th-century America, until
second son John Fitzgerald Kennedy briefly bestrode the world as
president of the United States --- before becoming the third of the
patriarch's four ill-starred offspring to suffer a violent, premature
death.

Other authors, conspicuously
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2003/05/28/books/books-of-the-times-substance-over-sex-in-kennedy-biography.html}{Robert
Dallek in his 2003 biography} of Kennedy, have ably chronicled this epic
saga, but none has told the tale of the 35th president's formative years
better or more thoroughly than the Harvard
\href{https://history.fas.harvard.edu/people/fredrik-logevall}{history
professor Fredrik Logevall} in ``JFK,'' the first of two projected
volumes. Here he brings the story up through Kennedy's failed bid for
the Democratic vice-presidential nomination in 1956, setting the stage
for his elevation to the presidency four years later.

Inevitably, the patriarch dominates the first half of the book.
Colossally wealthy by his mid-30s,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2012/11/30/books/david-nasaws-patriarch-on-joseph-p-kennedy.html}{Joseph
P. Kennedy Sr.} reared the nine Kennedy siblings in a cocoon of
sybaritic luxury, flagrant privilege and frequently libertine license.
But he was also solicitous, supportive and, it must be acknowledged,
seriously and high-mindedly patriotic. With his sons in particular he
encouraged --- indeed demanded --- their vaulting political ambitions.
``Say what one will about Joseph P. Kennedy,'' Logevall concludes,
``it's not every multimillionaire father who takes such broad interest
in his children, who believes in them so fervently and who, together
with his wife, instills in them, from a young age, a firm commitment to
public service.''

Among the several myths that Logevall debunks is the notion that Jack
Kennedy turned to a political career only after the favored first son,
Joe Jr., supposedly the principal vessel for the family's political
aspirations, was killed in action over southern England in 1944. All to
the contrary, Logevall meticulously documents Jack's steadily deepening
interest in politics --- especially geopolitics --- beginning in early
childhood. He ``gobbled books,'' his mother recollected; his sister
Eunice remembered him as the only family member ``who looked things
up.'' (His reading while bivouacked in the Solomon Islands during World
War II was Tolstoy's ``War and Peace.'') From an early age, and
increasingly over time, Logevall repeatedly insists, Kennedy read widely
and well, thought for himself, decided for himself, laid out his own
life course and in countless ways was his own man and no one else's,
assuredly not his father's.

Logevall painstakingly reconstructs Kennedy's several youthful trips
abroad, where he sowed some wild oats, to be sure (there is plenty of
that in these pages, more than enough fornicating and philandering to
sate even the most prurient reader's taste), but more consequentially,
made use of his father's abundant connections to interview statesmen and
political leaders in Europe and beyond. Toward the end of a seven-month
junket that ranged from Moscow to Jerusalem, the 22-year-old Kennedy,
Zelig-like, was in Berlin in August 1939, accurately predicting the
imminent outbreak of war, and shortly thereafter sitting in the
visitors' gallery at Westminster to witness Prime Minister Neville
Chamberlain proclaim Britain's belligerency. Everywhere he took notes
and everywhere he grew in wisdom and conviction. ``It was the kind of
exposure and training,'' Logevall writes, ``that no future president
since John Quincy Adams had enjoyed at so young an age.''

A fastidiously diligent researcher, Logevall pays scrupulous attention
to Jack's prep school and college essays, including a close reading of
the Harvard senior paper that became Kennedy's first book,
\href{https://www.historycentral.com/JFK/bio/Why.html}{``Why England
Slept,''}which analyzed the timidity of Britain's political class in the
face of indifferent or hostile public opinion. Logevall pronounces it a
``thoughtful and cogent \ldots{} original contribution to knowledge.''
He later describes Kennedy's best-selling
\href{https://www.jfklibrary.org/events-and-awards/profile-in-courage-award/about-the-book}{``Profiles
in Courage''}(whose actual authorship has long been contested) as an
``ode to the art of politics'' that, he valuably reminds us, ``extols
both compromise and courage.'' From all the carefully marshaled evidence
a picture emerges of an uncommonly curious, sometimes frivolous but
increasingly earnest young man on his way to shaping an informed,
cleareyed, unsentimental sense of the world and his nation's place in
it.

And its place in history. Kennedy's generation came of age in the
mid-20th century's agonizingly long season of Great Depression and world
war. The former touched the Kennedys lightly if at all. But the latter
blighted the father's diplomatic career, claimed the life of the eldest
son and made a hero out of the commander of PT-109. It also catalyzed
Jack Kennedy's comprehension of what was at stake in the modern contest
of nations, and deepened his skepticism about the utility of war itself,
especially after the advent of nuclear weapons. It instructed him about
the distinctive characteristics of his allotted historical moment, and
left him convinced that the time had urgently arrived when America had
to cast off its isolationist legacy and don the mantle of global
leadership. In this he decidedly detached himself from the views to
which his father so unremittingly clung.

This is the heart of this richly detailed and instructive book. And it
is where Logevall's expertise as a Pulitzer Prize-winning scholar of
international relations comes advantageously into play --- and where his
book's subtitle, ``Coming of Age in the American Century,'' is brought
tellingly into focus. To the biographer's insights he adds the
historian's perspectives about the several episodes in which the young
Kennedy's worldview took shape: his father's tortured tenure as
ambassador in London while the Munich crisis unfolded and the debate
over ``appeasement'' took on ugly intensity; the American commitment to
sweeping international restructuring at war's end; the vexing role of
domestic politics --- notably the red-baiting antics of Senator Joseph
McCarthy --- in the nascent Cold War; and the postwar struggles over
decolonization, not least in Indochina, where Congressman Kennedy in
1951 saw at first hand the futility of France's effort to crush
Vietnam's determination to be independent.

Logevall artfully melds the biographical and historical approaches.
Though crafted as a kind of bildungsroman*, ``*JFK'' delivers something
more than the traditional story of the callow wastrel's maturation into
the admirable adult. Here phylogeny closely replicates ontogeny. John F.
Kennedy's individual journey of separation from his father's
isolationism tracked the progression of the United States in midcentury
from peripheral international player to hegemon. The global stage where
a president could bend the arc of world history remained Kennedy's
preferred arena and the presidency his obsession. The domestic issues
that lay in a state governor's province he once dismissed as ``little
more than `deciding on sewer contracts.''' This was the mind-set he
brought to the White House, and in some ways this entire book can be
read as an elaborate prolegomenon to Kennedy's
\href{https://www.jfklibrary.org/archives/other-resources/john-f-kennedy-speeches/american-university-19630610}{most
important foreign policy address}, at American University in June 1963,
where he urged a realistic reappraisal of the Cold War and laid the
foundations for the hotly contested policy that became known as dÃ©tente.

But that's getting ahead of the story. How Logevall will deal with
Kennedy's presidency remains to be seen, though there are more than a
few hints here. The author declares in his preface his commitment ``to
play it straight, to look the man right in the eye, not up in adulation
or down in disdain.'' But there is much more adulation than disdain
here, as when he praises Kennedy's ``magnetic leadership,'' while at
many controversial points --- Kennedy's relations with Joseph McCarthy,
for example, or the authorship of ``Profiles in Courage'' --- treating
him perhaps a trifle too generously. It looks as if even this sober
scholar has been at least a little ensorcelled. And who among us would
not welcome some of that Kennedy-esque enchantment now --- not to
mention some of his knowledgeable and enlightened statecraft?

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{Â©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
