Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}Trump Attacked Generals as
Weak and Too Focused on Allies, Woodward's Book Says

\url{https://nyti.ms/2GKlDUa}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{trump-attacked-generals-as-weak-and-too-focused-on-allies-woodwards-book-says}{%
\section{Trump Attacked Generals as Weak and Too Focused on Allies,
Woodward's Book
Says}\label{trump-attacked-generals-as-weak-and-too-focused-on-allies-woodwards-book-says}}

The journalist Bob Woodward's ``Rage,'' which will be released next
week, recounts tense conflicts between the president and his senior
leaders.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/09/09/us/politics/09dc-woodward1/merlin_160494264_6657f141-0ced-4ae8-883e-fd5f0ce09d62-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/maggie-haberman}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/07/12/multimedia/author-maggie-haberman/author-maggie-haberman-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/maggie-haberman}{Maggie
Haberman}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Sept. 9, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

President Trump denigrated senior American military officials when he
told his trade adviser, Peter Navarro, during a meeting in 2017 that his
top generals were weak and overly concerned with their relationships
with allies, according to a new book by the journalist Bob Woodward.

And in a discussion with Mr. Woodward, Mr. Trump called the United
States military ``suckers'' for paying extensive costs to protect South
Korea.

``We're defending you, we're allowing you to exist,'' Mr. Trump said of
South Korea, to a stunned Mr. Woodward.

In the 2017 meeting, Mr. Woodward quoted Mr. Trump as telling Mr.
Navarro that ``my fucking generals are a bunch of pussies. They care
more about their alliances than they do about trade deals.''

At another point in Mr. Woodward's book, ``Rage,'' Mr. Trump's former
defense secretary,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/12/21/us/politics/trump-mattis-american-first-foreign-policy.html}{Gen.
Jim Mattis} is quoted as telling the former director of national
intelligence that Mr. Trump is ``dangerous'' and ``unfit'' for the
presidency. And the former director of national intelligence believed
Russia had ``something'' on Mr. Trump.

Mr. Mattis and the director of national intelligence, Dan Coats,
struggled with how to communicate the threat they felt Mr. Trump
presented to the nation's security. Mr. Coats was haunted by Mr. Trump's
tweets and believed that Mr. Trump's
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/31/us/politics/trump-russia-nato-bounties.html}{gentle
approach to Russia} reflected something more sinister.

``Maybe at some point we're going to have to stand up and speak out,''
Mr. Mattis told Mr. Coats during a conversation in May 2019, according
to the book, which goes on sale next week. ``There may be a time when we
have to take collective action.''

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/12/20/us/politics/jim-mattis-defense-secretary-trump.html}{When
Mr. Mattis quit} after Mr. Trump wanted to withdraw troops fighting the
Islamic State in the Middle East, according to Mr. Woodward the general
reflected, ``When I was basically directed to do something that I
thought went beyond stupid to felony stupid, strategically jeopardizing
our place in the world and everything else, that's when I quit.''

Mr. Trump provided Mr. Woodward with the details of letters between
himself and the North Korean dictator, Kim Jong-un, in which the two men
are fawning toward one another. Mr. Kim wrote in one letter that their
relationship was like a ``fantasy film.''

Describing their chemistry to Mr. Woodward, Mr. Trump said: ``You meet a
woman. In one second, you know whether or not it's going to happen. It
doesn't take you 10 minutes and it doesn't take you six weeks. It's
like, whoa. OK. You know? It takes somewhat less than a second.''

Mr. Coats, who learned he was
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/07/28/us/politics/dan-coats-intelligence-chief-out.html}{being
fired} from his position in July 2019 from a New York Times article that
posted online while he was on the golf course at Mr. Trump's private
club, was chewed out by Mr. Trump after a briefing with reporters about
the threat that Russia presented to the nation's elections systems. Mr.
Coats had gone further than he and the president had discussed
beforehand.

``What was that briefing?'' he asked, apparently upset about all the
focus on Russia. ``Why'd you do that?''

Mr. Trump complained about the various investigations into his campaign
and Russia and, according to the book, leaned on Mr. Coats to either
curtail the federal investigation or to publicly echo the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/18/us/politics/senate-intelligence-russian-interference-report.html}{conclusions
of the Senate Intelligence Committee investigation} that there was no
conspiracy. Mr. Coats tried to explain that that was beyond what he had
visibility into, according to the book.

At one point, Mr. Trump moaned that the investigations were hindering
his abilities as president.

``Putin said to me in a meeting, he said, it's a shame, because I know
it's very hard for you to make a deal with us. I said, you're right,''
Mr. Trump said.

In one meeting, Mr. Trump had the White House deputy chief of staff, Dan
Scavino, play a spliced video, for the president's amusement, of the
special counsel who investigated ties between the Trump campaign and
Russia, Robert S. Mueller III, stumbling as he testified before
Congress. Mr. Scavino then played a separate video of Democrats watching
Mr. Trump's State of the Union address. Some looked bored, Mr. Woodward
writes, but Mr. Trump shouted, ``They hate me!'' and kept watching.

Mr. Woodward repeatedly tried to coax a reflective answer from Mr. Trump
about his presidency and his
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/06/us/politics/trump-race-2020-election.html}{understanding
of race in America}. But Mr. Trump would only say over and over that the
economy had been positive for Black people before the coronavirus led to
an economic crisis.

When Mr. Woodward pointed out that both he and Mr. Trump were ``white,
privileged,'' and asked if Mr. Trump could see that they both have to
``work our way out of it to understand the anger and the pain,
particularly, Black people feel in this country,'' Mr. Trump replied,
``No,'' and added: ``You really drank the Kool-Aid, didn't you? Just
listen to you. Wow. No, I don't feel that at all.''

Jared Kushner, the president's son-in-law and senior adviser, also spoke
extensively to Mr. Woodward. When asked about the writings that best
tell the story of the Trump presidency, Mr. Kushner pointed to a column
by the Wall Street Journal opinion writer Peggy Noonan in which she said
Mr. Trump is ``crazy'' but ``it's working,'' and ``Alice in
Wonderland.'' He compared his father-in-law to the Cheshire cat.

In a conversation with an associate, Mr. Kushner describes his
father-in-law as good at getting people to react to their own detriment,
gleefully citing the defenses that Democrats issued of the late
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/10/17/us/politics/elijah-cummings-death-illness.html}{Rep.
Elijah E. Cummings}, of Baltimore, Md., and his city, after the
president attacked Mr. Cummings.

``The Democrats are so crazy, they're basically defending Baltimore,''
said Mr. Kushner, whose
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2017/05/23/magazine/jared-kushners-other-real-estate-empire.html}{family's
real-estate company is a notorious landlord} in the city. ``When you get
to the next election, he's tied them to all these stupid positions
because they'd rather attack him than actually be rational.''

Mr. Kushner dismissed previous
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2018/03/16/us/politics/all-the-major-firings-and-resignations-in-trump-administration.html}{advisers
who had left} as ``overconfident idiots,'' and told Mr. Trump that in
the final stretch of his term, ``This is really when you'll appreciate
having the neurotic Jews around.''

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{Â©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
