Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

Kelly Wearstler's Home Is Filled With Hollywood Secrets

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{kelly-wearstlers-home-is-filled-with-hollywood-secrets}{%
\section{Kelly Wearstler's Home Is Filled With Hollywood
Secrets}\label{kelly-wearstlers-home-is-filled-with-hollywood-secrets}}

The designer's house in Los Angeles abounds with treasures from the
city's cinematic past --- and her own equally dramatic creations.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/03/30/t-magazine/design/30-tmag-wearstler-slide-AQMD/30-tmag-wearstler-slide-AQMD-videoSixteenByNine3000.jpg}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/max-berlinger}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/11/05/multimedia/author-max-berlinger/author-max-berlinger-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/max-berlinger}{Max Berlinger}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  March 31, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

The interior designer \href{https://www.kellywearstler.com/}{Kelly
Wearstler}'s 12,000-square-foot home in Beverly Hills, Calif., a
striking white 1920s Spanish hacienda-style mansion surrounded by three
acres of immaculately landscaped gardens, isn't just a place for her to
unwind at the end of the day. ``I call it my laboratory,'' she says one
mild morning in February. ``I'm always bringing in new pieces of art or
chairs or accessories.''

A laboratory it may be, but its mix of Hollywood Regency architecture
and eclectic furniture is anything but sterile. Like Wearstler's
commercial projects --- which include the new
\href{https://www.properhotel.com/}{Proper Hotel} in Santa Monica (she's
also responsible for the earthy elegance of the brand's San Francisco;
Austin, Texas; and soon-to-open Downtown Los Angeles outposts) --- or
the houses she decorates for celebrities such as Gwen Stefani and
Cameron Diaz, her home exudes a playful sensuality and a certain
irreverence. To look at the décor of her own living quarters --- in the
living room, for example, a striped couch is juxtaposed with a pair of
armchairs printed with graphic Memphis Group-style squiggles --- is to
get an immediate sense of the designer's sly sense of humor and flair
for drama.

Wearstler, 52, arrived on the design scene with an explosion of color
and glamour in 2002, when she decorated the Viceroy Hotel in Santa
Monica in a version of classic Hollywood Regency style filtered through
her own theatrical lens (she offset stark black-and-white moldings with
yellow and green furniture and vibrantly patterned rugs). Her current
home of 15 years, which she shares with her husband, Brad Korzen, a
real-estate developer, their two teenage sons, Oliver and Elliot, and
their two mixed-breed rescue dogs, Javier and Willie, once typified that
bold aesthetic, but no longer. ``It was much richer, every room had a
different voice,'' she says of the interiors she originally designed for
the seven-bedroom house. Four years ago, she decided to change things
up. To allow the home's original architectural details to become its
focal point, she painted the walls a refreshing white
(\href{https://www.farrow-ball.com/en-us}{Farrow \& Ball}'s All White
No. 2005) **** and pared back the more lavish gestures **** --- such as
a wallpaper patterned with red graffiti scribbles and an assortment of
oversize Grecian-style busts --- though one would hardly call the result
restrained.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/04/05/t-magazine/design/30-tmag-wearstler-slide-3JS5/30-tmag-wearstler-slide-3JS5-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

The home's current aesthetic is informed, in part, by its own **** rich
Hollywood history. The original owner of the house was Hobart Bosworth,
a silent-film star, and later the 1940s screen idols William Powell and
Carole Lombard lived here at the height of their careers. The property
was then acquired by
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/1996/06/29/arts/albert-broccoli-film-producer-dies-at-87.html}{Albert
``Cubby'' Broccoli}, the producer of the James Bond film franchise, who
died in 1996, and Wearstler bought the home from his family's estate.
Perhaps no room nods to the building's past more than the grand foyer,
which is tiled in Art Deco-style marble and looks onto the large central
courtyard, filled with sculptural cypress trees, around which the house
is built. The sitting room, meanwhile, located just off the entrance
hallway, faces the home's 90-foot-long blue limestone-and-plaster
swimming pool and 3,800 square-foot pool house (once a screening room),
which together evoke the romance of a 1960s-era Slim Aarons photograph.
Even the curving central staircase, complete with a curlicued banister,
looks made for an entrance worthy of Norma Desmond.

While the scope of the home feels grand, a closer look reveals a
quirkiness that mirrors Wearstler's own affable demeanor. Oozing across
a black marble **** table at the foot of the main staircase, for
example, is a melted disco-ball sculpture by the Rotterdam- and New
York-based design collective
\href{https://www.rotganzen.com/}{Rotganzen}. And just off the entrance
vestibule is a **** mirror with a lumpy frame created by the French
artist and designer \href{http://www.louisdurot.org/fr/}{Louis Durot}, a
piece that Wearstler admires because of its resemblance to chewed-up
bubble gum. Her own outré creations also animate the rooms: an angular,
striped black-and-white marble
\href{https://www.kellywearstler.com/seating/lineage-chair/FCD15001.html?cgid=seating\&start=56\#start=57}{Lineage
chair} sits in the foyer, and offsetting the dark wood **** herringbone
floor of the dining room is her oval
\href{https://www.kellywearstler.com/tables/fractured-racetrack-table/FTA17007.html?start=10\&cgid=tables\#start=11}{Fractured
Racetrack table}, **** made from antique brass and hand-shattered glass,
topped with knobbly white and orange vases by the Italian designer ****
\href{http://www.gaetanopesce.com/}{Gaetano Pesce}.

The house abounds with historical details Wearstler has kept in place,
including her ``pantry'' --- a second, smaller kitchen tucked inside a
first-floor lounge at the back of the house with a striking green onyx
floor --- and what she refers to as the ``party bedroom,'' a stark white
guest suite with a walk-in closet that contains an unusual original
feature: a pull-down bar for serving cocktails. She's wallpapered the
small **** space with family pictures and christened it the ``love
closet.''

While the cupboard-cum-bar came with the house --- during Hollywood's
golden age, Wearstler says, entertaining often took place in the
bedrooms --- she also uses her home as a testing ground for the antiques
she has collected from auctions, dealers and flea markets around the
world. In downtown Los Angeles, she keeps a 15,000-square-foot warehouse
filled with an ever-rotating roster of treasures **** waiting to be
placed in one of her professional projects --- but they often end up in
her own home along the way. ``I buy things I love. I know the
anomalies,'' she says. ``For me, it's emotional.''

Kelly Wearstler is currently teaching a series of interior design
classes online at
\href{https://www.masterclass.com/classes/kelly-wearstler-teaches-interior-design}{masterclass.com}.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
