Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

How~Studio KO Redefines Minimalism

\url{https://nyti.ms/1R09x3i}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\href{/column/by-design}{By Design}

\hypertarget{how-studio-ko-redefines-minimalism}{%
\section{How~Studio KO Redefines
Minimalism}\label{how-studio-ko-redefines-minimalism}}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/slideshow/2015/09/27/t-magazine/a-home-designed-by-studio-ko.html}{}

\hypertarget{a-home-designed-by-studio-ko}{%
\subsection{A Home Designed by Studio
KO}\label{a-home-designed-by-studio-ko}}

7 Photos

View Slide Show ›

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2015/09/27/t-magazine/27tmag-studioko-t-slide-J3PJ/27tmag-studioko-t-slide-J3PJ-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

François Halard

By Nancy Hass

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Sept. 23, 2015
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

\emph{The celebrated design firm transforms the idea of spare elegance,
with rich color and quietly luxurious finishings in a Paris apartment.}

THE AESTHETIC of \href{http://www.studioko.fr/\#en-intro}{Studio KO} is
born of an intriguing paradox: What if you steep pared-down ideals in a
brew of excess? For nearly 20 years, the Paris-based firm's principals,
Olivier Marty and Karl Fournier, have played with that dynamic, most
notably for the holiday homes of Marella Agnelli and Pierre Bergé in
Morocco --- hardly a locale that calls to mind the unadorned. They have
created deceptively simple and serene environments in the midst of the
pattern-mad, color-saturated traditional culture of North Africa.

And so the pied-à-terre in the Eighth Arrondissement that they recently
completed for a couple --- one a financier and the other a fashion
designer --- may represent the apotheosis of their evolving approach.
While edited to a fine edge, and full of the layered surface textures
that are the studio's trademark, it is more exuberant than much of their
past work, even a bit zany --- for KO, at least. ``This took us further
in some way than we had gone,'' says Marty. ``For years we stayed away
from color, but as we go on, there is more and more confidence, and now
we're letting it back into our work.''

The clients, who split their time between a townhouse in Manhattan and a
high-rise in Hong Kong, sought out KO after seeing their interiors in
magazines. They were so sure about the firm that they signed a contract
after one initial phone conversation --- a first, Fournier concedes.
``We knew that they were very idea-driven, and so are we,'' says the
fashion designer.

At the beginning, there were challenges. The 1,800-square foot
two-bedroom apartment is in a 19th-century building, a period that most
French designers, including Marty and Fournier, generally do not care
for, preferring the 17th and 18th centuries with their Louis pedigree
and simpler lines, or the Modernism of such 20th-century Gallic idols as
Jean-Michel Frank and Jean Prouvé. But this apartment was among the
finest of its era, with disciplined lines and none of the over-the-top
revival touches, and the designers, who are also partners in life,
warmed to it quickly.

They started by asking their clients if there was an object or talisman
that epitomized the feeling they wanted to capture. The couple, who love
'70s kinetic artists, sent a photo of a daringly curvy leather-and-brass
contemporary chair by the British designer Mark Brazier-Jones. ``It had
all the flair we wanted,'' says the fashion designer. ``It was modern
and beautiful and a little crazy.''

Unlike some people with several residences who want a uniform style from
place to place, the couple believes a home should uniquely reflect its
surroundings. They've cultivated a cozy glow in their New York
townhouse, and their Hong Kong apartment is made of steel and glass. For
Paris, they wanted to allude to the provenance of the building, layer it
with a modern sensibility and add a touch of surrealism. They come to
the city a few times a year, simply to eat and drink and revel at their
luck in living such a life, and they wanted to be surrounded by a dose
of sophisticated humor. Even though the central room is nearly 600
square feet, they didn't want to break it up into conventional
conversation areas. That would feel too dowdy.

``We thought it would be great to have it like being in the clouds,''
says Fournier. Consequently, the living room is dominated by a massive
curved sofa covered in vibrant blue velvet with a subtly celestial
mottled pattern. The black and white rug emphasizes the geometry, as do
the barrel chairs. The stained-glass windows in the master bedroom add
another angular juxtaposition to the space's ornate original ceilings:
When the light shines in, it casts gridlike shadows on the carpet.

The apartment had a set of built-in vitrines, several of which the
designers kept, lining the shelves with an unexpected tangerine velvet.
Inside is a set of 19th-century ceramics that wink at the financier's
Chinese heritage: Upon close inspection the designs are cleverly ribald.
The couple's taste for strong statements and KO's newly enthusiastic
embrace of color are writ large in the guest room, which has
Majorelle-blue walls --- a Moroccan fetish --- and a lynx-patterned
carpet. ``When you have eccentric clients, the telling moment about how
far they will go is when you show them the lynx carpet,'' Marty says.

As in all KO projects, which tend to contain a minimum of objects, many
of the surface treatments are themselves a focus. The living room was
originally lined in stenciled boiserie stained dark, which the designers
removed; they then asked a decorative painter to preserve and emphasize
``ghost'' images of the paneling in what Marty calls ``a dirty American
way.'' Adding layers of a sort of papier mâché --- and then artfully
distressing them --- the artisans were able to create a custom pale gray
surface that is as complex as an abstract painting. The baseboards echo
the common areas of the building, which are done in an elaborate pattern
of faux marble in a riot of shades common in the 19th century. ``That is
a beautiful thing, if it is done in the right amount, in the right way,
in the right place,'' says Marty. ``We got really into it.''

Perhaps the entire project --- and the evolution it represents for the
complex, intellectual Studio KO --- can be summed up by a corner of the
main room: The original posh gold-leafed fireplace is flanked by two
huge brutalist sconces on the deconstructed wall with its elegantly
marbled baseboards. ``You get older,'' says Marty, ``and you get more
wild.''

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
