Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/world/europe}{Europe}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/world/europe}{Europe}\textbar{}England Drops Its
Quarantine for Most Visitors, but Not Those From the U.S.

\url{https://nyti.ms/2ZDm5sY}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{the-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=98d1fe80-e396-11ea-8ad8-e9df2f9ec099}{The
Coronavirus
Outbreak}}{The Coronavirus Outbreak}}\label{the-coronavirus-outbreak}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  live\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/21/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=98d1fe81-e396-11ea-8ad8-e9df2f9ec099}{Latest
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=98d1fe82-e396-11ea-8ad8-e9df2f9ec099}{Maps
  and Cases}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=98d22590-e396-11ea-8ad8-e9df2f9ec099}{Vaccine
  Tracker}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/19/us/colleges-closing-covid.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=98d22591-e396-11ea-8ad8-e9df2f9ec099}{Colleges
  Closing}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/20/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=98d22592-e396-11ea-8ad8-e9df2f9ec099}{Economy}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{england-drops-its-quarantine-for-most-visitors-but-not-those-from-the-us}{%
\section{England Drops Its Quarantine for Most Visitors, but Not Those
From the
U.S.}\label{england-drops-its-quarantine-for-most-visitors-but-not-those-from-the-us}}

In a bid to salvage the summer tourist season, travelers from France,
Italy, Spain and dozens of other nations no longer have to isolate for
14 days after arriving.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/07/03/world/03UK-VIRUS1/merlin_174175446_636b7c72-d66e-4c4f-a402-efbd518ebea9-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/mark-landler}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2019/10/22/reader-center/author-mark-landler/author-mark-landler-thumbLarge-v3.png}}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/stephen-castle}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/10/08/multimedia/author-stephen-castle/author-stephen-castle-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/mark-landler}{Mark
Landler} and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/stephen-castle}{Stephen
Castle}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  July 3, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

LONDON --- England will drop its mandatory 14-day quarantine for
visitors from more than 50 countries but leave the restrictions in place
for travelers coming from the United States, deepening the isolation of
America and delivering another rebuke to President Trump for his
handling of the coronavirus pandemic.

The European Union recently
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/30/world/europe/eu-reopening-blocks-us-travelers.html}{upheld
a ban on travelers from the United States}, even as it opened its
borders to visitors from Canada, Rwanda, Thailand and 15 other
countries. England's policy, announced on Friday, is not as draconian.
Visitors from America can still enter the country so long as they agree
to isolate themselves for two weeks.

But those from France, Germany, Italy, Spain and
\href{https://www.theguardian.com/politics/live/2020/jul/03/uk-coronavirus-live-boris-johnson-warn-public-pubs-reopen-england-saturday?page=with:block-5eff3c7b8f08ff51fe2ac38a\#block-5eff3c7b8f08ff51fe2ac38a}{dozens
of other countries} will be able to travel to England with no
restrictions --- an arrangement intended to bolster the languishing
tourism industry in time for the summer vacation season. The regulations
will take effect on July 10.

Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland apply their own travel policies and
may not follow England's lead in easing restrictions.

The United States has barred most visitors from Britain since March,
after briefly exempting them from a travel ban on the European Union. At
the time, Europe was dealing with far more coronavirus infections than
the United States. Since then, the epicenter of the pandemic has moved
across the Atlantic.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/07/03/world/03UK-VIRUS2/merlin_174045042_87104adc-2c33-45ca-a261-d24ee0694ef7-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

During the initial phase of the outbreak, Britain stayed open to travel
from viral hot spots like Italy, Spain and Iran. By the time it
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/08/world/europe/uk-quarantine-johnson.html}{imposed
the quarantine measures}, its infection rates were among the highest in
the world.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-the-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/21/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: The Coronavirus
Outbreak}}{Latest Updates: The Coronavirus Outbreak}}\label{latest-updates-the-coronavirus-outbreak}}

Updated 2020-08-21T10:07:51.693Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/21/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-4690b6aa}{Shutdowns,
  warnings and scoldings follow gatherings on college campuses.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/21/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-324af071}{As
  he accepts the Democratic nomination, Biden knocks Trump's pandemic
  response.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/21/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-35890b73}{Hundreds
  of doctors in Kenya go on strike over their pay and protective gear.}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/21/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

More live coverage:
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/20/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Markets}

That prompted fierce criticism of a policy that placed restrictions on
people arriving from countries where the virus was well under control,
including New Zealand. The authorities threatened to fine rule breakers
up to Â£1,000 (\$1,245).

Critics said the measures were economically damaging, ineffective and
legally unenforceable because the country did not have the resources to
ensure that people were obeying their 14-day quarantine. Of the 12
police forces that replied to questions from the BBC, none said they had
handed out any fines.

Some public-health experts said the fractious debate over the quarantine
had distracted from more pressing problems, like safely reopening
Britain's schools, organizing an effective test-and-trace program and
organizing a system to stamp out new outbreaks in
\href{https://www.theguardian.com/uk-news/2020/jul/01/leicester-outbreak-driven-by-infection-rise-in-under-19s-says-phe-report}{cities
like Leicester} to avert a second lockdown.

``The U.K. government seems focused on giving people a summer pandemic
holiday instead of dealing with the hard issues facing the aviation
industry for the coming year,'' said Professor Devi Sridhar, the
director of the global health governance program at the University of
Edinburgh.

Scotland has balked at the easing, much as it resisted Prime Minister
Boris Johnson's earlier plans to lift the lockdown. Its infection and
death rates are lower than in England, which officials attribute to its
more cautious approach. The Scottish government has yet to decide how to
relax restrictions on travelers, though its options are somewhat
limited, given its open border with England.

Image

Abbie Wilson straightening up around her closed cafe in Leicester, an
English city that has had a recent surge in cases.Credit...Darren
Staples/Getty Images

Grant Shapps, the transport secretary, told the BBC on Friday that the
United States would be excluded from the immediate relaxation because of
the ``very high numbers of infections'' in the country.

The government has designated countries with green, yellow and red
lights, based on ``the prevalence of coronavirus, the numbers of new
cases and potential trajectory of the disease in that destination.'' The
United States
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/03/world/coronavirus-updates.html?action=click\&module=Top\%20Stories\&pgtype=Homepage}{has
a red light.}

The announcement appeared to go further than an earlier idea floated by
ministers to create ``air bridges'' with specific countries, in which
travelers would have reciprocal freedom to travel. The government still
hopes that a number of the exempted countries will not require visitors
from Britain to quarantine.

But the list of greenlight countries comprises more than 50~--- among
them Vietnam and Hong Kong, though not mainland China. Some could still
require travelers from Britain to quarantine on arrival. On the British
end, many arriving passengers will still be required to provide contact
information.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{}

\hypertarget{the-coronavirus-outbreak-}{%
\subsubsection{The Coronavirus Outbreak
âº}\label{the-coronavirus-outbreak-}}

\hypertarget{frequently-asked-questions}{%
\paragraph{Frequently Asked
Questions}\label{frequently-asked-questions}}

Updated August 17, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{why-does-standing-six-feet-away-from-others-help}{%
  \paragraph{Why does standing six feet away from others
  help?}\label{why-does-standing-six-feet-away-from-others-help}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    The coronavirus spreads primarily through droplets from your mouth
    and nose, especially when you cough or sneeze. The C.D.C., one of
    the organizations using that measure,
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/14/health/coronavirus-six-feet.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{bases
    its recommendation of six feet} on the idea that most large droplets
    that people expel when they cough or sneeze will fall to the ground
    within six feet. But six feet has never been a magic number that
    guarantees complete protection. Sneezes, for instance, can launch
    droplets a lot farther than six feet,
    \href{https://jamanetwork.com/journals/jama/fullarticle/2763852}{according
    to a recent study}. It's a rule of thumb: You should be safest
    standing six feet apart outside, especially when it's windy. But
    keep a mask on at all times, even when you think you're far enough
    apart.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{i-have-antibodies-am-i-now-immune}{%
  \paragraph{I have antibodies. Am I now
  immune?}\label{i-have-antibodies-am-i-now-immune}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    As of right
    now,\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/22/health/covid-antibodies-herd-immunity.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{that
    seems likely, for at least several months.} There have been
    frightening accounts of people suffering what seems to be a second
    bout of Covid-19. But experts say these patients may have a
    drawn-out course of infection, with the virus taking a slow toll
    weeks to months after initial exposure. People infected with the
    coronavirus typically
    \href{https://www.nature.com/articles/s41586-020-2456-9}{produce}
    immune molecules called antibodies, which are
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/07/health/coronavirus-antibody-prevalence.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{protective
    proteins made in response to an
    infection}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/07/health/coronavirus-antibody-prevalence.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{.
    These antibodies may} last in the body
    \href{https://www.nature.com/articles/s41591-020-0965-6}{only two to
    three months}, which may seem worrisome, but that's perfectly normal
    after an acute infection subsides, said Dr. Michael Mina, an
    immunologist at Harvard University. It may be possible to get the
    coronavirus again, but it's highly unlikely that it would be
    possible in a short window of time from initial infection or make
    people sicker the second time.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{im-a-small-business-owner-can-i-get-relief}{%
  \paragraph{I'm a small-business owner. Can I get
  relief?}\label{im-a-small-business-owner-can-i-get-relief}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    The
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/small-business-loans-stimulus-grants-freelancers-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{stimulus
    bills enacted in March} offer help for the millions of American
    small businesses. Those eligible for aid are businesses and
    nonprofit organizations with fewer than 500 workers, including sole
    proprietorships, independent contractors and freelancers. Some
    larger companies in some industries are also eligible. The help
    being offered, which is being managed by the Small Business
    Administration, includes the Paycheck Protection Program and the
    Economic Injury Disaster Loan program. But lots of folks have
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/05/07/business/small-business-loans-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{not
    yet seen payouts.} Even those who have received help are confused:
    The rules are draconian, and some are stuck sitting on
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/02/business/economy/loans-coronavirus-small-business.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{money
    they don't know how to use.} Many small-business owners are getting
    less than they expected or
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/10/business/Small-business-loans-ppp.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{not
    hearing anything at all.}
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{what-are-my-rights-if-i-am-worried-about-going-back-to-work}{%
  \paragraph{What are my rights if I am worried about going back to
  work?}\label{what-are-my-rights-if-i-am-worried-about-going-back-to-work}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Employers have to provide
    \href{https://www.osha.gov/SLTC/covid-19/standards.html}{a safe
    workplace} with policies that protect everyone equally.
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/coronavirus-money-unemployment.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{And
    if one of your co-workers tests positive for the coronavirus, the
    C.D.C.} has said that
    \href{https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/community/guidance-business-response.html}{employers
    should tell their employees} -\/- without giving you the sick
    employee's name -\/- that they may have been exposed to the virus.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{what-is-school-going-to-look-like-in-september}{%
  \paragraph{What is school going to look like in
  September?}\label{what-is-school-going-to-look-like-in-september}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    It is unlikely that many schools will return to a normal schedule
    this fall, requiring the grind of
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/05/us/coronavirus-education-lost-learning.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{online
    learning},
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/29/us/coronavirus-child-care-centers.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{makeshift
    child care} and
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/03/business/economy/coronavirus-working-women.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{stunted
    workdays} to continue. California's two largest public school
    districts --- Los Angeles and San Diego --- said on July 13, that
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/13/us/lausd-san-diego-school-reopening.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{instruction
    will be remote-only in the fall}, citing concerns that surging
    coronavirus infections in their areas pose too dire a risk for
    students and teachers. Together, the two districts enroll some
    825,000 students. They are the largest in the country so far to
    abandon plans for even a partial physical return to classrooms when
    they reopen in August. For other districts, the solution won't be an
    all-or-nothing approach.
    \href{https://bioethics.jhu.edu/research-and-outreach/projects/eschool-initiative/school-policy-tracker/}{Many
    systems}, including the nation's largest, New York City, are
    devising
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/26/us/coronavirus-schools-reopen-fall.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{hybrid
    plans} that involve spending some days in classrooms and other days
    online. There's no national policy on this yet, so check with your
    municipal school system regularly to see what is happening in your
    community.
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Still, for the travel industry, it was a welcome relief after a tense
period when they worried that the summer season was going to be ruined.
Many complained about the damage to their businesses and warned about
job losses.

``It has been an incredibly frustrating time,'' said Steven Freudmann,
the chairman of the Institute of Travel and Tourism, a lobbying group.
``There just appears to be no coordinated thinking. A shambles is the
only word I can think of.''

Mr. Freudmann said he was ``happy and relieved that finally --- finally
--- the government seems to be making sensible decisions.'' But he said
the government's erratic policies had ``created a lack of confidence and
clearly we, as an industry, have a job in establishing that
confidence.''

Image

Stanley Johnson, the father of Britain's prime minister, at a tavern in
Horto, Greece, on Thursday.Credit...Magnesianews.gr, via Associated
Press

Nor was Mr. Freudmann the only critic of the government's
decision-making over quarantine rules.

The Scottish first minister, Nicola Sturgeon, described it as
``shambolic,'' adding that she wanted to study the detail before taking
any decision on whether Scotland should adopt the new program with
England.

Among those who flouted the existing travel restrictions was the father
of Mr. Johnson, Stanley Johnson. The elder Mr. Johnson, 79, posted
pictures on social media of his arrival in Greece, which currently
prevents vacationers from flying directly from Britain. He apparently
got there via the Bulgarian capital, Sofia.

It was not the first time he had defied government coronavirus advice.
Before Britain's lockdown began, when the prime minister urged Britons
not to go to the pub, his father said he would go anyway if he felt the
thirst.

Speaking from Greece, Stanley Johnson told the Daily Mail newspaper that
he was in the country on ``essential business, trying to Covid-proof my
property in view of the upcoming letting season.''

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{Â©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
