Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/arts/music}{Music}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/arts/music}{Music}\textbar{}Angel Blue's Weekend:
Watching `Porgy and Bess' and Keeping the Faith

\url{https://nyti.ms/306guwV}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

recently viewed

\hypertarget{angel-blues-weekend-watching-porgy-and-bess-and-keeping-the-faith}{%
\section{Angel Blue's Weekend: Watching `Porgy and Bess' and Keeping the
Faith}\label{angel-blues-weekend-watching-porgy-and-bess-and-keeping-the-faith}}

The soprano is taking her version of a breather as she coaches students,
hosts a web talk show and savors time with her family.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/02/arts/02recently-viewed/02recently-viewed-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/kathryn-shattuck}{Kathryn
Shattuck}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  July 28, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Last year, Angel Blue spent only 54 nights at home.

``The first thing that comes into my mind is the Tasmanian devil, being
how fast he goes in the cartoon,'' said Ms. Blue, a soprano who played
Bess in
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/09/24/arts/music/porgy-bess-met-opera-review.html}{``Porgy
and Bess''} at the Metropolitan Opera earlier this year, as well as
\href{https://www.operabase.com/artists/angel-blue-1128/en}{Mimi in ``La
Bohème}'' at the Hamburg State Opera, among other venues. ``That's how I
felt --- just constantly going, constantly moving, constantly having to
perform.''

In March, when the pandemic shuttered opera houses and stalled careers,
Ms. Blue was allied with her devastated colleagues. But she also
glimpsed a silver lining. ``If I'm totally honest, I'm happy to be at
home,'' she said. ``I've been almost desperate for time off.''

Not that she has been idle. Like so many quarantined performers, Ms.
Blue found an audience behind the lens, and fulfilled her dream of
having a talk show.
\href{https://www.facebookcorewwwi.onion/angeljoyblue/}{``Faithful
Friday''} streamed on Facebook from March to June, with the singer
\href{https://www.christinegoerke.com/}{Christine Goerke}, the actor
\href{https://lavernecox.com/}{Laverne Cox} and the chef
\href{https://catcora.com/}{Cat Cora}, among others, broaching topics
like fear, motivation, encouragement and job loss. Ms. Blue plans to
return with a second season in mid-September, with a lineup including
the soprano \href{https://annanetrebko.com/}{Anna Netrebko}, ``who's
been really supportive of me as a younger singer,'' said Ms. Blue, 36.

And on Dec. 19, she'll close out the
\href{https://metstarslive.brightcove-services.com/}{Met Stars Live in
Concert} virtual recital series. Ms. Blue spoke by phone from New
Jersey, where she lives with her husband, Adam Mielke, a computer
programmer, and their 9-year-old son. These are edited excerpts from the
conversation.

\hypertarget{friday-morning}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\textbf{Friday
Morning}}{Friday Morning}}\label{friday-morning}}

Usually, I'm up at 6. It is so quiet. I love it when it is like this ---
silent, still, no movement, just me, my thoughts, my daily devotional.
And then 20 minutes of meditation that helps me to understand what I
want from myself during that day. I'll let myself sit there and just be
thankful that I can be still, because it's really a blessing. I've been
running around for a long time.

Most mornings I do a two-mile walk on the treadmill in the basement.
Today I did an exercise video instead. When I did {[}beauty{]} pageants,
there was this lady named Leslie Sansone who did this video called
\textbf{\href{https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ECxnTuzZ614}{``Walk Away
the Pounds.''}} **** Now she has her own
\textbf{\href{https://walkathome.com/}{walking series}}. She's positive
and uplifting.

I'm setting up my studio for this evening. Tonight
\textbf{\href{https://www.pbs.org/wnet/gperf/gp-at-the-met-porgy-and-bess-about-the-opera/11582/}{``Porgy
and Bess''}} is going to be broadcast on PBS. I'm hosting a cast reunion
on my
\textbf{\href{https://www.facebookcorewwwi.onion/angeljoyblue/}{Facebook
fan page}}. It's strange how nervous I am, I guess because I was that
kid in school who, when they invited people to their birthday party, not
many people came. {[}Laughs{]}

\hypertarget{friday-afternoon}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\textbf{Friday
Afternoon}}{Friday Afternoon}}\label{friday-afternoon}}

I just opened a one-on-one \textbf{\href{http://angeljoyblue.com/}{vocal
coaching studio}}, where I coach young singers who are interested in
learning more about interpretation. My focus is to help each singer
better connect with the characters they are portraying. So much emotion
goes into our art form. Young singers might not realize that it is times
like these that will help to bring out their artistry.

I feel like I've done some of my best singing during the lockdown ---
this is going to sound terrible, but I'm going to word it like this ---
because I don't have anyone bothering me about how I'm singing. Even the
stress of performing is different because the audiences aren't there. In
a way, I'm on my own, and if I feel like crying during a certain section
of the music, I can do that.

\hypertarget{friday-night}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\textbf{Friday
Night}}{Friday Night}}\label{friday-night}}

Honestly, I have no words right now. So many members of the
\href{https://www.metopera.org/user-information/old-seasons/2019-20/2019-20-season/porgy-and-bess/}{{[}}\textbf{\href{https://www.metopera.org/user-information/old-seasons/2019-20/2019-20-season/porgy-and-bess/}{``Porgy
and
Bess''}}\href{https://www.metopera.org/user-information/old-seasons/2019-20/2019-20-season/porgy-and-bess/}{{]}}
cast indulged me and showed up to the reunion. I don't know that I've
ever been in a show where everybody was good, and by good, I'm not
necessarily meaning the talent so much as it is we were in the same head
space. We speak about the show with a lot of affection. We were watching
all together at our homes, and we were texting, and people were sending
video clips and saying, ``You better sing, Angel!'' That was really
nice.

I'm one of those singers who does not go to sleep after a performance,
so yes, it is 2 a.m., but I'm awake. Wow! I still cannot believe that I
had the opportunity to sing
\textbf{\href{https://www.metopera.org/user-information/old-seasons/2019-20/2019-20-season/porgy-and-bess/}{Bess
at the Met}}. My husband has the biggest smile on his face right now. He
said that I'm acting like a kid who is getting ready to go to
Disneyland.

\hypertarget{saturday-morning}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\textbf{Saturday
Morning}}{Saturday Morning}}\label{saturday-morning}}

I started the day with a 45-minute walk-jog around our beautiful
neighborhood. I'm from California and only recently moved to New Jersey.
This state is so gorgeous. I love all of the trees and the deer in the
morning. Not going to lie: They scare me a little bit, but they are
beautiful.

Today I had a French lesson with \textbf{Mickaël Terosier}. He is an
amazing coach. I have not met a language professor who is more patient
than him. I studied French in school but have since forgotten much of
it, so working with Mickaël has definitely helped my confidence. I don't
like to say that I'm fluent in any language, but I definitely do study
quite a lot of languages. Good grief, I think I've sung in something
like 12 or 13. It's wild.

\hypertarget{saturday-afternoon}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\textbf{Saturday
Afternoon}}{Saturday Afternoon}}\label{saturday-afternoon}}

One of my favorite opera singers is
\textbf{\href{https://www.metopera.org/?gclid=CjwKCAjwx9_4BRAHEiwApAt0zkpYv_d3Xrthz9UgNlY2F7wlAM2dnARcjeAm4vSDllKiwc7KEg262RoCvYUQAvD_BwE\&gclsrc=aw.ds}{Jonas
Kaufmann}}. His recital is happening right now on the
\textbf{\href{https://www.metopera.org/}{Metropolitan Opera}} website
and yes, I'm drinking a glass of rosé while watching. His singing is
stunning and the presentation is exquisite. I feel like I'm having a
voice lesson. The Met Opera gave me a huge honor in asking me to give a
\textbf{\href{https://metstarslive.brightcove-services.com/}{Met Stars
Live in Concert}} in December. And I'm really thankful to be able to
watch the other performances before I give mine. I'm paying special
attention to his embouchure, and the positioning of his mouth. And the
fact that he's singing these high notes, and he's able to bring these
high notes back to a very soft piano, is just stunning.

\hypertarget{saturday-late-afternoon}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\textbf{Saturday Late
Afternoon}}{Saturday Late Afternoon}}\label{saturday-late-afternoon}}

My husband and I both work during the week, and my son is in a virtual
summer camp, so on the weekends we try to spend time together without
any screens. But a couple of weeks ago we watched all of the
\textbf{\href{https://www.backtothefuture.com/}{``Back to the Future''}}
movies because I had never seen them.

\hypertarget{sunday-afternoon}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\textbf{Sunday
Afternoon}}{Sunday Afternoon}}\label{sunday-afternoon}}

Today is my good friend
\textbf{\href{https://www.matthewanchel.com/}{Matt
Anchel}}\href{https://www.matthewanchel.com/}{'s} birthday. He is having
a socially distanced party in Riverside Park. I haven't been to New York
since April 18 and when we turned right on Riverside Drive, I honestly
got teary eyed. I didn't realize how much I had missed the city. It was
nice to be out and to see people enjoying life. I didn't take my mask
off because I'm scared, but I'm scared of everything, anyway. My husband
took his mask off and I was like, OK, that's fine, but I'm going to be
watching you for two weeks.

One thing I love about my friends in New York is that we are always
ready to talk about singing. When Matt asked me if I was OK with so many
jobs being canceled, I said, ``Is it weird that I'm just so happy to be
able to be with my family?''

I've slept in the same bed for the last four months. I don't remember
the last time that I did that.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
