Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/books/review}{Book Review}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/books/review}{Book Review}\textbar{}7 Takeaways From Mary
Trump's Book About Her Uncle Donald

\url{https://nyti.ms/3eg0dcl}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{7-takeaways-from-mary-trumps-book-about-her-uncle-donald}{%
\section{7 Takeaways From Mary Trump's Book About Her Uncle
Donald}\label{7-takeaways-from-mary-trumps-book-about-her-uncle-donald}}

Growing up Trump wasn't easy. There were feuds, grudges and spanking
with a wooden spoon. Now, there's the burden of the name.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/07/14/books/review/14Egan/14Egan-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By Elisabeth Egan

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Published July 8, 2020Updated July 13, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

In the prologue of ``Too Much and Never Enough,''
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/13/us/politics/mary-trump-book.html}{Mary
Trump} writes: ``The media failed to notice that not one member of
Donald's family, apart from his children, his son-in-law and his current
wife, said a word in support of him during the entire campaign.'' That
doesn't mean they had no opinions. The daughter of the president's older
brother, Freddy, who died in 1981, now shares some of hers --- not just
by airing the family's dirty laundry, but by washing and folding it,
too. (Mary Trump is a clinical psychologist whose diagnoses for her
uncle are as varied and extensive as the fast food buffet he offered the
Clemson Tigers
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/01/15/us/politics/trump-burgers-fast-food.html}{when
they visited the White House in 2019}.)

{[} \emph{Read}
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/08/books/review-too-much-never-enough-mary-trump.html}{\emph{Jennifer
Szalai's review}} \emph{of ``Too Much and Never Enough.''} {]}

Here are seven insights gleaned from reading the first niece.

\hypertarget{nothing-donald-trump-said-during-his-campaign-deviated-from-mary-trumps-expectations-of-him}{%
\subsubsection{Nothing Donald Trump said during his campaign deviated
from Mary Trump's expectations of
him.}\label{nothing-donald-trump-said-during-his-campaign-deviated-from-mary-trumps-expectations-of-him}}

``I was reminded of every family meal I'd ever attended during which
Donald had talked about all of the women he considered ugly fat slobs or
the men, usually more accomplished or powerful, he called losers,'' she
writes. ``That kind of casual dehumanization of people was commonplace
at the Trump dinner table.''

\hypertarget{the-author-declined-an-invitation-to-an-election-night-party-in-new-york-city}{%
\subsubsection{The author declined an invitation to an election night
party in New York
City.}\label{the-author-declined-an-invitation-to-an-election-night-party-in-new-york-city}}

Her reason: ``I wouldn't be able to contain my euphoria when Clinton's
victory was announced, and I didn't want to be rude.'' In the months
following her uncle's inauguration, ``the smallest thing --- seeing
Donald's face or hearing my own name, both of which happened dozens of
times a day --- took me back to the time when my father had withered and
died beneath the cruelty and contempt of my grandfather. I had lost him
when he was only 42 and I was 16. The horror of Donald's cruelty was
being magnified by the fact that his acts were now official U.S. policy,
affecting millions of people.''

\hypertarget{but-in-april-2017-she-did-accept-an-invite-to-a-white-house-celebration-for-her-aunts-birthdays}{%
\subsubsection{But, in April 2017, she did accept an invite to a White
House celebration for her aunts'
birthdays.}\label{but-in-april-2017-she-did-accept-an-invite-to-a-white-house-celebration-for-her-aunts-birthdays}}

At Trump International Hotel, the extended family ``piled haphazardly
into the two White House vans like a J.V. lacrosse team.'' Upon arrival
at their destination, Vice President Pence lurked ``with a half-dead
smile on his face, like the chaperone everybody wanted to avoid,'' and
guests were treated to a tour, during which Mary Trump ``was surprised
to see a half-eaten apple on the bedside table'' in the Lincoln Bedroom.
Dinner was brief, as Trump dinners usually are. Mashed potatoes were on
the menu, prompting the president's sister Maryanne to tell a favorite
family story about ``that night when Freddy dumped a bowl of mashed
potatoes on Donald's head because he was being such a brat.'' When it
was the author's turn to take a picture with her uncle, she could ``see
the exhaustion behind the smile. It seemed that keeping up the cheerful
facade was wearing on him.''

\hypertarget{for-donald-lying-was-primarily-a-mode-of-self-aggrandizement-meant-to-convince-other-people-he-was-better-than-he-actually-was}{%
\subsubsection{`For Donald, lying was primarily a mode of
self-aggrandizement meant to convince other people he was better than he
actually
was.'}\label{for-donald-lying-was-primarily-a-mode-of-self-aggrandizement-meant-to-convince-other-people-he-was-better-than-he-actually-was}}

According to Mary Trump, her father's siblings were raised with a few
core beliefs: lying was OK --- in fact, it was ``a way of life'';
apologies and displays of emotion or vulnerability were verboten; and
bullying was perfectly acceptable, if not encouraged. She tells a story
about a young Donald Trump threatening to dismantle his younger
brother's favorite toy trucks: ``Desperate to save them, Robert ran to
his mother. Mary's solution was to hide the trucks in the attic,
effectively punishing Robert, who'd done nothing wrong, and leaving
Donald feeling invincible. He wasn't yet being rewarded for selfishness,
obstinacy or cruelty, but he wasn't being punished for those flaws,
either.''

\hypertarget{you-do-not-want-to-be-on-the-bad-side-of-the-trump-family}{%
\subsubsection{You do not want to be on the bad side of the Trump
family.}\label{you-do-not-want-to-be-on-the-bad-side-of-the-trump-family}}

Donald Trump's father, Fred, never cared for Mary Trump's mother, Linda,
a former flight attendant from Florida whom he considered a gold digger.
He turned a blind eye when his eldest son was sick and living with his
young family in a frigid Trump-owned apartment with plastic sheeting
over its rotting walls. Years later, after his son died, Fred would
disinherit Mary and her brother; their uncle, Robert (of the toy
trucks), explained: ``Your grandfather didn't want you or Fritz, or
especially your mother, to get anything.'' When the siblings threatened
to sue for 20 percent of their grandfather's estate, the family cut off
the medical insurance that had been provided by Trump Management since
they were born. ``My brother depended upon this insurance to pay for my
nephew's crushing medical expenses,'' Mary Trump writes. ``William was
out of the hospital by then, but he was still susceptible to seizures,
which more than once had put him in a state of cardiac arrest so severe
that he would not have survived without CPR. He still required
round-the-clock nursing care.'' The response from the lawyer
representing Fred Trump's estate: William's parents should learn CPR.

\hypertarget{the-trumps-have-a-way-with-words}{%
\subsubsection{The Trumps have a way with
words.}\label{the-trumps-have-a-way-with-words}}

Donald Trump, upon seeing his niece in a bathing suit: ``You're
stacked.'' Fred Trump's advice to his son Freddy, who was suffering from
alcoholism: ``Just give it a quarter of a turn on the mental
carburetor.'' Fred Trump's advice to his wife, who was frequently ill:
``Everything's great. Right, Toots? You just have to think positive.''

\hypertarget{mary-trump-has-a-simple-reason-for-writing-this-book}{%
\subsubsection{Mary Trump has a simple reason for writing this
book.}\label{mary-trump-has-a-simple-reason-for-writing-this-book}}

``Donald, following the lead of my grandfather and with the complicity,
silence and inaction of his siblings, destroyed my father. I can't let
him destroy my country.''

\emph{Follow New York Times Books on}
\href{https://www.facebook.com/nytbooks/}{\emph{Facebook}}\emph{,}
\href{https://twitter.com/nytimesbooks}{\emph{Twitter}} \emph{and}
\href{https://www.instagram.com/nytbooks/}{\emph{Instagram}}\emph{, sign
up for}
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/books-review}{\emph{our
newsletter}} \emph{or}
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2017/books/books-calendar.html}{\emph{our
literary calendar}}\emph{. And listen to us on the}
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/column/book-review-podcast}{\emph{Book
Review podcast}}\emph{.}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{Â©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
