Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/09/us/trump-vs-biden?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Election
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/09/08/us/elections/results-new-hampshire-primary-elections.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{New
  Hampshire Results}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/election-states-biden-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Paths
  to 270}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/31/us/politics/vote-by-mail-deadlines.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Voting
  by Mail}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/us/elections/2020-presidential-election-calendar.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Key
  Dates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Politics
  Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{fact-checking-trumps-speech-and-more-night-4-of-the-republican-national-convention}{%
\section{Fact-Checking Trump's Speech and More: Night 4 of the
Republican National
Convention}\label{fact-checking-trumps-speech-and-more-night-4-of-the-republican-national-convention}}

Last Updated

Aug. 28, 2020, 11:54 a.m. ET

Aug. 28, 2020, 11:54 a.m. ET

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/27/us/27dc-factcheck-sub2/27dc-factcheck-sub2-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  In accepting his party's nomination for a second term on the fourth
  and final night of the Republican National Convention, President Trump
  mixed a robust defense of his own record with a scathing attack on his
  Democratic opponent, Joseph R. Biden Jr. During his 70-minute speech
  from the South Lawn of the White House, he often exaggerated his own
  accomplishments and skated over his failures while portraying
  Democrats and Mr. Biden inaccurately.
\item
  On the pandemic, the president exaggerated the strength of his
  administration's response, from
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/27/us/rnc-fact-check\#when-i-took-bold-action-to-issue-a-travel-ban-on-china-very-early-indeed-joe-biden-called-it-hysterical-and-xenophobic}{the
  partial travel ban} he imposed on China to the
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/27/us/rnc-fact-check\#we-shipped-hundreds-of-millions-of-masks-gloves-and-gowns-to-our-front-line-health-care-workers}{supply
  of personal protective equipment}, and he promised a vaccine by the
  end of the year ---
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/27/us/rnc-fact-check\#we-are-delivering-lifesaving-therapies-and-will-produce-a-vaccine-before-the-end-of-the-year-or-maybe-even-sooner}{if
  not sooner} --- despite serious doubts about that timetable among
  scientists. He also incorrectly characterized a number of
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/27/us/rnc-fact-check\#instead-of-following-the-science-joe-biden-wants-to-inflict-a-painful-shutdown-on-the-entire-country}{Mr.
  Biden's positions} on the crisis.
\item
  Mr. Trump twisted positions held by Mr. Biden and Democrats on
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/27/us/rnc-fact-check\#make-no-mistake-if-you-give-power-to-joe-biden-the-radical-left-will-defund-police-departments-all-across-america}{defunding
  the police},
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/27/us/rnc-fact-check\#biden-has-promised-to-abolish-the-production-of-american-oil-coal-shale-and-natural-gas-these-same-policies-led-to-crippling-pow}{energy
  policy} and
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/27/us/rnc-fact-check\#joe-biden-claims-he-has-empathy-for-the-vulnerable-yet-the-party-he-leads-supports-the-extreme-late-term-abortion-of-defenseless}{abortion
  rights}, among other issues. And the president claimed to have lived
  up to his promises on other subjects, like building a border wall,
  even where the evidence
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/27/us/rnc-fact-check\#we-have-already-built-300-miles-of-border-wall-and-we-are-adding-10-new-miles-every-single-week-the-wall-will-soon-be-complete-a}{does
  not back him up}.
\item
  A team of New York Times reporters followed the developments and
  fact-checked the speakers, providing context and explanation. And we
  also fact
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/21/us/politics/fact-check-democrats.html}{checked
  the Democratic National Convention.}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/linda-qiu}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/06/12/multimedia/author-linda-qiu/author-linda-qiu-thumbLarge.png}}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/katherine-j--wu}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/11/reader-center/author-katherine-j-wu/author-katherine-j-wu-thumbLarge.png}}

Aug. 28, 2020, 12:08 a.m. ET

Aug. 28, 2020, 12:08 a.m. ET

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/linda-qiu}{Linda Qiu} and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/katherine-j--wu}{Katherine
J. Wu}

\hypertarget{the-united-states-has-among-the-lowest-case-fatality-rates-of-any-major-country-in-the-world}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{the-united-states-has-among-the-lowest-case-fatality-rates-of-any-major-country-in-the-world}{``The
United States has among the lowest case fatality rates of any major
country in the
world.''}}{``The United States has among the lowest case fatality rates of any major country in the world.''}}\label{the-united-states-has-among-the-lowest-case-fatality-rates-of-any-major-country-in-the-world}}

--- President Trump

\hypertarget{false-}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\textbf{False.}
}{False. }}\label{false-}}

This figure, which calculates the number of people known to have the
coronavirus who ultimately die from the disease, is currently just above
3 percent in the United States, putting it in roughly the top third of
countries afflicted by the coronavirus.

The United States has the 51st highest observed case fatality rate out
of 170 countries,
\href{https://coronavirus.jhu.edu/data/mortality}{according to Johns
Hopkins University}, and has the 22nd highest of the 37 countries of the
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development.

The United States also has a relatively high death rate when calculated
as deaths per capita, registering
\href{https://coronavirus.jhu.edu/data/mortality}{more than 50 deaths
per 100,000 people over the course of the pandemic}. That puts the
country squarely in the top 10 countries with the most deaths per
capita, when excluding countries like Andorra and San Marino, which have
had relatively few coronavirus cases. And the U.S. still leads the world
in absolute death counts, with more than 180,000 dead as of Thursday
evening, according to a
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/world/coronavirus-maps.html}{New
York Times database.}

Read more

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/ana-swanson}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/12/10/multimedia/author-ana-swanson/author-ana-swanson-thumbLarge.png}}

Aug. 27, 2020, 11:44 p.m. ET

Aug. 27, 2020, 11:44 p.m. ET

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/ana-swanson}{Ana Swanson}

\hypertarget{we-will-go-right-after-china-we-will-not-rely-on-them-one-bit-we-are-taking-our-business-out-of-china-we-are-bringing-it-home-we-want-our-business-to-come-home}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{we-will-go-right-after-china-we-will-not-rely-on-them-one-bit-we-are-taking-our-business-out-of-china-we-are-bringing-it-home-we}{``We
will go right after China. We will not rely on them one bit. We are
taking our business out of China; we are bringing it home. We want our
business to come
home.''}}{``We will go right after China. We will not rely on them one bit. We are taking our business out of China; we are bringing it home. We want our business to come home.''}}\label{we-will-go-right-after-china-we-will-not-rely-on-them-one-bit-we-are-taking-our-business-out-of-china-we-are-bringing-it-home-we-want-our-business-to-come-home}}

--- President Trump

\hypertarget{this-is-exaggerated-}{%
\subsubsection{This is exaggerated. }\label{this-is-exaggerated-}}

President Trump has pushed to ``decouple'' the American economy from
China's, imposing hefty tariffs on Chinese products that have encouraged
companies to move their operations. Trade with China
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/02/05/business/economy/trump-trade.html}{fell
sharply last year}, and Chinese
\href{https://rhg.com/research/two-way-street-us-china-investment-trends-2020-update/}{investment
in the United States} declined. But trade data suggests that most
companies that have left China have
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/02/05/business/economy/trump-trade.html}{relocated
to other low-cost countries}, like Vietnam and Mexico.

Other companies have
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/22/business/economy/coronavirus-globalization-jobs-supply-chain-china.html}{decided
to remain in China} despite the tariffs, drawn by China's enormous
consumer market and factory sector. American investment in China
actually
\href{https://rhg.com/research/two-way-street-us-china-investment-trends-2020-update/}{edged
up slightly last year}. Most economists and business leaders believe the
world's two largest economies will remain significantly intertwined. And
in some industries, the Trump administration has actually worked to
strengthen ties between the countries.

Much of the limited trade deal that the president
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/01/15/business/economy/china-trade-deal.html}{signed
with China in January} was aimed at opening certain Chinese markets for
American business, especially finance and agriculture.

Read more

\hypertarget{advertisement}{%
\subsubsection{Advertisement}\label{advertisement}}

\protect\hyperlink{after-dfp-ad-mid1}{Continue reading the main story}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/coral-davenport}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/10/03/multimedia/author-coral-davenport/author-coral-davenport-thumbLarge-v2.png}}

Aug. 27, 2020, 11:43 p.m. ET

Aug. 27, 2020, 11:43 p.m. ET

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/coral-davenport}{Coral
Davenport}

\hypertarget{we-will-greatly-expand-energy-development-continuing-to-remain-the-number-one-in-the-world-and-keep-america-energy-independent}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{we-will-greatly-expand-energy-development-continuing-to-remain-the-number-one-in-the-world-and-keep-america-energy-independent}{``We
will greatly expand energy development, continuing to remain the number
one in the world, and keep America energy
independent.''}}{``We will greatly expand energy development, continuing to remain the number one in the world, and keep America energy independent.''}}\label{we-will-greatly-expand-energy-development-continuing-to-remain-the-number-one-in-the-world-and-keep-america-energy-independent}}

--- President Trump

\hypertarget{this-is-mostly-true}{%
\subsubsection{This is mostly true.}\label{this-is-mostly-true}}

According to the
\href{https://slack-redir.net/link?url=https\%3A\%2F\%2Fwww.eia.gov\%2Ftodayinenergy\%2Fdetail.php\%3Fid\%3D40973}{Energy
Information Administration}, the statistical arm of the Energy
Department, the United States surpassed Russia to become the world's
largest producer of natural gas in 2011. The United States became the
world's largest producer of oil and natural gas combined in 2014. And it
surpassed Saudi Arabia in 2018 to become the world's largest producer of
petroleum.

However, the phrase ``energy independence'' suggests that the United
States is not reliant on imported energy sources. In fact, 2019, nearly
half the oil consumed by the United States ---
\href{https://slack-redir.net/link?url=https\%3A\%2F\%2Fwww.eia.gov\%2Ftools\%2Ffaqs\%2Ffaq.php\%3Fid\%3D727\%26t\%3D6\%23\%3A~\%3Atext\%3DIn\%25202019\%252C\%2520the\%2520United\%2520States\%2C(including\%2520ethanol\%2520and\%2520biodiesel).}{about
9 million barrels per day} --- was imported, according to the Energy
Information Administration, the statistical arm of the Energy
Department.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/mike-baker}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/05/19/reader-center/author-mike-baker/author-mike-baker-thumbLarge.png}}

Aug. 27, 2020, 11:40 p.m. ET

Aug. 27, 2020, 11:40 p.m. ET

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/mike-baker}{Mike Baker}

\hypertarget{make-no-mistake-if-you-give-power-to-joe-biden-the-radical-left-will-defund-police-departments-all-across-america}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{make-no-mistake-if-you-give-power-to-joe-biden-the-radical-left-will-defund-police-departments-all-across-america}{``Make
no mistake, if you give power to Joe Biden, the radical left will defund
police departments all across
America.''}}{``Make no mistake, if you give power to Joe Biden, the radical left will defund police departments all across America.''}}\label{make-no-mistake-if-you-give-power-to-joe-biden-the-radical-left-will-defund-police-departments-all-across-america}}

--- President Trump

\hypertarget{this-is-misleading-}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\textbf{This is misleading.}
}{This is misleading. }}\label{this-is-misleading-}}

Some cities have been moving to cut police department budgets in recent
weeks. Mr. Trump implies here that Mr. Biden is a supporter of such
cuts, but
\href{https://slack-redir.net/link?url=https\%3A\%2F\%2Fwww.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion\%2F2020\%2F06\%2F08\%2Fus\%2Fpolitics\%2Fbiden-defund-the-police.html}{Mr.
Biden has made clear that he opposes defunding} and instead has proposed
``to get police more money.'' Mr. Biden has also expressed support for
the Second Amendment, saying that he himself is a gun owner. Mr. Biden
does propose some firearm restrictions,
\href{https://slack-redir.net/link?url=https\%3A\%2F\%2Fwww.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion\%2F2019\%2F08\%2F11\%2Fopinion\%2Fjoe-biden-ban-assault-weapons.html}{such
as a ban on assault weapons} and high-capacity magazines. He also
supports background checks and other regulations.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/coral-davenport}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/10/03/multimedia/author-coral-davenport/author-coral-davenport-thumbLarge-v2.png}}

Aug. 27, 2020, 11:35 p.m. ET

Aug. 27, 2020, 11:35 p.m. ET

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/coral-davenport}{Coral
Davenport}

\hypertarget{biden-has-promised-to-abolish-the-production-of-american-oil-coal-shale-and-natural-gas--these-same-policies-led-to-crippling-power-outages-in-california-just-last-week}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{biden-has-promised-to-abolish-the-production-of-american-oil-coal-shale-and-natural-gas-these-same-policies-led-to-crippling-pow}{``Biden
has promised to abolish the production of American oil, coal, shale and
natural gas. \ldots{} These same policies led to crippling power outages
in California just last
week.''}}{``Biden has promised to abolish the production of American oil, coal, shale and natural gas. \ldots{} These same policies led to crippling power outages in California just last week.''}}\label{biden-has-promised-to-abolish-the-production-of-american-oil-coal-shale-and-natural-gas--these-same-policies-led-to-crippling-power-outages-in-california-just-last-week}}

--- President Trump

\hypertarget{this-is-false}{%
\subsubsection{This is false.}\label{this-is-false}}

As temperatures rose in California last week, the manager of much of the
state's electric grid called on utilities to
\href{https://slack-redir.net/link?url=https\%3A\%2F\%2Fwww.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion\%2F2020\%2F08\%2F16\%2Fbusiness\%2Fcalifornia-blackouts.html}{cut
power to hundreds of thousands of customers}. But the state's energy
experts also said that the utilities had plenty of power available and
that the blackouts weren't necessary. California has not banned
production of oil and gas, and it is one of the nation's top 10
oil-producing states.

\hypertarget{advertisement-1}{%
\subsubsection{Advertisement}\label{advertisement-1}}

\protect\hyperlink{after-dfp-ad-mid2}{Continue reading the main story}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/charlie-savage}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/06/12/multimedia/author-charlie-savage/author-charlie-savage-thumbLarge-v2.png}}

Aug. 27, 2020, 11:32 p.m. ET

Aug. 27, 2020, 11:32 p.m. ET

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/charlie-savage}{Charlie
Savage}

\hypertarget{remember-this-they-spied-on-my-campaign-and-they-got-caught}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{remember-this-they-spied-on-my-campaign-and-they-got-caught}{``Remember
this: They spied on my campaign and they got
caught.''}}{``Remember this: They spied on my campaign and they got caught.''}}\label{remember-this-they-spied-on-my-campaign-and-they-got-caught}}

--- President Trump

\hypertarget{this-is-misleading--1}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\textbf{This is misleading.}
}{This is misleading. }}\label{this-is-misleading--1}}

In July 2016, the F.B.I. opened a counterintelligence investigation into
Russia's covert operation to tilt that year's election in Mr. Trump's
favor, including whether anyone associated with his campaign cooperated
with that effort, wittingly or unwittingly.

The F.B.I. used several confidential human informants to approach Trump
campaign associates to see what they would say about any advance
knowledge of Russia's hacking and release of Democratic emails. It also
wiretapped Carter Page, a former Trump campaign adviser with ties to
Russian intelligence officials; Mr. Page had left the campaign by the
time a court approve the warrant, but wiretap orders permit the F.B.I.
to look at any older emails in a target's account.

The purpose of this investigation was to understand the scope and nature
of an effort by a foreign adversary to manipulate an American election.
Calling it spying on his campaign connotes trying to gain an electoral
advantage, but there is no evidence that any information gathered by the
inquiry was provided to the Clinton campaign or leaked to affect the
vote.

Read more

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/margot-sanger-katz}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2019/12/13/reader-center/author-margot-sanger-katz/author-margot-sanger-katz-thumbLarge.png}}

Aug. 27, 2020, 11:31 p.m. ET

Aug. 27, 2020, 11:31 p.m. ET

By
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/margot-sanger-katz}{Margot
Sanger-Katz}

\hypertarget{we-will-always-and-very-strongly-protect-patients-with-pre-existing-conditions-and-that-is-a-pledge-from-the-entire-republican-party}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{we-will-always-and-very-strongly-protect-patients-with-pre-existing-conditions-and-that-is-a-pledge-from-the-entire-republican-p}{``We
will always, and very strongly, protect patients with pre-existing
conditions, and that is a pledge from the entire Republican
Party.''}}{``We will always, and very strongly, protect patients with pre-existing conditions, and that is a pledge from the entire Republican Party.''}}\label{we-will-always-and-very-strongly-protect-patients-with-pre-existing-conditions-and-that-is-a-pledge-from-the-entire-republican-party}}

--- President Trump

\hypertarget{this-is-misleading}{%
\subsubsection{This is misleading.}\label{this-is-misleading}}

The Affordable Care Act, signed by Barack Obama in 2010, established
protections for Americans with pre-existing health conditions, requiring
insurers to sell them the same plans offered to people without prior
health problems. Though President Trump often says he supports the idea,
he has
\href{https://slack-redir.net/link?url=https\%3A\%2F\%2Fwww.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion\%2F2020\%2F01\%2F13\%2Fupshot\%2Ftrump-tweets-health-care.html}{taken
numerous actions} that would weaken those protections. He supported
legislation early in his term that would have overturned the Affordable
Care Act and
\href{https://slack-redir.net/link?url=https\%3A\%2F\%2Fwww.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion\%2F2017\%2F04\%2F04\%2Fupshot\%2Ffreedom-caucus-health-care-pre-existing-conditions.html}{undermined
the comprehensiveness of health benefits}. He has
\href{https://slack-redir.net/link?url=https\%3A\%2F\%2Fwww.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion\%2F2018\%2F08\%2F01\%2Fus\%2Fpolitics\%2Ftrump-short-term-health-insurance.html}{expanded
the availability} of skimpy insurance that
\href{https://slack-redir.net/link?url=https\%3A\%2F\%2Fwww.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion\%2F2018\%2F08\%2F01\%2Fupshot\%2Fbuying-short-term-health-insurance-what-to-know.html}{does
not need to offer plans} to people with pre-existing conditions. And his
Justice Department is involved in a lawsuit,
\href{https://slack-redir.net/link?url=https\%3A\%2F\%2Fwww.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion\%2F2020\%2F03\%2F02\%2Fus\%2Fsupreme-court-obamacare-appeal.html}{currently
before the Supreme Court}, that would overturn the health law in its
entirety. The president has provided no details about what policy would
replace the health law --- and help patients with pre-existing
conditions --- if he were to prevail in that suit.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/stephanie-saul}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/02/06/reader-center/author-stephanie-saul/author-stephanie-saul-thumbLarge.png}}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/sheryl-gay-stolberg}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/11/26/multimedia/author-sheryl-gay-stolberg/author-sheryl-gay-stolberg-thumbLarge.png}}

Aug. 27, 2020, 11:28 p.m. ET

Aug. 27, 2020, 11:28 p.m. ET

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/stephanie-saul}{Stephanie
Saul} and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/sheryl-gay-stolberg}{Sheryl
Gay Stolberg}

\hypertarget{during-the-democrat-convention-the-words-under-god-were-removed-from-the-pledge-of-allegiance--not-once-but-twice-we-will-never-do-that-but-the-fact-is-this-is-where-they-are-coming-from}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{during-the-democrat-convention-the-words-under-god-were-removed-from-the-pledge-of-allegiance-not-once-but-twice-we-will-never-d}{``During
the Democrat Convention, the words `under God' were removed from the
Pledge of Allegiance --- not once, but twice. We will never do that. But
the fact is, this is where they are coming
from.''}}{``During the Democrat Convention, the words `under God' were removed from the Pledge of Allegiance --- not once, but twice. We will never do that. But the fact is, this is where they are coming from.''}}\label{during-the-democrat-convention-the-words-under-god-were-removed-from-the-pledge-of-allegiance--not-once-but-twice-we-will-never-do-that-but-the-fact-is-this-is-where-they-are-coming-from}}

--- President Trump

\hypertarget{the-is-misleading}{%
\subsubsection{The is misleading.}\label{the-is-misleading}}

The Democratic National Convention recited the Pledge of Allegiance on
all four nights including the words ``under God.'' So did most of its
caucuses, which took place before the prime-time programming. Several
smaller meetings --- two meetings of the L.G.B.T.Q. Caucus and one
gathering of the Muslim Assembly --- recited the Pledge of Allegiance
omitting the words ``under God.''

Earl D. Fowlkes Jr., chairman of the L.G.B.T.Q. Caucus, said the
decision to omit the words was made by two separate individuals who were
asked to lead the pledge and was not a policy decision. ``It was a
personal preference,'' Mr. Fowlkes said. ``I was just as surprised as
everyone else.''

But the central programming of the convention featured the entire
pledge, complete with ``under God,'' on each of its four nights. On the
first night, Mr. Biden's grandchildren said the pledge, followed by the
convention's chorus of ``The Star-Spangled Banner.'' On the second
night, a pledge was recited by a diverse group of Americans, as it was
again on the third night. On the fourth night, Cedric Richmond Jr., the
son of Representative Cedric Richmond, Democrat of Louisiana, said the
pledge. Each night, the pledge included the words ``under God.''

Read more

\hypertarget{advertisement-2}{%
\subsubsection{Advertisement}\label{advertisement-2}}

\protect\hyperlink{after-dfp-ad-mid3}{Continue reading the main story}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/thomas-kaplan}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2019/08/28/reader-center/author-thomas-kaplan/author-thomas-kaplan-thumbLarge-v2.png}}

Aug. 27, 2020, 11:28 p.m. ET

Aug. 27, 2020, 11:28 p.m. ET

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/thomas-kaplan}{Thomas
Kaplan}

\hypertarget{instead-of-following-the-science-joe-biden-wants-to-inflict-a-painful-shutdown-on-the-entire-country}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{instead-of-following-the-science-joe-biden-wants-to-inflict-a-painful-shutdown-on-the-entire-country}{``Instead
of following the science, Joe Biden wants to inflict a painful shutdown
on the entire
country.''}}{``Instead of following the science, Joe Biden wants to inflict a painful shutdown on the entire country.''}}\label{instead-of-following-the-science-joe-biden-wants-to-inflict-a-painful-shutdown-on-the-entire-country}}

--- President Trump

\hypertarget{this-is-exaggerated}{%
\subsubsection{This is exaggerated.}\label{this-is-exaggerated}}

Mr. Biden has emphasized the importance of deferring to science when it
comes to responding to the coronavirus. In an interview last week, he
expressed a willingness to shut down the country if recommended by
scientists, but he is not promising a shutdown no matter what.

In the interview, ABC's David Muir asked Mr. Biden, ``If you're sworn in
come January and we have coronavirus and the flu combining, which many
scientists have said is a real possibility, would you be prepared to
shut this country down again?''

Mr. Biden responded: ``I will be prepared to do whatever it takes to
save lives, because we cannot get the country moving until we control
the virus. That is the fundamental flaw of this administration's
thinking to begin with. In order to keep the country running and moving
and the economy growing and people employed, you have to fix the virus.
You have to deal with the virus.''

Pressed on what he would do ``if the scientists say shut it down,'' as
Mr. Muir put it, Mr. Biden responded: ``I would shut it down. I would
listen to the scientists.''

Read more

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/ana-swanson}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/12/10/multimedia/author-ana-swanson/author-ana-swanson-thumbLarge.png}}

Aug. 27, 2020, 11:25 p.m. ET

Aug. 27, 2020, 11:25 p.m. ET

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/ana-swanson}{Ana Swanson}

\hypertarget{biden-voted-for-the-nafta-disaster-the-single-worst-trade-deal-ever-enacted-he-supported-chinas-entry-into-the-world-trade-organization-one-of-the-greatest-economic-disasters-of-all-time-after-those-biden-calamities-the-united-states-lost-1-in-4-manufacturing-jobs}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{biden-voted-for-the-nafta-disaster-the-single-worst-trade-deal-ever-enacted-he-supported-chinas-entry-into-the-world-trade-organ}{``Biden
voted for the NAFTA disaster, the single worst trade deal ever enacted.
He supported China's entry into the World Trade Organization, one of the
greatest economic disasters of all time. After those Biden calamities,
the United States lost 1 in 4 manufacturing
jobs.''}}{``Biden voted for the NAFTA disaster, the single worst trade deal ever enacted. He supported China's entry into the World Trade Organization, one of the greatest economic disasters of all time. After those Biden calamities, the United States lost 1 in 4 manufacturing jobs.''}}\label{biden-voted-for-the-nafta-disaster-the-single-worst-trade-deal-ever-enacted-he-supported-chinas-entry-into-the-world-trade-organization-one-of-the-greatest-economic-disasters-of-all-time-after-those-biden-calamities-the-united-states-lost-1-in-4-manufacturing-jobs}}

--- President Trump

\hypertarget{this-is-mostly-true-1}{%
\subsubsection{This is mostly true.}\label{this-is-mostly-true-1}}

Mr. Biden did vote to approve the North American Free Trade Agreement in
1993 and supported China's entry into the World Trade Organization,
which occurred in December 2001. Since then, the number of American
workers employed in manufacturing
\href{https://slack-redir.net/link?url=https\%3A\%2F\%2Fwww.bls.gov\%2Fiag\%2Ftgs\%2Fiag31-33.htm}{shrank
from 15.7 million to 12.1 million}, a loss of a little less than 1 in 4
jobs.

Many economists believe that the entry of such a massive country as
China into the global marketplace created
\href{https://slack-redir.net/link?url=https\%3A\%2F\%2Fchinashock.info\%2Fpapers\%2F}{a
shock that was responsible} for some of this job loss, though many
economic studies have found that NAFTA had
\href{https://slack-redir.net/link?url=https\%3A\%2F\%2Ffas.org\%2Fsgp\%2Fcrs\%2Frow\%2FR42965.pdf}{little
to no effect on net American employment}. But other major economic
trends have also contributed to the shedding of American manufacturing
jobs, including increasing automation, globalization and the rise of
international supply chains, and the information technology revolution,
which allowed companies to separate their operations for designing and
manufacturing goods.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/sheryl-gay-stolberg}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/11/26/multimedia/author-sheryl-gay-stolberg/author-sheryl-gay-stolberg-thumbLarge.png}}

Aug. 27, 2020, 11:21 p.m. ET

Aug. 27, 2020, 11:21 p.m. ET

By
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/sheryl-gay-stolberg}{Sheryl
Gay Stolberg}

\hypertarget{joe-biden-claims-he-has-empathy-for-the-vulnerable-yet-the-party-he-leads-supports-the-extreme-late-term-abortion-of-defenseless-babies-right-up-until-the-moment-of-birth}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{joe-biden-claims-he-has-empathy-for-the-vulnerable-yet-the-party-he-leads-supports-the-extreme-late-term-abortion-of-defenseless}{``Joe
Biden claims he has empathy for the vulnerable, yet the party he leads
supports the extreme late-term abortion of defenseless babies, right up
until the moment of
birth.''}}{``Joe Biden claims he has empathy for the vulnerable, yet the party he leads supports the extreme late-term abortion of defenseless babies, right up until the moment of birth.''}}\label{joe-biden-claims-he-has-empathy-for-the-vulnerable-yet-the-party-he-leads-supports-the-extreme-late-term-abortion-of-defenseless-babies-right-up-until-the-moment-of-birth}}

--- President Trump

\hypertarget{this-is-exaggerated--1}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\textbf{This is exaggerated.}
}{This is exaggerated. }}\label{this-is-exaggerated--1}}

Democrats support abortion rights, but that does not mean they call for
women to have an unfettered right to terminate pregnancies up until the
point of birth. Mr. Trump may have been referring to a debate over a
bill proposed last year by Democrats in the Virginia legislature that
would have made it easier for women to obtain abortions late in
pregnancy if the mother's physical health or safety were at risk.

The proposed legislation prompted Senator Ted Cruz, Republican of Texas,
to falsely claim that Democrats support ``abortion up until the moment
of birth and even, horrifically, after that.'' Other Republicans have
echoed the claim.

Democrats support codifying Roe v. Wade, the landmark 1973 decision that
held states could prohibit abortion after fetal viability --- the point
at which fetuses can sustain life outside the womb. The current Supreme
Court standard holds that states may prohibit abortion after fetal
viability so long as there are exceptions for the life and health of the
mother.

``Like the majority of Americans, Democrats believe that every woman
should be able to access high-quality reproductive health care services,
including safe and legal abortion,''
\href{https://slack-redir.net/link?url=https\%3A\%2F\%2Fwww.demconvention.com\%2Fwp-content\%2Fuploads\%2F2020\%2F07\%2F2020-07-21-DRAFT-Democratic-Party-Platform.pdf}{the
party's draft 2020 platform} states, adding, ``Democrats oppose and will
fight to overturn federal and state laws that create barriers to women's
reproductive health and rights.''

Read more

\hypertarget{advertisement-3}{%
\subsubsection{Advertisement}\label{advertisement-3}}

\protect\hyperlink{after-dfp-ad-mid4}{Continue reading the main story}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/edward-wong}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/09/24/multimedia/author-edward-wong/author-edward-wong-thumbLarge-v5.png}}

Aug. 27, 2020, 11:17 p.m. ET

Aug. 27, 2020, 11:17 p.m. ET

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/edward-wong}{Edward Wong}

\hypertarget{when-i-took-bold-action-to-issue-a-travel-ban-on-china-very-early-indeed-joe-biden-called-it-hysterical-and-xenophobic}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{when-i-took-bold-action-to-issue-a-travel-ban-on-china-very-early-indeed-joe-biden-called-it-hysterical-and-xenophobic}{``When
I took bold action to issue a travel ban on China, very early indeed,
Joe Biden called it hysterical and
xenophobic.''}}{``When I took bold action to issue a travel ban on China, very early indeed, Joe Biden called it hysterical and xenophobic.''}}\label{when-i-took-bold-action-to-issue-a-travel-ban-on-china-very-early-indeed-joe-biden-called-it-hysterical-and-xenophobic}}

--- President Trump

\hypertarget{this-is-false-1}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\textbf{This is
false.}}{This is false.}}\label{this-is-false-1}}

Mr. Biden did not say those words about Mr. Trump's partial travel ban
on China, which was aimed at limiting the spread of the coronavirus in
the United States. Mr. Trump announced the ban on Jan. 31. Mr. Biden
\href{https://twitter.com/JoeBiden/status/1223727977361338370?s=20}{wrote}
the next day on Twitter that Mr. Trump has a ``record of hysteria,
xenophobia, and fear-mongering.'' But he did not say that specifically
about the travel ban. Mr. Biden's aides later said he supported travel
bans based on science. Mr. Trump did not announce the partial ban ``very
early'' relative to other nations. The United States was in the
\href{https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/2020/04/07/trumps-claim-that-he-imposed-first-china-ban/}{third
wave of nations} that enacted some form of travel ban on China in
January.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/coral-davenport}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/10/03/multimedia/author-coral-davenport/author-coral-davenport-thumbLarge-v2.png}}

Aug. 27, 2020, 11:16 p.m. ET

Aug. 27, 2020, 11:16 p.m. ET

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/coral-davenport}{Coral
Davenport}

\hypertarget{biden-has-promised-to-abolish-the-production-of-american-oil-coal-shale-and-natural-gas}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{biden-has-promised-to-abolish-the-production-of-american-oil-coal-shale-and-natural-gas}{``Biden
has promised to abolish the production of American oil, coal, shale and
natural
gas.''}}{``Biden has promised to abolish the production of American oil, coal, shale and natural gas.''}}\label{biden-has-promised-to-abolish-the-production-of-american-oil-coal-shale-and-natural-gas}}

--- President Trump

\hypertarget{this-is-false-2}{%
\subsubsection{This is false.}\label{this-is-false-2}}

Mr. Biden has made no such promise, nor do his policy proposals ban
production of those energy sources. Mr. Biden's climate change plan
would end new leases for hydraulic fracturing, or fracking, for oil and
gas on federal lands, but would not ban existing fracking on public
lands or new or existing fracking on private land.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/zolan-kanno-youngs}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2019/12/13/reader-center/author-zolan-kanno-youngs/author-zolan-kanno-youngs-thumbLarge.png}}

Aug. 27, 2020, 11:16 p.m. ET

Aug. 27, 2020, 11:16 p.m. ET

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/zolan-kanno-youngs}{Zolan
Kanno-Youngs}

\hypertarget{we-have-already-built-300-miles-of-border-wall-and-we-are-adding-10-new-miles-every-single-week-the-wall-will-soon-be-complete-and-it-is-working-beyond-our-wildest-expectations}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{we-have-already-built-300-miles-of-border-wall-and-we-are-adding-10-new-miles-every-single-week-the-wall-will-soon-be-complete-a}{``We
have already built 300 miles of border wall, and we are adding 10 new
miles every single week. The wall will soon be complete, and it is
working beyond our wildest
expectations.''}}{``We have already built 300 miles of border wall, and we are adding 10 new miles every single week. The wall will soon be complete, and it is working beyond our wildest expectations.''}}\label{we-have-already-built-300-miles-of-border-wall-and-we-are-adding-10-new-miles-every-single-week-the-wall-will-soon-be-complete-and-it-is-working-beyond-our-wildest-expectations}}

--- President Trump

\hypertarget{this-is-exaggerated--2}{%
\subsubsection{This is exaggerated. }\label{this-is-exaggerated--2}}

The Trump administration has built roughly 300 miles of new border wall,
although nearly all of it is in areas where dilapidated barriers existed
or vehicle barriers once stood. The administration is on track to just
barely meet Mr. Trump's mandate of constructing 450 miles of border wall
by the end of the year. But much of it will not be in the Rio Grande
Valley, an area historically prone to illegal crossings where private
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/29/us/politics/border-wall-coronavirus.html}{landowners}
have fought in court against the construction project. The border wall
is also not working as Mr. Trump promised. Migrants have used power
tools to cut through it and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/12/26/us/politics/trump-border-wall.html}{ladders}
to climb over it.

\hypertarget{advertisement-4}{%
\subsubsection{Advertisement}\label{advertisement-4}}

\protect\hyperlink{after-dfp-ad-mid5}{Continue reading the main story}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/jeanna-smialek}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/07/03/reader-center/author-jeanna-smialek/author-jeanna-smialek-thumbLarge.png}}

Aug. 27, 2020, 11:10 p.m. ET

Aug. 27, 2020, 11:10 p.m. ET

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/jeanna-smialek}{Jeanna
Smialek}

\hypertarget{over-the-past-three-months-we-have-gained-over-9-million-jobs-and-thats-a-record-in-the-history-of-our-country}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{over-the-past-three-months-we-have-gained-over-9-million-jobs-and-thats-a-record-in-the-history-of-our-country}{``Over
the past three months, we have gained over 9 million jobs, and that's a
record in the history of our
country.''}}{``Over the past three months, we have gained over 9 million jobs, and that's a record in the history of our country.''}}\label{over-the-past-three-months-we-have-gained-over-9-million-jobs-and-thats-a-record-in-the-history-of-our-country}}

--- President Trump

\hypertarget{this-is-misleading--2}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\textbf{This is misleading.}
}{This is misleading. }}\label{this-is-misleading--2}}

It is true that the United States economy gained more than 9 million
jobs between April and June, but it had lost more than 20 million
between February and April. The bounce-back was rapid in part because
many people had been only temporarily laid off as states shut down to
control the spread of the coronavirus and were then quickly rehired.
It's an open question how robustly the remaining lost jobs will come
back as the recovery progresses.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/sheryl-gay-stolberg}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/11/26/multimedia/author-sheryl-gay-stolberg/author-sheryl-gay-stolberg-thumbLarge.png}}

Aug. 27, 2020, 11:08 p.m. ET

Aug. 27, 2020, 11:08 p.m. ET

By
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/sheryl-gay-stolberg}{Sheryl
Gay Stolberg}

\hypertarget{we-shipped-hundreds-of-millions-of-masks-gloves-and-gowns-to-our-front-line-health-care-workers}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{we-shipped-hundreds-of-millions-of-masks-gloves-and-gowns-to-our-front-line-health-care-workers}{``We
shipped hundreds of millions of masks, gloves and gowns to our
front-line health care
workers.''}}{``We shipped hundreds of millions of masks, gloves and gowns to our front-line health care workers.''}}\label{we-shipped-hundreds-of-millions-of-masks-gloves-and-gowns-to-our-front-line-health-care-workers}}

--- President Trump

\hypertarget{this-is-misleading--3}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\textbf{This is misleading}.
}{This is misleading. }}\label{this-is-misleading--3}}

A
\href{https://slack-redir.net/link?url=https\%3A\%2F\%2Foig.hhs.gov\%2Foei\%2Freports\%2Foei-06-20-00300.pdf}{report
by the inspector general} of the Department of Health and Human Services
in the early days of the pandemic found serious problems with the
supplies shipped from the strategic national stockpile. **``**Some
hospitals noted that at the time of our interview they had not received
supplies from the Strategic National Stockpile, or that the supplies
that they had received were not sufficient in quantity or quality,'' the
inspector general wrote. One administrator stated that getting supplies
from the stockpile was a major challenge, saying that the supplies the
hospital received ``won't even last a day. We need gloves, we need masks
with fluid shields on --- N95 masks --- and we need gowns.''

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/michael-crowley}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2019/10/25/reader-center/author-michael-crowley/author-michael-crowley-thumbLarge-v2.png}}

Aug. 27, 2020, 11:08 p.m. ET

Aug. 27, 2020, 11:08 p.m. ET

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/michael-crowley}{Michael
Crowley}

\hypertarget{he-opposed-killing-suleimani}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{he-opposed-killing-suleimani}{``He
opposed killing
Suleimani.''}}{``He opposed killing Suleimani.''}}\label{he-opposed-killing-suleimani}}

--- President Trump

\hypertarget{this-is-true}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\textbf{This is
true.}}{This is true.}}\label{this-is-true}}

Mr. Biden suggested that the senior Iranian commander, Maj. Gen. Qassim
Suleimani, deserved to be killed --- but doubted the intelligence that
Mr. Trump used to justify the strike and warned that it could lead to
dangerous military escalation.

Hours after the Jan. 2 missile strike that killed Mr. Suleimani, Mr.
Biden issued
\href{https://slack-redir.net/link?url=https\%3A\%2F\%2Ftwitter.com\%2FJoeBiden\%2Fstatus\%2F1212954848666234880\%2Fphoto\%2F1}{a
statement} highly critical of the operation. Although he said that Mr.
Suleimani ``deserved to be brought to justice for his crimes against
American troops and thousands of innocents throughout the region,'' Mr.
Biden called the strike ``a hugely escalatory move in an already
dangerous region.'' In a Democratic debate the next month, Mr. Biden
implied that he might have supported the killing if he believed that Mr.
Suleimani was plotting an imminent attack on Americans in the Middle
East as Mr. Trump claimed. But, he said, ``the reason I wouldn't have
ordered the strike is there isn't any evidence yet of an imminent strike
that was going to come from him.'' Mr. Biden has also said that Mr.
Trump
``\href{https://slack-redir.net/link?url=https\%3A\%2F\%2Fwww.desmoinesregister.com\%2Fstory\%2Fnews\%2Felections\%2Fpresidential\%2Fcaucus\%2F2020\%2F01\%2F14\%2Fdemocratic-debate-transcript-what-the-candidates-said-quotes\%2F4460789002\%2F}{flat-out
lied}'' about the underlying intelligence, which has never been made
public and which members of Congress who have seen it have also
questioned. In his initial statement, Mr. Biden warned that ``we could
be on the brink of a major conflict across the Middle East,'' but that
has not materialized.

\hypertarget{advertisement-5}{%
\subsubsection{Advertisement}\label{advertisement-5}}

\protect\hyperlink{after-dfp-ad-mid6}{Continue reading the main story}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/ana-swanson}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/12/10/multimedia/author-ana-swanson/author-ana-swanson-thumbLarge.png}}

Aug. 27, 2020, 11:07 p.m. ET

Aug. 27, 2020, 11:07 p.m. ET

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/ana-swanson}{Ana Swanson}

\hypertarget{earlier-this-year-i-ended-the-nafta-nightmare-and-signed-the-brand-new-us-mexico-canada-agreement-into-law--as-vice-president-biden-supported-the-trans-pacific-partnership-which-would-have-been-a-death-sentence-for-the-us-auto-industry-he-backed-the-horrendous-south-korea-trade-deal-which-took-many-jobs-from-our-country}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{earlier-this-year-i-ended-the-nafta-nightmare-and-signed-the-brand-new-us-mexico-canada-agreement-into-law-as-vice-president-bid}{``Earlier
this year, I ended the NAFTA nightmare and signed the brand-new
U.S.-Mexico-Canada Agreement into law. \ldots{} As vice president,
{[}Biden{]} supported the Trans-Pacific Partnership, which would have
been a death sentence for the U.S. auto industry. He backed the
horrendous South Korea trade deal, which took many jobs from our
country.''}}{``Earlier this year, I ended the NAFTA nightmare and signed the brand-new U.S.-Mexico-Canada Agreement into law. \ldots{} As vice president, {[}Biden{]} supported the Trans-Pacific Partnership, which would have been a death sentence for the U.S. auto industry. He backed the horrendous South Korea trade deal, which took many jobs from our country.''}}\label{earlier-this-year-i-ended-the-nafta-nightmare-and-signed-the-brand-new-us-mexico-canada-agreement-into-law--as-vice-president-biden-supported-the-trans-pacific-partnership-which-would-have-been-a-death-sentence-for-the-us-auto-industry-he-backed-the-horrendous-south-korea-trade-deal-which-took-many-jobs-from-our-country}}

--- President Trump

\hypertarget{this-is-exaggerated--3}{%
\subsubsection{This is exaggerated. }\label{this-is-exaggerated--3}}

President Trump has consistently tried to distance the trade deals he
has updated or revised from their earlier iterations that were written
by other administrations. But the revised trade deal with South Korea
that Mr. Trump signed in 2018 is a minor update to what he refers to as
``the horrendous South Korea trade deal.''

That pact included steps to open up the Korean market to increased
American exports, most notably for automobiles, but there were
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/09/24/us/politics/south-korea-trump-trade-deal.html}{few
other fundamental changes} to the existing agreement.

The United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement was a more significant
transformation of its predecessor, the 26-year-old North American Free
Trade Agreement. But while the 2,082-page pact includes
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/01/29/business/economy/usmca-deal.html}{some
important changes} in key areas, like incentives to make cars in North
America and reforms to Mexican labor rules, it's also fair to describe
it as an update of the original NAFTA pact.

Much of the new agreement simply updates the pre-existing deal with new
laws on the internet, intellectual property protection, state-owned
enterprises and currency. And much of that updated language was itself
taken from the negotiated text of the Trans-Pacific Partnership, which
Mr. Trump derides.

Read more

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/linda-qiu}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/06/12/multimedia/author-linda-qiu/author-linda-qiu-thumbLarge.png}}

Aug. 27, 2020, 11:02 p.m. ET

Aug. 27, 2020, 11:02 p.m. ET

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/linda-qiu}{Linda Qiu}

\hypertarget{we-also-passed-va-accountability-and-va-choice-our-great-veterans-we-are-taking-care-of-our-veterans-ninety-one-percent-approval-rating-this-month-the-va-given-by-our-veterans-first-time-anything-like-that-has-happened}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{we-also-passed-va-accountability-and-va-choice-our-great-veterans-we-are-taking-care-of-our-veterans-ninety-one-percent-approval}{``We
also passed V.A. Accountability and V.A. Choice, our great veterans. We
are taking care of our veterans. Ninety-one percent approval rating this
month, the V.A. Given by our veterans. First time anything like that has
happened.''}}{``We also passed V.A. Accountability and V.A. Choice, our great veterans. We are taking care of our veterans. Ninety-one percent approval rating this month, the V.A. Given by our veterans. First time anything like that has happened.''}}\label{we-also-passed-va-accountability-and-va-choice-our-great-veterans-we-are-taking-care-of-our-veterans-ninety-one-percent-approval-rating-this-month-the-va-given-by-our-veterans-first-time-anything-like-that-has-happened}}

--- President Trump

\hypertarget{this-is-misleading--4}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\textbf{This is misleading.}
}{This is misleading. }}\label{this-is-misleading--4}}

The Veterans Choice Program was
\href{https://www.congress.gov/bill/113th-congress/house-bill/3230}{created
in 2014} after the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2014/05/29/us/va-report-confirms-improper-waiting-lists-at-phoenix-center.html?module=inline}{scandal
of hidden waiting lists} at Department of Veterans Affairs hospitals. In
2018, Mr. Trump signed
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/05/23/us/politics/veterans-health-care.html?module=inline}{a
law} that overhauled and consolidated Veterans Choice and other existing
programs into a single Veterans Community Care Program. It is unclear
what poll Mr. Trump is referring to, but 57 percent of veterans approved
of Mr. Trump's handling of his duties as commander-in-chief and 92
percent of Republican veterans approved, according a 2019 poll from the
Pew Research Center.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/coral-davenport}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/10/03/multimedia/author-coral-davenport/author-coral-davenport-thumbLarge-v2.png}}

Aug. 27, 2020, 11:00 p.m. ET

Aug. 27, 2020, 11:00 p.m. ET

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/coral-davenport}{Coral
Davenport}

\hypertarget{days-after-taking-office-we--ended-the-unfair-and-very-costly-paris-climate-accord-and-secured-for-the-first-time-american-energy-independence}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{days-after-taking-office-we-ended-the-unfair-and-very-costly-paris-climate-accord-and-secured-for-the-first-time-american-energy}{``Days
after taking office, we \ldots{} ended the unfair and very costly Paris
climate accord and secured for the first time American energy
independence.''}}{``Days after taking office, we \ldots{} ended the unfair and very costly Paris climate accord and secured for the first time American energy independence.''}}\label{days-after-taking-office-we--ended-the-unfair-and-very-costly-paris-climate-accord-and-secured-for-the-first-time-american-energy-independence}}

--- President Trump

\hypertarget{false}{%
\subsubsection{False.}\label{false}}

While President Trump did withdraw the United States from the Paris
climate change agreement ---
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/10/23/climate/trump-paris-climate-accord.html}{a
move that was not legally initiated until 2019} --- the pact, which
includes nearly every other nation on earth, remains intact without the
participation of the United States.

It is not accurate to say that the United States is ``energy
independent,'' a phrase that suggests that the United States is
independent of reliance on imported energy sources. In 2019, nearly half
the oil consumed by the United States was imported ---
\href{https://www.eia.gov/tools/faqs/faq.php?id=727\&t=6\#:~:text=In\%202019\%2C\%20the\%20United\%20States,(including\%20ethanol\%20and\%20biodiesel).}{about
9 million barrels per day} were imported of the roughly 20 million
barrels per day that were consumed, according to the Energy Information
Administration, the statistical arm of the Energy Department.

\hypertarget{our-2020-election-guide}{%
\section{Our 2020 Election Guide}\label{our-2020-election-guide}}

Updated ~Sept. 9, 2020

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

\begin{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{the-latest}{%
  \subsection{The Latest}\label{the-latest}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Joe Biden heads today to Michigan, a battleground state where
    President Trump has resumed advertising ahead of a visit there on
    Thursday.
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/09/us/trump-vs-biden?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Read
    live updates}.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{how-to-win-270}{%
  \subsection{How to Win 270}\label{how-to-win-270}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Joe Biden and Donald Trump need 270 electoral votes to reach the
    White House. Try building
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/election-states-biden-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{your
    own coalition of battleground states}~to see potential outcomes.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{voting-by-mail}{%
  \subsection{Voting by Mail}\label{voting-by-mail}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Will you have enough time to vote by mail in your state? Yes, but
    it's risky to procrastinate.
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/31/us/politics/vote-by-mail-deadlines.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Check
    your state's deadline.}
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/joe-biden.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{}

    \hypertarget{joe-biden}{%
    \section{Joe Biden}\label{joe-biden}}

    \hypertarget{democrat}{%
    \subsection{Democrat}\label{democrat}}

    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/donald-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{}

    \hypertarget{donald-trump}{%
    \section{Donald Trump}\label{donald-trump}}

    \hypertarget{republican}{%
    \subsection{Republican}\label{republican}}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \hypertarget{keep-up-with-our-coverage}{%
  \subsection{Keep Up With Our
  Coverage}\label{keep-up-with-our-coverage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Get an
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{email}~recapping
    the day's news
  \item
    Download our mobile app on
    \href{https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nytimes/id284862083?ls=1\&mat_click_id=5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\&referrer=mat_click_id\%3D5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\%26link_click_id\%3D722930677036718082}{iOS}~and
    \href{http://a.localytics.com/android?id=com.nytimes.android\&referrer=utm_source\%3Dother_nyt_mobile_web\%26utm_medium\%3DWeb\%2520page\%26utm_term\%3DGeneral\%2520Mobile\%2520Page\%26utm_campaign\%3DNYT\%2520Mobile\%2520General\%2520Page}{Android}~and
    turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
