Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/sports/olympics}{Olympics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/sports/olympics}{Olympics}\textbar{}I.O.C. and Japan
Agree to Postpone Tokyo Olympics

\url{https://nyti.ms/2y5X7sh}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{ioc-and-japan-agree-to-postpone-tokyo-olympics}{%
\section{I.O.C. and Japan Agree to Postpone Tokyo
Olympics}\label{ioc-and-japan-agree-to-postpone-tokyo-olympics}}

The decision came after swelling resistance from nations and athletes to
holding the Games amid the coronavirus pandemic.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/03/23/sports/00virus-olypostponed-1-sub/merlin_170873820_11f6bc2d-6447-4395-93cd-bf88824e0a7d-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/motoko-rich}{Motoko Rich},
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/matthew-futterman}{Matthew Futterman}
and \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/tariq-panja}{Tariq Panja}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Published March 24, 2020Updated March 25, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

TOKYO --- A week ago, Prime Minister Shinzo Abe of Japan and Thomas
Bach, president of the International Olympic Committee, were promoting
the
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/19/sports/2021-tokyo-olympics-protocols.html}{Summer
Olympics in Tokyo} as the balm the world needed to show victory over the
coronavirus pandemic.

On Tuesday, the virus won out.

Bach and Abe bowed to a groundswell of resistance --- from athletes,
from sports federations, from national Olympic committees, from health
experts --- and formally postponed the Games, which had been scheduled
to begin in late July, until 2021.

The decision brought both a sense of relief and impending chaos to
international sports.

Abe broke the news after a phone call with Bach, when complaints that
the I.O.C. was not moving quickly enough to adjust to
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/24/world/coronavirus-updates-maps.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&module=styln-coronavirus\&variant=show\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storyline_menu}{the
coronavirus pandemic} became too loud to ignore.

The decision --- which organizers in Japan resisted the longest,
according to people involved with the process --- became all but
inevitable after the national Olympic committee in Canada announced on
Sunday that it was withdrawing from the Games, and
\href{https://twitter.com/CBCOlympics/status/1242121430554165249?s=20}{Australia}'s
committee told its athletes that it was not possible to train under the
widespread restrictions in place to control the virus. Brazil and
Germany, too, called for postponing the Games. And the United States
Olympic and Paralympic Committee, after initially declining to take a
stand, joined the fray Monday night, urging the I.O.C. to postpone.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/03/24/sports/24virus-olypostponed-abe/merlin_170911374_74310957-e49b-494e-ba07-3abf9f1b8264-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

In announcing the decision, Abe said that he had asked Bach for a
one-year delay and that Bach had ``agreed 100 percent.''

It was an extraordinary turnabout: The Olympics have been canceled only
because of world wars, in 1916, 1940 and 1944, and have carried on even
in the tense climate after the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, and
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2015/12/02/sports/long-hidden-details-reveal-cruelty-of-1972-munich-attackers.html}{at
the 1972 Munich Olympics}, where 17 people died after the quarters of
the Israeli team were stormed by Palestinian terrorists.

Bach said the situation had become untenable in recent days as the World
Health Organization described the acceleration of the virus in Africa to
Olympic leaders. That forced the I.O.C. to shift its focus from whether
Japan could be safe at the start of the Games to what was immediately
happening in various other countries.

``We had growing confidence in the developments in Japan,'' Bach said in
a conference call with journalists. ``In 4Â½ months, these safe
conditions could be offered. Then we had this big wave coming from the
rest of the world.''

As the virus spread, Bach said, athletes began voicing concerns about
risking their health to continue training. It became clear that the
pandemic was ``rocking the nerves of the athletes, and it's also not a
situation we have ever been in,'' he said.

Bach said that finalizing the details of a new schedule and negotiating
adjustments in the global sports calendar with leaders of international
federations, who were caught off guard by the speed of the decision,
would take time.

``There are a lot of pieces of a huge and very difficult jigsaw
puzzle,'' he said.

Yoshiro Mori, the president of the Tokyo organizing committee, said that
the scope and the dates of the Games in 2021 were uncertain, but that it
was clear that they could not be held anytime in 2020.

Image

A ceremony at the Olympic torch exhibition in~Fukushima on
Tuesday.Credit...Jiji Press/EPA, via Shutterstock

``I am disappointed,'' Mori said. ``But to be on course with a certain
direction is a sigh of relief.''

The postponement could result in adjusting the dates to avoid the
hottest weeks of the summer in Tokyo, a concern Olympic organizers faced
before the pandemic.

\hypertarget{the-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\subsubsection{The Coronavirus
Outbreak}\label{the-coronavirus-outbreak}}

\hypertarget{sports-and-the-virus}{%
\paragraph{Sports and the Virus}\label{sports-and-the-virus}}

Updated Aug. 4, 2020

Here's what's happening as the world of sports slowly comes back to
life:

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    As the virus spreads through baseball,
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/03/sports/baseball/mlb-coronavirus-outbreak.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_2\&context=storylines_keepup}{so
    does frustration}. Series have been postponed, teams have been
    quarantined and road trips have been rerouted in a season that has
    been defined above all by its precariousness.
  \item
    On all but the two biggest courts, automated line calls
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/03/sports/tennis/us-open-hawkeye-line-judges.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_2\&context=storylines_keepup}{will
    replace human judges} at the U.S. Open to reduce the number of
    people on site during the pandemic.
  \item
    Mets star Yoenis Cespedes is healthy, but
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/02/sports/baseball/Yoenis-cespedes-opt-out-rule.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_2\&context=storylines_keepup}{has
    decided to opt out} of the 2020 baseball season for Covid-related
    reasons.
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

The I.O.C. considered other alternatives, like holding the Games without
fans in arenas or delays of varying lengths --- from just a few months
to all the way to 2022. The committee's leaders never seriously
considered fully canceling the Games or taking them away from Tokyo, but
executives with the local organizing committee were caught by surprise
at how quickly things had changed from Sunday's declaration by the
I.O.C. that it would make a decision on rescheduling the Games within
four weeks.

Bach had been emphasizing that life was returning to normal in Japan,
which has not been hit as hard by the virus as China, Italy, Spain and
the United States. On Sunday in Sendai, in Northern Japan, about 50,000
went to a welcoming ceremony to view the Olympic flame, and people in
Tokyo have been taking the subways and dining in restaurants, a stark
contrast to life in coronavirus hot spots closer to the I.O.C.
headquarters in Switzerland.

``This call was arranged hastily,'' said **** Toshiro Muto, chief
executive of Tokyo 2020, the local organizing committee, referring to
the conference call between Abe and Bach on Tuesday evening in Tokyo.

Abe started his day discussing the Olympics with Prime Minister Justin
Trudeau of Canada. He finished with a hearing on the economic impact of
the coronavirus, then returned to his official residence for his call
with Mr. Bach. Shortly before the call, leaders of the Games in Tokyo,
including Mori, the Tokyo governor, Yuriko Koike, and Seiko Hashimoto,
Japan's Olympics minister, arrived at the residence to join him.

Image

I.O.C. President Thomas Bach said finalizing a new schedule for the
Tokyo Games will take time.Credit...Jean-Christophe Bott/Keystone, via
Associated Press

Muto said the decision would cause countless complications. Thousands of
tickets have been sold to people in Japan and abroad, who may no longer
be able to use them. Japan has already invested at least \$10 billion in
the Games after
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2013/09/08/sports/olympics/tokyo-wins-bid-for-2020-olympics.html}{beating
out Madrid and Istanbul to win the rights to host}, and the delay will
undoubtedly increase costs. Leases on many of the competition venues and
contracts with employees will have to be extended.

``When it comes to who is going to pay for it, that is what we are going
to discuss going forward,'' Muto said.

This delay came after numerous other
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/12/sports/coronavirus-sports-canceled.html?searchResultPosition=4}{postponements
or cancellations of sports} in Japan and around the world, and after
many governments urged people to
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/23/well/family/coronavirus-loneliness-isolation-social-distancing-elderly.html}{limit
their physical interactions}.

The decision quickly gained the support of national Olympic committees
from around the world. In a statement, Andy Anson, the chief executive
of the British Olympic Association, said a postponement was the only
decision his organization could support. ``It would have been
unthinkable for us to continue to prepare for an Olympic Games at a time
the nation, and the world no less, is enduring great hardship,'' Anson
said.

Sarah Hirshland, the chief executive of the United States Olympic and
Paralympic Committee, which did not support a postponement until Monday
night, said in a letter to Team U.S.A. athletes, who had become
increasingly frustrated by her lack of action, that ``taking a step back
from competition to care for our communities and each other is the right
thing to do.''

The signal that the decision was certain came earlier Monday, when
Australia announced that it would not be able to send a team to Tokyo.
John Coates, the leader of Australia's Olympic organization and an
I.O.C. member, is a close ally of Bach's and leads the I.O.C.'s
coordination commission for the Tokyo Games.

Image

Until now, the Olympics had not been canceled or postponed since World
War II.Credit...Noriko Hayashi for The New York Times

At a time when Japan's economy is already stumbling, the delay of the
Olympics could deal a serious blow. In a report early this month, SMBC
Nikko Securities Inc.
\href{https://www.japantimes.co.jp/news/2020/03/07/business/economy-business/canceling-tokyo-olympics-gdp/\#.XnkU59NKiYU}{projected
that a cancellation of the Games would erase 1.4 percent} of Japan's
economic output.

One of the trickiest aspects of moving the Games is handling the
broadcast rights that drive significant revenue for the International
Olympic Committee. Nearly three-quarters of
\href{https://stillmed.olympic.org/media/Document\%20Library/OlympicOrg/Documents/IOC-Marketing-and-Broadcasting-General-Files/Olympic-Marketing-Fact-File-2018.pdf}{I.O.C.
revenue comes from broadcast rights,} and about half of those fees are
paid by the American broadcaster NBC. Broadcast partners and other
Olympic partners may seek a reduction in their fees if there are
substantial changes to when the Olympics are staged or if organizers
reduce the number of sports.

The complications will ripple beyond the Games themselves. The
international governing bodies for track and field and swimming, for
example, planned to hold world championships in 2021 and will have to
work with their athletes and host cities to possibly reschedule those
events.

The Summer Olympics attract more than 11,000 athletes from more than 200
countries, and the I.O.C. prides itself on being more than a
competition, representing values such as unity and peace, bringing the
world together every two years in sports and friendship.

The
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/03/22/world/coronavirus-spread.html}{coronavirus
initially broke out} in China in December but has quickly spread across
Asia, Europe and North America, and many health experts have been
concerned that bringing together people from disparate parts of the
globe --- especially athletes who live closely in a village --- might
ignite an additional outbreak.

The Olympic torch relay through Japan was scheduled to start Thursday.
The flame will now stay in Fukushima, site of the nuclear meltdown
triggered by an earthquake and tsunami nine years ago.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{Â©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
