\hypertarget{the-people-who-make-new-yorks-party-scene-happen}{%
\section{The People Who Make New York's Party Scene
Happen}\label{the-people-who-make-new-yorks-party-scene-happen}}

April 13, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Long a capital of nightlife, from '70s discos to '90s raves, the city is
now home to a rich after-hours culture where anyone --- of any race,
gender or sexuality --- is welcome.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/culture-issue-2020.html}{We
Are Family}

\hypertarget{chapter-4-the-new-guard}{%
\subparagraph{Chapter 4: The New Guard}\label{chapter-4-the-new-guard}}

\hypertarget{previous}{%
\subparagraph{Previous}\label{previous}}

\hypertarget{next}{%
\subparagraph{Next}\label{next}}

\hypertarget{the-people-who-make-new-yorks-party-scene-happen-1}{%
\section{The People Who Make New York's Party Scene
Happen}\label{the-people-who-make-new-yorks-party-scene-happen-1}}

\hypertarget{the-scenemakers}{%
\subsection{The Scenemakers}\label{the-scenemakers}}

Long a capital of nightlife, from '70s discos to '90s raves, New York
City is now home to a robust scene of roving parties where anyone --- of
any race, gender or sexuality --- is welcome. These are the people who
make the party happen.

By Mitchell Kuga

April 13, 2020

SHARE

THERE HAVE BEEN moments in New York City's history when nightlife ---
and sometimes a particular nightclub --- was not just a reflection of
the larger culture but a way and place for new ideas to emerge and be
exchanged. In the late 1960s and early '70s,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2010/09/05/arts/design/05maxs.html}{Max's
Kansas City} on Park Avenue South was a gathering spot for visual
artists, from
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/01/23/obituaries/jack-whitten-artist-of-wide-ranging-curiosity-dies-at-78.html}{Jack
Whitten} to
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/03/10/obituaries/carolee-schneemann-dead-at-79.html}{Carolee
Schneemann} to
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2011/12/22/arts/design/john-chamberlain-artist-of-auto-metal-dies-at-84.html}{John
Chamberlain} (who, like many regulars there, paid his bar tab with
artwork), as well as glam-rock musicians, fashion designers, writers and
critics. The late '70s were defined by
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/10/05/movies/studio-54-documentary-ian-schrager.html}{Studio
54}, a former opera house (in which a cardboard cutout of an
anthropomorphic moon snorting cocaine from a spoon hung from the
ceiling) on West 54th Street that for years drew guests like
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/topic/person/andy-warhol}{Andy
Warhol},
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/topic/person/jack-nicholson}{Jack
Nicholson} and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/09/04/arts/music/cher-abba-broadway-interview.html}{Cher}.
The '90s saw the reign of the party promoter Michael Alig, who assembled
a group of outlandishly dressed followers known as the club kids, many
of whom hung out at Limelight, a former church on West 20th Street. (The
scene fell apart in 1997, when Alig was convicted of
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/1997/09/11/nyregion/2-men-plead-guilty-in-killing-of-club-denizen.html}{manslaughter}.)
Later, the D.J. trio called the Misshapes turned their post-9/11 angst
into an ur-fashion party with celebrity D.J.s;
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/11/11/t-magazine/david-byrne-binder.html}{David
Byrne} and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/topic/person/cindy-sherman}{Cindy
Sherman} attended its
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2007/09/10/arts/10miss.html}{final
weekly bash}, at the SoHo club Don Hill's, in 2007. But though the
venues and casts changed, what remained consistent was each generation's
certainty that they alone had experienced nightlife's golden years, and
that its last gasp coincided with the expiration of their own youth. But
in fact, the party --- as dynamic as ever --- rages on.

The T List \textbar{}

Sign up here

In some ways, the model has changed. For the past decade, nightlife has
had no fixed address but instead has been defined by a wide array of
roving parties, which might set up shop in a Chinese restaurant on Wall
Street one month and a onetime glass factory in Bushwick the next. This
is partly because of the prohibitive realities of New York real estate
and the emergence of Brooklyn as a primary hangout for both locals and
Manhattanites, but it also speaks to the democratizing and dispersive
effects of the internet and, relatedly, to the inclusive principles
these parties attempt to promote, especially with regard to race, gender
and an ever-expanding definition of queerness. This newer generation of
parties arguably began with
\href{https://www.instagram.com/ghe20g0th1k/?hl=en}{GHE20G0TH1K}
(pronounced ``ghetto gothic''), followed by
\href{https://www.facebookcorewwwi.onion/SHOCKVALUENYC/}{Shock Value},
the Spectrum (which, though now on hiatus, did have a consistent venue:
a former strip club in Brooklyn) and
\href{http://officemagazine.net/not-just-party-club-glam}{Club Glam}.
Others, including
\href{https://www.instagram.com/papijuicebk/?hl=en}{Papi Juice},
\href{https://www.instagram.com/gushofficial/?hl=en}{Gush},
\href{https://www.instagram.com/dickappointment__/?hl=en}{Dick
Appointment} and
\href{https://www.instagram.com/bubble____t/?hl=en}{Bubble\_T} (tagline:
``Where Asianz Rule but Everybody's Welcome''), explicitly cater to
queer and trans communities of color. And unlike in the early aughts,
where a stone-faced bouncer stood between you and the door --- Were you
wearing the right thing? Did you know the right people? --- these days,
anyone with a ticket goes right in.

 Sacred Pact

Other things have stayed the same. Going out is still about
transgression --- against convention and sometimes against one's better
judgment --- and belonging. Like
\href{https://tmagazine.blogs.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2014/05/09/flashback-memories-of-the-paradise-garage-larry-levan-street-party/}{Paradise
Garage}, the city's '80s temple of garage house music nicknamed the
``Gay-rage,'' today's parties are refuges for the exploration of
identity through genre-defying mash-ups of sound. Fashion remains
another essential mode of expression, of course, and a new generation of
mostly young, mostly indie, mostly local designers ---
\href{http://www.barragannnn.com/collections}{Victor Barragán},
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/09/12/t-magazine/lou-dallas-fashion-brand-raffaella-hanley.html}{Raffaella
Hanley of Lou Dallas} and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/09/06/t-magazine/new-fashion-designers-susan-fang-super-yaya.html}{Carly
Mark and Ayla Argentina of Puppets and Puppets} among them --- are
creating clothes made for the least inhibited version of yourself,
including nonbinary streetwear and architectural shapes for those
unafraid to take up space on the dance floor.

Alongside these designers, hosts (who are responsible for the theme and
tone of an evening), D.J.s, models, stylists and visual artists round
out the scene and, perhaps even more than their counterparts in past
eras, are quick to collaborate. ``I've worked with nearly everyone
here,'' the photographer and model
\href{https://www.instagram.com/richieshazam/?hl=en}{Richie Shazam},
who's hosted GHE20G0TH1K and Papi Juice, walked the runway for Puppets
and Puppets and Lou Dallas and starred in a Barragán campaign, said
while on set for this story. Some of the pictured subjects actively
participate in parties. Others helped create the movement but,
ironically, find themselves too busy to go out much anymore. As Shazam
said, ``I'm not a club kid --- I'm a businesswoman.''

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

\hypertarget{how-to-start-a-party}{%
\subsubsection{How to Start a Party}\label{how-to-start-a-party}}

\hypertarget{oscar-nuxf1}{%
\paragraph{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.instagram.com/oscarnn/?hl=en}{OSCAR
NÑ}}{OSCAR NÑ}}\label{oscar-nuxf1}}

\hypertarget{dj-and-papi-juice-co-founder-32}{%
\subparagraph{\texorpdfstring{\textbf{D.J. and Papi Juice co-founder,
32.}}{D.J. and Papi Juice co-founder, 32.}}\label{dj-and-papi-juice-co-founder-32}}

Back in 2013, my friend Adam Rhodes and I were at One Last Shag in
Bed-Stuy talking about what it was like being queer people of color
going to traditional gay spaces and feeling frustrated, feeling
invisible or that our cultures --- Adam is Belizean and black American,
and I'm from Honduras --- weren't being celebrated. We took a shot of
tequila and said, ``We should throw a party here.'' We weren't trying to
be revolutionary; we just wanted to make room for all sorts of
identities --- that's what we wanted to vibe on. The manager came over
and said, ``How's next Saturday?'' At that first party we saw maybe 50
or 60 people. Now we sell out Elsewhere. Sometimes the lines between
work and play get blurred, but you have to remember to have fun. It's
just one night. It's just a party.

\hypertarget{stevie-huynh}{%
\paragraph{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.instagram.com/steviehuynh/?hl=en}{STEVIE
HUYNH}}{STEVIE HUYNH}}\label{stevie-huynh}}

\hypertarget{makeup-artist-and-bubble_t-co-founder-35}{%
\subparagraph{\texorpdfstring{\textbf{Makeup artist and Bubble\_T
co-founder,
35.}}{Makeup artist and Bubble\_T co-founder, 35.}}\label{makeup-artist-and-bubble_t-co-founder-35}}

After the last election, there was a collective depression, and it
spurred my co-founders and me to start Bubble\_T. It was a way to check
in with our friends. The five of us were also seeking a place where (a)
we liked the music, and (b) we felt seen as queer Asians. Our first
flyer featured a still from a karaoke video of someone singing a song by
the Vietnamese pop singer Lynda Trang Dai. On another one, for Pride, we
used an image from the Wong Kar Wai film ``Happy Together'' (1997).
These were attempts to recognize the diaspora and our childhood
nostalgia without having to explain ourselves --- if you know, you know.

\hypertarget{dese-escobar}{%
\paragraph{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.instagram.com/1inamilli0nangel/?hl=en}{DESE
ESCOBAR}}{DESE ESCOBAR}}\label{dese-escobar}}

\hypertarget{artist-dj-and-club-glam-co-founder-prefers-not-to-share-age}{%
\subparagraph{\texorpdfstring{\textbf{Artist, D.J. and Club Glam
co-founder (prefers not to share
age).}}{Artist, D.J. and Club Glam co-founder (prefers not to share age).}}\label{artist-dj-and-club-glam-co-founder-prefers-not-to-share-age}}

We started Glam, in May of 2016, mainly for fun. I also felt like New
York was running out of good venues --- so many of the D.I.Y. spaces
were being shut down. At that point {[}the downtown restaurant and
nightlife space{]} China Chalet had been around for a while, but I
wanted to refresh it with the current creative crowd. It's all about
making the party as mix-y as possible, so we pick different hosts from
art and fashion. I also try to make it post-identity, meaning that it's
not strictly queer or straight, young or old. It's just mix-y, and
everyone gets along.

\hypertarget{what-to-wear}{%
\subsubsection{What to Wear}\label{what-to-wear}}

\hypertarget{carly-mark}{%
\paragraph{CARLY MARK}\label{carly-mark}}

\hypertarget{designer-and-co-founder-of-puppets-and-puppets-31}{%
\subparagraph{\texorpdfstring{\textbf{Designer and co-founder of}
\textbf{\href{https://www.instagram.com/puppetsandpuppets/?hl=en}{Puppets
and Puppets},
31.}}{Designer and co-founder of Puppets and Puppets, 31.}}\label{designer-and-co-founder-of-puppets-and-puppets-31}}

We don't make it to many parties anymore --- it takes a lot to put a
brand together --- but I am flattered to know that people who do are
influenced by our work. Nightlife is about more than just the act of
going out. It's a whole aesthetic and about embracing the subculture
that's left in cities, embracing the underdog aspects of a person or a
community unafraid to try something new or cross boundaries in order to
evolve.

\hypertarget{halle-cherry}{%
\paragraph{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.instagram.com/hallecherry/?hl=en}{HALLE
CHERRY}}{HALLE CHERRY}}\label{halle-cherry}}

\hypertarget{model-and-dick-appointment-host-24}{%
\subparagraph{\texorpdfstring{\textbf{Model and Dick Appointment host,
24.}}{Model and Dick Appointment host, 24.}}\label{model-and-dick-appointment-host-24}}

I have an obsession with My Scene and Bratz dolls and when I go out I'm
thinking, ``Who is she going to be tonight? Is she going to be Barbie
girl, or is she going to be Y2K Barbie? Is she giving you a paradise
type of vibe? What's her era?'' What I appreciate about nightlife is
that I'm able to take more risks. I'm from an incredibly conservative
West Indian family, so if you leave the house without a slip they say,
``Where are you going in that?'' I say, ``You might not live for it, but
the girls live for it. \emph{I} live for it.''

\hypertarget{seashell-coker}{%
\paragraph{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.instagram.com/sleepy.angel/?hl=en}{SEASHELL
COKER}}{SEASHELL COKER}}\label{seashell-coker}}

\hypertarget{writer-and-model-26}{%
\subparagraph{\texorpdfstring{\textbf{Writer and model,
26.}}{Writer and model, 26.}}\label{writer-and-model-26}}

I usually wear long dresses or other stuff that I shouldn't be wearing
out because it gets destroyed the minute I get there. I get really wild
at parties and I'm sure people are thinking that they didn't expect the
girl in some weird 18th-century knock-off prairie dress to be moshing in
the middle of the dance floor to Chief Keef.

\hypertarget{venus-x}{%
\paragraph{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.instagram.com/venusx/?hl=en}{VENUS
X}}{VENUS X}}\label{venus-x}}

\hypertarget{dj-and-ghe20goth1k-founder-33}{%
\subparagraph{\texorpdfstring{\textbf{D.J. and GHE20GOTH1K founder,
33.}}{D.J. and GHE20GOTH1K founder, 33.}}\label{dj-and-ghe20goth1k-founder-33}}

I feel like my personal style developed out of sheer self-centeredness
and not thinking, ``Should I buy these clothes or do this thing to have
friends?'' Instead, I thought, ``Ha! Nobody thinks I'm cool. It's
fine.'' I'm always down for something wild, though. I treat every night
out like it's my last. I get this feeling like I shouldn't go out, so if
I do, I better have a crazy time, and I want the look to match. I want
to feel like if I die in this outfit, I'll be happy. I know that's
insane, but it's what goes through my mind when I get dressed.

\hypertarget{what-to-listen-to}{%
\subsubsection{What to Listen To}\label{what-to-listen-to}}

\hypertarget{oscar-nuxf1-1}{%
\paragraph{OSCAR NÑ}\label{oscar-nuxf1-1}}

What resonates most with Papi Juice's crowd is when D.J.s go on deck and
play what they want to play, what they feel best playing. From the
beginning, our crowds were super open to different sounds. In one night
you'll hear everything from hip-hop and Top 40 to weird techno and
guaracha. It would be so much easier to just play songs that everybody
knows, but most of the time I'd rather introduce guests to new stuff or
remind them of a song that they'd forgotten makes them feel good.

\hypertarget{venus-x-1}{%
\paragraph{VENUS X}\label{venus-x-1}}

I used to take photos at punk shows and waitress at the 40/40 Club,
Jay-Z's sports lounge, which was the opposite of a punk show --- it was
all about rap and shit-talking and showing off your personality to get a
good tip. GHE20G0TH1K came from a desire to merge these two extremes ---
listening to hip-hop all night at work **** and then listening to goth
punk music all day. I used to be more of a purist about creating my own
chaos, but now I could D.J. a rap set or a Latin set. My job, as I see
it, is to mash it all up, and I love making a crowd happy without
compromising my authenticity.

\hypertarget{stevie-huynh-1}{%
\paragraph{STEVIE HUYNH}\label{stevie-huynh-1}}

I come from the generation that preceded the people who come to
Bubble\_T, so sometimes I like to honor that with old disco and house
hits: Frankie Knuckles, Omar-S, ``Do it Again'' by Soichi Terada. When
I'm D.J.ing, I always try to sneak in something by the Canto-pop queen
Anita Mui. She was the original Madonna for me. I wanted to dress like
her. Actually I think I wanted to \emph{be} her. When I was a child I
would put on a scarf and sunglasses and dance around the living room to
her songs.

\hypertarget{who-to-invite}{%
\subsubsection{Who to Invite}\label{who-to-invite}}

\hypertarget{halle-cherry-1}{%
\paragraph{HALLE CHERRY}\label{halle-cherry-1}}

You have to know how to cater to all audiences. I'm not just bringing
out the girls and the gays --- I'm able to bring out my homies from the
hood. It's kind of crazy; people from my neighborhood in Brooklyn who
would never go to gay parties will be at Dick Appointment and other
queer spaces. I'm so glad that I'm able to bring awareness and break
certain stereotypes. Friends have actually told me, ``I'm glad I came.
You helped **** expand my horizons.''

\hypertarget{stevie-huynh-2}{%
\paragraph{STEVIE HUYNH}\label{stevie-huynh-2}}

Bubble\_T has this community, this nervous system of friends, and it's
important to invite those people every time and have them bring their
friends and cliques and communities. That's how we've kept the party so
tight. It's always making sure our friends are taken care of. But
Instagram is also a driving force. It may just be photos of someone who
came in a really amazing look that piques attention. People will tell
me, ``Wow, this Asian person who leaves their house looking like
\emph{that}.'' It touches them in some way. I took it for granted
because I live in New York and I see it all the time. But that kind of
shook me a little bit.

\hypertarget{oscar-nuxf1-2}{%
\paragraph{OSCAR NÑ}\label{oscar-nuxf1-2}}

To keep with our mission, Papi Juice has a Q.T.P.O.C. {[}queer and trans
people of color{]} rate and a slightly higher suggested rate for allies.
We also have extensive community notes that we publish on the landing
page for every party, which ask that allies be mindful of how much space
they're taking up and, most importantly, not to put the burden of
understanding on us or your Q.T.P.O.C. friends. If you decide to come,
take responsibility.

Quotes have been edited and condensed.

Mitchell Kuga is a freelance writer whose work centers on L.G.B.T.Q.
culture. Andreas Laszlo Konrath works in portraiture. Hair and makeup:
Laura de Leon using Chanel Les Beiges at Joe Management. Photo
assistant: Mike Broussard. Makeup assistants: Robert Reyes and Marcus
Best.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/04/10/t-magazine/humberto-leon-carol-lim.html}{}

\hypertarget{a-dinner-party-unfolds-on-election-night-in-2024april-10-2019}{%
\paragraph{A Dinner Party Unfolds on Election Night in 2024April 10,
2019}\label{a-dinner-party-unfolds-on-election-night-in-2024april-10-2019}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2019/04/08/t-magazine/08tmag-mansour-slide-22PY/08tmag-mansour-slide-22PY-mediumThreeByTwo210.jpg}
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/04/17/t-magazine/24-hours-new-york-city-1980s-life.html}{}

\hypertarget{what-new-york-was-like-in-the-early-80s--hour-by-hour-april-17-2018}{%
\paragraph{What New York Was Like in the Early '80s --- Hour by Hour
April 17,
2018}\label{what-new-york-was-like-in-the-early-80s--hour-by-hour-april-17-2018}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/04/05/t-magazine/05tmag-24hrs-slide-961X/05tmag-24hrs-slide-961X-mediumThreeByTwo210-v2.jpg}

\hypertarget{we-are-family-1}{%
\subsubsection{We Are Family}\label{we-are-family-1}}

\hypertarget{chapter-1-heirs-and-alumni}{%
\paragraph{Chapter 1: Heirs and
Alumni}\label{chapter-1-heirs-and-alumni}}

\href{/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/black-art-galleries.html}{}

\hypertarget{the-artists}{%
\subparagraph{The Artists}\label{the-artists}}

\href{/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/italian-fashion-design-houses.html}{}

\hypertarget{the-dynasties}{%
\subparagraph{The Dynasties}\label{the-dynasties}}

\href{/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/gordon-parks.html}{}

\hypertarget{the-directors}{%
\subparagraph{The Directors}\label{the-directors}}

\href{/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/enrique-olvera-chef.html}{}

\hypertarget{the-disciples}{%
\subparagraph{The Disciples}\label{the-disciples}}

\href{/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/royal-academy-antwerp.html}{}

\hypertarget{the-graduates}{%
\subparagraph{The Graduates}\label{the-graduates}}

\hypertarget{chapter-2-reunions-and-reconsiderations}{%
\paragraph{Chapter 2: Reunions and
Reconsiderations}\label{chapter-2-reunions-and-reconsiderations}}

\href{/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/ninth-street-greenwich-village-neighbors.html}{}

\hypertarget{the-neighbors}{%
\subparagraph{The Neighbors}\label{the-neighbors}}

\href{/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/omen-restaurant-nyc.html}{}

\hypertarget{the-regulars}{%
\subparagraph{The Regulars}\label{the-regulars}}

\href{/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/hair-musical-broadway.html}{}

\hypertarget{hair-1967}{%
\subparagraph{Hair (1967)}\label{hair-1967}}

\href{/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/sweeney-todd-revival.html}{}

\hypertarget{sweeney-todd-2005-revival}{%
\subparagraph{Sweeney Todd (2005
Revival)}\label{sweeney-todd-2005-revival}}

\href{/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/daughters-of-the-dust.html}{}

\hypertarget{daughters-of-the-dust-1991}{%
\subparagraph{Daughters of the Dust
(1991)}\label{daughters-of-the-dust-1991}}

\hypertarget{chapter-3-legends-pioneers-and-survivors}{%
\paragraph{Chapter 3: Legends Pioneers and
Survivors}\label{chapter-3-legends-pioneers-and-survivors}}

\href{/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/butch-stud-lesbian.html}{}

\hypertarget{the-renegades}{%
\subparagraph{The Renegades}\label{the-renegades}}

\href{/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/act-up-aids.html}{}

\hypertarget{the-activists}{%
\subparagraph{The Activists}\label{the-activists}}

\href{/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/artist-recluse.html}{}

\hypertarget{the-shadows}{%
\subparagraph{The Shadows}\label{the-shadows}}

\href{/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/black-actresses-bassett-berry-blige-henson-whitfield-elise.html}{}

\hypertarget{the-veterans}{%
\subparagraph{The Veterans}\label{the-veterans}}

\hypertarget{chapter-4-the-new-guard-1}{%
\paragraph{Chapter 4: The New Guard}\label{chapter-4-the-new-guard-1}}

\href{/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/asian-american-fashion-designers.html}{}

\hypertarget{the-designers}{%
\subparagraph{The Designers}\label{the-designers}}

\href{13tmag-beauties.html}{}

\hypertarget{the-beauties}{%
\subparagraph{The Beauties}\label{the-beauties}}

\href{/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/nyc-downtown-nightlife-party-scene.html}{}

\hypertarget{the-scenemakers-1}{%
\subparagraph{The Scenemakers}\label{the-scenemakers-1}}

\href{/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/maria-cornejo-olivier-rousteing-telfar-clemens-alessandro-michele.html\#olivier-rousteing-and-co}{}

\hypertarget{olivier-rousteing-and-co}{%
\subparagraph{Olivier Rousteing and
Co.}\label{olivier-rousteing-and-co}}

\href{/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/maria-cornejo-olivier-rousteing-telfar-clemens-alessandro-michele.html\#maria-cornejo-and-co}{}

\hypertarget{maria-cornejo-and-co}{%
\subparagraph{Maria Cornejo and Co.}\label{maria-cornejo-and-co}}

\href{/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/maria-cornejo-olivier-rousteing-telfar-clemens-alessandro-michele.html\#telfar-clemens-and-co}{}

\hypertarget{telfar-clemens-and-co}{%
\subparagraph{Telfar Clemens and Co.}\label{telfar-clemens-and-co}}

\href{/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/maria-cornejo-olivier-rousteing-telfar-clemens-alessandro-michele.html\#alessandro-michele-and-co}{}

\hypertarget{alessandro-michele-and-co}{%
\subparagraph{Alessandro Michele and
Co.}\label{alessandro-michele-and-co}}

\href{/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/foreign-correspondents.html}{}

\hypertarget{the-journalists}{%
\subparagraph{The Journalists}\label{the-journalists}}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
