<div id="app">

<div id="standalone-header">

</div>

<div id="site-content" data-role="main">

# The People Who Make New York’s Party Scene Happen

<div class="css-1vegfwe interactive-byline-container">

<div class="interactive-byline css-103zbxs">

April 13,
2020

</div>

</div>

<div id="interactive-standalone-sharetools" class="css-wkcogx">

<div>

<div class="interactive-sharetools css-9z2bwm" data-role="toolbar" data-aria-label="Social Media Share buttons, Save button, and Comments Panel with current comment count" data-testid="share-tools">

  - 
  - 
  - 
  - 
    
    <div class="css-6n7j50">
    
    </div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

Long a capital of nightlife, from ’70s discos to ’90s raves, the city is
now home to a rich after-hours culture where anyone — of any race,
gender or sexuality — is
welcome.

<div id="nyc-downtown-nightlife-party-scene" class="section css-l08pwh interactive-minimal interactive-content interactive-size-medium" data-id="100000007057059">

<div class="css-17ih8de interactive-body">

<div class="rad-article g-article-ch4" data-chapter="ch4" data-slug="13tmag-clubkids">

<div class="g-header">

<div class="g-header-meta">

###### [We Are Family](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/culture-issue-2020.html)

##### <span class="rad-ch-label">Chapter 4: </span><span>The New</span> <span>Guard</span>

</div>

<div class="g-header-nav">

##### Previous

##### Next

</div>

</div>

<div class="rad-cover stacked-cover">

<div class="rad-cover-main">

<div class="rad-head-wrap">

# The People Who Make New York’s Party Scene Happen

## <span>The Scenemakers</span>

Long a capital of nightlife, from ’70s discos to ’90s raves, New York
City is now home to a robust scene of roving parties where anyone — of
any race, gender or sexuality — is welcome. These are the people who
make the party happen.

<span class="g-byline-name" itemprop="name">By Mitchell Kuga</span>

</div>

<div class="rad-byline-wrap">

<div class="rad-date-share">

April 13,
2020

<span>SHARE</span>

</div>

</div>

![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)

</div>

</div>

<div class="rad-story-body">

THERE HAVE BEEN moments in New York City’s history when nightlife — and
sometimes a particular nightclub — was not just a reflection of the
larger culture but a way and place for new ideas to emerge and be
exchanged. In the late 1960s and early ’70s, [Max’s Kansas
City](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2010/09/05/arts/design/05maxs.html)
on Park Avenue South was a gathering spot for visual artists, from [Jack
Whitten](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/01/23/obituaries/jack-whitten-artist-of-wide-ranging-curiosity-dies-at-78.html)
to [Carolee
Schneemann](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/03/10/obituaries/carolee-schneemann-dead-at-79.html)
to [John
Chamberlain](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2011/12/22/arts/design/john-chamberlain-artist-of-auto-metal-dies-at-84.html)
(who, like many regulars there, paid his bar tab with artwork), as well
as glam-rock musicians, fashion designers, writers and critics. The late
’70s were defined by
[Studio 54](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/10/05/movies/studio-54-documentary-ian-schrager.html),
a former opera house (in which a cardboard cutout of an anthropomorphic
moon snorting cocaine from a spoon hung from the ceiling) on West 54th
Street that for years drew guests like [Andy
Warhol](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/topic/person/andy-warhol),
[Jack
Nicholson](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/topic/person/jack-nicholson)
and
[Cher](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/09/04/arts/music/cher-abba-broadway-interview.html).
The ’90s saw the reign of the party promoter Michael Alig, who assembled
a group of outlandishly dressed followers known as the club kids, many
of whom hung out at Limelight, a former church on West 20th Street. (The
scene fell apart in 1997, when Alig was convicted of
[manslaughter](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/1997/09/11/nyregion/2-men-plead-guilty-in-killing-of-club-denizen.html).)
Later, the D.J. trio called the Misshapes turned their post-9/11 angst
into an ur-fashion party with celebrity D.J.s; [David
Byrne](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/11/11/t-magazine/david-byrne-binder.html)
and [Cindy
Sherman](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/topic/person/cindy-sherman)
attended its [final weekly
bash](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2007/09/10/arts/10miss.html),
at the SoHo club Don Hill’s, in 2007. But though the venues and casts
changed, what remained consistent was each generation’s certainty that
they alone had experienced nightlife’s golden years, and that its last
gasp coincided with the expiration of their own youth. But in fact, the
party — as dynamic as ever — rages on.

<div class="rad-related">

<div class="rad-related-header">

###### The T List |

Sign up here

</div>

<div class="rad-related-items">

</div>

</div>

In some ways, the model has changed. For the past decade, nightlife has
had no fixed address but instead has been defined by a wide array of
roving parties, which might set up shop in a Chinese restaurant on Wall
Street one month and a onetime glass factory in Bushwick the next. This
is partly because of the prohibitive realities of New York real estate
and the emergence of Brooklyn as a primary hangout for both locals and
Manhattanites, but it also speaks to the democratizing and dispersive
effects of the internet and, relatedly, to the inclusive principles
these parties attempt to promote, especially with regard to race, gender
and an ever-expanding definition of queerness. This newer generation of
parties arguably began with
[GHE20G0TH1K](https://www.instagram.com/ghe20g0th1k/?hl=en) (pronounced
“ghetto gothic”), followed by [Shock
Value](https://www.facebookcorewwwi.onion/SHOCKVALUENYC/), the Spectrum
(which, though now on hiatus, did have a consistent venue: a former
strip club in Brooklyn) and [Club
Glam](http://officemagazine.net/not-just-party-club-glam). Others,
including [Papi Juice](https://www.instagram.com/papijuicebk/?hl=en),
[Gush](https://www.instagram.com/gushofficial/?hl=en), [Dick
Appointment](https://www.instagram.com/dickappointment__/?hl=en) and
[Bubble\_T](https://www.instagram.com/bubble____t/?hl=en) (tagline:
“Where Asianz Rule but Everybody’s Welcome”), explicitly cater to
queer and trans communities of color. And unlike in the early aughts,
where a stone-faced bouncer stood between you and the door — Were you
wearing the right thing? Did you know the right people? — these days,
anyone with a ticket goes right
in.

<div class="rad-video-wrapper" data-safe-area="{&quot;top&quot;:0,&quot;right&quot;:0,&quot;bottom&quot;:0,&quot;left&quot;:0}">

<div id="rad-video-13tmag-clubkids" class="rad-vhs-video" data-name="13tmag-clubkids" data-id="100000007068447" data-data-env="" data-cinemagraph="true" data-loop="true" data-muted="true" data-autoplay="true" data-controls="false" data-loader="false" data-ratio="16:9">

</div>

</div>

<div class="rad-caption">

<div class="rad-caption-wrapper">

<span class="rad-caption-text"></span>
<span class="rad-credit" itemprop="copyrightHolder">Sacred Pact</span>

</div>

</div>

Other things have stayed the same. Going out is still about
transgression — against convention and sometimes against one’s better
judgment — and belonging. Like [Paradise
Garage](https://tmagazine.blogs.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2014/05/09/flashback-memories-of-the-paradise-garage-larry-levan-street-party/),
the city’s ’80s temple of garage house music nicknamed the “Gay-rage,”
today’s parties are refuges for the exploration of identity through
genre-defying mash-ups of sound. Fashion remains another essential mode
of expression, of course, and a new generation of mostly young, mostly
indie, mostly local designers — [Victor
Barragán](http://www.barragannnn.com/collections), [Raffaella Hanley of
Lou
Dallas](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/09/12/t-magazine/lou-dallas-fashion-brand-raffaella-hanley.html)
and [Carly Mark and Ayla Argentina of Puppets and
Puppets](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/09/06/t-magazine/new-fashion-designers-susan-fang-super-yaya.html)
among them — are creating clothes made for the least inhibited version
of yourself, including nonbinary streetwear and architectural shapes for
those unafraid to take up space on the dance floor.

Alongside these designers, hosts (who are responsible for the theme and
tone of an evening), D.J.s, models, stylists and visual artists round
out the scene and, perhaps even more than their counterparts in past
eras, are quick to collaborate. “I’ve worked with nearly everyone here,”
the photographer and model [Richie
Shazam](https://www.instagram.com/richieshazam/?hl=en), who’s hosted
GHE20G0TH1K and Papi Juice, walked the runway for Puppets and Puppets
and Lou Dallas and starred in a Barragán campaign, said while on set for
this story. Some of the pictured subjects actively participate in
parties. Others helped create the movement but, ironically, find
themselves too busy to go out much anymore. As Shazam said, “I’m not a
club kid — I’m a
businesswoman.”

<div class="g-ad rad-ad-wrapper">

<div id="mid21" class="place-ad" data-position="mid21" data-size-key="default">

</div>

</div>

-----

### How to Start a Party

#### [OSCAR NÑ](https://www.instagram.com/oscarnn/?hl=en)

##### **D.J. and Papi Juice co-founder, 32.**

Back in 2013, my friend Adam Rhodes and I were at One Last Shag in
Bed-Stuy talking about what it was like being queer people of color
going to traditional gay spaces and feeling frustrated, feeling
invisible or that our cultures — Adam is Belizean and black American,
and I’m from Honduras — weren’t being celebrated. We took a shot of
tequila and said, “We should throw a party here.” We weren’t trying to
be revolutionary; we just wanted to make room for all sorts of
identities — that’s what we wanted to vibe on. The manager came over and
said, “How’s next Saturday?” At that first party we saw maybe 50 or 60
people. Now we sell out Elsewhere. Sometimes the lines between work and
play get blurred, but you have to remember to have fun. It’s just one
night. It’s just a party.

#### [STEVIE HUYNH](https://www.instagram.com/steviehuynh/?hl=en)

##### **Makeup artist and Bubble\_T co-founder, 35.**

After the last election, there was a collective depression, and it
spurred my co-founders and me to start Bubble\_T. It was a way to check
in with our friends. The five of us were also seeking a place where (a)
we liked the music, and (b) we felt seen as queer Asians. Our first
flyer featured a still from a karaoke video of someone singing a song by
the Vietnamese pop singer Lynda Trang Dai. On another one, for Pride, we
used an image from the Wong Kar Wai film “Happy Together” (1997). These
were attempts to recognize the diaspora and our childhood nostalgia
without having to explain ourselves — if you know, you
know.

#### [DESE ESCOBAR](https://www.instagram.com/1inamilli0nangel/?hl=en)

##### **Artist, D.J. and Club Glam co-founder (prefers not to share age).**

We started Glam, in May of 2016, mainly for fun. I also felt like New
York was running out of good venues — so many of the D.I.Y. spaces were
being shut down. At that point \[the downtown restaurant and nightlife
space\] China Chalet had been around for a while, but I wanted to
refresh it with the current creative crowd. It’s all about making the
party as mix-y as possible, so we pick different hosts from art and
fashion. I also try to make it post-identity, meaning that it’s not
strictly queer or straight, young or old. It’s just mix-y, and everyone
gets
along.

### What to Wear

#### CARLY MARK

##### **Designer and co-founder of** **[Puppets and Puppets](https://www.instagram.com/puppetsandpuppets/?hl=en), 31.**

We don’t make it to many parties anymore — it takes a lot to put a brand
together — but I am flattered to know that people who do are influenced
by our work. Nightlife is about more than just the act of going out.
It’s a whole aesthetic and about embracing the subculture that’s left
in cities, embracing the underdog aspects of a person or a community
unafraid to try something new or cross boundaries in order to evolve.

#### [HALLE CHERRY](https://www.instagram.com/hallecherry/?hl=en)

##### **Model and Dick Appointment host, 24.**

I have an obsession with My Scene and Bratz dolls and when I go out I’m
thinking, “Who is she going to be tonight? Is she going to be Barbie
girl, or is she going to be Y2K Barbie? Is she giving you a paradise
type of vibe? What’s her era?” What I appreciate about nightlife is that
I’m able to take more risks. I’m from an incredibly conservative West
Indian family, so if you leave the house without a slip they say, “Where
are you going in that?” I say, “You might not live for it, but the girls
live for it. *I* live for it.”

#### [SEASHELL COKER](https://www.instagram.com/sleepy.angel/?hl=en)

##### **Writer and model, 26.**

I usually wear long dresses or other stuff that I shouldn’t be wearing
out because it gets destroyed the minute I get there. I get really wild
at parties and I’m sure people are thinking that they didn’t expect the
girl in some weird 18th-century knock-off prairie dress to be moshing in
the middle of the dance floor to Chief Keef.

#### [VENUS X](https://www.instagram.com/venusx/?hl=en)

##### **D.J. and GHE20GOTH1K founder, 33.**

I feel like my personal style developed out of sheer self-centeredness
and not thinking, “Should I buy these clothes or do this thing to have
friends?” Instead, I thought, “Ha\! Nobody thinks I’m cool. It’s fine.”
I’m always down for something wild, though. I treat every night out like
it’s my last. I get this feeling like I shouldn’t go out, so if I do, I
better have a crazy time, and I want the look to match. I want to feel
like if I die in this outfit, I’ll be happy. I know that’s insane, but
it’s what goes through my mind when I get dressed.

### What to Listen To

#### OSCAR NÑ

What resonates most with Papi Juice’s crowd is when D.J.s go on deck and
play what they want to play, what they feel best playing. From the
beginning, our crowds were super open to different sounds. In one night
you’ll hear everything from hip-hop and Top 40 to weird techno and
guaracha. It would be so much easier to just play songs that everybody
knows, but most of the time I’d rather introduce guests to new stuff or
remind them of a song that they’d forgotten makes them feel good.

#### VENUS X

I used to take photos at punk shows and waitress at the 40/40 Club,
Jay-Z’s sports lounge, which was the opposite of a punk show — it was
all about rap and shit-talking and showing off your personality to get a
good tip. GHE20G0TH1K came from a desire to merge these two extremes —
listening to hip-hop all night at work **** and then listening to goth
punk music all day. I used to be more of a purist about creating my own
chaos, but now I could D.J. a rap set or a Latin set. My job, as I see
it, is to mash it all up, and I love making a crowd happy without
compromising my
authenticity.

<div class="g-ad rad-ad-wrapper">

<div id="mid22" class="place-ad" data-position="mid22" data-size-key="default">

</div>

</div>

#### STEVIE HUYNH

I come from the generation that preceded the people who come to
Bubble\_T, so sometimes I like to honor that with old disco and house
hits: Frankie Knuckles, Omar-S, “Do it Again” by Soichi Terada. When I’m
D.J.ing, I always try to sneak in something by the Canto-pop queen Anita
Mui. She was the original Madonna for me. I wanted to dress like her.
Actually I think I wanted to *be* her. When I was a child I would put on
a scarf and sunglasses and dance around the living room to her songs.

### Who to Invite

#### HALLE CHERRY

You have to know how to cater to all audiences. I’m not just bringing
out the girls and the gays — I’m able to bring out my homies from the
hood. It’s kind of crazy; people from my neighborhood in Brooklyn who
would never go to gay parties will be at Dick Appointment and other
queer spaces. I’m so glad that I’m able to bring awareness and break
certain stereotypes. Friends have actually told me, “I’m glad I came.
You helped **** expand my horizons.”

#### STEVIE HUYNH

Bubble\_T has this community, this nervous system of friends, and it’s
important to invite those people every time and have them bring their
friends and cliques and communities. That’s how we’ve kept the party so
tight. It’s always making sure our friends are taken care of. But
Instagram is also a driving force. It may just be photos of someone who
came in a really amazing look that piques attention. People will tell
me, “Wow, this Asian person who leaves their house looking like *that*.”
It touches them in some way. I took it for granted because I live in New
York and I see it all the time. But that kind of shook me a little bit.

#### OSCAR NÑ

To keep with our mission, Papi Juice has a Q.T.P.O.C. \[queer and trans
people of color\] rate and a slightly higher suggested rate for allies.
We also have extensive community notes that we publish on the landing
page for every party, which ask that allies be mindful of how much space
they’re taking up and, most importantly, not to put the burden of
understanding on us or your Q.T.P.O.C. friends. If you decide to come,
take responsibility.

Quotes have been edited and condensed.

Mitchell Kuga is a freelance writer whose work centers on L.G.B.T.Q.
culture. Andreas Laszlo Konrath works in portraiture. Hair and makeup:
Laura de Leon using Chanel Les Beiges at Joe Management. Photo
assistant: Mike Broussard. Makeup assistants: Robert Reyes and Marcus
Best.

<div class="rad-related">

<div class="rad-related-items">

[](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/04/10/t-magazine/humberto-leon-carol-lim.html)

#### A Dinner Party Unfolds on Election Night in 2024<span class="rad-related-date">April 10, 2019</span>

![](https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2019/04/08/t-magazine/08tmag-mansour-slide-22PY/08tmag-mansour-slide-22PY-mediumThreeByTwo210.jpg)
[](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/04/17/t-magazine/24-hours-new-york-city-1980s-life.html)

#### What New York Was Like in the Early ’80s — Hour by Hour <span class="rad-related-date">April 17, 2018</span>

![](https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/04/05/t-magazine/05tmag-24hrs-slide-961X/05tmag-24hrs-slide-961X-mediumThreeByTwo210-v2.jpg)

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="rad-article-credits">

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-nav">

<div class="g-chapter ch1">

### We Are Family

#### Chapter 1: <span>Heirs and</span> <span>Alumni</span>

<div class="g-chapter-inner">

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/black-art-galleries.html)

##### The Artists

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/italian-fashion-design-houses.html)

##### The Dynasties

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/gordon-parks.html)

##### The Directors

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/enrique-olvera-chef.html)

##### The Disciples

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/royal-academy-antwerp.html)

##### The Graduates

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-chapter ch2">

#### Chapter 2: <span>Reunions</span> <span>and Reconsiderations</span>

<div class="g-chapter-inner">

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/ninth-street-greenwich-village-neighbors.html)

##### The Neighbors

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/omen-restaurant-nyc.html)

##### The Regulars

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/hair-musical-broadway.html)

##### Hair (1967)

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/sweeney-todd-revival.html)

##### Sweeney Todd (2005 Revival)

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/daughters-of-the-dust.html)

##### Daughters of the Dust (1991)

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-chapter ch3">

#### Chapter 3: <span>Legends</span> <span>Pioneers and</span> <span>Survivors</span>

<div class="g-chapter-inner">

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/butch-stud-lesbian.html)

##### The Renegades

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/act-up-aids.html)

##### The Activists

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/artist-recluse.html)

##### The Shadows

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/black-actresses-bassett-berry-blige-henson-whitfield-elise.html)

##### The Veterans

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-chapter ch4">

#### Chapter 4: <span>The New</span> <span>Guard</span>

<div class="g-chapter-inner">

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/asian-american-fashion-designers.html)

##### The Designers

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](13tmag-beauties.html)

##### The Beauties

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/nyc-downtown-nightlife-party-scene.html)

##### The Scenemakers

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/maria-cornejo-olivier-rousteing-telfar-clemens-alessandro-michele.html#olivier-rousteing-and-co)

##### Olivier Rousteing and Co.

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/maria-cornejo-olivier-rousteing-telfar-clemens-alessandro-michele.html#maria-cornejo-and-co)

##### Maria Cornejo and Co.

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/maria-cornejo-olivier-rousteing-telfar-clemens-alessandro-michele.html#telfar-clemens-and-co)

##### Telfar Clemens and Co.

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/maria-cornejo-olivier-rousteing-telfar-clemens-alessandro-michele.html#alessandro-michele-and-co)

##### Alessandro Michele and Co.

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/foreign-correspondents.html)

##### The Journalists

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div id="standalone-footer">

<div>

<div>

<div id="interactive-footer-wrapper">

<div class="css-i29ckm">

<div class="interactive-sharetools css-9z2bwm" data-role="toolbar" data-aria-label="Social Media Share buttons, Save button, and Comments Panel with current comment count" data-testid="share-tools">

  - 
  - 
  - 
  - 
    
    <div class="css-6n7j50">
    
    </div>

</div>

</div>

<div>

</div>

<div id="bottom-wrapper" class="css-1ede5it">

<div id="bottom-slug" class="css-l9onyx">

Advertisement

</div>

[Continue reading the main
story](#after-bottom)

<div id="bottom" class="ad bottom-wrapper" style="text-align:center;height:100%;display:block;min-height:90px">

</div>

<div id="after-bottom">

</div>

</div>

## Site Index

<div>

</div>

## Site Information Navigation

  - [© <span>2020</span> <span>The New York Times
    Company</span>](https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice)

<!-- end list -->

  - [NYTCo](https://www.nytco.com/)
  - [Contact
    Us](https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us)
  - [Work with us](https://www.nytco.com/careers/)
  - [Advertise](https://nytmediakit.com/)
  - [T Brand Studio](http://www.tbrandstudio.com/)
  - [Your Ad
    Choices](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy#how-do-i-manage-trackers)
  - [Privacy](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy)
  - [Terms of
    Service](https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service)
  - [Terms of
    Sale](https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale)
  - [Site
    Map](https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion)
  - [Help](https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us)
  - [Subscriptions](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW)

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>
