Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/movies}{Movies}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/movies}{Movies}\textbar{}Where to Stream Alan Parker's
Best Movies

\url{https://nyti.ms/3i7wNjl}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/spotlight/at-home?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=at_home_menu}{At
Home}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/28/books/time-for-a-literary-road-trip.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=at_home_menu}{Take:
  A Literary Road Trip}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/29/magazine/bored-with-your-home-cooking-some-smoky-eggplant-will-fix-that.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=at_home_menu}{Cook:
  Smoky Eggplant}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/27/travel/moose-michigan-isle-royale.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=at_home_menu}{Look
  Out: For Moose}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/at-home/even-more-reporters-editors-diaries-lists-recommendations.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=at_home_menu}{Explore:
  Reporters' Obsessions}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{where-to-stream-alan-parkers-best-movies}{%
\section{Where to Stream Alan Parker's Best
Movies}\label{where-to-stream-alan-parkers-best-movies}}

Though he may not have stamped a specific style on his work, he brought
an intelligence and professionalism to each film, whether musicals or
dark dramas.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/07/31/arts/31parker-streaming1/31parker-streaming1-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/jason-bailey}{Jason Bailey}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  July 31, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

The British filmmaker
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/movies/alan-parker-versatile-film-director-is-dead-at-76.html}{Alan
Parker}, who died on Friday at 76, was not easy to pin down. Many of his
contemporaries, particularly in the hyper-commercialized world of 1980s
studio moviemaking, settled on a particular style or specialty, and
drilled down into it. Parker was closer to the journeymen directors of
the old Hollywood studio system, who would take on (and excel at) just
about any story or genre they were assigned. Over the course of his
27-year career, Parker made thrillers, dramas, comedies and (especially)
musicals, and though many bore little resemblance to one another, they
were bound by two common elements: the intelligence of Parker's
approach, and the professionalism of his craft. Here are a few of his
must-see works:

1976

\hypertarget{bugsy-malone}{%
\subsection{`Bugsy Malone'}\label{bugsy-malone}}

Stream on
\href{https://www.amazon.com/gp/video/detail/B089DQLS25/ref=atv_dl_rdr?tag=justwatch09-20}{Amazon
Prime Video}. Rent or buy on
\href{https://www.amazon.com/gp/video/detail/B07K5HKTPF/ref=atv_dp_share_cu_r}{Amazon},
\href{https://itunes.apple.com/us/movie/bugsy-malone/id1438494267?ign-mpt=uo\%3D4}{Apple},
and
\href{https://www.vudu.com/content/movies/details/Bugsy-Malone/56780}{Vudu}.

Parker was never one for timidity, and his feature directorial debut was
admirably audacious: a classic '30s-style gangster picture, enacted
entirely by a cast of children. What could have been a lark (or a
disaster) becomes a sly commentary on the conventions of the genre, as
well as the high-stakes play of childhood: When these kids imagine
themselves as cowboys or superheroes or, yes, gangsters, it's real in
their heads. So why shouldn't it be real in front of our eyes? Scott
Baio got his juiciest big-screen role as the title character, but Jodie
Foster steals the show as the obligatory ``hard-boiled dame.''

1978

\hypertarget{midnight-express}{%
\subsection{`Midnight Express'}\label{midnight-express}}

Rent or buy on
\href{https://www.amazon.com/gp/video/detail/B0019TY084/ref=atv_dp_share_cu_r}{Amazon},
\href{https://itunes.apple.com/us/movie/midnight-express/id281675393?ign-mpt=uo\%3D4}{Apple},
\href{https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uY8MnPgcPFw}{YouTube},
\href{https://www.vudu.com/content/movies/details/Midnight-Express/13396}{Vudu,}
and
\href{https://play.google.com/store/movies/details/Midnight_Express?gl=US\&hl=en\&id=uY8MnPgcPFw\&PAffiliateID=110l4uj}{Google
Play}.

The filmmaker received his first Academy Award directing nomination for
this grueling and difficult but undeniably affecting dramatization of
the true story of an American in Istanbul who's nabbed for drug
smuggling and sent to a Turkish prison --- a phrase that quickly became
shorthand for ``hell on earth'' after the picture's release. Oliver
Stone's Oscar-winning screenplay hasn't aged particularly well
(especially its offhand xenophobia), but Parker's direction is
ruthlessly efficient, using overwhelming darkness, abstract sound and
unnerving gore to bring this ordeal to vivid, visceral life.

1980

\hypertarget{fame}{%
\subsection{`Fame'}\label{fame}}

Rent or buy on
\href{https://www.amazon.com/gp/video/detail/B000I0TJS6/ref=atv_dp_share_cu_r}{Amazon,}
\href{https://itunes.apple.com/us/movie/fame-the-original-movie/id300148471?ign-mpt=uo\%3D4}{Apple},
\href{https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qT6lQfPJNkg}{YouTube},
\href{https://www.vudu.com/content/movies/details/Fame/9799}{Vudu}, and
\href{https://play.google.com/store/movies/details/Fame_1980?gl=US\&hl=en\&id=qT6lQfPJNkg\&PAffiliateID=110l4uj}{Google
Play}.

Parker's next picture was a good deal sunnier, following a handful of
talented students through their four-year stint at the High School of
Performing Arts in New York City. The song-and-dance sequences are
electrifying --- particularly the title number, which begins in a school
cafeteria and spills into the city streets, an explosion of pent-up
energy, scholastic impatience and raging hormones. But ``Fame'' is much
more a character drama than traditional musical, focusing on the
difficulties of coming of age, finding a home and making your way
through the minefields of a career in the arts.

1982

\hypertarget{shoot-the-moon}{%
\subsection{`Shoot the Moon'}\label{shoot-the-moon}}

Stream on
\href{https://play.hbomax.com/feature/urn:hbo:feature:GXjS6EA5wtZPCwgEAAASK}{HBO
Max}. Rent or buy on
\href{https://www.amazon.com/gp/video/detail/B075KPDXRC/ref=atv_dp_share_cu_r}{Amazon},
\href{https://itunes.apple.com/us/movie/shoot-the-moon-1982/id375229530?ign-mpt=uo\%3D4}{Apple},
\href{https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=19iEElPi5wk}{YouTube},
\href{https://www.vudu.com/content/movies/details/Shoot-the-Moon/94862}{Vudu},
and
\href{https://play.google.com/store/movies/details/Shoot_the_Moon?gl=US\&hl=en\&id=19iEElPi5wk\&PAffiliateID=110l4uj}{Google
Play}.

Parker's astonishing versatility is perhaps best encapsulated by the
calendar year 1982, in which he released both the dark rock musical
\href{https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TPTLIVPqThY}{``Pink Floyd --- The
Wall''} (sadly, it's not currently streaming) and this razor-sharp drama
of a family reeling from a contentious divorce. Albert Finney and Diane
Keaton are a couple who have drifted apart and now seem determined to
hurt not only each other, but also their four daughters. Parker directs
with exceptional sensitivity and sympathy, recognizing both the
considerable flaws and quiet virtues of these complex characters, while
Finney and Keaton do some of their finest screen work in those roles
(which is no small achievement).

1984

\hypertarget{birdy}{%
\subsection{`Birdy'}\label{birdy}}

Stream on
\href{https://www.amazon.com/gp/video/detail/B087QR1NGM/ref=atv_dl_rdr?tag=justwatch09-20}{Amazon
Prime Video}. Rent or buy on
\href{https://www.amazon.com/gp/video/detail/B003PV686Q/ref=atv_dp_share_cu_r}{Amazon},
\href{https://itunes.apple.com/us/movie/birdy-1984/id294722142?ign-mpt=uo\%3D4}{Apple},
\href{https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vJsNYZP6LX4}{YouTube},
\href{https://www.vudu.com/content/movies/details/Birdy/15284}{Vudu},
and
\href{https://play.google.com/store/movies/details/Birdy?gl=US\&hl=en\&id=vJsNYZP6LX4}{Google
Play}.

Nicolas Cage and Matthew Modine were still up-and-comers when Parker
cast them in the leading roles of this adaptation of William Wharton's
novel. It's one of Parker's trickiest films, telling the story of two
childhood friends who both serve in Vietnam and try to help each other
heal back home. That sounds like a million other movies, but ``Birdy''
is uniquely itself, burrowing into the world of gonzo fantasy and
unexpected beauty these two friends create to escape their considerable
trauma. It's a film that could've gone wrong in a million ways --- too
mawkish, too sentimental, too silly --- and Parker never takes a false
step.

1987

\hypertarget{angel-heart}{%
\subsection{`Angel Heart'}\label{angel-heart}}

Rent or buy on
\href{https://www.amazon.com/gp/video/detail/B001YOYVK6/ref=atv_dp_share_cu_r}{Amazon},
\href{https://itunes.apple.com/us/movie/angel-heart/id305499575?ign-mpt=uo\%3D4}{Apple},
\href{https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tMIEC_cPB30}{YouTube},
\href{https://www.vudu.com/content/movies/details/Angel-Heart/7476}{Vudu},
and
\href{https://play.google.com/store/movies/details/Angel_Heart?gl=US\&hl=en\&id=tMIEC_cPB30\&PAffiliateID=110l4uj}{Google
Play}.

Most of the ink generated by this unnerving thriller centered on the
presence of Lisa Bonet, then known only for the squeaky-clean ``Cosby
Show,'' shaking up her image with a supporting turn as a sensuous voodoo
priestess. But there's much more to ``Angel Heart'' than that --- in
fact, true to its Creole setting, it's a rich gumbo of Gothic horror,
neo-noir and the supernatural, with a charismatic Mickey Rourke as a
'50s gumshoe sent into the bayou underworld by a mysterious client
(Robert De Niro). Parker seems to revel in the swampy atmosphere and
period trappings, crafting one of his moodiest and most menacing films.

1988

\hypertarget{mississippi-burning}{%
\subsection{`Mississippi Burning'}\label{mississippi-burning}}

Stream on
\href{https://www.amazon.com/gp/video/detail/B07GT8SW6Y/ref=atv_dl_rdr?tag=justwatch09-20}{Amazon
Prime Video}. Rent or buy on
\href{https://itunes.apple.com/us/movie/mississippi-burning/id834495884?ign-mpt=uo\%3D4}{Apple}
and
\href{https://www.vudu.com/content/movies/details/Mississippi-Burning/140482}{Vudu}.

Though it netted several Oscar nominations (including Parker's second
and final one for best director), this procedural drama inspired by the
1964 murders of the civil-rights workers James Chaney, Andrew Goodman
and Michael Schwerner proved one of Parker's most controversial and
contentious films. The criticisms were valid: its protagonists are
F.B.I. agents, and Hoover's F.B.I. was not exactly a friend of the
movement. But Parker nails the insidiousness of small-town racism (and
the violence it engenders), while Gene Hackman and Frances McDormand are
beautifully understated in a pair of Oscar-nominated performances.

1991

\hypertarget{the-commitments}{%
\subsection{`The Commitments'}\label{the-commitments}}

Rent or buy on
\href{https://www.amazon.com/gp/video/detail/B01J6WRIEI/ref=atv_dp_share_cu_r}{Amazon},
\href{https://itunes.apple.com/us/movie/the-commitments/id1099403600?ign-mpt=uo\%3D4}{Apple},
\href{https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uBzRrvbyZqE}{YouTube},
\href{https://www.vudu.com/content/movies/details/The-Commitments/8254}{Vudu},
and
\href{https://play.google.com/store/movies/details/The_Commitments?gl=US\&hl=en\&id=uBzRrvbyZqE\&PAffiliateID=110l4uj}{Google
Play}.

After spending the '80s making progressively higher-profile prestige
dramas, Parker went back to basics (and back to Europe) for this
spirited adaptation of Roddy Doyle's raucous novel. It was a
stripped-down production with a cast of mostly unknowns, the better to
tell the story of a group of working-class kids in the Northside of
Dublin who form a makeshift pub band, inspired by American soul music.
Parker seems to see the picture as a party to keep in motion --- and he
does, filling each frame with memorable characters, charming
interactions and, most of all, rousing musical performances.

1996

\hypertarget{evita}{%
\subsection{`Evita'}\label{evita}}

Rent or buy on
\href{https://www.amazon.com/gp/video/detail/B004KAWC0C/ref=atv_dp_share_cu_r}{Amazon},
\href{https://itunes.apple.com/us/movie/evita/id281767145?ign-mpt=uo\%3D4}{Apple},
\href{https://www.vudu.com/content/movies/details/Evita/12642}{Vudu},
and
\href{https://play.google.com/store/movies/details/Evita?gl=US\&hl=en\&id=5hB82j5xTJg\&PAffiliateID=110l4uj}{Google
Play}.

Parker took one more run at the movie musical, and it was his most
traditional in theory: a big-screen adaptation of a giant, long-running
Broadway extravaganza. But the filmmaker didn't have it in him to merely
hit someone else's marks. He rewrote the script himself, fleshing out
the history and subtext of Tim Rice and Andrew Lloyd Webber's musical
depiction of the life of Eva Perón, and finds inventive ways to sell
this theatrical pageant onscreen. Madonna is magnificent in the title
role, while Antonio Banderas is endlessly entertaining as a mixture of
antagonist, Greek chorus and audience go-between.

1999

\hypertarget{angelas-ashes}{%
\subsection{`Angela's Ashes'}\label{angelas-ashes}}

Stream on
\href{https://www.amazon.com/gp/video/detail/B07D7N1HTG/ref=atv_dl_rdr?tag=justwatch09-20}{Amazon
Prime Video}. Rent or buy on
\href{https://www.amazon.com/gp/video/detail/B002RTFHUU/ref=atv_dp_share_cu_r}{Amazon},
\href{https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=t0f6cUCQthY}{YouTube},
\href{https://www.vudu.com/content/movies/details/Angelas-Ashes/16111}{Vudu},
and
\href{https://play.google.com/store/movies/details/Angela_s_Ashes?gl=US\&hl=en\&id=t0f6cUCQthY\&PAffiliateID=110l4uj}{Google
Play}.

Parker was taking on a next to impossible task when he adapted Frank
McCourt's memoir to the screen; it was a publishing sensation, one of
the most beloved books of its era, and, as such, had already been
``seen'' in the minds of most of his audience. But Parker was never one
to shrink from a challenge, and he gives this story of ceaseless poverty
and familial misery a sense of lived-in naturalism. And once again, his
skill with actors is exceptional --- Emily Watson is pitch-perfect as
the mother who'll get this family through whatever hell is thrown at
her, Robert Carlyle is both heartbreaking and horrifying as the father
who throws much of it, and Joe Breen, Ciaran Owens and Michael Legge
play Frank (at various ages) with grit and determination.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
