Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/business/economy}{Economy}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/business/economy}{Economy}\textbar{}Would You Go to a
Movie Right Now? Republicans Say Yes. Few Others Do.

\url{https://nyti.ms/3hx4D0I}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/news-event/coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{The
Coronavirus Outbreak}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  live\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/29/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Latest
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Maps
  and Cases}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Vaccine
  Tracker}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/07/27/upshot/coronavirus-pooled-testing.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Understand
  Pooled Testing}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/live/2020/07/29/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Economy}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{would-you-go-to-a-movie-right-now-republicans-say-yes-few-others-do}{%
\section{Would You Go to a Movie Right Now? Republicans Say Yes. Few
Others
Do.}\label{would-you-go-to-a-movie-right-now-republicans-say-yes-few-others-do}}

A survey shows that the partisan divide on the coronavirus goes beyond
masks. It extends to dining out, getting on a plane and resuming other
activities.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/07/24/business/24virus-survey1/24virus-survey1-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/ben-casselman}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/11/09/multimedia/author-ben-casselman/author-ben-casselman-thumbLarge.png}}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/jim-tankersley}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/10/19/multimedia/author-jim-tankersley/author-jim-tankersley-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/ben-casselman}{Ben Casselman} and
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/jim-tankersley}{Jim Tankersley}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  July 24, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Democrats and Republicans are reacting very differently to the
coronavirus pandemic. And the divide goes far beyond
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/07/17/upshot/coronavirus-face-mask-map.html}{whether
to wear a mask}.

A majority of Republicans say they would feel comfortable flying on an
airplane, eating indoors in a restaurant or seeing a movie in a theater.
Large majorities of Democrats and political independents say they would
not.

Those findings, from a
\href{https://www.surveymonkey.com/curiosity/nyt-july-2020-cci/}{survey}
conducted in early July for The New York Times by the online research
firm SurveyMonkey, show how opinions about the pandemic increasingly
fall along partisan lines. Separate data on mobility shows the same
partisan split in actual behavior --- and it can't be explained by
differences in the prevalence of the virus itself.

``The degree to which Republicans are more comfortable than both
Democrats and independents is quite jarring,'' said Laura Wronski, a
research scientist for SurveyMonkey. ``It appears that people are living
in quite different realities.''

That divide has implications for both public health and the economy.
Public health officials have repeatedly urged Americans to cover their
faces, practice social distancing and avoid large indoor gatherings.
Economists across the ideological spectrum have echoed those messages,
arguing that it will be impossible to restore the economy to health
until the virus is under control.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-economy}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes.com/live/2020/07/29/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates:
Economy}}{Latest Updates: Economy}}\label{latest-updates-economy}}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/live/2020/07/29/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#federal-reserve-leaves-rates-near-zero-and-pledges-ongoing-economic-support}{29m
ago}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/live/2020/07/29/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#federal-reserve-leaves-rates-near-zero-and-pledges-ongoing-economic-support}{Federal
Reserve leaves rates near zero and pledges ongoing economic support.}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/live/2020/07/29/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#kodak-stock-soars-after-765-million-loan-to-make-drug-ingredients}{1h
ago}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/live/2020/07/29/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#kodak-stock-soars-after-765-million-loan-to-make-drug-ingredients}{Kodak
stock soars after \$765 million loan to make drug ingredients.}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/live/2020/07/29/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#gap-is-suing-its-landlords}{1h
ago}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/live/2020/07/29/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#gap-is-suing-its-landlords}{Gap
is suing its landlords.}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/live/2020/07/29/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

More live coverage:
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/29/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Global}

But as mask-wearing, business closings and other public health measures
have become politicized, virus cases have surged in much of the country,
leading to a
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/15/business/economy/economic-recovery-coronavirus-resurgence.html}{pullback
in economic activity}.

\hypertarget{republicans-are-less-worried-about-the-virus}{%
\subsection{Republicans are less worried about the
virus.}\label{republicans-are-less-worried-about-the-virus}}

On many issues, like tax policy and health care, voters fall along a
continuum, with Republicans on one side, Democrats on the other and
independents falling roughly in the middle. On the pandemic, however,
Republicans --- and particularly conservative Republicans --- stand on
one side of a wide gulf.

Just 10 percent of Democrats said they would feel very or somewhat safe
seeing a movie in a theater. A somewhat larger share of independents
said they would feel safe, but they were still a distinct minority, at
24 percent. Among Republicans, the share grew to 55 percent.

The gaps were somewhat narrower, but still large, in places where the
virus is prevalent.

Partisanship is the starkest divide, but not the only one. Women are
generally more concerned about the virus than men, and Black, Hispanic
and Asian survey respondents are substantially more worried than whites
--- not surprising, given that those groups have also been hit harder by
the pandemic. Perhaps more unexpectedly, older Americans don't report
being significantly more concerned about the virus, despite being at
substantially higher risk of death or severe illness.

\hypertarget{there-is-a-split-in-actions-not-just-words}{%
\subsection{There is a split in actions, not just
words.}\label{there-is-a-split-in-actions-not-just-words}}

Given high levels of partisanship in American society, researchers
sometimes worry that surveys won't capture whether people's actions
conform to their stated views. For example, a staunch Republican, in
order to signal support for President Trump, might report feeling
comfortable going to an indoor restaurant while staying away in
practice.

But partisan differences show up in real-world data, not just in
surveys.
\href{https://www.dallasfed.org/research/economics/2020/0521}{Cellphone
mobility data} analyzed by the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas shows that
people in Republican-dominated parts of the country are leaving home
more often and traveling around more than those in predominantly
Democratic areas.

The partisan pattern holds up even controlling for the fact that
Covid-19 cases were initially more prevalent in Democratic strongholds
like New York and Seattle. The mobility data shows that people are being
more cautious in areas that were harder hit by the virus or that have
had recent flare-ups. But even in such cases, Republican-leaning areas
show more activity, on average, than Democratic-leaning ones.

\hypertarget{the-divide-is-just-as-wide-on-the-economy}{%
\subsection{The divide is just as wide on the
economy.}\label{the-divide-is-just-as-wide-on-the-economy}}

Confidence in the economy has dropped sharply among all groups during
the pandemic, but the partisan gap is as wide as ever. In the latest
survey, 60 percent of Republicans said they expected ``continuous good
times economically'' over the next five years. That wasn't just far
higher than the 15 percent of Democrats who said the same in July; it
was also twice as high as the 31 percent of Democrats who gave that
answer in February, before the coronavirus began to inflict significant
damage on the American economy.

In other words, Republicans are more optimistic about the economy now
than Democrats were before the pandemic began.

``It just seems like there are two separate economies or two separate
pandemics,'' Ms. Wronski said. ``There's no way to reconcile these
different experiences when you think about how there's record
unemployment or you hear about businesses that are closing.''

Economic optimism has improved somewhat since April among all partisan
groups. But it was essentially flat in July compared with June. That's
consistent with other measures of economic progress, which have stalled
recently as the virus has surged in many parts of the country and some
states have begun to reimpose shutdown orders.

\hypertarget{behavior-has-become-more-partisan}{%
\subsection{Behavior has become more
partisan.}\label{behavior-has-become-more-partisan}}

Public opinion on the coronavirus has never been immune from the
partisan divide that characterizes so much of the nation's discourse. In
a
\href{https://www.surveymonkey.com/curiosity/nyt-march-2020-cci/}{survey}
conducted for The Times in early March, 77 percent of Democrats said
they were worried that there would be a coronavirus outbreak in the
United States, compared with 48 percent of Republicans.

Behavior was less starkly partisan early in the pandemic, however. The
March survey showed that comparable numbers of Republicans and Democrats
had taken steps like canceling travel plans, stocking up on food or
working from home. And a
\href{https://www.surveymonkey.com/curiosity/nyt-april-2020-cci/}{survey
in April} found that majorities of Republicans and Democrats alike
believed that the government response to the pandemic had been ``about
right'' --- although Republicans were more likely to say the response
had ``gone too far.''

About the survey: The data in this article came from an online survey of
6,155 adults conducted by the polling firm SurveyMonkey from July 6 to
July 12. The company selected respondents at random from the nearly
three million people who take surveys on its platform each day.
Responses were weighted to match the demographic profile of the
population of the United States. The survey has a modeled error estimate
(similar to a margin of error in a standard telephone poll) of plus or
minus two percentage points, so differences of less than that amount are
statistically insignificant.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
