Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\hypertarget{comments}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{commentsContainer}{Comments}}{Comments}}\label{comments}}

\href{}{Trump vs. Biden: Who's Winning the Money Race in Your ZIP
Code?}\href{}{Skip to Comments}

The comments section is closed. To submit a letter to the editor for
publication, write to
\href{mailto:letters@nytimes.com}{\nolinkurl{letters@nytimes.com}}.

\hypertarget{trump-vs-biden-whos-winning-the-money-race-in-your-zip-code}{%
\section{Trump vs. Biden: Who's Winning the Money Race in Your ZIP
Code?}\label{trump-vs-biden-whos-winning-the-money-race-in-your-zip-code}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/rachel-shorey}{Rachel Shorey},
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/kk-rebecca-lai}{K.K. Rebecca Lai} and
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/thomas-kaplan}{Thomas Kaplan}July 24,
2020

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
  \emph{224}
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{estimated-donors-by-zip-code}{%
\subsubsection{Estimated donors by ZIP
code,}\label{estimated-donors-by-zip-code}}

April through June

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2020/07/17/campfin/612a8560203e508e5235105e596d49a95e98150a/trump.png}

Trump

1.2 millionestimated donors

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2020/07/17/campfin/612a8560203e508e5235105e596d49a95e98150a/biden.png}

Biden

1.6 millionestimated donors

\emph{◄} \textbf{MORE TRUMP DONORS} \textbf{MORE BIDEN DONORS} \emph{►}

+150

+100

+50

+50

+100

+150

Source: Federal Election Commission \textbar{} Notes: The map shows
which candidate had more individual donors in each ZIP code from April
1, 2020, to June 30, 2020. ZIP codes with fewer than 10 total donors are
excluded.

Former Vice President
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/elections/joe-biden.html}{Joseph
R. Biden Jr.} had roughly 400,000 more individual donors than
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/elections/donald-trump.html}{President
Trump} in the last three months, the latest evidence of Mr. Biden's
newfound financial strength, according to a New York Times analysis of
Federal Election Commission data.

The estimated donor numbers offer another sign of the nation's political
divisions. From April through June, Mr. Biden had more donors than Mr.
Trump in 26 states, including key battlegrounds like Pennsylvania and
North Carolina. Mr. Trump led in 24, including critical states like
Florida and Arizona.

Mr. Biden attracted more donors in urban areas and on the coasts, while
Mr. Trump had the advantage in rural areas around the country.

The most recent fund-raising quarter unfolded as Democratic donors
turned their focus to the general election,
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/02/us/politics/biden-trump-fundraising-2020.html}{pouring
money into Mr. Biden's campaign} and significantly narrowing the cash
lead Mr. Trump had built by courting donors for his re-election bid
since taking office in 2017.

Mr. Biden's best ZIP code, in terms of the sheer number of donors,
covers part of the Upper West Side of Manhattan. In fact, three of his
four best ZIP codes were on the Upper West Side. The other was in
Washington, D.C. Parts of Brooklyn were also among Mr. Biden's strongest
places, as were other neighborhoods in Manhattan and Washington.

Mr. Trump's best ZIP code encompasses much of The Villages, a retirement
community in Central Florida. Other strong areas for Mr. Trump included
parts of the Houston, Phoenix and Las Vegas suburbs, as well as Orange
County in California.

This is the first time such detailed donor data has been available for a
head-to-head comparison of the Republican and Democratic presidential
candidates in a general election.

This analysis, covering the second quarter of 2020, is based on
fund-raising records disclosed recently by the campaigns and by WinRed
and ActBlue, online fund-raising platforms that process donations for
Mr. Trump and Mr. Biden, respectively.

\hypertarget{whos-leading-in-five-key-battlegrounds}{%
\subsection{Who's leading in five key
battlegrounds}\label{whos-leading-in-five-key-battlegrounds}}

Heading into 2020, Mr. Biden
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/02/01/us/politics/democratic-presidential-campaign-donors.html}{lagged
behind three of his Democratic primary rivals} in amassing donors, but
as his party's presumptive nominee, he has
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/23/us/politics/biden-trump-2020-fundraising.html}{raked
in cash}. Mr. Trump, unlike many Republican candidates, has proved to be
a magnet for small-dollar donations, and his campaign has
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/07/16/us/politics/trump-campaign-donations.html}{invested
heavily} in prospecting for donors.

Here's a look at five important battleground states, all of which Mr.
Trump carried in 2016.

\hypertarget{pennsylvania}{%
\subsubsection{Pennsylvania}\label{pennsylvania}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2020/07/17/campfin/612a8560203e508e5235105e596d49a95e98150a/trump.png}

Trump

45,000estimated donors

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2020/07/17/campfin/612a8560203e508e5235105e596d49a95e98150a/biden.png}

Biden

66,000estimated donors

In Pennsylvania, Mr. Biden was dominant in attracting donors not just in
deep-blue Philadelphia, but also in its suburbs, where Democrats thrived
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/11/06/us/politics/pennsylvania-democrats-midterms.html}{in
the 2018 midterm elections}. He can also claim bragging rights in one
particularly meaningful place: the ZIP code in Scranton of
\href{https://thecaucus.blogs.nytimes.com/2008/09/01/biden-arrives-home/}{his
childhood home}.

In this map and others, college towns stand out. The dot of blue in
central Pennsylvania, State College, is home to Penn State.

Mr. Trump had the edge in many less populous areas across the state.

\hypertarget{florida}{%
\subsubsection{Florida}\label{florida}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2020/07/17/campfin/612a8560203e508e5235105e596d49a95e98150a/trump.png}

Trump

117,000estimated donors

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2020/07/17/campfin/612a8560203e508e5235105e596d49a95e98150a/biden.png}

Biden

102,000estimated donors

Mr. Trump's expansive donor base is particularly evident in Florida. He
drew far more donors than Mr. Biden across much of the Panhandle, a
conservative part of the state where Mr. Trump won by large margins in
2016. He was also strong in many other places, including southwest
Florida and the northeastern part of the state, the region that had been
scheduled to host next month's Republican National Convention in
Jacksonville. (Mr. Trump said Thursday that he
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/23/us/politics/jacksonville-rnc.html}{was}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/23/us/politics/jacksonville-rnc.html}{canceling}
the Jacksonville portion of the convention.)

Mr. Biden was stronger in many parts of southeast Florida, a liberal,
densely populated region, although Mr. Trump had slightly more donors in
one place where he is particularly
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2017/04/05/us/politics/tracking-trumps-visits-to-his-branded-properties.html}{fond
of spending time}: the ZIP code that contains Mar-a-Lago.

\hypertarget{wisconsin}{%
\subsubsection{Wisconsin}\label{wisconsin}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2020/07/17/campfin/612a8560203e508e5235105e596d49a95e98150a/trump.png}

Trump

17,000estimated donors

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2020/07/17/campfin/612a8560203e508e5235105e596d49a95e98150a/biden.png}

Biden

21,000estimated donors

Wisconsin shows a similar pattern to other Rust Belt states: strength
for Mr. Biden in cities like Madison and Milwaukee, where a scaled-down
Democratic National Convention will be held next month, but more donors
for Mr. Trump in many other places. And Mr. Biden attracted donors in
other college towns, like Eau Claire, La Crosse and Stevens Point.

Mr. Trump was ahead of Mr. Biden in suburban areas west of Milwaukee,
traditionally a Republican stronghold.

\hypertarget{arizona}{%
\subsubsection{Arizona}\label{arizona}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2020/07/17/campfin/612a8560203e508e5235105e596d49a95e98150a/trump.png}

Trump

41,000estimated donors

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2020/07/17/campfin/612a8560203e508e5235105e596d49a95e98150a/biden.png}

Biden

33,000estimated donors

Though Mr. Biden had pockets of strength in cities like Phoenix and
Tucson, many areas in Arizona were particularly Trump-friendly.

Two ZIP codes in the Phoenix suburbs were among Mr. Trump's best in the
country in terms of the total number of donors. The president far
outpaced Mr. Biden in parts of western Arizona, including the place
where a festival called Trumpstock
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/12/28/us/politics/trump-2020-trumpstock.html}{took
place last year}.

\hypertarget{north-carolina}{%
\subsubsection{North Carolina}\label{north-carolina}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2020/07/17/campfin/612a8560203e508e5235105e596d49a95e98150a/trump.png}

Trump

36,000estimated donors

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2020/07/17/campfin/612a8560203e508e5235105e596d49a95e98150a/biden.png}

Biden

46,000estimated donors

The same general split between urban and rural areas held true in North
Carolina, with Mr. Biden showing strength in cities like Charlotte and
Greensboro. He drew a particularly large number of donors in the area
known as the Research Triangle, which includes Raleigh, Durham and
Chapel Hill.

Mr. Trump led Mr. Biden in many less populous places. An especially
strong area for Mr. Trump was along Lake Norman, where
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2017/09/09/business/president-trump-organization-business-golf.html}{one
of his golf clubs} is. A boat parade was recently held on the lake in
his support.

\hypertarget{a-state-by-state-breakdown}{%
\subsection{A state-by-state
breakdown}\label{a-state-by-state-breakdown}}

California, the nation's most populous state, was also home to the
largest number of donors for each candidate --- roughly 260,000 for Mr.
Biden and 140,000 for Mr. Trump. The president had more donors than Mr.
Biden in Texas and Florida, while Mr. Biden had more in New York.

By one measure, Mr. Biden was strongest in Washington, D.C., where he
had roughly 20 donors for each person who gave to Mr. Trump. Vermont was
next, followed by Massachusetts, with more than three Biden donors for
every Trump donor in both states. Mr. Biden had at least twice as many
donors as Mr. Trump in Connecticut, Delaware, Maine, Maryland, New York
and Rhode Island.

Of the six states that
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/elections/2016/results/president}{flipped
from blue to red} in the 2016 election, Mr. Biden led in five of them
--- Iowa, Michigan, Ohio, Pennsylvania and Wisconsin --- while Mr. Trump
was ahead in Florida.

\hypertarget{where-biden-had-more-estimated-donors}{%
\subsubsection{Where Biden had more estimated
donors}\label{where-biden-had-more-estimated-donors}}

Notes: The estimated number of donors is rounded and for April through
June. The difference in estimated donors between the two candidates is
calculated based on the rounded numbers.

Mr. Trump had the biggest relative advantage in Mississippi, with more
than twice as many donors as Mr. Biden. Mr. Trump had at least 1.5 times
as many donors as Mr. Biden in Alabama, Louisiana, North Dakota,
Oklahoma, South Dakota and Wyoming.

\hypertarget{where-trump-had-more-estimated-donors}{%
\subsubsection{Where Trump had more estimated
donors}\label{where-trump-had-more-estimated-donors}}

Notes: The estimated number of donors is rounded and for April through
June. The difference in estimated donors between the two candidates is
calculated based on the rounded numbers.

Methodology

Data includes donations reported to the Federal Election Commission by
the Trump campaign, the joint fund-raising committees Trump Victory and
Trump Make America Great Again Committee, the Biden campaign, and the
joint fund-raising committees Biden Victory Fund and Biden Action Fund.
Additional donations processed on behalf of those committees and
reported by the online fund-raising platforms
\href{https://www.fec.gov/data/committee/C00401224/}{ActBlue} and
\href{https://www.fec.gov/data/committee/C00694323/}{WinRed} are also
included. These sources together account for approximately 90 percent of
money donated by individuals.

The estimated number of individual donors was based on the name and ZIP
code of each donor. About 1 percent of donors had ZIP codes that do not
map to physical areas and are not shown on the maps.

All data on maps and tables are from April 1, 2020, through June 30,
2020.

Information about donors giving \$200 or less by check or through the
campaigns' online stores is not available. The Biden campaign said it
had approximately 200,000 additional donors that The Times could not
count through public records. The Trump campaign did not respond to a
request for its donor count.

Read 224 Comments

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
