Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\hypertarget{comments}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{commentsContainer}{Comments}}{Comments}}\label{comments}}

\href{}{In Trump's Twitter Feed: Conspiracy-Mongers, Racists and
Spies}\href{}{Skip to Comments}

The comments section is closed. To submit a letter to the editor for
publication, write to
\href{mailto:letters@nytimes.com}{\nolinkurl{letters@nytimes.com}}.

\hypertarget{in-trumps-twitter-feed-conspiracy-mongers-racists-and-spies}{%
\section{In Trump's Twitter Feed: Conspiracy-Mongers, Racists and
Spies}\label{in-trumps-twitter-feed-conspiracy-mongers-racists-and-spies}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/mike-mcintire}{Mike McIntire},
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/karen-yourish}{Karen Yourish} and
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/larry-buchanan}{Larry Buchanan}Nov. 2,
2019

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
  \emph{613}
\end{itemize}

Inside the alternate reality of the president's Twitter account, where
he absorbs and amplifies a noxious stream of disinformation.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2019/10/26/trump-tweet-rad/75b9742ba425e1d2c385377566b485f4687a4c30/trumptweet.gif}

\hypertarget{in-trumps-twitter-feed-conspiracy-mongers-racists-and-spies-1}{%
\section{In Trump's Twitter Feed: Conspiracy-Mongers, Racists and
Spies}\label{in-trumps-twitter-feed-conspiracy-mongers-racists-and-spies-1}}

Inside the alternate reality of the president's Twitter account, where
he absorbs and amplifies a noxious stream of disinformation.

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/mike-mcintire}{MIKE McINTIRE},
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/karen-yourish}{KAREN YOURISH} and
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/larry-buchanan}{LARRY BUCHANAN} Nov. 2,
2019

SHARE

In September, an obscure Twitter account promoting a fringe belief about
an anti-Trump cabal within the government tweeted out a hashtag:
\#FakeWhistleblower.

It was typical for the anonymous account, which traffics in far-right
content and a conspiracy theory known as QAnon, some of whose adherents
think that satanic pedophiles control the ``deep state.'' The Federal
Bureau of Investigation recently labeled QAnon a potential
\href{https://news.yahoo.com/fbi-documents-conspiracy-theories-terrorism-160000507.html}{domestic
terror threat}.

Still, that did not stop others, including a Republican congressional
candidate, from quickly picking up the hashtag and tweeting it. Within a
week, hundreds of QAnon believers and ``MAGA'' activists had joined in,
posting memes and bogus reports to undermine the complaint by a
government
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/09/27/podcasts/the-daily/whistleblower-complaint-trump-maguire.html?searchResultPosition=34}{whistle-blower}
that President Trump had pressed Ukraine's leader for dirt on former
Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. and his son.

Then Mr. Trump tweeted the hashtag himself.

1,200

tweets

per hour

At its peak, just after the president tweeted, the hashtag was used more
than 1,200 times per hour.

Number of tweets that used \#FakeWhistleblower by hour

900

600

300

@realDonaldTrump tweets using the hashtag.

Sept. 20

Sept. 30

Oct. 10

1,200

tweets

per hour

Number of tweets that used \#FakeWhistleblower by hour

900

At its peak, just after the president tweeted, the hashtag was used more
than 1,200 times per hour.

600

@realDonaldTrump tweets using the hashtag.

300

Sept. 20

Sept. 30

Oct. 10

Source: Dataminr

Such is the frenetic life cycle of conspiracy-driven propaganda, fakery
and hate in the age of the first Twitter presidency. Mr. Trump, whose
own tweets have warned of deep-state plots against him, accused the
House speaker of treason and labeled Republican critics ``human scum,''
has helped spread a culture of suspicion and distrust of facts into the
political mainstream.

The president is also awash in an often toxic torrent that sluices into
his Twitter account --- roughly 1,000 tweets per minute, many intended
for his eyes. Tweets that tag his handle, @realDonaldTrump, can be found
with hashtags like \#HitlerDidNothingWrong, \#IslamIsSatanism and
\#WhiteGenocide. While filters can block offensive material, the
president clearly sees some of it, because he dips into the frothing
currents and serves up noxious bits to the rest of the world.

By retweeting suspect accounts, seemingly without regard for their
identity or motives, he has lent credibility to white nationalists,
anti-Muslim bigots and obscure QAnon adherents like VB Nationalist, an
anonymous account that has promoted a hoax about top Democrats
worshiping the Devil and engaging in child sex trafficking.

``I've been retweeted by the President of the United States, President
Trump!'' replied VB Nationalist, who gained thousands of followers after
the high-level boost and took it as a sign of encouragement, adding,
``Tell me again, how he doesn't care about us.''

To assess this unprecedented moment, The New York Times examined Mr.
Trump's interactions with Twitter since he took office, reviewing each
of his more than 11,000 tweets and the hundreds of accounts he has
retweeted, tracking the ways he is exposed to information and
replicating what he is likely to see on the platform. The result,
including new data analysis and previously unreported details, offers
the most comprehensive view yet of a virtual world in which the
president spends significant time mingling with extremists, impostors
and spies.

Fake accounts tied to intelligence services in China, Iran and Russia
had directed thousands of tweets at Mr. Trump, according to a Times
analysis of
\href{https://about.twitter.com/en_us/values/elections-integrity.html\#data}{propaganda
accounts} suspended by Twitter. Iranian operatives tweeted anti-Semitic
tropes, saying that Mr. Trump was ``being controlled'' by global
Zionists, and that pulling out of the Iran nuclear treaty would benefit
North Korea. Russian accounts tagged the president more than 30,000
times, including in supportive tweets about the Mexican border wall and
his hectoring of black football players. Mr. Trump even retweeted a
phony Russian account that said,
\href{https://www.tennessean.com/story/news/politics/2017/10/18/twitter-suspends-fake-tennessee-gop-account-later-linked-russian-troll-farm/776937001/}{``We
love you, Mr. President!''}

In fact, Mr. Trump has retweeted at least 145 unverified accounts that
have pushed conspiracy or fringe content, including more than two dozen
that have since been suspended by Twitter. Tinfoil-hat types and racists
celebrate when Mr. Trump shares something they promote. After he tweeted
his support for white farmers in South Africa, replies included ``DONALD
IS KING!'' and ``No black man can develop land.''

In July, Mr. Trump retweeted a post from an unverified account that
accused Obama supporters of orchestrating protests to sabotage Mr.
Trump's presidency.

The message was also retweeted by a handful of Russian-controlled troll
accounts.

In all, the president has retweeted 217 accounts that have not been
verified by Twitter.

At least 145 of these accounts have pushed conspiracy or extremist
content, including more than two dozen that have since been suspended by
Twitter.

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

The president gets some of his questionable material on Twitter from the
47 accounts he follows that show up in his feed, a
\href{https://help.twitter.com/en/using-twitter/twitter-timeline}{curated
timeline} of tweets that come mostly from his family, celebrities, Fox
News hosts and Republican politicians, some of whom in turn follow
Twitter accounts that promote QAnon or express anti-Islam or white
nationalist views.

QAnon-related accounts have potentially migrated to the president's
iPhone courtesy of retweets by
\href{https://twitter.com/DonaldJTrumpJr?ref_src=twsrc\%5Egoogle\%7Ctwcamp\%5Eserp\%7Ctwgr\%5Eauthor}{Donald
Trump Jr.}, the Fox News anchor
\href{https://www.foxbusiness.com/person/b/maria-bartiromo}{Maria
Bartiromo} and the conservative commentator
\href{https://static.macmillan.com/static/smp/eric-bolling/}{Eric
Bolling}, all of whom Mr. Trump follows. The younger Mr. Trump has also
retweeted Russian intelligence operatives pushing divisive stories about
immigration and voter fraud.

Mr. Trump retweeted the account @10\_gop, which was run by Russian
intelligence and was later banned by Twitter.

Mr. Trump retweeted the account @10\_gop, which was run by Russian
intelligence and was later banned by Twitter.

Source: Twitter

Trolls and fringe elements quickly figured out that the best way to
reach Mr. Trump is to appeal to his ego. Last year, an anonymous account
with a profile photo of the actor Kurt Russell and posts promoting QAnon
tagged Mr. Trump in a tweet, declaring, ``You're the greatest President
of my lifetime, Sir.'' It was not really Mr. Russell, but Mr. Trump
retweeted it with a ``Thank you!,'' helping the account add 2,900
followers that day, before Twitter eventually suspended it.

Authentic or not, the most fervent MAGA and QAnon accounts --- at least
23,000 of his followers have QAnon references in their profiles --- form
a dependable Greek chorus that exploits the tricks of the medium to
amplify the president's message. Mr. Trump benefits from the activism of
his online supporters and the platform's algorithms, which tend to
reward the most partisan content within digital communities.

But the constant exposure to the worst elements of social media poses
risks. \href{https://www.fpri.org/contributor/clint-watts/}{Clint
Watts}, a former F.B.I. agent and a cybersecurity expert who studies
propaganda campaigns on social media, said the time Mr. Trump spent on
Twitter ``gives you an amazing opportunity to game the president.''

``You are very clearly capable of using Twitter to entice and influence
this president,'' he said. ``You can distort the guy's views from your
house.''

Ann Coulter Retweeted

\hypertarget{jayda-fransen-jaydabf}{%
\subsection{Jayda Fransen @JaydaBF}\label{jayda-fransen-jaydabf}}

VIDEO: Muslim Destroys a Statue of Virgin Mary!

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2019/10/11/trump-feed-dynamic/1c32f8a7df2eca3a6211f6e7fae2366d14ba7834/images/jaydabf-virgin-mary.jpg}

Ann Coulter Retweeted

\hypertarget{jayda-fransen-jaydabf-1}{%
\subsection{Jayda Fransen @JaydaBF}\label{jayda-fransen-jaydabf-1}}

VIDEO: Islamist mob pushes teenage boy off roof and beats him to death!

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2019/10/11/trump-feed-dynamic/1c32f8a7df2eca3a6211f6e7fae2366d14ba7834/images/jaydabf-boy-roof.jpg}

Ann Coulter Retweeted

\hypertarget{jayda-fransen-jaydabf-2}{%
\subsection{Jayda Fransen @JaydaBF}\label{jayda-fransen-jaydabf-2}}

VIDEO: Muslim migrant beats up Dutch boy on crutches!

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2019/10/11/trump-feed-dynamic/1c32f8a7df2eca3a6211f6e7fae2366d14ba7834/images/jaydabf-crutches.jpg}

Ronna McDaniel Retweeted

\hypertarget{donald-trump-jr-donaldjtrumpjr}{%
\subsection{Donald Trump Jr.
@DonaldJTrumpJr}\label{donald-trump-jr-donaldjtrumpjr}}

My latest OP-Ed on Tech Censorship check it out and RT. Conservatives
face a tough fight as Big Tech's censorship expands \textbar{} TheHill

Lara Trump Retweeted

\hypertarget{john-pence-jepence}{%
\subsection{John Pence @jepence}\label{john-pence-jepence}}

\href{https://www.twitter.com/TeamTrump}{@TeamTrump} and
\href{https://www.twitter.com/GOP}{@GOP} are working hard for all
Americans. Thank you
\href{https://www.twitter.com/AmbrosioU23}{@AmbrosioU23} of
\href{https://www.twitter.com/AlPuntoFL}{@AlPuntoFL} for allowing me to
share this message in Español.
\href{https://twitter.com/search?q=\%23Trump2020}{\#Trump2020}

\hypertarget{the-white-house-whitehouse}{%
\subsection{The White House
@WhiteHouse}\label{the-white-house-whitehouse}}

Americans deserve to know who is trying to come into our country.

\includegraphics{https://pbs.twimg.com/media/D15VlrvXgAANvUB.jpg}

\hypertarget{sean-hannity-seanhannity}{%
\subsection{Sean Hannity @seanhannity}\label{sean-hannity-seanhannity}}

KEVIN McCARTHY: GOP Lawmakers `Destroyed' Impeachment Inquiry Witness
Claims `In 90 Seconds'

\hypertarget{tucker-carlson-tuckercarlson}{%
\subsection{Tucker Carlson
@tuckercarlson}\label{tucker-carlson-tuckercarlson}}

TONIGHT: Tucker Carlson Tonight confronted Nancy Pelosi about the Russia
Hoax + Tucker's exclusive interview with Donald Trump Jr. see you at 8pm
EST!

\hypertarget{laura-ingraham-ingrahamangle}{%
\subsection{Laura Ingraham
@IngrahamAngle}\label{laura-ingraham-ingrahamangle}}

Totally agree---a sign of weakness would be a trigger-happy reaction to
the drone strike.
\href{https://www.twitter.com/realDonaldTrump}{@realDonaldTrump}'s
right.

\hypertarget{donald-j-trump-realdonaldtrump}{%
\subsection{Donald J. Trump
@realDonaldTrump}\label{donald-j-trump-realdonaldtrump}}

No Lindsey, it was a sign of strength that some people just don't
understand!

Jesse Watters Retweeted

\hypertarget{mediaite-mediaite}{%
\subsection{Mediaite @Mediaite}\label{mediaite-mediaite}}

Fox News' Jesse Watters: 'So Irresponsible' of the Media to Link Actions
of `Lunatic' Shooter to Trump

\hypertarget{the-white-house-whitehouse-1}{%
\subsection{The White House
@WhiteHouse}\label{the-white-house-whitehouse-1}}

Drug overdoses are now the leading cause of death for Americans under
the age of 55. Our southern border has become the main entry point for
these lethal drugs. The crisis on our border doesn't stay there. It is a
crisis across our nation.

\includegraphics{https://pbs.twimg.com/media/D15NuUmWwAIFxVG.png}

Diamond and Silk® Retweeted

\hypertarget{lara-trump-laraleatrump}{%
\subsection{Lara Trump @LaraLeaTrump}\label{lara-trump-laraleatrump}}

We
\href{https://twitter.com/search?q=\%23StandWithJeanine}{\#StandWithJeanine}
\href{https://www.twitter.com/JudgeJeanine}{@JudgeJeanine}

\hypertarget{eric-trump-erictrump}{%
\subsection{Eric Trump @EricTrump}\label{eric-trump-erictrump}}

I have known \href{https://www.twitter.com/JudgeJeanine}{@JudgeJeanine}
for nearly 30 years. She is an amazing person and talent. This is
nothing more than manufactured outrage intended to silence conservative
voice. Frankly it's very sad.

\hypertarget{donald-j-trumpux1d56ux1d43ux2b3ux1d52ux1d48ux2b8-biglyprez}{%
\subsection{Donald J. Trumpᵖᵃʳᵒᵈʸ
@BiglyPrez}\label{donald-j-trumpux1d56ux1d43ux2b3ux1d52ux1d48ux2b8-biglyprez}}

Regardless of what the Mueller report shows,
\href{https://www.twitter.com/realDonaldTrump}{@realDonaldTrump} is
still the worst president in history.

\hypertarget{ufll-amne-amneufll}{%
\subsection{Ufll Amne @AmneUfll}\label{ufll-amne-amneufll}}

\href{https://www.twitter.com/realDonaldTrump}{@realDonaldTrump} Keep up
the good work President Trump. Now can we please adress the white
genocide that is happening in this country and the west? I cant believe
all of the durogatory messages here. These disgusting people are
anti-white, anti-west, and anti-christian. Reverse the replacement.

\hypertarget{offthegrid-rcwfamerican}{%
\subsection{OffTheGrid @RCWFAMERICAN}\label{offthegrid-rcwfamerican}}

If \href{https://www.twitter.com/realDonaldTrump}{@realDonaldTrump} Says
No Muslim Or Illegal is Allowed To Run For Political Office, Would You
Support Him?

\hypertarget{trumplover2020-godchosetrump77}{%
\subsection{TrumpLover2020
@GodChoseTrump77}\label{trumplover2020-godchosetrump77}}

\href{https://www.twitter.com/realDonaldTrump}{@realDonaldTrump} God
bless you and your beautiful family Sir. Enjoy your weekend. You deserve
it. Please get some rest. The best is yet to come. Prayers for your
continued safety and strength. We love you.
\href{https://twitter.com/search?q=\%23BestPresidentEver}{\#BestPresidentEver}

\hypertarget{donald-trumpovitz-whitegenocidetm}{%
\subsection{Donald Trumpovitz
@WhiteGenocideTM}\label{donald-trumpovitz-whitegenocidetm}}

"WhiteGenocideTM:
\href{https://www.twitter.com/realDonaldTrump}{@realDonaldTrump} Poor
Jeb. I could've sworn I saw him outside Trump Tower the other day!"

Gary Player Retweeted

\hypertarget{theplayers-theplayerschamp}{%
\subsection{\#THEPLAYERS
@THEPLAYERSChamp}\label{theplayers-theplayerschamp}}

History. Made. \href{https://www.twitter.com/McIlroyRory}{@McIlroyRory}
is THE PLAYERS Champion 2019.

Mr. Trump retweeted three videos from a British far-right figure in 2017
purportedly showing Muslims committing acts of violence. Each of the
videos was either highly misleading or was posted with a false
description. The account had been retweeted by Ann Coulter, whom he
followed on Twitter at the time.

The president follows several Fox News commentators, who provide a
constant stream of support for him and attacks against his opponents.

His mentions contain thousands of messages like these every day --- a
near-infinite supply of tweets attacking him, promoting extremist
conspiracy theories and proclaiming support for him.

Since the dawn of the internet, the nation's leaders have been largely
sheltered from the storm of disinformation and bile that churns on its
fringes. Social media barely existed during Bill Clinton's presidency,
George W. Bush's reference to ``the Google'' betrayed his unfamiliarity
and Barack Obama chafed at being
\href{https://fortune.com/2016/06/10/president-obamas-new-smartphone-is-more-like-a-toddler-phone/}{denied
an iPhone} but agreed to it.

But with the arrival of Mr. Trump in the Oval Office, Twitter managed to
connect the ultimate seat of power to the darkest corners of the web for
the first time. There is little evidence that Mr. Trump harbors concerns
about promoting accounts that traffic in fake or inflammatory material.

The White House declined to comment for this article and turned down an
interview request with the president. But at a White House
``\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/07/11/us/politics/white-house-social-media-summit.html?searchResultPosition=2}{social
media summit}'' in July that brought together far-right activists and
provocateurs, Mr. Trump expressed appreciation for the fodder he sampled
on Twitter.

``The crap that you think of,'' he said, ``is unbelievable.''

\hypertarget{mastering-the-craft}{%
\paragraph{Mastering the Craft}\label{mastering-the-craft}}

The path to \#FakeWhistleblower stretches back to a seminal conspiracy
theory in Trump World: \#FakeBirthCertificate.

Mr. Trump's
\href{https://www.theguardian.com/us-news/video/2016/sep/16/donald-trump-barack-obama-birther-theory-video}{campaign
to sow doubts} about Mr. Obama's birthplace, as he was considering
running for president himself in 2012, showcased his talent for
propagating a useful lie. It also overlapped with his growing presence
on Twitter.

When his account was created in 2009, the three-year-old platform was
just beginning to extend its reach beyond a community of journalists,
techies and other early adopters. Over time, as high-profile public
figures joined and Twitter allowed for longer messages, its influence
grew as a forum for people to comment in real time about live events,
world leaders to make official pronouncements and celebrities to
interact with fans. Twitter said
\href{https://www.washingtonpost.com/technology/2019/02/07/twitter-reveals-its-daily-active-user-numbers-first-time/}{earlier
this year} that it had 126 million daily active users.

For Mr. Trump, a Twitter account quickly proved useful for promoting
himself, sounding off about politics and, eventually, amplifying his
attacks on Mr. Obama. By the time he started tweeting the birther smear
in November 2011, his fans had already been doing the same, creating
memes and hashtags like \#FakeBirthCertificate, first used for that
purpose in April 2011 by a supporter who cited Mr. Trump in the tweet.

After Mr. Trump started
\href{https://www.politico.com/story/2018/12/20/oh-no-the-day-trump-learned-to-tweet-1070789}{tweeting
on his own} in early 2013 --- he previously had help from an assistant
--- he was soon recycling misinformation. He retweeted an anti-Obama
account that had tweeted at him, ``The birth certificate that you forced
Obama to show is a computer generated forgery.'' And he
\href{https://twitter.com/realdonaldtrump/status/411247268763676673?lang=en}{spun
conspiracies} within conspiracies, tweeting: ``How amazing, the State
Health Director who verified copies of Obama's `birth certificate' died
in plane crash today. All others lived.''

Mr. Trump's experience using Mr. Obama as a punching bag made him adept
at weaponizing what he found on Twitter when he decided to run for
president. As his following grew, so did his ability to give prominence
to objectionable material and --- intentionally or not --- those
responsible for it.

In early 2016, he twice retweeted an obscure
\href{https://www.cnn.com/2016/01/22/politics/donald-trump-retweet-white-genocide/index.html}{white
supremacist account,} @WhiteGenocideTM, that had directed a tweet at him
ridiculing Jeb Bush, an opponent in the Republican primary. The
since-suspended account, which regularly posted neo-Nazi propaganda and
listed its location as ``Jewmerica,'' gained hundreds of followers in
the days after Mr. Trump's retweets.

By the time he faced off against Hillary Clinton, a perfect storm had
coalesced on a more polarized and partisan Twitter --- bringing together
activists and trolls practiced at spreading conspiracy theories and
hate, and Russian intelligence operatives seeking to foment discord. A
how-to manual titled
``\href{https://medium.com/@erin_gallagher/advanced-meme-warfare-july-6-2016-cw-5f9287ef36cd}{Advanced
Meme Warfare}'' circulated online with instructions for creating
material to help the Trump campaign by trashing the Clintons.

``The idea is to stack up so much doubt, emotional appeals, and
circumstantial evidence ON TOP of facts that we create a landslide of
anti-Hill sentiment that permeates through society,'' it said.

As memes ricocheted around Twitter, Mr. Trump frequently retweeted them
and made use of hashtags like \#CrookedHillary. After he won the
election, Mr. Trump was asked if he would continue being combative on
Twitter once he settled into the White House.
\href{https://www.cbsnews.com/news/60-minutes-donald-trump-family-melania-ivanka-lesley-stahl/}{In
an interview} with ``60 Minutes,'' he defended his tweeting as ``nothing
you should be ashamed of,'' but pledged to change his tone as president.

``I'm going to do very restrained, if I use it at all,'' Mr. Trump said.
``I'm going to do very restrained.''

\hypertarget{dark-undercurrents}{%
\paragraph{Dark Undercurrents}\label{dark-undercurrents}}

The implications of Mr. Trump's Twitter habit became apparent early in
his presidency. In short order, he was railing about ``fake news,''
questioning the findings that Russia interfered in the 2016 election and
peddling the fiction that millions of illegal ballots had cost him the
popular vote.

Beyond his own tweets, the president stepped up his practice of
retweeting others, sharing
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2017/11/29/us/politics/trump-anti-muslim-videos-jayda-fransen.html}{anti-Muslim
videos} posted by a British far-right figure who had been retweeted by
Ann Coulter. (He later stopped following Ms. Coulter after she
criticized him for not making progress on the Mexican border wall.)

That episode highlighted one of the ways the president sees information
on Twitter. His feed regularly contains tweets from his son, Donald Jr.,
who follows and retweets alt-right figures like Stefan Molyneux, a
Canadian who pushes ``white genocide'' conspiracy theories and has
promoted white nationalists on his YouTube channel.

The younger Mr. Trump has also followed Lauren Southern, another
Canadian right-wing activist who has promoted the ``great replacement''
theory that white populations are being overrun by nonwhite immigrants
with the help of global elites. In May, the president retweeted a post
in which she complained that far-right voices were being suspended on
social media.

The 47 accounts

@realDonaldTrump

follows

Rep. Jim Jordan is the only member of Congress Mr. Trump follows.

Conservative news media

Twitter account profile photos shown.

G.O.P.

Conservative media accounts make up the bulk of the accounts Mr. Trump
follows, and most are from FOX News.

Family

Trump Org.

Current \& former

campaign officials

Diamond \& Silk, conservative social media personalities, were at a
White House social media event in July.

Mr. Trump follows eight accounts from the Trump Organization.

Others

Current \& former

administration accounts

The 47 accounts

@realDonaldTrump

follows

Conservative news media

Twitter account profile photos shown.

Conservative media accounts make up the bulk of the accounts Mr. Trump
follows, and most are from FOX News.

Mr. Trump follows eight accounts from the Trump Organization.

Trump Org.

Family

G.O.P.

Current \& former

administration accounts

Rep. Jim Jordan is the only member of Congress Mr. Trump follows.

Current \& former

campaign officials

Diamond \& Silk, conservative social media personalities, were at a
White House social media event in July.

Others

The 47 accounts

@realDonaldTrump follows

Twitter account profile photos shown.

Conservative news media

Conservative media accounts make up the bulk of the accounts Mr. Trump
follows, and most are from FOX News.

Family

Trump

Org.

Mr. Trump follows eight accounts from the Trump Organization.

Current \& former

administration accounts

Rep. Jim Jordan is the only member of Congress Mr. Trump follows.

G.O.P.

Current \& former campaign officials

Others

Diamond \& Silk, conservative social media personalities, were at a
White House social media event in July.

Six people the president follows --- including Dan Scavino, the White
House social media director --- in turn follow Terrence K. Williams, a
comedian who has been retweeted by Mr. Trump frequently. Among the
retweets was a phony smear claiming that a Muslim congresswoman had
partied on the anniversary of Sept. 11, and a conspiracy theory linking
the Clintons to the suicide of the imprisoned sex offender Jeffrey
Epstein.

Beyond the people he follows, there is another potential pathway to the
president on Twitter --- his ``mentions,'' the surging stream of tweets
and replies that are directed at him by tagging his handle.

Fake accounts that Twitter identified as being run by foreign
intelligence agencies have made frequent use of this tactic to try to
get his attention: Russian accounts targeted Mr. Trump with tweets
making the false assertion that Russia did not hack the Democratic
National Committee's emails. A Chinese account directed a tweet at him
calling CNN ``goofy commies.'' And an Iranian account heckled him,
saying, ``Every morning that American people wakeup, they are nervous
about your new tweets.''

The odds of his seeing a tagged post amid the deluge are slim, in part
because Twitter's algorithms try to screen out objectionable material
and his account may employ filters. Some of his Twitter activity is also
managed by Mr. Scavino. Still, Mr. Trump spends time looking at tweets
that mention him or hashtags that interest him.

The content he chooses to retweet is similar to his own: mostly partisan
attacks and praise for himself, with occasional inflammatory material
mixed in. While it is not always clear whether his retweets are intended
to endorse their authors, the president is effectively launching those
accounts into the public eye.

On St. Patrick's Day last March, while awaiting the conclusion of the
Mueller report, Mr. Trump went on a
\href{https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/fifty-two-tweets-in-34-hours-how-a-trump-twitter-frenzy-defined-a-weekend/2019/03/23/3bed256c-4bf0-11e9-93d0-64dbcf38ba41_story.html}{daylong
Twitter tirade}, batting out more than 30 tweets that appear to have
come from extended immersion in the streams flowing through his account.

The morning dawned with a 6:01 a.m. barb from Donald Trump Jr. --- ``So
many stains on the \#GhostofJohnMcCain'' --- presaging several tweets
from the president an hour later attacking the deceased senator over old
grudges. At the same time, amid a rapidly building flood of mentions,
there was a plea directed at him to ``reverse the replacement'' of white
people, a tweet from an account with an anti-Semitic name demanding Fox
News undo the suspension of the host Jeanine Pirro for anti-Muslim
comments, and hundreds of references to QAnon.

The president shared a conspiracy-minded post by William Craddick, a
right-wing writer who peddled the
\href{https://www.rollingstone.com/politics/politics-news/anatomy-of-a-fake-news-scandal-125877/}{``pizzagate''
hoax} that Democratic politicians secretly ran a child-trafficking ring
out of a Washington pizzeria. ``Russiagate,'' Mr. Craddick wrote, ``was
designed in part to help the UK counter Russian influence by baiting the
United States into taking a hard line against them.'' And Mr. Trump sent
out a tweet by Jack Posobiec, another pizzagate promoter, linking to a
news story about Latino gang members stabbing and burning a teenager.

By nightfall, Mr. Trump had retweeted an obscure QAnon follower who, a
few weeks earlier, had pushed the Democratic-pedophilia smear. His
retweet of that account --- whose profile image is a stylized ``Q''
wearing a red MAGA hat --- drew notice on the online message boards of
4chan, which were abuzz with speculation that the president had tacitly
approved of QAnon theories.

The binge ended at 9 p.m., when Mr. Trump tweeted, ``MAKE AMERICA GREAT
AGAIN!''

\hypertarget{promoting-conspiracies}{%
\paragraph{Promoting Conspiracies}\label{promoting-conspiracies}}

QAnon entered the public consciousness in October 2017, when someone
using the code name ``Q'' began posting on 4chan, claiming to have
secret knowledge of a conspiracy within a Democrat-controlled ``deep
state'' to oust Mr. Trump in a coup.

According to Q's groundless theory, Mr. Trump was aware of the plot and
was quietly working to unravel it with Robert S. Mueller III, the
special counsel, using the Russia investigation as a cover to sweep up
the perpetrators through mass arrests. The most extreme adherents of
\href{https://www.nbcnews.com/tech/tech-news/how-three-conspiracy-theorists-took-q-sparked-qanon-n900531}{what
became known as QAnon} --- short for ``Q Anonymous'' --- also postulate
that the deep state is part of a global network of corrupt elites
involved in Satanism, pedophilia and cannibalism.

Remarkably, this conspiracy would migrate from the dark fringes of
social media and into conservative political circles, where it took root
among a segment of Mr. Trump's most fervent supporters. People holding Q
signs have shown up at
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/08/01/us/politics/what-is-qanon.html}{Trump
rallies}, and the ``Q'' symbol found its way into a ``Women for Trump''
2020
\href{https://www.thedailybeast.com/trump-campaign-ad-features-qanon-signs}{campaign
video}.

Last year, two QAnon disciples were arrested in separate episodes, and
in May the F.B.I. included QAnon in an intelligence bulletin warning of
potential violence stemming from ``anti-government, identity-based and
fringe political conspiracy theories,'' particularly as the 2020
election approaches.

There are few places where QAnon's visibility has been greater than on
Twitter, where Mr. Trump has helped propagate it. Although Mr. Trump
does not follow any QAnon-related accounts, some in his Twitter circle
do.

Bill Mitchell, a conservative podcaster who promotes QAnon, is followed
by nine people whom the president follows and has potentially appeared
in his feed more than a dozen times. The president has frequently
retweeted him, including one post advancing the discredited suggestion
that Mr. Obama wiretapped Mr. Trump's phones in 2016.

In an email to the Times, Mr. Mitchell said he considered the
president's retweets ``a hat-tip without an overt endorsement.'' He
believes that the president is deliberately provocative on Twitter to
keep political enemies off balance and unable to ``think
strategically,'' he said.

``Through his tweets, President Trump keeps the Democrats and media in a
perpetually heightened emotional state, in this case offense and
anger,'' he wrote, adding that he respected QAnon's leaders as
``patriots and Trump supporters.''

More than 50 accounts that have QAnon references in their profiles ---
and dozens more that do not but also promote the conspiracy --- appeared
among those followed by Donald Trump Jr.; Ms. Bartiromo; Ronna McDaniel,
chairwoman of the Republican National Committee; Katrina Pierson, a
Trump campaign adviser; Representative Jim Jordan of Ohio; and a handful
of others who are all, in turn, followed by the president.

There is no indication that these people, who collectively follow
thousands of accounts, are aware of the QAnon presence that lurks there,
much less support it.

But the potential for QAnon accounts to appear in the presidential feed
underscores the viral nature of disinformation on Twitter, where a tweet
can hatch on the fringes, hopscotch through layers of accounts and,
aided by hashtags and bots, gain wide currency.

On Thursday evening, a QAnon promoter tweeted an unsubstantiated yarn
that years ago he overheard a key witness in the impeachment inquiry
bad-mouthing America and talking up ``Obama \& globalism.'' QAnon
accounts passed it around, and by the next morning it had been retweeted
by Mr. Posobiec, who in turn was retweeted by Donald Trump Jr. --- in
less than 24 hours, the story had wormed its way into the president's
Twitter circle.

And it has happened before. During a busy Sunday morning of tweeting in
August, Ms. Bartiromo retweeted an anonymous account called @QBlueSkyQ
that had posted a series of conspiratorial messages about the Russia
investigation, along with a video snippet of her Fox interview with
George Papadopoulos, a former Trump campaign aide arrested in the
scandal.

Even a glance at @QBlueSkyQ's profile would have revealed that it was a
die-hard QAnon account. It has tweeted doctored images and fake memes
promoting
\href{https://theoutline.com/post/7621/slender-man-for-boomers-andrenochrome-qanon?zd=2\&zi=oxrjefai}{a
falsehood} that top Democrats sexually torture children to harvest
adrenochrome --- a chemical derived from adrenaline --- for a
life-extending elixir. The @QBlueSkyQ retweet was one of at least a
half-dozen times Ms. Bartiromo helped circulate such accounts, though
none of the posts dealt with the QAnon conspiracy directly. Ms.
Bartiromo declined to comment.

Hoaxes promoted by QAnon

Hoaxes promoted by QAnon

Hoaxes promoted by QAnon

Hoaxes promoted

by QAnon

Hoaxes promoted

by QAnon

QAnon accounts have also been retweeted by Mr. Bolling, a former Fox
News commentator. Mr. Bolling said that he had no idea any account he
retweeted was connected to QAnon, and that it was unfair to expect him
to ``vet every account that I retweet.''

``I wouldn't have done it had I known,'' he said. ``I have nothing to do
with QAnon.''

Mr. Bolling retweeted an anonymous QAnon account called @K12Lioness
several times, most of it partisan political material and all unrelated
to the Q conspiracy. But in between the run-of-the-mill tweets that
caught his attention, the account was also pumping out vile memes and
messages from the deepest fringes of the QAnon universe, like this post
in June:

``The Democrats have lost their minds (adrenochrome) eating baby parts.
MY GOD Americans WAKE UP!!''

\hypertarget{deploying-the-trolls}{%
\paragraph{Deploying the Trolls}\label{deploying-the-trolls}}

Mr. Trump was two weeks from his inauguration in January 2017 when he
tweeted, ``So how and why are they so sure about hacking if they never
even requested an examination of the computer servers?''

It would be the start of a relentless campaign, continuing to the
present, to dispute that the Russians interfered in the 2016 election.
Eventually, the narrative would merge with another --- that Mr. Biden
intervened in Ukraine to protect his son's business interests --- in the
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/10/08/us/politics/trump-ukraine-whistleblower.html}{now-infamous
phone call} in which Mr. Trump pressed Ukraine's president to search for
the D.N.C.'s email server, implying without evidence that it was
somewhere in his country.

That effort began within days of Mr. Biden's official campaign
announcement in April, when a Trump supporter tweeted a meme of Mr.
Biden with the words, ``China \& Ukraine, Quid Pro Joe.'' The post
prompted another Trump fan to put a hashtag to use: \#QuidProJoe. The
\#QuidProJoe and \#FakeWhistleblower hashtags had both been created
years earlier for issues unrelated to Mr. Biden and Ukraine, but were
dusted off and put into service by Trump supporters.

The \#QuidProJoe hashtag remained relatively dormant until a few weeks
later, when it was retweeted seven times by a pro-Trump, bot-like
account that cranks out more than 100 tweets a day, including QAnon and
fervent anti-Democratic material. The hashtag steadily gained currency,
and by September, when news erupted of the whistle-blower complaint
filed a month earlier, it was part of a growing arsenal of social media
tools seized on by Mr. Trump's supporters, including Donald Jr.

A slew of hashtags --- nearly all of them created by anonymous,
unverified accounts, some connected to QAnon --- have been deployed on
Twitter in recent months attacking the impeachment inquiry, and in
particular Representative
\href{https://www.npr.org/2019/10/10/768048653/adam-schiff-the-surprising-face-of-the-impeachment-inquiry-of-president-trump}{Adam
Schiff}, the California Democrat who leads the House Intelligence
Committee. Many have crude names, like \#LyingSackOfSchiff,
\#SchiffForBrains and \#FullOfSchiff.

So far, none of those hashtags has gotten a presidential tweet. But
every day, Mr. Trump offers his Twitter fans reason for hope.

On Oct. 19, between tweeting ``Shifty Schiff is Corrupt'' and retweeting
an anonymous account that regularly traffics in alt-right and Russian
propaganda, the president tweeted out a fresh hashtag being pushed by
his supporters: \#StopTheCoup.

Twitter went wild.

The New York Times reviewed every tweet and retweet sent by President
Trump from Jan. 20, 2017, through Oct. 15, 2019. Retweets include those
with and without comment. The Times reviewed each account retweeted by
Mr. Trump and determined whether the account was verified or not. The
Times then evaluated the unverified accounts to determine whether they
had been suspended by Twitter or had tweeted conspiracy theories.

Sources: Trump Twitter Archive, Internet Archive, YouGov,
RussiaTweets.com, Politwoops

Rich Harris and Blacki Migliozzi contributed reporting. Produced by Gray
Beltran and Rumsey Taylor.

The Twitter Presidency

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  Extremists and Spies
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2019/11/02/us/politics/trump-twitter-presidency.html\%0A}{Reshaping
  the White House}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2019/11/02/us/politics/trump-twitter-retweets.html\%0A}{Plucked
  From Obscurity}
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{the-twitter-presidency}{%
\subsection{The Twitter Presidency}\label{the-twitter-presidency}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2019/11/02/us/politics/trump-twitter-presidency.html\%0A}{}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2019/11/02/us/politics/trump-twitter-retweets.html\%0A}{}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/11/02/us/trump-twitter-takeaways.html}{}
\end{itemize}

Rich Harris and Blacki Migliozzi contributed reporting. Produced by Gray
Beltran and Rumsey Taylor.

Read 613 Comments

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
