Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/us}{U.S.}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/us}{U.S.}\textbar{}Roy Moore Is Mired in a Sexual
Misconduct Scandal. Here's How It Happened.

\url{https://nyti.ms/2hD7A6B}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{roy-moore-is-mired-in-a-sexual-misconduct-scandal-heres-how-it-happened}{%
\section{Roy Moore Is Mired in a Sexual Misconduct Scandal. Here's How
It
Happened.}\label{roy-moore-is-mired-in-a-sexual-misconduct-scandal-heres-how-it-happened}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2017/11/16/us/17mooreguide1/17mooreguide1-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By
\href{http://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/richard-perez-pena}{Richard
Pérez-Peña}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Nov. 16, 2017
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

\emph{Updated on Dec. 11.}

That a Republican candidate for Senate in Alabama would cruise to
victory seemed almost a foregone conclusion. But after a series of women
came forward to accuse that candidate, Roy S. Moore, of sexual
misconduct, less is certain in an unlikely nail-biter of a race that
could have major implications for the party's ability to govern in
Washington.

President Trump has gone from largely avoiding mention of Mr. Moore, a
former chief justice of the Alabama Supreme Court, to unequivocally
endorsing him. Many Senate Republicans distanced themselves from the
candidate, and some called on him to withdraw from the race.

Democrats, for their part, are contemplating the near-impossible:
flipping a seat in a deeply red state that last elected a Democratic
senator in 1992.

As voters prepare for the special election on Tuesday, here is a
breakdown of The New York Times's coverage on the race since the
accusations emerged.

\hypertarget{what-are-the-allegations}{%
\subsection{What are the allegations?}\label{what-are-the-allegations}}

On Nov. 9,
\href{https://www.washingtonpost.com/investigations/woman-says-roy-moore-initiated-sexual-encounter-when-she-was-14-he-was-32/2017/11/09/1f495878-c293-11e7-afe9-4f60b5a6c4a0_story.html?utm_term=.c2d840a6fc79}{The
Washington Post reported} that four women said Mr. Moore had pursued
them sexually or romantically when they were 18 or younger and he was in
his 30s. One of them said that he touched her sexually when she was 14,
below the state's age of consent.

Over the next several days, a woman accused Mr. Moore of
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2017/11/13/us/politics/roy-moore-alabama-senate.html}{sexually
assaulting her} when she was 16
(\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2017/11/13/us/politics/text-beverly-young-nelson-statement.html}{read
her statement here}), and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2017/11/15/us/roy-moore-alabama-republicans.html}{four
more women} accused him of sexual misconduct or unwanted overtures.

Mr. Moore, 70,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2017/11/11/us/roy-moore-alabama-senate.html}{remains
defiant}, trying to discredit the accusers while denying the most
serious charges against him --- though he has not denied that when he
was in his 30s, he dated women in their teens. He has claimed that his
accusers are part of a conspiracy against him, and that he is opposed by
``the forces of evil who are attempting to relegate our conservative
Christian values to the dustbin of history.''

On Nov. 27,
\href{https://www.washingtonpost.com/investigations/a-woman-approached-the-post-with-dramatic—and-false--tale-about-roy-moore-sje-appears-to-be-part-of-undercover-sting-operation/2017/11/27/0c2e335a-cfb6-11e7-9d3a-bcbe2af58c3a_story.html?utm_term=.1c605c2cd9a0}{The
Post reported} that a woman working for a conservative group had
attempted to trick the newspaper into publishing false allegations
against Mr. Moore, apparently in hopes of damaging The Post's
credibility.

On Friday, one of Mr. Moore's accusers, Beverly Young Nelson, said she
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2017/12/08/us/alabama-moore-nelson-allred.html}{added
a note} to an inscription in her high school yearbook that she says was
written by Mr. Moore.

\hypertarget{how-have-republicans-reacted}{%
\subsection{How have Republicans
reacted?}\label{how-have-republicans-reacted}}

At first, President Trump remained largely silent, but he then
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2017/11/21/us/politics/roy-moore-trump-alabama.html}{began
defending Mr. Moore} and saying that voters should reject Doug Jones,
the Democrat in the race. After he formally endorsed Mr. Moore on Dec.
4, the Republican National Committee
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2017/12/04/us/politics/roy-moore-donald-trump.html?_r=0}{restored
its financial support}.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2017/12/12/us/12alabama6/12alabama6-videoSixteenByNine3000.jpg}

On Friday, Mr. Trump
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2017/12/08/us/politics/trump-moore-florida-alabama.html}{held
a political rally} in Pensacola, Fla., less than 30 miles from the
Alabama border, and urged Alabamians to vote for Mr. Moore.

``We need somebody in that Senate seat who will vote for our Make
America Great Again agenda,'' Mr. Trump said.

Our reporters
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2017/11/25/us/politics/trump-roy-moore-mcconnell-alabama-senate.html}{examined
why Mr. Trump}, who has also faced sexual harassment and assault
allegations,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2017/11/25/us/politics/trump-roy-moore-mcconnell-alabama-senate.html}{has
stood by Mr. Moore} while the Alabama race split national Republicans.
Many of
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2017/11/10/us/politics/roy-moore-alabama-republican.html}{his
party's national leaders} have said that Mr. Moore should drop out of
the race, which veteran Alabama politicians describe as
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2017/12/09/us/politics/even-in-unruly-alabama-politics-never-seen-anything-like-this.html}{unlike
any they've ever seen}.

The dean of the state's congressional delegation, the Republican Senator
Richard C. Shelby, excoriated Mr. Moore in a rare national television
appearance on Sunday,
\href{http://www.cnn.com/2017/12/10/politics/richard-shelby-roy-moore-sotu-cnntv/index.html}{telling
CNN} that Alabama ``deserves better.''

The allegations against Mr. Moore have aggravated the hostility between
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2017/11/16/us/politics/republican-party-division-roy-moore.html}{the
populist and establishment factions} of the party. You can check out how
Alabama party officials
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2017/11/10/us/politics/roy-moore-alabama-republicans.html}{have
staunchly defended Mr. Moore} or
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/video/us/politics/100000005552332/roy-moore-and-his-supporters-fire-back-on-misconduct-accusations.html}{watch
a video of many of his defenders}.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2017/11/15/us/15moore-alpha/15moore-alpha-videoSixteenByNineJumbo1600-v2.jpg}

Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the Republican majority leader ---
who has said ``I believe the women'' and took the stand for weeks that
Mr. Moore should drop out of the race --- said last week that the race
was
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2017/12/03/us/politics/mitch-mcconnell-roy-moore.html}{for
the people of Alabama to decide}.

Mr. McConnell's colleagues have discussed the possibility that, if Mr.
Moore is elected, he could be subjected to an ethics investigation, or
even expelled from the Senate.

In a tight race, any votes cast for a little-known write-in candidate,
\href{https://www.politico.com/story/2017/11/28/lee-busby-alabama-senate-race-spoiler-261775}{Lee
Busby}, might affect the outcome.

\hypertarget{what-do-voters-think}{%
\subsection{What do voters think?}\label{what-do-voters-think}}

Mr. Moore's solid lead in voter surveys evaporated just after the
scandal broke, but his poll numbers later edged upward again.
Conflicting polls
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2017/12/11/us/alabama-roy-moore-doug-jones.html}{have
highlighted} how difficult it is to predict an unusual December
election.

Standing in Mr. Jones's way,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2017/12/03/us/doug-jones-alabama-democrats-.html}{our
Alabama team reported}, is the deeply negative view of Democrats that is
held even by many Alabamians who dislike Mr. Moore.

Few women
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2017/11/10/us/alabama-women-roy-moore.html}{interviewed
by our reporters in a Birmingham suburb} were fans of Mr. Moore, but
many felt he had a good chance of being elected anyway. Our reporters
also talked with residents in Gadsden, his hometown: To them,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2017/11/14/us/roy-moore-gadsden-women.html}{he
was more divisive than ever}.

At recent church services,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2017/11/19/us/roy-moore-churches-senate.html}{we
found mixed feelings} about Mr. Moore among parishioners. We also
examined
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2017/11/18/us/roy-moore-alabama.html}{Mr.
Moore's combative history}. Five of Mr. Moore's supporters told us
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2017/12/08/us/roy-moore-alabama-supporters.html}{why
they plan to vote for him}.

Though polls indicate about half of voters think the accusations against
Mr. Moore are not the most important issue in the race, policy questions
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2017/12/09/us/alabama-poverty-jobs-roy-moore.html}{have
largely been ignored}.

Nate Cohn, an elections analyst for The Upshot, took a look at
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2017/11/15/upshot/could-a-democrat-actually-win-a-senate-seat-in-alabama-precedents-are-few-but-telling.html}{how
Mr. Jones might fare}, and how the race tests the limits of party
loyalty in what might be the most Republican state in the country. You
can check out
\href{https://www.realclearpolitics.com/epolls/2017/senate/al/alabama_senate_special_election_moore_vs_jones-6271.html\#polls}{the
latest polls on the race} at RealClearPolitics.

\hypertarget{how-are-democrats-responding}{%
\subsection{How are Democrats
responding?}\label{how-are-democrats-responding}}

National Democratic organizations and the party's most prominent figures
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2017/11/14/us/politics/alabama-doug-jones-roy-moore-democrats.html}{had
largely steered clear} of the race,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2017/11/14/us/politics/alabama-doug-jones-roy-moore-democrats.html}{our
political correspondents reported}, which had initially left Mr. Jones,
a former federal prosecutor, to
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2017/11/19/us/jones-alabama-democrats.html}{mostly
go it
alone}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2017/11/29/us/doug-jones-roy-moore-black-voters.html}{.}
But in the last, frenzied days of the campaign, a constellation of
outside liberal groups
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2017/12/10/us/politics/richard-shelby-roy-moore.html}{discreetly
launched a multimillion-dollar operation} to get out the Democratic
vote. Mr. Jones is relying heavily on
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2017/11/29/us/doug-jones-roy-moore-black-voters.html}{turnout
by black voters.}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2017/10/02/us/politics/doug-jones-democrats-alabama-senate-roy-moore.html}{We
took a closer look at Jones in September}, and you can read
\href{http://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2001/05/05/us/public-lives-an-alabama-prosecutor-confronts-the-burden-of-history.html}{our
2001 profile on him}.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
