Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/business}{Business}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/business}{Business}\textbar{}Neiman Marcus, a Symbol of
Luxury, Files for Bankruptcy

\url{https://nyti.ms/2SKFHsD}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{the-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus?name=styln-coronavirus-markets\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=85cc95a0-e38e-11ea-9e0e-81b7ab6c0278}{The
Coronavirus
Outbreak}}{The Coronavirus Outbreak}}\label{the-coronavirus-outbreak}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  live\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/20/world/coronavirus-covid.html?name=styln-coronavirus-markets\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=85cc95a1-e38e-11ea-9e0e-81b7ab6c0278}{Latest
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html?name=styln-coronavirus-markets\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=85cc95a2-e38e-11ea-9e0e-81b7ab6c0278}{Maps
  and Cases}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html?name=styln-coronavirus-markets\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=85cc95a3-e38e-11ea-9e0e-81b7ab6c0278}{Vaccine
  Tracker}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/19/us/colleges-closing-covid.html?name=styln-coronavirus-markets\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=85cc95a4-e38e-11ea-9e0e-81b7ab6c0278}{Colleges
  Closing}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/20/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?name=styln-coronavirus-markets\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=85ccbcb0-e38e-11ea-9e0e-81b7ab6c0278}{Economy}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{neiman-marcus-a-symbol-of-luxury-files-for-bankruptcy}{%
\section{Neiman Marcus, a Symbol of Luxury, Files for
Bankruptcy}\label{neiman-marcus-a-symbol-of-luxury-files-for-bankruptcy}}

The high-end retailer is not liquidating, and expects to emerge from
restructuring later this year.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/04/21/business/00Neimans-bankrupt/00Neimans-bankrupt-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By Vanessa Friedman and Sapna Maheshwari

\begin{itemize}
\item
  May 7, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

In March 2019, the luxury retailer Neiman Marcus opened its first
outpost in Manhattan. Spread over three floors and 188,000 square feet,
the store was an anchor tenant of the gleaming
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/04/10/style/hudson-yards-critical-shopper.html}{Hudson
Yards development} and, the company's chief executive said, a new kind
of ``retail theater.'' It boasted in-house aestheticians, live cooking
and mixology demonstrations, and fitting rooms complete with interactive
touch screens.

The executive, Geoffroy van Raemdonck, was about a year into the job and
had already hired a slew of new executives, including a chief for the
company's other jewel in New York,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/12/12/style/bergdorf-goodman-darcy-penick.html}{Bergdorf
Goodman}. Each of the hires, he said in a late November interview with
The New York Times, has ``a passion for transforming our business.''

``They all believe that not only are we going to delight our customers
by bringing to them unique and curated experiences, but they really
believe that we are traveling a new course for how the retail industry
and department store are transforming themselves,'' Mr. van Raemdonck
said.

On Thursday, all of that came to an abrupt halt when Neiman Marcus
became the first major
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/21/business/coronavirus-department-stores-neiman-marcus.html?searchResultPosition=3}{department
store} group to file for bankruptcy protection during the coronavirus
pandemic. It's a stunning fall that follows
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/11/01/business/barneys-bankruptcy-authentic-brands.html}{the
collapse of Barneys New York} late last year and comes as shadows gather
over chains like Lord \& Taylor and J.C. Penney.

The company entered Chapter 11 restructuring proceedings in the U.S.
Bankruptcy Court for the Southern District of Texas.

In
\href{https://cases.stretto.com/public/X064/10214/faqs/b25e205c-4fd0-4695-937b-c41e9aad0866.pdf}{a
letter} to customers, Mr. van Raemdonck emphasized that the business was
not liquidating and that it planned to reopen stores once it was safe to
do so.

``This is simply a process that allows our company to alleviate debt,
access additional capital to run the business during these challenging
times, and emerge a stronger company with the ability to better serve
you and continue our transformation over the long term,'' he said.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-the-coronavirus-outbreak-and-the-economy}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/20/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: The Coronavirus Outbreak and the
Economy}}{Latest Updates: The Coronavirus Outbreak and the Economy}}\label{latest-updates-the-coronavirus-outbreak-and-the-economy}}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/20/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#the-producer-of-unhinged-makes-a-big-bet-on-audiences-returning-to-theaters}{11h
ago}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/20/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#the-producer-of-unhinged-makes-a-big-bet-on-audiences-returning-to-theaters}{The
producer of `Unhinged' makes a big bet on audiences returning to
theaters.}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/20/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#american-airlines-to-stop-flights-to-15-cities-after-government-aid-ends}{20h
ago}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/20/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#american-airlines-to-stop-flights-to-15-cities-after-government-aid-ends}{American
Airlines to stop flights to 15 cities after government aid ends.}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/20/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#without-school-plays-and-assemblies-a-technicians-livelihood-withers}{20h
ago}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/20/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#without-school-plays-and-assemblies-a-technicians-livelihood-withers}{Without
school plays and assemblies, a technician's livelihood withers.}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/20/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

More live coverage:
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/20/world/coronavirus-covid.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Global}

Covid-19 temporarily forced the closing of all 43 Neiman Marcus stores
across the country, as well as the group's two Bergdorf Goodman stores
and Last Call outlets, all but stopping sales and crushing the company's
revenue streams. While that may have been the immediate cause of the
company's troubles, its problems had been building for years. An
untenable debt burden accrued as part of two
\href{https://dealbook.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2013/09/09/neiman-marcus-is-sold-for-6-billion/}{leveraged
buyouts} by private-equity firms and changing consumer shopping habits
combined to render its position precarious even before the virus hit.

The pandemic has been disastrous for the already weakened retail
industry. In March, the sales of clothing and accessories fell by
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/15/business/economy/coronavirus-retail-sales.html?searchResultPosition=1}{more
than half}. Those numbers are expected to be worse for April,
considering that many stores were open for at least some of March.
Retailers have furloughed employees, slashed corporate salaries and
hoarded cash in a desperate attempt to make it to the end of the
shutdown. This week,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/03/business/j-crew-bankruptcy-coronavirus.html}{J.
Crew}, the mass-market retailer, also filed for bankruptcy protection,
as did
\href{https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2020-05-06/rock-star-outfitter-john-varvatos-s-firm-files-for-bankruptcy}{John
Varvatos}, the men's wear brand. There is widespread belief the trend is
likely to continue.

Neiman Marcus said it would ``continue to assess store closure
decisions'' for Neiman Marcus, Bergdorf Goodman and Last Call and reopen
once it was safe to do so. Ten Neiman Marcus stores are now offering
curbside pickup, and some temporary store closings will continue through
May 31.

\href{https://cases.stretto.com/public/X064/10214/faqs/0914eddd-2efd-43c3-a078-9a830cf641da.pdf}{In
a statement,} the company said it would receive \$675 million in
financing from creditors to keep running the business, as well as \$750
million in exit financing from the same creditors. It hopes to emerge
from bankruptcy by ``early fall.'' The creditors will become majority
owners of Neiman Marcus, which expects to eliminate \$4 billion in debt.

``It is a change of ownership by which our debt holders are forfeiting
\$4 billion in debt in exchange for owning the N.M.G. business
operations,'' Mr. van Raemdonck said in an internal video sent to
employees on Thursday.

William Susman, managing director at Threadstone Advisors, said he
expected the retailer to use bankruptcy to shed some of its leases and
reduce its physical footprint, a situation that could make it more
attractive to a potential buyer.

``Neiman Marcus has a bad balance sheet, but it's still a luxury
brand,'' Mr. Susman said. ``They still have a reason to exist.''

Neiman Marcus was founded in Dallas in 1907, just in time to become a
magnet for new oil money. It built its reputation on an unabashed
embrace of the trappings of luxury --- and the dreams of those who
aspired to own them, or experience them for a moment. It became famous
for its extravagant Christmas catalog, which over the years offered
items like an authentic
\href{https://www.trendhunter.com/trends/250000-home-pub-mark-guinness-250th-birthday-in-style}{Guinness
pub-in-your-home} for \$250,000 and a
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2000/10/29/business/responsible-party-karen-katz-submarines-for-sale-one-size-fits-all.html}{\$20
million submarine}.

The company's mastermind was
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2016/12/01/t-magazine/fashion/neiman-marcus-history-dallas-texas.html}{Stanley
Marcus}, son of one of the founders --- Herbert Marcus. (The other
founders were Herbert's sister, Carrie Marcus Neiman, and Carrie's
husband, A.L. Neiman.) Under his guidance, Neiman Marcus became the
first department store to hold a weekly fashion show for customers. On
the occasion of the Texas Centennial Fair in 1936, the store held a
special extravaganza it called ``100 Years of Texas Fashions,'' and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/1957/03/21/archives/edna-woolman-chase-dies-at-80-retired-vogue-magazine-editor-fashion.html}{Edna
Woolman Chase}, the editor of Vogue and a guest,
\href{https://www.commentarymagazine.com/articles/william-schack/neiman-marcus-of-texascouture-and-culture/}{said}:
``I dreamed all my life of the perfect store for women. Then I saw
Neiman Marcus, and my dream had come true.''

It became such an institution that in 1983, Frederick Wiseman made a
documentary about it titled, simply,
``\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/1983/12/14/movies/tv-the-store-a-wiseman-film.html}{The
Store}.'' At that point, it was in the midst of a countrywide expansion
that culminated in a public stock offering in 1999 by Harcourt General,
the book publisher and the store's then-owner.

Six years later, during private equity's first, somewhat misguided
flirtation with luxury, a leveraged buyout by TPG and Warburg Pincus
took it off the market for about \$5.1 billion --- and its debt problems
began. The company weathered the financial crisis and changed hands in
2013, when it was sold to a group led by Ares Management, another
private-equity firm, and the Canada Pension Plan Investment Board in a
\href{https://dealbook.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2013/09/09/neiman-marcus-is-sold-for-6-billion/}{\$6
billion} deal. Since then, the business has evolved in fits and starts.

Neiman Marcus
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2015/08/05/business/dealbook/neiman-marcus-files-to-go-public-again.html}{filed
to go public} in 2015, which would have helped pay down its debt, but an
initial public offering never materialized. Its last public annual
report was for the year that ended in July 2018, when its revenue was
\$4.9 billion and its net interest expense of \$307 million exceeded its
net profit of \$251 million. The company has spent much of the last two
years working to restructure a crushing burden of long-term debt that
was reported at almost \$5 billion a year ago. Last year, it managed to
push the bulk of its maturities back to late 2023.

Moody's said last May that Neiman Marcus's debt levels had reached
``unsustainable levels.''

As it is at most department stores, part of Neiman Marcus's challenge
has been transforming itself for customers who increasingly do their
shopping online. Luxury brands like Neiman's were slow to accept the
idea of e-commerce, believing that the in-person experience was crucial
to high-ticket sales. In 2014, in a shortcut to digital prowess, it
acquired the successful German-based website MyTheresa.com, which had
made a name for itself as an early competitor to Net-a-Porter.

But MyTheresa has become a major point of contention for a group of
bondholders, who have been arguing since 2018 that Neiman Marcus
improperly transferred MyTheresa's valuable assets to the company's
owners, leaving little to protect holders of the company's unsecured
debt.

MyTheresa.com is not included in the bankruptcy filing.

Though Mr. van Raemdonck said in the video to employees that the
bankruptcy did not mean the company would be sold, speculation has begun
about a potential acquisition.

Richard Baker, the chief executive of Hudson's Bay, which owns Saks
Fifth Avenue, explored buying Neiman Marcus in 2017. A combined Saks and
Neiman Marcus-Bergdorf Goodman would consolidate the few high-end
department stores that remain. Saks has also
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/11/09/sunday-review/barneys-saks.html}{licensed
use} of the Barneys New York label.

Another name that has been mentioned as a possible buyer of Bergdorf
Goodman (though not Neiman Marcus) is the luxury behemoth LVMH Moët
Hennessy Louis Vuitton.

Until very recently, Neiman's felt it was in a good position. When asked
about Barneys in November, Mr. van Raemdonck expressed his dismay that
the storied brand had fallen, but he emphasized that its challenges
stood apart from Neiman's properties.

``Every single store we have at Neiman Marcus Group, the brand or
Bergdorf, they're all profitable,'' he said.

Michael J. de la Merced contributed reporting.

Contact Vanessa Friedman at
\href{mailto:vanessa.friedman@NYTimes.com}{\nolinkurl{vanessa.friedman@NYTimes.com}}
or Sapna Maheshwari at
\href{mailto:sapna@NYTimes.com}{\nolinkurl{sapna@NYTimes.com}}.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
