Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}Democrats Show Fund-Raising
Energy in Key Senate Races

\url{https://nyti.ms/2VdhNaT}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{democrats-show-fund-raising-energy-in-key-senate-races}{%
\section{Democrats Show Fund-Raising Energy in Key Senate
Races}\label{democrats-show-fund-raising-energy-in-key-senate-races}}

In contests in Kentucky, South Carolina, Kansas, Maine, Colorado and
Arizona, Democratic candidates raised more money in the first quarter of
2020 than their Republican opponents.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/04/16/us/politics/16senate-races/merlin_146450013_39f25e89-1f2c-4f51-b05d-6c25ab510d9a-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/rebecca-r-ruiz}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/06/12/multimedia/author-rebecca-r-ruiz/author-rebecca-r-ruiz-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/rebecca-r-ruiz}{Rebecca
R. Ruiz}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  April 16, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Money poured into Senate contests across the country in the first three
months of the year, bolstering some Democrats' war chests in key races
favoring Republicans, including those in which Senator Mitch McConnell,
the majority leader, and Senator Lindsey Graham, the chairman of the
Judiciary Committee, are seeking re-election.

In Senate contests in states like
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/30/us/politics/election-results-mcgrath-booker-colorado-hickenlooper-romanoff.html}{Kentucky},
South Carolina, Kansas and Maine, Democratic candidates raised more
money in the first quarter of 2020 than their Republican opponents,
according to new filings with the Federal Election Commission.

In their
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/25/us/politics/trump-senate-republicans-poll.html}{bids
to unseat Republican incumbents}, some Democratic candidates reported
dollar figures that were millions more than what their opponents
received. Amy McGrath, Mr. McConnell's challenger in Kentucky, reported
raising over \$5 million more than the majority leader did, while Mark
Kelly, the Democratic candidate in Arizona, reported raising over \$4.5
million more than the Republican incumbent, Senator Martha McSally.

While the Democrats running in reliably red states like Kentucky and
Kansas may be betting on long odds, the party has won upset victories in
those states in recent years, helping to fuel the hopes of candidates
and donors alike. ****

Over all, many of the Republican candidates still reported having more
cash on hand as the races heat up, though the accelerated pace of
fund-raising for the Democrats in 2020 suggested new dynamics in some
down-ballot races now that the presidential primary campaign has ended.

\hypertarget{kentucky}{%
\subsection{Kentucky}\label{kentucky}}

Ms. McGrath, a retired Marine lieutenant colonel, took in \$12.8 million
in the first quarter of the year --- \$5.4 million more than Mr.
McConnell did. That amount represented roughly 40 percent of what Ms.
McGrath has raised since
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/07/09/us/politics/amy-mcgrath-2020-senate.html}{entering}
the race last summer.

The two candidates indicated in the federal filings this week that they
had roughly equivalent amounts of cash on hand, with Mr. McConnell
reporting stores of \$15 million and Ms. McGrath reporting \$14.8
million.

Ms. McGrath, who received more than twice as much as Mr. McConnell in
individual contributions in the first quarter, has been backed by
Democrats in Kentucky and beyond who loathe Mr. McConnell's record in
the Senate --- especially his central place in helping the Trump
administration
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/14/us/trump-appeals-court-judges.html}{reshape
the federal courts} --- and are eager to oust him.

\hypertarget{south-carolina}{%
\subsection{South Carolina}\label{south-carolina}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/04/16/us/politics/16senate-races-02/16senate-races-02-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

In South Carolina, Mr. Graham's Democratic challenger, Jaime Harrison, a
former chairman of the state Democratic Party who has also worked as a
lobbyist in Washington, raised \$7.4 million in the first quarter,
nearly 30 percent more than the \$5.7 million Mr. Graham did.

That \$7.4 million made up roughly half of what Mr. Harrison has raised
since he
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/05/29/us/politics/jaime-harrison-lindsey-graham.html}{entered
the race} last May seeking to be the first Democrat elected in a
statewide race in South Carolina since 2006. Mr. Graham's campaign has a
sizable \$12.8 million on hand, compared with Mr. Harrison's \$8
million.

Mr. Graham too, has played an
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/14/us/trump-appeals-court-judges.html}{instrumental
role} in the Trump administration's judicial confirmations as chairman
of the Senate Judiciary Committee. As he has positioned himself more
closely to President Trump, he has lost his maverick sheen in the eyes
of some Democrats.

\hypertarget{kansas}{%
\subsection{Kansas}\label{kansas}}

Barbara Bollier --- a Democratic state senator running for the seat that
will be vacated by the retiring Republican senator, Pat Roberts --- drew
more than \$2.3 million in the first three months of the year, compared
with the roughly \$240,000 received by her likely Republican opponent,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/07/08/us/politics/kris-kobach-senate.html}{Kris
Kobach}, the former Kansas secretary of state and one of the Republican
contenders, and the roughly \$375,000 received by Roger Marshall,
another Republican candidate.

Ms. Bollier, who is hoping to be the first Democrat elected to represent
Kansas in the United States Senate in
\href{https://www.kansascity.com/news/politics-government/article242025641.html}{more
than eight decades}, reported \$2.4 million in cash on hand, while Mr.
Kobach's campaign reported having roughly \$300,000. Though there was
speculation that Secretary of State Mike Pompeo, a former congressman
from Kansas, would run for the seat, he
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/01/06/us/politics/mike-pompeo-senate-kansas.html}{told}
Mr. McConnell early this year that he had decided against it.

\hypertarget{maine}{%
\subsection{Maine}\label{maine}}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/06/24/us/politics/sara-gideon-susan-collins.html}{Sara
Gideon}, the Democratic speaker of the Maine House, raised \$7.1 million
in the first quarter, roughly three times as much as the incumbent
Republican senator, Susan Collins, who has come under particular
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/07/06/us/politics/susan-collins-election.html}{pressure}
for her vote to confirm Justice Brett M. Kavanaugh to the Supreme Court
in 2018.

As her fight to keep her seat continues, Ms. Collins, who has spent more
than 20 years in the Senate, has a million dollars more on hand than her
opponent --- \$5.6 million, compared with Ms. Gideon's \$4.6 million,
according to the filings.

\hypertarget{colorado}{%
\subsection{Colorado}\label{colorado}}

John Hickenlooper, a Democratic former governor of the state, raised
\$4.1 million in the first quarter, compared with the roughly \$2.5
million raised by the Republican incumbent, Senator Cory Gardner. Mr.
Hickenlooper reported having about half as much cash on hand as Mr.
Gardner's \$9.6 million.

\hypertarget{arizona}{%
\subsection{Arizona}\label{arizona}}

Image

Mark Kelly at his Senate campaign kickoff event in Tucson, Ariz., in
2019.Credit...Mike Christy/Arizona Daily Star, via Associated Press

Mr. Kelly, a Democrat seeking to oust the Republican incumbent, Ms.
McSally, took in \$11 million in the first quarter, roughly \$4.6
million more than Ms. McSally. Ms. McSally, who was
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/12/18/us/politics/martha-mcsally-senate-mccain-kyl.html}{appointed}
to John McCain's former seat by Gov. Doug Ducey in 2018, has been a
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/01/31/us/trump-impeachment-senate-republicans.html}{staunch
supporter} of Mr. Trump.

Mr. Kelly, a former astronaut who is married to the former congresswoman
Gabrielle Giffords, has deep cash reserves on which to draw: In this
week's filing, he reported having \$19.7 million on hand, compared with
Ms. McSally's \$10.3 million.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{Â©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
