<div id="app">

<div id="standalone-header">

<div class="interactive-masthead NYTAppHideMasthead css-xuu3c2 e1suatyy0">

<div class="section css-133zg39 e1suatyy2">

<div class="css-eph4ug er09x8g0">

<div class="css-6n7j50">

</div>

<span class="css-1dv1kvn">Sections</span>

<div class="css-10488qs">

<span class="css-1dv1kvn">SEARCH</span>

</div>

[Skip to content](#site-content)[Skip to site index](#site-index)

</div>

<div class="css-10698na e1huz5gh0">

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div id="site-content" data-role="main">

# This 3-D Simulation Shows Why Social Distancing Is So Important

<div class="css-1vegfwe interactive-byline-container">

By [<span class="css-1baulvz" itemprop="name">Yuliya
Parshina-Kottas</span>](https://www.nytimes.com/by/yuliya-parshina-kottas),
[<span class="css-1baulvz" itemprop="name">Bedel
Saget</span>](https://www.nytimes.com/by/bedel-saget),
[<span class="css-1baulvz" itemprop="name">Karthik
Patanjali</span>](https://www.nytimes.com/by/karthik-patanjali),
<span class="css-1baulvz" itemprop="name">Or Fleisher</span> and
<span class="css-1baulvz last-byline" itemprop="name">Gabriel
Gianordoli</span>April 14,
2020

</div>

<div id="interactive-standalone-sharetools" class="css-wkcogx">

<div>

<div class="interactive-sharetools css-9z2bwm" data-role="toolbar" data-aria-label="Social Media Share buttons, Save button, and Comments Panel with current comment count" data-testid="share-tools">

  - 
  - 
  - 
  - 
    
    <div class="css-6n7j50">
    
    </div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div id="coronavirus-transmission-cough-6-feet-ar-ul" class="section css-l08pwh interactive-minimal interactive-content interactive-size-medium" data-id="100000007065948">

<div class="css-17ih8de interactive-body">

<div class="g-top-asset g-top-cover" style="">

<div class="g-cover-asset">

<div class="g-asset g-image g-asset-width-full" style="">

<div class="g-asset_inner">

![](https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2020/03/20/covid-19-safe-zone/assets/images/cover-8-2000.png)

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-header-container">

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-story g-freebird g-max-limit" data-preview-slug="2020-03-20-covid-19-safe-zone">

<div class="g-container g-intro">

Public health experts and elected officials have emphasized again and
again that social distancing is the best tool we have to slow [the
coronavirus outbreak](https://www.nytimes.com/news-event/coronavirus).

The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention encourages people to stay
home. If you must venture out, you should stay at least six feet away
from others. The World Health Organization
[recommends](https://www.who.int/emergencies/diseases/novel-coronavirus-2019/advice-for-public)
a minimum of three feet of separation.

Scientists are learning about the novel coronavirus in real time, and
those who study similar respiratory illnesses say that until it is
better understood, [no guideline is likely
to](https://www.nytimes.com/2020/04/14/health/coronavirus-six-feet.html)[offer
perfect
safety](https://www.nytimes.com/2020/04/14/health/coronavirus-six-feet.html).
Instead, understanding the possible transmission routes for the virus
can help us see why keeping our distance is so important.

</div>

<div class="g-imr-view">

<div class="g-imr-content">

<div class="g-item g-webgl-window g-webgl-view">

<div class="g-webgl-window-content g-webgl-view-content">

<div class="g-slide-text-name">

</div>

<div class="g-slide-container">

<div class="g-slide g-webgl-slide" style="top:4%">

<div class="g-slide-text">

<div class="g-slide-text-annotation-wrap">

<div class="g-slide-text-annotation">

Scientists who study the transmission of respiratory illnesses like
influenza say that infections typically happen when a healthy person
comes into contact with respiratory droplets from an infected person’s
cough, sneeze or breath.

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-slide-hotspot" data-index="0">

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-slide g-webgl-slide" style="top:8%">

<div class="g-slide-text">

<div class="g-slide-text-annotation-wrap">

<div class="g-slide-text-annotation">

This simulation, created using research data from the Kyoto Institute of
Technology, offers one view of what can happen when someone coughs
indoors. A cough produces respiratory droplets of varying sizes.
<span class="g-highlight large">Larger droplets</span> fall to the
floor, or break up into <span class="g-highlight small">smaller
droplets</span>.

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-slide-hotspot" data-index="1">

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-slide g-webgl-slide" style="top:16%">

<div class="g-slide-text">

<div class="g-slide-text-annotation-wrap">

<div class="g-slide-text-annotation">

The heaviest coughs release about a quarter-teaspoon of fluid, with
droplets dispersing quickly throughout the room. The simulation shows
their spread over a minute, inside a room of about 600 square feet.
Under other conditions, the particles could behave differently.

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-slide-hotspot" data-index="2">

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-slide g-webgl-slide" style="top:24%">

<div class="g-slide-text">

<div class="g-slide-text-annotation-wrap">

<div class="g-slide-text-annotation">

The C.D.C. says keeping at least six feet away from others can help you
avoid contact with these respiratory droplets and lower the risk of
infection. That guidance is based on the assumption that transmission
mainly occurs through <span class="g-highlight large">large
droplets</span> that fall in close proximity.

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-slide-hotspot" data-index="3">

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-slide g-webgl-slide" style="top:32%">

<div class="g-slide-text">

<div class="g-slide-text-annotation-wrap">

<div class="g-slide-text-annotation">

But as this simulation suggests, and scientists have argued, droplets
can travel farther than six feet. And
<span class="g-highlight small">small droplets</span> known as aerosols
can remain suspended or travel through the air before they eventually
settle on surfaces. This is how they could disperse over the next 20
minutes.

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-slide-hotspot" data-index="4">

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-slide g-webgl-slide" style="top:40%">

<div class="g-slide-text">

<div class="g-slide-text-annotation-wrap">

<div class="g-slide-text-annotation">

“It’s not like, ‘Oh, it’s six feet, they’ve all fallen and there’s
nothing,’” said Donald K. Milton, an [infectious
aerosol](https://www.pnas.org/content/115/5/1081)[s
scientist](https://www.pnas.org/content/115/5/1081) at the University of
Maryland’s School of Public Health. “It’s more like it’s a continuum.”

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-slide-hotspot" data-index="5">

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-slide g-webgl-slide" style="top:52%">

<div class="g-slide-text">

<div class="g-slide-text-annotation-wrap">

<div class="g-slide-text-annotation">

In fact, [researchers at
M.I.T.](https://jamanetwork.com/journals/jama/fullarticle/2763852)
studying coughs and sneezes observed particles from a cough traveling as
far as 16 feet and those from a sneeze traveling as far as 26 feet.

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-slide-hotspot" data-index="6">

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-slide g-webgl-slide" style="top:59%">

<div class="g-slide-text">

<div class="g-slide-text-annotation-wrap">

<div class="g-slide-text-annotation">

All of this suggests that keeping a distance of six feet or more can
greatly reduce the possibility of transmission, compared with being
closer. “The farther you get away, the more diluted it is,” Dr. Milton
said of the aerosol.

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-slide-hotspot" data-index="7">

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-slide g-webgl-slide" style="top:64%">

<div class="g-slide-text">

<div class="g-slide-text-annotation-wrap">

<div class="g-slide-text-annotation">

Coughing and sneezing may not be the only causes for concern. Studies of
influenza have shown that infected people with mild or no symptoms may
also generate infectious droplets through speaking and breathing.

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-slide-hotspot" data-index="8">

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-slide g-webgl-slide" style="top:72%">

<div class="g-slide-text">

<div class="g-slide-text-annotation-wrap">

<div class="g-slide-text-annotation">

An infected person talking for five minutes in a poorly ventilated space
can produce as many viral droplets as one infectious cough. “If there
are 10 people in there, it’s going to build up,” said Pratim Biswas, an
aerosols expert at Washington University in St. Louis.

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-slide-hotspot" data-index="9">

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-slide g-webgl-slide" style="top:78%">

<div class="g-slide-text">

<div class="g-slide-text-annotation-wrap">

<div class="g-slide-text-annotation">

In recent days, public health officials have suggested that, in addition
to social distancing, more people should wear face masks to help slow
the spread of the virus.

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-slide-hotspot" data-index="10">

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-slide g-webgl-slide" style="top:81%">

<div class="g-slide-text">

<div class="g-slide-text-annotation-wrap">

<div class="g-slide-text-annotation">

A mask disrupts the trajectory of a cough, sneeze or breath and captures
some respiratory droplets before they can spew out. A mask can also
prevent large infectious droplets from landing on the nose and mouth,
even though it provides minimal protection against inhaling the smaller
droplets.

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-slide-hotspot" data-index="11">

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-slide g-webgl-slide" style="top:89%">

<div class="g-slide-text">

<div class="g-slide-text-annotation-wrap">

<div class="g-slide-text-annotation">

Wearing a mask can help protect yourself and others. So if you do need
to leave home, [wear a
mask](https://www.nytimes.com/2020/04/10/well/live/coronavirus-face-masks-guides-protection-personal-protective-equipment.html)
and be sure to keep your distance.

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-slide-hotspot" data-index="12">

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-container g-footer-wrapper">

<div class="g-ar-button-link g-ar-supported-only">

<div class="g-ar-button-text-link" style="">

<div class="g-ar-button-pill">

**

</div>

<div class="g-ar-button-text">

<span>See How to Social Distance in Your
Space</span>

</div>

</div>

</div>

## <span class="g-balancer" data-id="1">See How to Social Distance in Your Space</span>

<div class="g-container g-custom-footer">

We used augmented reality to show you how social distancing guidelines
can apply in real life: at the grocery store, on the sidewalk, or
anywhere else. See the video of this here. To experience this in your
space, you will need to use the NYTimes iOS App on a newer iPhone or
iPad.

<div class="g-asset g-video" style="max-width: 240px">

<div class="g-asset_inner">

<div id="g-video-grocery-promo-001-240w" class="g-vhs g-videotape" data-type="videotape" data-asset="https://int.nyt.com/data/videotape/finished/2020/04/1586889890/grocery-promo-001-240w.mp4" data-sizes="240, 320, 640" data-allow-multiple-players="true" data-vhs-options="{&quot;autoplay&quot;:true,&quot;ratio&quot;:&quot;9:19.5&quot;,&quot;loop&quot;:true,&quot;muted&quot;:true,&quot;endslate&quot;:false,&quot;buffering&quot;:true,&quot;controls&quot;:false,&quot;posterUrl&quot;:&quot;https://int.nyt.com/data/videotape/finished/2020/04/1586889890/grocery-promo-001-640w.jpg&quot;}" style="padding-bottom: 216.66666666666666%">

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-source">

<span class="g-caption">Shot while using the NYTimes app for iOS</span>

</div>

</div>

The augmented reality experience is available only on newer iPhones and
iPads using the NYTimes app. To view on the app, open the camera on your
device and point to the QR tag
below.![](https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2020/03/20/covid-19-safe-zone/97227895b097a7cc171f8bcda85bc85223ed10f9/qr-tag-apr14.png)

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div id="interactive-footer-container" class="css-ovgi28 interactive-footer-container">

Note: This visualization is based on a scientific simulation that has
not yet been peer reviewed.

Sources: Masashi Yamakawa, Kyoto Institute of Technology; Donald K.
Milton, Maryland Institute for Applied Environmental Health, University
of Maryland School of Public Health; Pratim Biswas, Aerosol and Air
Quality Research Laboratory at Washington University in St. Louis; Barry
Scharfman, Head of Data Science at PA Aerospace & Defense.

Makiko Inoue contributed reporting from Tokyo. Additional work by Jon
Huang and Mark
McKeague.

<div id="interactive-addendum-list" class="css-1yiqkdd interactive-addendum-list">

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div id="standalone-footer">

<div>

<div>

<div id="interactive-footer-wrapper">

<div class="css-i29ckm">

<div class="interactive-sharetools css-9z2bwm" data-role="toolbar" data-aria-label="Social Media Share buttons, Save button, and Comments Panel with current comment count" data-testid="share-tools">

  - 
  - 
  - 
  - 
    
    <div class="css-6n7j50">
    
    </div>

</div>

</div>

<div>

</div>

<div id="bottom-wrapper" class="css-1ede5it">

<div id="bottom-slug" class="css-l9onyx">

Advertisement

</div>

[Continue reading the main
story](#after-bottom)

<div id="bottom" class="ad bottom-wrapper" style="text-align:center;height:100%;display:block;min-height:90px">

</div>

<div id="after-bottom">

</div>

</div>

## Site Index

<div>

</div>

## Site Information Navigation

  - [© <span>2020</span> <span>The New York Times
    Company</span>](https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice)

<!-- end list -->

  - [NYTCo](https://www.nytco.com/)
  - [Contact
    Us](https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us)
  - [Work with us](https://www.nytco.com/careers/)
  - [Advertise](https://nytmediakit.com/)
  - [T Brand Studio](http://www.tbrandstudio.com/)
  - [Your Ad
    Choices](https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy#how-do-i-manage-trackers)
  - [Privacy](https://www.nytimes.com/privacy)
  - [Terms of
    Service](https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service)
  - [Terms of
    Sale](https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale)
  - [Site
    Map](https://spiderbites.nytimes.com)
  - [Help](https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us)
  - [Subscriptions](https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW)

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>
