Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}Trump's `What Do You Have to
Lose?' Presidency Is Rallying Again

\url{https://nyti.ms/3ejNqqm}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Election
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/biden-vice-president-2020.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Biden's
  V.P. Search}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/07/24/us/politics/trump-biden-campaign-donors.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Map
  of Donations}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/elections/delegate-count-primary-results.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Delegate
  Count}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2019/us/politics/2020-presidential-candidates.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{The
  Candidates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Politics
  Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

News Analysis

\hypertarget{trumps-what-do-you-have-to-lose-presidency-is-rallying-again}{%
\section{Trump's `What Do You Have to Lose?' Presidency Is Rallying
Again}\label{trumps-what-do-you-have-to-lose-presidency-is-rallying-again}}

As an encapsulation of the president's worldview, some former associates
say, there is perhaps no beating the text of a campaign waiver: ``guests
voluntarily assume all risks.''

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/06/20/us/politics/20memo-risk1/merlin_171764799_0c22dfae-81c5-4159-9097-270267c6ccc1-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/matt-flegenheimer}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/10/02/multimedia/author-matt-flegenheimer/author-matt-flegenheimer-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/matt-flegenheimer}{Matt
Flegenheimer}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  June 20, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Supporting President Trump --- or even taking him at his word --- has
always been an exercise in risk tolerance.

``What do you have to lose?'' he
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2016/08/20/us/politics/donald-trump-speech.html}{asked
black voters in 2016}, suggesting their lives were so bleak that he was
worth the gamble.

``What do you have to lose?'' he
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/05/18/us/politics/trump-hydroxychloroquine-covid-coronavirus.html}{asked
coronavirus patients} this spring, suggesting their options were so few
that an unproven treatment, hydroxychloroquine, probably couldn't hurt.

And now, as the nation grapples with the dual menaces of racism and a
relentless virus, the once-rhetorical questions of Trump-branded risk
management have given way to fine-print legal disclaimers about what
might happen if people listen to him.

On Saturday, Mr. Trump is scheduled to rally at a packed indoor arena in
Tulsa, Okla. Many health authorities say it is a terrible idea. And what
attendees have to lose, the campaign claims, is any right to hold the
host responsible.

``By clicking register below,''
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/11/us/politics/trump-rally-coronavirus.html}{reads
a message} on the Trump 2020 website, directed at those planning to be
there, ``you are acknowledging that an inherent risk of exposure to
COVID-19 exists in any public place where people are present. By
attending the Rally, you and any guests voluntarily assume all risks
related to exposure to COVID-19.''

As an encapsulation of the Trumpian worldview, some former associates
say, there is perhaps no beating ``guests voluntarily assume all
risks.''

``You walk into his office, you're taking a risk,'' said Barbara A. Res,
a former executive vice president of the Trump Organization. ``Something
goes wrong, you're going to get blamed for it.''

But then, an air of danger has been embedded in Mr. Trump's appeal from
the start, the risk its own kind of reward for many supporters in his
first whirring slot machine of a presidential campaign.

What could he get away with saying before the whole enterprise went
bust? Which sacred cows might fall?

\hypertarget{latest-updates-2020-election}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: 2020
Election}}{Latest Updates: 2020 Election}}\label{latest-updates-2020-election}}

Updated 2020-08-01T01:26:45.732Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-29fdff45}{Kamala
  Harris, a top vice-presidential contender, confronts double
  standards.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-13ec3d9c}{Karen
  Bass and Susan Rice are rising on Biden's vice-presidential
  shortlist.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-49e9a016}{Trump
  says Russian bounties to kill U.S. troops `never took place.'}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

What's the worst that could happen?

``Admit It,'' read a
\href{https://www.theonion.com/admit-it-you-people-want-to-see-how-far-this-goes-don-1819584988}{2015
headline} in The Onion, shortly after Mr. Trump became a candidate.
``You People Want To See How Far This Goes, Don't You?''

It went far. And in this moment of national crisis, Mr. Trump's instinct
for dice-rolling has collided with its perils on the grandest scale.

Health officials say his impulse to play down the severity of the virus
threat earlier this year informed the federal government's
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/03/us/cdc-coronavirus.html}{haphazard
response}. His personal disdain for mask-wearing as a risk-mitigation
measure amounts to a public safety hazard, according to medical experts,
who worry about the signal it sends to his fans.

And as the pandemic cedes part of the global foreground to nationwide
protests over police brutality and racial inequities, civil rights
advocates say Mr. Trump's
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/11/us/politics/trump-on-race.html}{consistent
race-baiting} has only exacerbated tensions in these delicate days, down
to the since-abandoned decision to hold the Tulsa rally on Juneteenth.

Mr. Trump has framed the gathering as something of a defiant act
regardless, swatting away any health concerns --- campaign officials
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/17/us/politics/tulsa-rally-trump.html}{have
said} that attendees will receive masks on site but not be required to
wear them --- and
\href{https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/1272529858501976065}{accusing
opponents} of ``trying to Covid Shame us on our big Rallies.''

``Won't work!'' he tweeted.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/06/20/us/politics/20memo-risk2/merlin_173674638_473625a0-22a8-41c3-9e3d-e0bdbb022a7f-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Some who know Mr. Trump believe that much of the electorate has grown
tired of his fate-tempting gambits, even as they expect the 2020 race to
tighten eventually against former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr.,
the presumptive Democratic nominee who holds a solid lead in most polls.

``This was sexy and exciting in 2015, 2016,'' said Sam Nunberg, a former
Trump adviser who worked for him early in his first run. ``But for
people that have known Donald Trump for a long time like me, I was
always worried that he wouldn't wear well. And he's at that place now, I
think, where he's not wearing well.''

Mr. Trump seems disinclined to trust anyone else's judgment on this
score, a hesitation born of experience. His life is, if nothing else, a
testament to the power of irrepressible salesmanship and taking chances
--- or at least appearing to take chances --- that the risk-averse might
discourage.

Throughout his business career, Mr. Trump embraced the label of
risk-taker while often eliding the reality of who was assuming much of
the risk, spinning failures as successes in the popular imagination.

Gwenda Blair, a biographer of the Trump family, recalled the lessons the
president learned from Roy Cohn, the notorious lawyer who mentored him.
``The school of Roy Cohn was: You can get away with almost anything,''
she said, ``that there is in fact not very much risk if you come into
the world wealthy, insulated and have enormous political and financial
clout when you're in diapers.''

As his stature grew, Ms. Blair said, Mr. Trump aimed to ``make himself
big enough that he would push the risk off on everyone else, on all the
lenders and banks all the way down to the lowest tradesman and
subcontractor who didn't get paid.''

For Mr. Trump, the psychological upsides were clear. ``In some kind of
mental jujitsu way, he always wins,'' she said. ``So, personally, risk
isn't an issue.''

Politically, Mr. Trump can often appear to be operating under similar
conditions. He has watched many doomsaying predictions about his
behavior come and go --- often, it seems, without much lasting
consequence, to his mind.

Public squabbles with ostensibly sympathetic targets --- mocking John
McCain's years in captivity, tussling with a Gold Star family --- did
not keep Mr. Trump from the White House.

Foreign policy acts criticized as reckless --- swaggering tweets about
North Korea; the drone attack that killed Maj. Gen. Qassim Suleimani,
the powerful Iranian commander --- have not produced a world war, even
as some diplomats continue to doubt their wisdom.

This is a president who
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2017/08/21/us/politics/trump-eclipse.html}{stared
into an eclipse} because he was curious, without scorching his eyes.

Many supporters likewise view the president as a wager validated, from
voters on the Christian right who looked past his personal conduct to
conservative policy minds who reasoned that he was likelier to help
their cause than Hillary Clinton.

``A Hillary Clinton presidency is Russian roulette with a semi-auto,''
\href{https://claremontreviewofbooks.com/digital/the-flight-93-election/}{read}
a widely circulated ****** pseudonymous essay in ****** the Claremont
Review of Books in September 2016, urging right-leaning skeptics to come
aboard. ``With Trump, at least you can spin the cylinder and take your
chances.''

The author, later revealed to be
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/04/24/us/politics/michael-anton-white-house-state-dinner.html}{Michael
Anton}, went on to join the Trump White House. His metaphor has
persisted among those who say that any of the president's drawbacks pale
in comparison to a liberal alternative's.

Yet rarely have the physical stakes of the Trump age been quite so
literal as they will be on Saturday night, with a presidential rally
overriding medical warnings.

Republicans have said that the crowded protests against police violence
prove that there is bipartisan agreement on the value of mass assembly
even during a pandemic. Some suggested there were also cultural forces
behind the outsize interest in Mr. Trump's event, despite the health
worries.

``Conservatives are more inclined to want to decide things for
themselves,'' said Tim Pawlenty, a former Minnesota governor and
Republican presidential candidate. ``They may not have a lower risk
tolerance, but they do have a lower tolerance for government telling
them what to do.''

Of course, the leader of this government would counsel them to take the
leap anyway.

In his own writings (or ghost-writings) on risk, peppered throughout his
many pre-presidential how-to books, Mr. Trump has generally come down on
the side of welcoming it.

Some decisions backfire, he allows. But what do you have to gain by
playing it safe?

``Sometimes,'' Mr. Trump advises in one tome, titled ``Think Like a
Champion,'' ``being too cautious is the greatest risk of all.''

\hypertarget{our-2020-election-guide}{%
\section{Our 2020 Election Guide}\label{our-2020-election-guide}}

Updated July 31, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{the-latest}{%
  \subsection{The Latest}\label{the-latest}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    President Trump's assault on the Postal Service is intersecting with
    his attacks on mail-in voting.
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/politics/trump-usps-mail-delays.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Voting
    rights groups say it is a recipe for disaster.}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{bidens-vp-search}{%
  \subsection{Biden's V.P. Search}\label{bidens-vp-search}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/biden-vice-president-2020.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Here
    are 13 women} who have been under consideration to be Joe Biden's
    running mate, and why each might be chosen --- and might not be.
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{keep-up-with-our-coverage}{%
  \subsection{Keep Up With Our
  Coverage}\label{keep-up-with-our-coverage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Get an
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{email}
    recapping the day's news
  \end{itemize}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Download our mobile app on
    \href{https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nytimes/id284862083?ls=1\&mat_click_id=5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\&referrer=mat_click_id\%3D5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\%26link_click_id\%3D722930677036718082}{iOS}
    and
    \href{http://a.localytics.com/android?id=com.nytimes.android\&referrer=utm_source\%3Dother_nyt_mobile_web\%26utm_medium\%3DWeb\%2520page\%26utm_term\%3DGeneral\%2520Mobile\%2520Page\%26utm_campaign\%3DNYT\%2520Mobile\%2520General\%2520Page}{Android}
    and turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
