Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/nyregion}{New York}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/nyregion}{New York}\textbar{}Cohen Pleads Guilty and
Details Trump's Involvement in Moscow Tower Project

\url{https://nyti.ms/2zvy5R8}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{cohen-pleads-guilty-and-details-trumps-involvement-in-moscow-tower-project}{%
\section{Cohen Pleads Guilty and Details Trump's Involvement in Moscow
Tower
Project}\label{cohen-pleads-guilty-and-details-trumps-involvement-in-moscow-tower-project}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2019/01/11/us/politics/11dc-cohen-print/11dc-cohen-videoSixteenByNineJumbo1600.jpg}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/mark-mazzetti}{Mark Mazzetti},
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/benjamin-weiser}{Benjamin Weiser},
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/ben-protess}{Ben Protess} and
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/maggie-haberman}{Maggie Haberman}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Nov. 29, 2018
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

WASHINGTON --- Donald J. Trump was more involved in discussions over a
potential Russian business deal during the presidential campaign than
previously known, his former lawyer Michael D. Cohen said Thursday
\href{https://int.nyt.com/data/documenthelper/501-michael-cohen-court-transcript/ddd84d2b0f5a3425ebc5/optimized/full.pdf\#page=1}{in
pleading guilty to lying to Congress}. Mr. Trump's associates pursued
the project as the Kremlin was escalating its election sabotage effort
meant to help him win the presidency.

Mr. Trump's participation in discussions about building a grand
skyscraper in Moscow showed how the interests of his business empire
were enmeshed with his political ambitions as he was closing in on the
Republican nomination for president. During the early months of 2016,
when the business discussions were taking place, he was publicly
pressing for warmer relations between the United States and Russia and
an end to economic sanctions imposed by the Obama administration, policy
positions that might have benefited his family business.

Court documents made public by the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller
III, detailed new accusations against Mr. Cohen, the president's former
fixer, who
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/08/21/nyregion/michael-cohen-guilty-plea-trump-takeaways.html}{already
pleaded guilty this year} to committing campaign finance violations and
financial crimes. Mr. Cohen was the point person at the Trump
Organization for negotiating a deal for the Moscow project, and on
Thursday he admitted lying to congressional investigators about the
duration of the negotiations and the extent of the involvement of Mr.
Trump --- who is identified in the court documents as ``Individual 1.''

After pleading guilty in a Manhattan courtroom on Thursday morning, Mr.
Cohen said that he made the false statements to Congress out of loyalty
to the president and to align with Mr. Trump's ``political messaging.''

Mr. Cohen's cooperation with the special counsel's investigation raises
the possibility that he might have information about the central focus
of the inquiry: whether President Trump or any of his associates
conspired with Russia's efforts to disrupt the 2016 election. And it was
the second time that Mr. Cohen has imperiled the presidency; he said in
court in New York in August that Mr. Trump
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/08/21/nyregion/michael-cohen-plea-deal-trump.html}{directed
hush money payments} during the 2016 campaign to conceal potential sex
scandals.

The Trump Tower discussions were occurring as Russia ramped up
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2016/12/13/us/politics/russia-hack-election-dnc.html}{its
sabotage campaign}, the information provided on Thursday by Mr. Cohen
showed, though the documents do not say whether any of Mr. Trump's
advisers were aware of the Russian disruption effort. According to a
grand jury indictment made public this year, Russian intelligence
operatives hacked the emails of Hillary Clinton's campaign chairman in
March 2016. That same month, an obscure professor whom Mr. Mueller's
team has identified as a likely cutout for Russian intelligence
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2017/12/30/us/politics/how-fbi-russia-investigation-began-george-papadopoulos.html}{began
courting a Trump campaign aide}, George Papadopoulos.

Mr. Cohen admitted that the discussions about Trump Tower Moscow went on
for at least six months after he
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2017/08/30/us/politics/trump-russia-michael-cohen.html}{had
told Congress} they had ended. They lasted until at least June 14, 2016,
when Mr. Cohen met in New York with an associate who had been trying to
arrange his trip to Russia, and told him he would not be traveling ``at
that time,'' court documents said. Mr. Cohen also discussed the deal in
a 20-minute phone call with a Russian government employee.

That same day, The Washington Post
\href{https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/national-security/russian-government-hackers-penetrated-dnc-stole-opposition-research-on-trump/2016/06/14/cf006cb4-316e-11e6-8ff7-7b6c1998b7a0_story.html?utm_term=.bc6441d4b944}{reported}
that Russian operatives had infiltrated the computer network of the
Democratic National Committee --- the first public evidence of Moscow's
campaign to disrupt the election.

\hypertarget{the-special-counsels-charges-against-michael-cohen}{%
\subsection{The Special Counsel's Charges Against Michael
Cohen}\label{the-special-counsels-charges-against-michael-cohen}}

United States of America v. Michael Cohen: the special counsel's charges
against Michael D. Cohen related to the Russia investigation. (PDF, 10
pages, 0.3 MB)

\includegraphics{https://int.nyt.com/data/documenthelper/498-cohen-mueller-russia-charges/135a97bf207df8b09f70/optimized/thumbnail.png}

Mr. Cohen said on Thursday that he discussed the status of the project
with Mr. Trump on more than the three occasions he had previously
acknowledged and briefed Mr. Trump's family members about it.

Some of those exchanges, which continued until January 2016, included
the president's children Ivanka Trump and Donald Trump Jr., both of whom
are executives at the Trump Organization, according to three people
familiar with the documents that the company turned over to Mr.
Mueller's team.

In one email exchange in 2015, Ms. Trump made a suggestion about the
architecture, according to two of the people familiar with the messages.

Donald Trump Jr. appeared to have replied to only one message, saying
``Cool'' in response to an update about the project, the people said.

Mr. Trump and Mr. Cohen discussed Mr. Trump himself traveling to Russia
after the Republican National Convention, though that trip never
materialized.

Mr. Trump defended his role in the Trump Tower Moscow discussions,
brushing aside concerns that he was advancing his business interests at
the time he was hoping to become president.

``There was a good chance that I wouldn't have won, in which case I
would have gotten back into the business, and why should I lose lots of
opportunities?'' he said to reporters as he left Washington for the
Group of 20 meeting in Buenos Aires.

``We decided --- I decided ultimately --- not to do it,'' he said,
adding, ``There would have been nothing wrong if I did do it.''

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2018/08/21/us/mueller-trump-charges.html}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/08/22/us/mueller-trump-charges-promo-1534968452597/mueller-trump-charges-promo-1534968452597-articleLarge-v7.jpg}

\hypertarget{roger-stone-and-everyone-charged-in-the-2016-election-investigations}{%
\subsection{Roger Stone and Everyone Charged in the 2016 Election
Investigations}\label{roger-stone-and-everyone-charged-in-the-2016-election-investigations}}

Roger J. Stone Jr., one of six Trump advisers convicted in cases
stemming from the investigation by the special counsel, was sentenced to
more than three years in prison.

Mr. Trump accused his former fixer of lying to receive a reduced
sentence for the crimes he has pleaded guilty to. Under his earlier plea
agreement, Mr. Cohen faced about four to five years in prison.

``He was convicted of various things unrelated to us,'' Mr. Trump said,
adding, ``He's a weak person and what he's trying to do is get a reduced
sentence.''

The proceedings in Lower Manhattan appeared to have global
repercussions. After Mr. Cohen's appearance in court,
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/11/29/us/politics/trump-putin-meeting-g20.html}{Mr.
Trump abruptly canceled} a planned meeting with President Vladimir V.
Putin of Russia while both leaders are in Argentina. The president said
he called off the meeting because of
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/11/26/world/europe/russia-ukraine-kerch-strait.html}{Russia's
recent hostilities with Ukraine}.

\emph{{[}}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2017/02/19/us/politics/donald-trump-ukraine-russia.html}{\emph{Read
about Trump associates' connections with Russia and Ukraine.}}\emph{{]}}

The new revelations were certain to increase the strain between Mr.
Trump and the Justice Department. In recent days, the president and his
lawyers have
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/11/15/us/politics/trump-mueller-russia-inquiry.html}{increased
their attacks} on the department and the Russia investigation, including
Mr. Mueller. This week, the special counsel's office
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/11/26/us/politics/mueller-paul-manafort-cooperation.html}{accused
Mr. Trump's onetime campaign chairman}, Paul Manafort, of repeatedly
lying to investigators in breach of his plea agreement.

The acting attorney general, Matthew G. Whitaker, was told of Mr.
Cohen's impending plea Monday or earlier, a person familiar with the
special counsel's investigation said. The White House learned of it late
Wednesday, people close to Mr. Trump said.

The new revelations also came a week after Mr. Trump's lawyers provided
Mr. Mueller with written responses to a set of questions.

The special counsel identified Mr. Cohen's false statements to Congress
in testimony and materials that Mr. Cohen provided to the Senate and
House Intelligence Committees, which have been conducting their own
investigations into possible coordination between the Trump campaign and
Russia.

``There's a reason people shouldn't lie when they're in front of a
congressional investigation,'' Senator Richard M. Burr of North
Carolina, the chairman of the Intelligence Committee, said on Thursday.
The committee's top Democrat, Senator Mark Warner of Virginia, said that
the panel had made additional criminal referrals to Mr. Mueller, but he
gave no specifics.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/11/30/us/politics/30dc-cohen-vid/30dc-cohen-vid-videoSixteenByNine3000.jpg}

Mr. Trump said on Thursday that discussions about the Moscow project
took place in early 2016, but that he did not know exactly when he
decided to stop pursuing it.

\emph{{[}}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2017/01/16/us/politics/donald-trump-russia-business.html}{\emph{Read
about Mr. Trump's attempts to chase business deals in
Russia.}}\emph{{]}}

The president has previously said that there would be no problem if he
continued to run his business from the White House. ``I have a
no-conflict-of-interest provision as president,'' Mr. Trump said in
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2017/01/11/us/politics/trump-press-conference-transcript.html}{January
2017}, adding, ``I have no deals that could happen in Russia, because
we've stayed away.''

Mr. Cohen's new guilty plea in Federal District Court is the first time
the office of the special counsel has charged him. In exchange for
pleading guilty and continuing to cooperate with Mr. Mueller, he may
hope to receive a lighter sentence.

He is scheduled to be sentenced in two weeks. It is unclear what
additional time he could face with the new guilty plea.

During his plea hearing in August, Mr. Cohen admitted to making a
\$130,000 payment to an adult film actress, Stephanie Clifford, better
known as Stormy Daniels, to keep her quiet about an affair she said she
had with Mr. Trump.

The payment amounted to an illegal contribution to Mr. Trump's campaign,
prosecutors argued, since her silence bolstered his election hopes and
campaign finance law prohibits individuals from donating more than
\$2,700 to a presidential candidate.

He said that the payments to Ms. Clifford and Karen McDougal, a former
Playboy model, were made ``in coordination with, and at the direction
of, a candidate for federal office'' --- a reference to Mr. Trump.

Representative Adam B. Schiff of California, the top Democrat on the
House Intelligence Committee, said Mr. Cohen's plea on Thursday only
added urgency for congressional investigators who plan to begin an
inquiry into Mr. Trump's foreign business dealings when Democrats take
control of the House in January.

``If the president and his associates were being untruthful in real time
as they were pursuing this deal,'' Mr. Schiff told reporters on
Thursday, ``what does it mean now on how much we can rely on what the
president is saying about any continuing Russian financial interest?''

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
