Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/world}{World}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/world}{World}\textbar{}Fauci Warns Coronavirus Could
Disrupt Life Well Into New Year

\url{https://nyti.ms/3ijre1G}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{the-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=8e384540-f52c-11ea-8f04-2b90ba9625cc\&variant=undefined}{The
Coronavirus
Outbreak}}{The Coronavirus Outbreak}}\label{the-coronavirus-outbreak}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  live\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/12/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=8e384541-f52c-11ea-8f04-2b90ba9625cc\&variant=undefined}{Latest
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=8e384542-f52c-11ea-8f04-2b90ba9625cc\&variant=undefined}{Maps
  and Cases}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=8e384543-f52c-11ea-8f04-2b90ba9625cc\&variant=undefined}{Vaccine
  Tracker}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/10/us/politics/fda-coronavirus-vaccine.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=8e384544-f52c-11ea-8f04-2b90ba9625cc\&variant=undefined}{F.D.A.
  Regulators' Self-Defense}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/09/upshot/coronavirus-surprise-test-fees.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=8e384545-f52c-11ea-8f04-2b90ba9625cc\&variant=undefined}{Surprise
  Test Fees}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{fauci-warns-coronavirus-could-disrupt-life-well-into-new-year}{%
\section{Fauci Warns Coronavirus Could Disrupt Life Well Into New
Year}\label{fauci-warns-coronavirus-could-disrupt-life-well-into-new-year}}

China has been using its prospects for developing a vaccine as a
diplomatic carrot. The pandemic has exacerbated the worldwide threat of
hunger and malnutrition.

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Published Sept. 11, 2020Updated Sept. 12, 2020, 8:04 a.m. ET
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

\emph{This briefing has ended.}
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/12/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html}{\emph{Click
here for the latest updates.}}

\hypertarget{heres-what-you-need-to-know}{%
\subsubsection{Here's what you need to
know:}\label{heres-what-you-need-to-know}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-dfb8a16}{Fauci cautions the virus could
  disrupt life in the U.S. until `maybe even towards the end of 2021.'}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-7104d154}{From Asia to Africa, China promotes
  its vaccine candidates to win friends.}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-393ad215}{The other way the virus will kill:
  hunger.}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-73bbaf5}{How China brought nearly 200 million
  students back to school.}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-6e19a7f9}{A C.D.C. study investigates a
  possible link between dining out and exposure to the virus.}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-2e6d7d13}{Canada reports zero Covid-19 deaths
  in a 24-hour period.}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-734306aa}{Colleges are now hot spots, as
  nursing homes and meatpacking plants were earlier in the pandemic.}
\end{itemize}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/09/11/us/11virus-briefing-fauci2/11virus-briefing-fauci2-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\hypertarget{fauci-cautions-the-virus-could-disrupt-life-in-the-us-until-maybe-even-towards-the-end-of-2021}{%
\subsection{Fauci cautions the virus could disrupt life in the U.S.
until `maybe even towards the end of
2021.'}\label{fauci-cautions-the-virus-could-disrupt-life-in-the-us-until-maybe-even-towards-the-end-of-2021}}

The United States should not expect a return to normal until ``well into
2021, maybe even towards the end of 2021,'' Dr. Anthony S. Fauci, the
nation's top infectious diseases expert, said on Friday.

In
\href{https://www.nbcnews.com/health/health-news/fauci-says-us-won-t-get-back-normal-until-late-n1239882}{an
interview with ``Andrea Mitchell Reports''} on MSNBC, Dr. Fauci
addressed when people would most likely be able to do things again that
they had done before the pandemic, such as going to an indoor movie
theater ``with impunity.'' While a vaccine may be available by the end
of the year, he said, ``by the time you mobilize the distribution of the
vaccinations, and you get the majority or more of the population
vaccinated and protected, that's likely not going to happen till the mid
or end of 2021.''

Dr. Fauci was also asked about comments he had made on
\href{https://partners.mediasite.com/mediasite/Play/968f633a874c4f1a80c368496f49d4661d}{Thursday
in a panel discussion at Harvard Medical School}, where he said ``we
need to hunker down and get through this fall and winter because it's
not going to be easy.'' Ms. Mitchell pointed out that this conflicted
with what President Trump had said at the White House on the same day,
that the country had
``\href{https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefings-statements/remarks-president-trump-press-briefing-091020/}{rounded
the final turn''} on the virus.

``I have to disagree,'' Dr. Fauci said of Mr. Trump's optimistic read on
the situation.

``We're plateauing at around 40,000 cases a day and the deaths are
around 1,000.'' He raised concerns that Labor Day could make that number
rise again, as Memorial Day and the Fourth of July had done before.

But in any case, he said ``what we don't want to see is going into the
fall season when people will be spending more time indoors --- and
that's not good for a respiratory borne virus --- you don't want to
start off already with a baseline that's so high.''

As of Thursday, there had been an average of 35,629 cases per day over
the previous week, a decrease of 16 percent from the average two weeks
earlier,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html}{according
to a Times database}. Case numbers remain persistently high across much
of the country, though reports of new cases have dropped considerably
since late July, when the country averaged well over 60,000 per day.

But even as many of the country's most populous states saw vast
improvement --- and as the Northeast kept case reports low --- new
infections were rising by late summer across parts of the Midwest and
South.

Deaths, though still well below their peak levels in the spring,
averaged around 700 per day in mid-September, more than were reported in
early July.

\hypertarget{from-asia-to-africa-china-promotes-its-vaccine-candidates-to-win-friends}{%
\subsection{From Asia to Africa, China promotes its vaccine candidates
to win
friends.}\label{from-asia-to-africa-china-promotes-its-vaccine-candidates-to-win-friends}}

Image

China's leader, Xi Jinping, discussed the progress of research into
vaccine candidates at the Academy of Military Medical Sciences in
Beijing in March.Credit...Ding Haitao/Xinhua, via Associated Press

China is still most likely months away from mass producing a vaccine
that is safe for public use. But the country is using the prospect of
the drug's discovery in
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/11/business/china-vaccine-diplomacy.html}{a
charm offensive aimed at repairing damaged ties} and bringing friends
closer in regions China deems vital to its interests.

Latin American and Caribbean nations will receive loans to buy the
medicine, and Bangladesh will get over 100,000 free doses from a Chinese
company.

In the Philippines, where China is competing with the United States for
influence, President Rodrigo Duterte
\href{https://www.scmp.com/week-asia/politics/article/3094918/duterte-seeks-chinese-coronavirus-vaccine-rules-out-us-bases}{told
lawmakers} in July that he had ``made a plea'' to China's leader, Xi
Jinping, for help with vaccines. He also said he would not confront
China over its claims to the South China Sea.

A day later, Wang Wenbin, a spokesman for China's Foreign Ministry, said
China was willing to give the Philippines priority access to a vaccine.

China's vaccine pledges, on top of earlier shipments of masks and
ventilators around the world, help it project itself as a responsible
player and could also help it push back against accusations that the
ruling Communist Party should be held accountable for its
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/19/world/asia/china-coronavirus-beijing-trump.html}{initial
missteps} when the coronavirus first emerged in China in December.

The Trump administration has roundly attacked Beijing over its handling
of the virus crisis, as well as over accusations that Chinese-directed
hackers
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/21/us/politics/china-hacking-coronavirus-vaccine.html}{have
tried to steal vaccine research to gain an edge.} The Justice Department
indicted two Chinese suspects accused of targeting pharmaceutical
companies in July.

China is a leader in the global race for a Covid-19 vaccine, and four
out of the eight
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html}{late
phase clinical trials} are for Chinese vaccines. The country began
testing experimental vaccines on soldiers and employees of state-owned
companies in July, and the testing has quietly expanded to include
health care and aviation workers. Chinese vaccine makers have built
factories that can produce hundreds of thousands of doses.

The United States has three vaccine candidates in late-stage trials,
with Pfizer saying it could apply for emergency approval as early as
October and Moderna saying it hopes to have a vaccine by the end of the
year.
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/08/health/coronavirus-astrazeneca-vaccine-safety.html}{AstraZeneca},
a British-Swedish company that received U.S. government funding to
develop its vaccine, paused its late-stage global trials this week
because of a serious suspected adverse reaction in a participant.

But Chinese vaccine companies that have gone abroad to conduct clinical
trials have also
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/16/business/china-vaccine-coronavirus.html}{generated
controversy} amid fears that local residents are being treated like
guinea pigs. And some political experts worry about the leverage that
China could wield over countries that accept vaccines.

``Should we be suspicious, or should we be grateful?'' asked Muhammad
Zulfikar Rakhmat, an academic at Universitas Islam Indonesia, who
researches China's foreign policy in Indonesia.

``I think **** both.''

\hypertarget{the-other-way-the-virus-will-kill-hunger}{%
\subsection{The other way the virus will kill:
hunger.}\label{the-other-way-the-virus-will-kill-hunger}}

Image

An Afghan girl, 10, with her 1½-year-old sister.Credit...Jim Huylebroek
for The New York Times

Long before the coronavirus swept into her village in the rugged
southeast of Afghanistan, Halima Bibi knew the gnawing fear of hunger.
It was a relentless source of anxiety as she struggled to nourish her
four children.

Her husband earned about \$5 a day, hauling produce by wheelbarrow from
a local market to surrounding homes. Most days, he brought home a loaf
of bread, potatoes and beans for an evening meal.

But when the virus arrived in March, taking the lives of her neighbors
and shutting down the market, her husband's earnings plunged to about
\$1 a day. Most evenings, he brought home only bread. Some nights, he
returned with nothing.

``We hear our children screaming in hunger, but there is nothing that we
can do,'' said Ms. Bibi, speaking by telephone from a hospital in Kabul,
where her 6-year-old daughter was being treated for severe malnutrition.
``That is not just our situation, but the reality for most of the
families where we live.''

As the global economy absorbs the most punishing reversal of fortunes
since the Great Depression,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/11/business/covid-hunger-food-insecurity.html}{hunger
is on the rise}. Those confronting potentially life-threatening levels
of so-called food insecurity in the developing world are expected to
nearly double this year to 265 million, according to the
\href{https://www.wfp.org/news/covid-19-will-double-number-people-facing-food-crises-unless-swift-action-taken}{United
Nations World Food Program}.

The largest numbers of vulnerable communities are concentrated in South
Asia and Africa, especially in countries that are already confronting
trouble, including military conflict, extreme poverty and
climate-related afflictions like drought, flooding and soil erosion.

\hypertarget{tracking-the-coronavirus-}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html}{Tracking
the Coronavirus
›}}{Tracking the Coronavirus ›}}\label{tracking-the-coronavirus-}}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html}{}

\hypertarget{where-cases-are-highest-per-capita}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{Where cases are \textbf{highest} per
capita}{Where cases are highest per capita}}\label{where-cases-are-highest-per-capita}}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/north-dakota-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

N.D.
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/south-dakota-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

S.D.
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/missouri-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

Mo.
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/iowa-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

Iowa
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/arkansas-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

Ark.
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/oklahoma-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

Okla.
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/tennessee-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

Tenn.
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/alabama-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

Ala.
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/wisconsin-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

Wis.
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/kansas-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

Kan.
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/nebraska-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

Neb.
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/south-carolina-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

S.C.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html}{}

\hypertarget{us-hot-spots-}{%
\subsubsection{U.S. hot spots ›}\label{us-hot-spots-}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2020/03/16/coronavirus-maps/dc9015512110e68e5a8253678d9addff3b2167f7/images/orphan_usa-threeByTwoSmallAt2X.png}
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/covid-college-cases-tracker.html}{}

\hypertarget{college-cases-}{%
\subsubsection{College cases ›}\label{college-cases-}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2020/03/16/coronavirus-maps/dc9015512110e68e5a8253678d9addff3b2167f7/images/orphan_colleges-threeByTwoSmallAt2X.png}

\hypertarget{how-china-brought-nearly-200-million-students-back-to-school}{%
\subsection{How China brought nearly 200 million students back to
school.}\label{how-china-brought-nearly-200-million-students-back-to-school}}

Image

Students at Changchun Street Primary School in Wuhan, China, during a
media tour organized by the local authorities last week.Credit...Hector
Retamal/Agence France-Presse --- Getty Images

Under bright blue skies, nearly 2,000 students gathered this month for
the start of school at Hanyang No. 1 High School in Wuhan, the Chinese
city where the coronavirus first emerged.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-the-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/11/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: The Coronavirus
Outbreak}}{Latest Updates: The Coronavirus Outbreak}}\label{latest-updates-the-coronavirus-outbreak}}

Updated 2020-09-12T12:04:20.515Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/11/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-dfb8a16}{Fauci
  cautions the virus could disrupt life in the U.S. until `maybe even
  towards the end of 2021.'}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/11/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-7104d154}{From
  Asia to Africa, China promotes its vaccine candidates to win friends.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/11/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-393ad215}{The
  other way the virus will kill: hunger.}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/11/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

More live coverage:
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/11/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Markets}

Medical workers stood guard at school entrances, taking temperatures.
Administrative officials reviewed the students' travel histories and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/26/world/asia/coronavirus-wuhan-tests.html}{coronavirus
test results}. Local Communist Party cadres kept watch, making sure
teachers followed detailed instructions on hygiene and showed an
``anti-epidemic spirit.''

``I'm not worried,'' a music teacher at the school, Yang Meng, said in
an interview. ``Wuhan is now the safest place.''

As countries around the world
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/01/world/schools-reopen-globe-students.html}{struggle
to safely reopen schools} this fall, China's Communist Party is
harnessing the power of its authoritarian system to offer in-person
learning for about 195 million students in kindergarten through 12th
grade at public schools.

It has mobilized battalions of local officials and party cadres to
inspect classrooms, deployed apps and other technology to monitor
students and staff, and restricted their movements. It has even told
parents to stay away for fear of spreading germs.

China's leader,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/07/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html\#link-adc17f7}{Xi
Jinping, said in a speech} on Tuesday that the country's progress in
fighting the virus, including the opening of schools, had ``fully
demonstrated the clear superiority of Communist Party leadership and our
socialist system.''

In many ways, China is applying the same heavy-handed model to reopen
schools that it has used to
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/07/world/asia/china-coronavirus-cost.html}{bring
the virus under control}. To stop the epidemic, the authorities imposed
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/02/06/world/asia/coronavirus-china-wuhan-quarantine.html}{harsh
lockdowns} and deployed
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/26/technology/china-coronavirus-surveillance.html}{invasive
technologies to track residents}, raising public anger in some places
and concerns about the erosion of privacy and civil liberties.

With schools, the government's effort has in some places been met with
similar frustrations. Teachers, who are at times doubling as medical
workers, checking for fevers and isolating sick students, say they are
exhausted by the new protocols. Students have complained that some
policies, such as lockdowns on university campuses, are excessive.

``The Chinese system moves by itself,'' said Yong Zhao, a scholar at the
University of Kansas who has studied education in China. ``The system is
run like a military: it just goes for it, no matter what anyone
thinks.''

\hypertarget{a-cdc-study-investigates-a-possible-link-between-dining-out-and-exposure-to-the-virus}{%
\subsection{A C.D.C. study investigates a possible link between dining
out and exposure to the
virus.}\label{a-cdc-study-investigates-a-possible-link-between-dining-out-and-exposure-to-the-virus}}

Image

Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo announced on Wednesday that New York City would
lift its prohibition on indoor dining on Sept. 30.Credit...Hiroko
Masuike/The New York Times

A\href{https://www.cdc.gov/mmwr/volumes/69/wr/mm6936a5.htm?s_cid=mm6936a5_x}{new
study} suggests that restaurant dining may have increased the risk of
exposure to the virus for some patrons, but several researchers said
that the links between contracting the virus and eating out should be
viewed with caution, because the study did not distinguish between
patrons who dined at indoor or outdoor facilities, and didn't rely on
contact tracing.

The study, released by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention,
analyzed 314 patients and found that those who tested positive for the
virus were twice as likely to have eaten at a restaurant in the previous
two weeks as those who tested negative.

``We want people to understand as society opens back up where the risks
are for Covid-19,'' said Dr. Wesley Self, a doctor and researcher at
Vanderbilt University and an author of the study.

Dr. Self said he believed in retrospect that the researchers should have
made the distinction between indoor and outdoor dining.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/09/nyregion/indoor-dining-coronavirus.html}{Gov.
Andrew M. Cuomo announced on Wednesday that New York City would lift its
prohibition} on indoor dining on Sept. 30, allowing restaurants to
operate at one-quarter indoor capacity. In July, the governor and Mayor
Bill de Blasio halted a plan to resume indoor dining, citing concerns
about a resurgence of the virus. (The conditions of outdoor dining are
considered less risky.)

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/12/health/Covid-restaurants-bars.html}{Last
month}, data from a number of states and cities showed that community
outbreaks had centered on restaurants and bars. Contact tracers in
Maryland found that 12 percent of new cases in July were traced to
restaurants, and in Colorado, 9 percent of outbreaks were traced to bars
and restaurants. The patients in the new study were treated at 11
hospitals in California, Colorado, Maryland, Massachusetts, Minnesota,
North Carolina, Ohio, Tennessee, Utah and Washington.

Some researchers have urged caution in interpreting the findings of the
new C.D.C. study.

``The way folks have interpreted this study is that going to a
restaurant causes Covid,'' said Zack Cooper, an associate professor of
public health at the Yale School of Public Health. ``That isn't what
this type of study is designed to show. What this shows is people who
have Covid were more likely to have been in restaurants.''

Dr. Cooper said dining in restaurants was probably associated with
increased risk because it puts people in proximity with others who are
not exercising caution in limiting their exposure to the virus. He said
researchers needed to be careful in studying the risks of common
activities, given the challenges for the general public in interpreting
statistical findings.

In an interview with CNN on Friday, Dr. Fauci was asked what the study's
findings meant for people who wanted to dine out. He said that he would
not completely rule out going to a restaurant.

``But,'' he said, ``restaurant owners should be aware that, particularly
if you're in a zone where you have a significant degree of infection,
you either do outdoor dining or if it's indoor, you don't do it at 100
percent capacity.''

\hypertarget{canada-reports-zero-covid-19-deaths-in-a-24-hour-period}{%
\subsection{Canada reports zero Covid-19 deaths in a 24-hour
period.}\label{canada-reports-zero-covid-19-deaths-in-a-24-hour-period}}

Image

A mural in Montreal. Canada on Friday night reported zero coronavirus
deaths over the previous 24 hours.Credit...Graham Hughes/The Canadian
Press, via Associated Press

Canada reported zero deaths linked to Covid-19 in a 24-hour period on
Friday night, according to government data, even as the number of new
cases in the country has ticked slowly upward as
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/26/world/canada/canada-reopens-but-little-returns-to-the-old-ways.html}{restrictions
ease} and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/reuters/2020/09/03/us/03reuters-health-coronavirus-canada-education.html}{schools
reopen} for in-person classes.

There have been at least 135,600 confirmed coronavirus cases in Canada
as of Friday evening,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/world/canada/canada-coronavirus-cases.html}{according
to the government}. The number of new cases being reported daily has
fallen significantly from an early May peak of nearly 3,000 cases, and
now averages a few hundred a day. But as of Thursday, the average number
of new daily cases was up by nearly 50 percent compared with a few weeks
earlier.

Four Canadian provinces --- Alberta, British Columbia, Ontario and
Quebec --- account for more than 4,000 of the 4,439 cases that the
country has reported over the past week. Those provinces also accounted
for all of the 23 deaths related to Covid-19 that were reported over the
same period. This week, Ontario, Canada's most populous province, said
that it will take a four-week ``pause'' before it considers loosening
restrictions or allowing further economic reopening.

Over all, at least 9,163 deaths in the country have been linked to
Covid-19. Quebec accounts for more than half of them, with 5,774,
followed by Ontario, with 2,813.

Canada has previously reported zero Covid-19 deaths in 24-hour periods,
although measuring that can be imprecise because of delays in reporting.
The average number of daily reported deaths over the past week is three.

By contrast, as of Thursday the average number of daily reported deaths
over the past week in the United States was 702.

\hypertarget{colleges-are-now-hot-spots-as-nursing-homes-and-meatpacking-plants-were-earlier-in-the-pandemic}{%
\subsection{Colleges are now hot spots, as nursing homes and meatpacking
plants were earlier in the
pandemic.}\label{colleges-are-now-hot-spots-as-nursing-homes-and-meatpacking-plants-were-earlier-in-the-pandemic}}

Image

The State University of New York at Oneonta sent students home after the
virus spun out of control in less than two weeks, with more than 500
cases.Credit...Cindy Schultz for The New York Times

It began as a trickle of coronavirus infections as college students
arrived for the fall semester. Soon that trickle became a stream, with
campuses reporting dozens, and sometimes hundreds of new cases each day.

Now the stream feels like a flood. In just the past week, a New York
Times survey has found, American colleges have recorded more than 36,000
additional infections, bringing the total of 88,000 cases since the
pandemic began.

Not all those cases are new, and the increase is partly the result of
more schools beginning to report the results of more testing. But The
Times survey of 1,600 colleges also shows how widely the contagion has
spread, with schools of every type and size, and in every state
reporting infections.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/covid-college-cases-tracker.html}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/09/11/us/covid-college-cases-tracker-promo-1599840058820/covid-college-cases-tracker-promo-1599840058820-articleLarge.png}

\hypertarget{tracking-covid-at-us-colleges-and-universities}{%
\subsection{Tracking Covid at U.S. Colleges and
Universities}\label{tracking-covid-at-us-colleges-and-universities}}

Large outbreaks expanded on campuses as new semesters were underway.

Only about 60 of the campus cases have resulted in death --- mostly of
college staff members --- and only a small number have resulted in
hospitalizations. But public health experts say the rising number also
underscores an emerging reality: Colleges and universities have, as a
category, become hot spots for virus transmission, much as hospitals,
nursing homes and meat packing plants were earlier.

Hoping to salvage some sense of normalcy --- along with lost revenue
from housing fees and out-of-state tuition --- many schools invested
heavily in health measures to bring at least some students back to
campus.

But outbreaks have forced course correction after correction.

The State University of New York at Oneonta sent students home after the
virus spun out of control in less than two weeks, with more than 500
cases. And the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign mounted one of
the most comprehensive safety plans, requiring more than 40,000 students
to be tested for the virus twice a week, and barring them from campus
buildings without app verification that the latest test was negative.
But, some students continued partying after they received a positive
test result, and hundreds were infected.

A lockdown brought the number of new cases at the university down again.
But its surge pushed its metro regions toward the top of the list of
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/04/23/upshot/five-ways-to-monitor-coronavirus-outbreak-us.html}{U.S.
areas with most cases per capita}, as did spikes at universities in
Oxford, Miss., and Athens, Ga.

In other education news:

\begin{itemize}
\item
  In \textbf{Des Moines}, school began this week with local officials
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/10/us/des-moines-school-opening-coronavirus.html}{openly
  defying Iowa's governor and a judge's order} by teaching remotely. The
  decision puts the district's funding and administrators' jobs at risk,
  and leaves students locked out of athletics and their parents
  uncertain whether online classes will even count.
\item
  A new study of hospital patients challenges \textbf{the notion that
  young people are impervious}. The
  \href{https://jamanetwork.com/journals/jamainternalmedicine/fullarticle/2770542?guestAccessKey=87e8344a-8e2f-4ca8-8e1a-95be53bbf71e\&utm_source=silverchair\&utm_medium=email\&utm_campaign=article_alert-jamainternalmedicine\&utm_content=olf\&utm_term=090920}{research
  letter from Harvard} found that among 3,222 young adults hospitalized
  with Covid-19, 88 died --- about 2.7 percent. One in five required
  intensive care, and one in 10 needed a ventilator to assist with
  breathing. The study ``establishes that Covid-19 is a life-threatening
  disease in people of all ages,''
  \href{https://jamanetwork.com/journals/jamainternalmedicine/fullarticle/2770541?guestAccessKey=8633865c-3c11-4ce2-9449-887ca6580677\&utm_source=silverchair\&utm_medium=email\&utm_campaign=article_alert-jamainternalmedicine\&utm_content=olf\&utm_term=090920}{wrote}
  Dr. Mitchell Katz, a deputy editor at JAMA Internal Medicine.
\item
  Public schools are obligated to teach ****
  \textbf{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/09/10/magazine/special-education-covid.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&module=styln-coronavirus-schools-reopening\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_keepup}{millions
  of students with disabilities}}. But as learning moves online, many
  services that parents fought for are at risk.
\item
  New research suggests
  \textbf{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/10/parenting/family-second-language-coronavirus.html}{children
  in multilingual households}} started using their parents' native
  languages more during lockdown.
\end{itemize}

U.S. ROUNDUP

\hypertarget{getting-prisoners-in-oregon-out-of-the-path-of-wildfires-raises-the-risk-of-spreading-the-virus}{%
\subsection{Getting prisoners in Oregon out of the path of wildfires
raises the risk of spreading the
virus.}\label{getting-prisoners-in-oregon-out-of-the-path-of-wildfires-raises-the-risk-of-spreading-the-virus}}

Image

The Oregon State Penitentiary in Salem was surrounded by smoke on
Thursday after inmates were relocated from other prisons.Credit...Carlos
Barria/Reuters

Officials in Oregon's state corrections system this week
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/11/us/wildfires-live-updates.html}{began
moving hundreds of inmates out of the path of the wildfires} creeping
toward some of their prisons. But the introduction of large groups of
prisoners into different facilities may be exposing them to another risk
--- contracting the virus.

Juan Chavez, a lawyer with the Oregon Justice Resource Center, a
nonprofit legal advocacy group, said that relocated inmates were
sleeping on mattresses crammed close together, but it's ``picking your
poison'' between the virus and the fires. He added that he fears the
relocated inmates could contribute to a superspreader event for the
virus in the prisons.

But few other options exist for the Oregon Department of Corrections,
which has evacuated four prisons so far.

Inmates will be ``housed with others from their home institution
whenever possible,'' and officials are aware of the potential virus
spread, said Jennifer Black, a spokeswoman for the prison system.

The virus has already ravaged the state prison population. In June, the
governor\href{https://www.oregon.gov/newsroom/Pages/NewsDetail.aspx?newsid=36856}{commuted
the sentences of 57 inmates} who were vulnerable to the virus. There
have been 829 confirmed cases in prison system facilities, including
staff members and inmates, according to the
department's\href{https://www.oregon.gov/doc/covid19/Pages/covid19-tracking.aspx}{records}.
Six people have died.

At the Oregon State Penitentiary, 36 staff members and 143 inmates have
tested positive.

Elsewhere in the U.S.:

\begin{itemize}
\item
  The San Diego Padres announced that their \textbf{Major League
  Baseball} game against the San Francisco Giants on Friday had been
  postponed because a member of the Giants organization had tested
  positive for the virus.
\item
  Officials in \textbf{Kansas} reported 21 new deaths on Friday, a
  single-day record for the state.
\item
  Prospects for \textbf{any additional stimulus} to address the
  pandemic's devastating toll before the presidential election darkened
  considerably on Thursday, when
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/10/us/politics/second-stimulus-check.html}{a
  whittled-down Republican plan failed in the Senate on a partisan
  vote}.
\item
  More than 150 business leaders in \textbf{New York City} sent a letter
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/10/nyregion/de-blasio-economy-coronavirus.html}{warning
  Mayor Bill de Blasio that he needed to take more decisive action} to
  address crime and other quality-of-life issues that they said were
  jeopardizing the city's economic recovery. Chief executives of
  companies like Goldman Sachs, Vornado Realty Trust and JetBlue
  \href{https://pfnyc.org/news/letter-to-mayor-bill-de-blasio-from-nyc-business-leaders/}{signed
  the letter}. Mr. de Blasio responded in a conciliatory tone, urging
  business leaders to work with him and arguing that the city needed
  federal funding and new borrowing capacity.
\item
  The \textbf{N.B.A.} announced Friday that Danuel House Jr., a reserve
  forward for the Houston Rockets,
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/11/sports/basketball/nba-houston-rockets-danuel-house.html}{would
  be expelled from the league's so-called bubble} at Walt Disney World
  near Orlando, Fla., because he had invited an unauthorized guest to
  his hotel room. As the league conducted its investigation, Mr. House
  did not play in Games 3 and 4 of the Rockets' playoff series against
  the Los Angeles Lakers, who lead the best-of-seven series, 3-1, with
  Game 5 scheduled for Saturday night.
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{you-have-been-selected-one-times-reporters-experience-as-a-participant-in-a-vaccine-trial}{%
\subsection{`You have been selected': One Times reporter's experience as
a participant in a vaccine
trial.}\label{you-have-been-selected-one-times-reporters-experience-as-a-participant-in-a-vaccine-trial}}

Image

Helene Cooper during an exam at George Washington University Hospital in
Washington, D.C. Ms. Cooper, a New York Times correspondent, is
participating in the Moderna vaccine trial.Credit...Erin Schaff/The New
York Times

Helene Cooper, a Pentagon correspondent with The New York Times, was
selected to participate in a vaccine trial for Moderna, a biotech
company based in Massachusetts. Ms. Cooper, who covered the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2015/04/20/world/africa/ebola-coverage-pulitzer.html}{Ebola
outbreak for The Times in 2014}, shared her experience
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/11/us/politics/coronavirus-vaccine-first-person.html}{in
a personal essay}. Following are some excerpts.

\begin{quote}
``I signed up for a Covid vaccine trial,'' I texted a group of friends,
all reporters with smart mouths on them. But one response gave me pause.

``I admire your dedication to the cause,'' my friend Mark Mazzetti told
me. But he was clear in his text: ``You gotta be really careful given
your underlying condition. You could be given a placebo and sent to hang
out in hot spots.''

I hadn't thought of the placebo part of the vaccine trial when I signed
up. I am a Type 1 diabetic --- a chronic autoimmune disorder I have had
since I was 15, with asthma to boot, so I am firmly in the high-risk
category. That had been made clear to me by Dr. Fauci himself in early
March when I ran into him in the green room for NBC's ``Meet the
Press.''

``What happens if I get Covid?'' I had asked him.

``I'm not saying you're a dead duck,'' he replied, ``but I cannot stress
enough that you really need to not get it.''

So last Wednesday, I arrived at George Washington University Hospital at
the appointed time in all my triple-risk glory: Black woman, Type 1
diabetic, asthmatic. I hadn't slept the night before.
\end{quote}

GLOBAL ROUNDUP

\hypertarget{french-officials-vow-to-cut-down-testing-delays-amid-a-spike-in-cases-and-hospitalizations}{%
\subsection{French officials vow to cut down testing delays amid a spike
in cases and
hospitalizations.}\label{french-officials-vow-to-cut-down-testing-delays-amid-a-spike-in-cases-and-hospitalizations}}

Image

People lined up to get tested in Vénissieux, France, on Friday. The
country has had about 54,000 new virus cases over the past seven
days.Credit...Jeff Pachoud/Agence France-Presse --- Getty Images

France is facing a worrying surge in cases, the government said on
Friday, warning that the new cases were rapidly increasing and that
hospitals were seeing an uptick in admissions.

Many expected new restrictions, especially after the government's
scientific council said earlier this week that the authorities would
have to take ``difficult measures.''

But the authorities did not announce new rules, vowing instead to
improve the country's immense testing program --- which has been plagued
by delays in recent weeks --- and urging the French to continue social
distancing measures.

The country registered about 54,000 new cases over the past 7 days ---
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/31/world/europe/coronavirus-covid-spain-second-wave.html?searchResultPosition=1}{less
than Spain}, but far more than other neighboring countries like
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/09/world/europe/coronavirus-sardinia-italy.html}{Italy}
or Germany. Nearly 31,000 people in France have died of the virus.

On Thursday, there were nearly 10,000 new confirmed cases, a record
since the beginning of the epidemic. The surge is due partly to
widespread testing, but the positivity rate for those tests has also
increased --- it was at 5.4 percent this week, up from 1.5 in late July
--- meaning that the virus is picking up speed.

Jean Castex, the French prime minister, said in a televised address on
Friday that authorities were particularly worried about a renewed
increase in the number of hospitalizations, especially of elderly
people.

``This shows there is no Maginot line,'' said Mr. Castex, referring to
national fortifications built in the 1930s. Even if the virus is still
mostly spreading among younger people, he said, it ``inevitably'' ends
up reaching more vulnerable segments of the population.

In other developments around the world:

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \textbf{Myanmar} has locked down half of its largest city, Yangon, and
  halted travel between regions in an effort to halt the spread of the
  virus. Myanmar's leader, Daw Aung San Suu Kyi, urged the public to
  follow health protocols in a nationally televised address on Thursday.
  The number of confirmed cases has gone up fivefold in less than three
  weeks, reaching 2,422 on Friday, with 14 deaths, according to
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/world/coronavirus-maps.html}{a
  Times database}.
\item
  \textbf{India} again broke a record for daily new cases, reporting
  97,750 on Saturday,
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/world/asia/india-coronavirus-cases.html}{according
  to a Times database}. The previous record, set Friday, was 96,551.
\item
  \textbf{North Korea} has deployed crack troops along its border with a
  shoot-to-kill order to prevent smugglers from introducing the
  coronavirus into its isolated and malnourished population, the United
  States' top general in South Korea, Gen. Robert B. Abrams, said on
  Thursday. North Korea insists that it has not confirmed a single case
  of Covid-19. But outside experts are skeptical, citing the country's
  decrepit public health capabilities and the long border it shares with
  China, where the epidemic first erupted.
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{new-studies-underscore-the-gravity-of-britains-surge}{%
\subsection{New studies underscore the gravity of Britain's
surge.}\label{new-studies-underscore-the-gravity-of-britains-surge}}

Image

Spectators watching The Royal Ballet perform beside the Regent's Canal
in London on Aug. 30. The virus is surging again in
Britain.Credit...Isabel Infantes/Agence France-Presse --- Getty Images

A series of studies released on Friday offered the strongest evidence
yet that the coronavirus is surging again in Britain, suggesting that
the country may be following other European nations in seeing
significant new spikes of the virus.

Scientists from Imperial College London said that the
\href{https://www.imperial.ac.uk/media/imperial-college/institute-of-global-health-innovation/public/Resurgence-of-SARS-CoV-2-in-England--detection-by-community-antigen-surveillance.pdf}{prevalence
of coronavirus infections doubled every eight days} from late August to
early September in England, a significant quickening of the spread.

The scientists tested a random sample of 150,000 people and estimated
that the so-called reproduction number --- a measure of how many people
on average a single patient will infect --- was 1.7, indicating a
growing outbreak. An R number below 1 would indicate a dwindling
outbreak.

The government's own scientific advisory group
\href{https://www.gov.uk/guidance/the-r-number-in-the-uk}{offered a more
conservative estimate} of the virus's spread --- it said the R number
was between 1 and 1.2 in Britain --- but still said that ``the epidemic
is growing.''

The British government reported 3,539 new daily cases on Friday, lifting
its seven-day average well over 2,500, a level last seen in May. Its
total caseload has surpassed 361,000, with more than 41,600 deaths.

Heeding the surge, Prime Minister Boris Johnson announced this week that
the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/09/world/europe/boris-johnson-brexit-coronavirus.html}{government
would ban gatherings of more than six people}. But with students now
returning to school and Britons socializing inside more as the weather
cools, scientists said that might not be enough.

``This is a massive blow to the government's strategy to contain the
spread of Covid-19,'' Simon Clarke, an associate professor at the
University of Reading, said of the Imperial College London study.

Mr. Johnson has been encouraging people to go back to work, eat out at
restaurants, patronize pubs and send children back to school. Many
Britons have also
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/14/world/europe/uk-coronavirus-masks-mandate.html}{remained
resistant to wearing face masks} in crowded places.

Britain's new contact-tracing app will be introduced in England and
Wales on Sept. 24, Mr. Johnson's government announced on Friday. The
government had previously been criticized over the long delay;
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/17/world/europe/uk-contact-tracing-coronavirus.html}{earlier
versions were scrapped months ago}.

\hypertarget{florida-will-reopen-bars-on-monday-and-people-in-puerto-rico-can-go-back-to-the-beach}{%
\subsection{Florida will reopen bars on Monday, and people in Puerto
Rico can go back to the
beach.}\label{florida-will-reopen-bars-on-monday-and-people-in-puerto-rico-can-go-back-to-the-beach}}

Image

An empty bar in St. Petersburg, Fla., that was closed in June when
drinking at bars was banned as the state experienced a coronavirus
surge.Credit...Eve Edelheit for The New York Times

Halsey Beshears, Florida's secretary for the Department of Business and
Professional Regulation, announced
\href{https://twitter.com/HalseyBeshears/status/1304194720856408064?s=20}{on
Twitter} on Thursday that the state would allow bars to operate at half
capacity starting Monday. He rescinded an executive order from June that
had banned drinking at bars as the state experienced a surge.

Gov. Ron DeSantis, a Republican, had hinted earlier on Thursday that his
administration would not only soon allow the reopening of bars and
restaurants but also forbid future closures.

``I think that we probably need to just have it that everyone knows
they'll be able to operate,'' he said. ``The closures are just totally
off the table, because it's hard to plan if you think you have the sword
of Damocles hanging over your head.''

On Friday, Mr. DeSantis announced that the state's two biggest counties,
Miami-Dade and Broward, would move to the second phase of reopening on
Monday, paving the way for schools to bring students back into
classrooms sooner than expected.

The mayor of Miami-Dade County, Carlos Gimenez, and the county's schools
superintendent, Alberto Carvalho, appeared with the governor at the news
conference on Friday. Mr. Carvalho said he expects to make an
announcement about physically opening schools before the end of the
month; he had previously established a timeline to bring students back
by Oct. 5.

About 51 percent of parents of public school students have told the
district they want to send their children back, he said, adding that
``six feet of distance is probably not going to be possible in many
schools.''

Mr. Gimenez, whose county was hit hardest in the state, said that his
administration would begin to look at businesses that could now reopen
under certain restrictions, including movie theaters and bowling alleys,
though he reiterated it would not include bars and nightclubs. On
Wednesday, he said he did not foresee reopening them ``until we get a
vaccine.''

``We're still not out of the woods yet, but we're getting close,'' he
said Friday.

In Puerto Rico, Gov. Wanda Vázquez eased some of the island's tight
restrictions on Thursday, citing a recent drop in cases. Ms. Vázquez
lifted a lockdown that had forced people to stay home on Sundays, and
reopened beaches to everyone. She also authorized the reopening of gyms,
movie theaters and casinos at 25 percent capacity.

Bars and nightclubs remain closed, and a nightly curfew will remain in
effect.

\hypertarget{the-us-commemorates-sept-11-at-another-time-of-harrowing-loss}{%
\subsection{The U.S. commemorates Sept. 11 at another time of harrowing
loss.}\label{the-us-commemorates-sept-11-at-another-time-of-harrowing-loss}}

Image

Fewer people attended this year's ceremony as organizers tried to
discourage a large gathering because of public health
concerns.Credit...Todd Heisler/The New York Times

The families, the politicians and the bagpipers gathered once more at
ground zero on Friday, as the country
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/11/nyregion/9-11-ceremony-September-11th.html}{paused
to remember a national crisis even as it found itself in the midst of
another}.

The somber rituals held at the Sept. 11 memorial in Lower Manhattan were
especially poignant in light of a pandemic that has crippled the country
and brought particularly devastating loss to New York City.

The outbreak also altered a moment to honor the dead. Though the names
of the victims resounded across the plaza, and bells tolled across New
York as they have in years past, there was no stage in front of those
who came to mourn.

Some of America's most notable politicians attended, including Vice
President Mike Pence and Joseph R. Biden Jr., the Democratic nominee for
president, but all of them wore masks in addition to their customary
memorial ribbons and lapel pins. They exchanged elbow bumps, then
distanced themselves six feet apart as they stood for the national
anthem.

It has been 19 years since passenger jets hijacked by terrorists slammed
into the World Trade Center and the Pentagon and crashed into a field in
Shanksville, Pa. Nearly 3,000 lives were lost, some 2,700 of them in New
York, in the deadliest attack in the country's history.

The United States' death toll from the pandemic has
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.htmlhttps://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html}{far
exceeded} that of Sept. 11, 2001. In New York City alone, more than
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/nyregion/new-york-city-coronavirus-cases.html}{23,000
people have died of the virus}.

\hypertarget{fda-regulators-defend-their-integrity-and-allude-to-potential-interference}{%
\subsection{F.D.A. regulators defend their integrity and allude to
potential
interference.}\label{fda-regulators-defend-their-integrity-and-allude-to-potential-interference}}

Image

The F.D.A. commissioner, Dr. Stephen Hahn, praised the statement on
Thursday, saying that the authors ``took the initiative to independently
express their steadfast trust in the expertise and commitment of our
organization.''Credit...Oliver Contreras for The New York Times

In
\href{https://www.usatoday.com/story/opinion/2020/09/10/sound-science-to-meet-covid-challenges-fda-career-officials-column/5756948002/}{an
opinion column} published in USA Today on Thursday, eight top regulators
at the Food and Drug Administration
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/10/us/politics/fda-coronavirus-vaccine.html}{promised
to uphold the scientific integrity of their work} and defend the
agency's independence. The column warned that ``if the agency's
credibility is lost because of real or perceived interference, people
will not rely on the agency's safety warnings.''

The pledge by career scientists in the federal government came amid
mounting concerns over the role the White House has played in emergency
approvals for coronavirus therapies, including convalescent plasma and
the malaria drug hydroxychloroquine, which the agency
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/15/health/fda-hydroxychloroquine-malaria.html}{later
revoked}.

The specter of political arm-twisting has grown as several drugmakers
entered large late-stage vaccine trials this summer. President Trump
told reporters on Monday that ``we're going to have a vaccine very soon,
maybe even before a very special date.''

That timeline, framed around Election Day, has been
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/04/science/covid-vaccine-pharma-pledge.html}{widely
challenged} by the administration's top health officials, who have said
that a vaccine approval by early November was improbable.

The statement in USA Today was written in large part because of fears
over political influence on the F.D.A., including from the White House,
according to senior administration officials familiar with the effort.

\hypertarget{a-new-stimulus-plan-before-election-day-is-looking-even-more-unlikely}{%
\subsection{A new stimulus plan before Election Day is looking even more
unlikely.}\label{a-new-stimulus-plan-before-election-day-is-looking-even-more-unlikely}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/09/10/us/10virus-briefing-stimulus/10virus-briefing-stimulus-videoSixteenByNine3000.jpg}

Prospects for any additional stimulus to address the coronavirus
pandemic's devastating toll before the election darkened considerably on
Thursday, when
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/10/us/politics/second-stimulus-check.html}{a
whittled-down Republican plan failed in the Senate on a partisan vote}.

Democrats voted unanimously to block the proposal from advancing,
calling it inadequate to meet the mounting needs for federal aid, in the
latest indication of a lack of political will to reach an agreement,
even as critical federal aid for individuals and businesses has run dry.

It was a nearly party-line vote whose outcome was never in doubt. The
proposal amounted to a fraction of the \$1 trillion plan Republicans had
offered in negotiations with Democrats, who in turn are demanding more
than twice as much.

A failure to compromise would leave millions of jobless Americans in
potentially dire straits, as they exhaust jobless benefits and states
run out of additional funds that Mr. Trump steered to the unemployed by
executive order last month. It would also strand a wide swath of small
business owners who have endured steep drops in revenue, with little
prospect of a return to normal levels for months to come.

``Along with a pandemic of Covid-19, we have a pandemic of politics,''
Senator Pat Roberts, Republican of Kansas, said. ``Looking to the House
--- and for that matter, our colleagues across the aisle --- it's a sort
of a dead-end street.''

He spoke after the measure failed on a 52-to-47 vote, falling short of
the 60 it would have needed to advance.

\hypertarget{after-a-long-delay-britain-will-introduce-a-contact-tracing-app-this-month}{%
\subsection{After a long delay, Britain will introduce a contact-tracing
app this
month.}\label{after-a-long-delay-britain-will-introduce-a-contact-tracing-app-this-month}}

Image

In Bolton, England, restrictions were tightened this week amid an
increase in coronavirus cases.Credit...Oli Scarff/Agence France-Presse
--- Getty Images

The British government announced on Friday that a new contact-tracing
app would be introduced in England and Wales on Sept. 24. The government
had previously been criticized over the long delay in launching an
application after
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/17/world/europe/uk-contact-tracing-coronavirus.html}{earlier
versions of the tracing app were scrapped months ago}.

The new application will allow people to scan QR codes when they visit
hospitality venues and will use Apple and Google's technology for
detecting other smartphones in the vicinity.

Matt Hancock, Britain's health secretary, said in a statement on Friday
that the app would be a vital tool for containing the spread of the
coronavirus.

``We need to use every tool at our disposal to control the spread of the
virus including cutting-edge technology,'' he said. ``The launch of the
app later this month across England and Wales is a defining moment and
will aid our ability to contain the virus at a critical time.''

\hypertarget{how-can-countries-responses-be-compared-think-of-the-virus-like-a-marathon}{%
\subsection{How can countries' responses be compared? Think of the virus
like a
marathon.}\label{how-can-countries-responses-be-compared-think-of-the-virus-like-a-marathon}}

What's the fairest expectation of how bad the pandemic should have been
in the United States?

In his Morning newsletter, David Leonhardt spoke with Donald McNeil, the
New York Times reporter who has frequently appeared
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/25/podcasts/the-daily/coronavirus-plasma-reinfection.html}{on
``The Daily'' podcast} to talk about the coronavirus.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/11/briefing/california-wildfires-september-11-attacks-nfl-your-friday-briefing.html}{Mr.
Leonhardt writes}:

\begin{quote}
Donald makes a fascinating point: Don't look only at snapshots, like a
country's per capita death toll. ``It's not fair to pick one point in
time and say, `How are we doing?''' he writes. ``You can only judge how
well countries are doing when you add in the time factor'' --- that is,
when the virus first exploded in a given place and what has happened
since.

The pandemic, he adds, is like a marathon with staggered start times.

The virus began spreading widely in Europe earlier than in North
America. Much of Europe failed to contain it at first and suffered
terrible death tolls. The per capita toll in a few countries, like
Britain, Italy and Spain, remains somewhat higher than in the U.S. But
those countries managed to get the virus
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/06/us/coronavirus-us.html}{under
control} by the late spring. Their caseloads plummeted.

In the U.S., the virus erupted later --- yet caseloads never plummeted.
Almost every day for the past six months,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html}{at
least 20,000 Americans} have been diagnosed with the virus. ``Europe
learned the hard lesson and applied remedies,'' as Donald says. ``We did
not, even though we had more warning.''

This chart makes the point:
\end{quote}

Image

Credit...By The New York Times \textbar{} Sources: Johns Hopkins
University and World Bank

\begin{quote}
The population-adjusted death toll in the U.S. surpassed Western
Europe's two months ago. The U.S. toll is far above those of France,
Germany, Canada, Japan, Australia and many other countries --- and is on
pace to overtake Italy's in the next few days and Britain's and Spain's
not long after that.

Donald does add one important caveat. ``We won't really be able to judge
until it's over,'' he says. Cases have recently begun rising again in
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/25/briefing/republican-convention-wisconsin-jerry-falwell-your-tuesday-briefing.html}{Spain}
and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/21/world/europe/coronavirus-second-wave.html}{some
other parts of Europe}, raising the possibility that Europe is on the
verge of a new surge of deaths. In the U.S.,
\href{https://www.cnn.com/2020/09/06/health/us-coronavirus-sunday/index.html}{Labor
Day gatherings} and the reopening of
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/covid-college-cases-tracker.html}{some
schools} may cause new outbreaks --- or may not.

For now, the simplest summary seems to be this: Adjusting for time,
there is no large, rich country that has suffered as much as the U.S.
\end{quote}

\hypertarget{missed-vaccines-skipped-colonoscopies-preventive-care-plummets-in-the-us}{%
\subsection{Missed vaccines, skipped colonoscopies: Preventive care
plummets in the
U.S.}\label{missed-vaccines-skipped-colonoscopies-preventive-care-plummets-in-the-us}}

Image

Last month in New York City, drug stores were already advertising flu
shots, which health officials were urging people to get early. Demand
for vaccines and other preventive care has declined sharply since the
arrival of coronavirus.Credit...Bryan R. Smith/Agence France-Presse ---
Getty Images

When the pandemic hit, Americans vastly scaled back on preventive
health, and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/11/upshot/pandemic-decline-preventive-care.html}{there
is little sign that this deferred care will be made up}.

Vaccinations dropped by nearly 60 percent in April, and almost no one
was getting a colonoscopy, according to new data from the nonprofit
Health Care Cost Institute.

The data, drawn from millions of health insurance claims, shows a
consistent pattern, whether it was prostate screenings or
contraceptives: Preventive care declined drastically this spring and, as
of late June, had not yet recovered to normal levels. Many types of such
care were still down by a third at the start of this summer, the most
recent data available shows, as Americans remained wary of visiting
hospitals and medical offices.

Americans continued seeking care they couldn't avoid --- hospital
admissions for childbirth, for example, held steady --- but avoided care
they could put off. More invasive preventive procedures, such as
mammograms and colonoscopies, showed the greatest decline.

Colonoscopies, which are generally used to screen for colon cancer,
declined by 88 percent in mid-April and were still 33 percent lower than
normal at the end of June. Mammograms, which fell 77 percent at the
height of the pandemic, are still down 23 percent.

Critical childhood vaccinations for hepatitis, measles, whooping cough
and other diseases also declined significantly, a
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/23/health/coronavirus-measles-vaccines.html}{trend}
that had already begun to worry pediatricians earlier in the pandemic.
Of particular concern, measles vaccinations fell 73 percent in mid-April
and were still down 36 percent at the end of June.

But one preventive service stayed relatively steady through the
pandemic: pregnancy-related ultrasounds. Those declined slightly in
March and April but never fell more than 20 percent below 2019 levels.
Insertions of IUDs, one of the most effective birth control methods,
declined like other preventive care --- raising the possibility of an
increase in pregnancies in coming months.

Reporting was contributed by Sarah Almukhtar, **** Aurelien Breeden,
Kenneth Chang, Choe Sang-Hun, Emily Cochrane, Abdi Latif Dahir, Marie
Fazio, Emma G. Fitzsimmons, Michael Gold, Emma Goldberg, Peter S.
Goodman, Sophie Hardach, Javier C. Hernández, Jonathan Huang, Mike Ives,
Sarah Kliff, David Leonhardt, Dan Levin, Patricia Mazzei, Benjamin
Mueller, Saw Nang, Richard C. Paddock, Roni Caryn Rabin, Campbell
Robertson, Dana Rubinstein, Karan Deep Singh, Megan Specia, Jim
Tankersley, Kate Taylor, Sui-Lee Wee and Noah Weiland.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
