Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/health}{Health}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/health}{Health}\textbar{}Trump's Vaccine Chief Has Vast
Ties to Drug Industry, Posing Possible Conflicts

\url{https://nyti.ms/3bPsPIj}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{The
Coronavirus Outbreak}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  live\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/02/world/coronavirus-updates.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Latest
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Maps
  and Cases}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Vaccine
  Tracker}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/07/29/us/schools-reopening-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{What
  School May Look Like}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/07/31/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Economy}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{trumps-vaccine-chief-has-vast-ties-to-drug-industry-posing-possible-conflicts}{%
\section{Trump's Vaccine Chief Has Vast Ties to Drug Industry, Posing
Possible
Conflicts}\label{trumps-vaccine-chief-has-vast-ties-to-drug-industry-posing-possible-conflicts}}

Moncef Slaoui, a former pharmaceutical executive, is now overseeing the
U.S. initiative to develop coronavirus treatments and vaccines. His
financial interests and corporate roles have come under scrutiny.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/05/20/science/00VIRUS-MODERNA1/merlin_172536732_f6af48b1-4ce0-4812-aea8-5e7810403d45-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/sheila-kaplan}{Sheila
Kaplan},
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/matthew-goldstein}{Matthew
Goldstein} and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/alexandra-stevenson}{Alexandra
Stevenson}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  May 20, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

The chief scientist brought on to lead the Trump administration's
vaccine efforts has spent the last several days trying to disentangle
pieces of his stock portfolio and his intricate ties to big
pharmaceutical interests, as critics point to the potential for
significant conflicts of interest.

The scientist, Moncef Slaoui, is a venture capitalist and a former
longtime executive at GlaxoSmithKline. Most recently, he sat on the
board of Moderna, a Cambridge, Mass., biotechnology firm with a \$30
billion valuation that is pursuing a coronavirus vaccine. He resigned
when President Trump named him last Thursday to the new post as chief
adviser for Operation Warp Speed, the federal drive for coronavirus
vaccines and treatments.

Just days into his job, the extent of Dr. Slaoui's financial interests
in drug companies has begun to emerge: The value of his stock holdings
in Moderna jumped nearly \$2.4 million, to \$12.4 million when the
company released preliminary, partial data from an early phase of its
candidate vaccine trial that helped send the markets soaring on Monday.

Dr. Slaoui sold his shares on Tuesday, and the administration said he
would donate the increased value to cancer research.

But the Moderna stock is just one piece of his pharmaceutical portfolio,
much of which is not public. And some ethics and financial securities
experts have voiced concerns about the arrangement Dr. Slaoui struck
with the administration.

In agreeing to accept the position, Dr. Slaoui did not come on board as
a government employee. Instead, he is on a contract, receiving \$1 for
his service. That leaves him exempt from federal disclosure rules that
would require him to list his outside positions, stock holdings and
other potential conflicts. And the contract position is not subject to
the same conflict-of-interest laws and regulations that executive branch
employees must follow.

Dr. Slaoui, an expert in molecular biology and immunology, is not the
first Trump administration official with close relationships to drug and
health care companies. His immediate boss, Alex M. Azar II, the health
and human services secretary, is a former Eli Lilly executive. And the
former commissioner of the Food and Drug Administration, Dr. Scott
Gottlieb, has moved in and out of government twice, and divested of his
interests immediately upon assuming the F.D.A. job in 2017.

Dr. Slaoui, 60, has spent his career developing vaccines and
biotechnology businesses, and he has the investments and board seats to
prove it. He still holds just under \$10 million in GlaxoSmithKline
stock and remains a partner in Medicxi, a venture capital firm that
specializes in investing in biotech concerns, with several companies
engaged in the global race to develop treatments or vaccines to stanch
the coronavirus pandemic. GSK and Sanofi have become partners in
creating a vaccine candidate against the coronavirus.

The administration has reviewed Dr. Slaoui's affiliations with several
companies and concluded in several instances that there were no
conflicts because his advisory roles were unrelated to coronavirus
research or treatments, and in some cases the corporations had no
products against the virus in production, according to a senior official
with the Department of Health and Human Services.

The new group of which Dr. Slaoui is lead scientist will vet candidates
for vaccines and treatments, to decide whether they should receive
federal financial backing and additional support.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/05/20/science/coronavirus-vaccine-development.html}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/05/20/us/coronavirus-vaccine-development-promo-1590000253880/coronavirus-vaccine-development-promo-1590000253880-articleLarge.png}

\hypertarget{different-approaches-to-a-coronavirus-vaccine}{%
\subsection{Different Approaches to a Coronavirus
Vaccine}\label{different-approaches-to-a-coronavirus-vaccine}}

Scientists are using many techniques to develop coronavirus vaccines.

In an interview, Dr. Slaoui said he was determined to avoid conflicts
and would re-evaluate any remaining associations if his financial
interests stood to gain more from his new post overseeing the
government's push to encourage speedy development of treatments or
vaccines.

He did not say how much his GSK shares were worth. When he left the
company in 2017, he held about 240,000 shares and share equivalents,
according to the drug company's annual report and an analysis by the
executive compensation firm Equilar.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-global-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/01/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: Global Coronavirus
Outbreak}}{Latest Updates: Global Coronavirus Outbreak}}\label{latest-updates-global-coronavirus-outbreak}}

Updated 2020-08-02T17:52:35.962Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/01/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-34047410}{The
  U.S. reels as July cases more than double the total of any other
  month.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/01/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-780ec966}{Top
  U.S. officials work to break an impasse over the federal jobless
  benefit.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/01/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-2bc8948}{Its
  outbreak untamed, Melbourne goes into even greater lockdown.}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/01/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

More live coverage:
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/07/31/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Markets}

He said he told administration officials that he did not want to sell
his company stock.

``I have worked for 29 years for GSK,'' Dr. Slaoui said. ``I have never
sold a single share of any company in my life. This is my retirement.
What I said regarding the GSK shares, I said I cannot take the job if I
have to sell them.''

Advanced Decision Vectors, which regularly
\href{https://advancedvllc.com/clients/}{contracts}with the National
Institutes of Health and other federal agencies, will pay Dr. Slaoui's
living expenses when he stays in Washington away from his home in the
Philadelphia area.

Without public disclosure, some ethics experts called his contract an
end-run around the rules.

``This is basically absurd,'' said Virginia Canter, who is chief ethics
counsel for Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics in Washington. ``It
allows for no public scrutiny of his conflicts of interest.''

Ms. Canter also said federal law barred government contractors from
supervising government employees.

But others noted the lengths to which Dr. Slaoui was already distancing
himself. Joseph Grundfest, a Stanford law professor and a former
commissioner on the Securities and Exchange Commission, said conflicts
of interest involving scientific experts were hardly rare.

``The challenge is to manage them appropriately, because if you try to
avoid them altogether you often won't be able to get the best people for
the job,'' Mr. Grundfest said.

``And obviously there will be appropriate recusals on a situational,
going-forward basis, as is common,'' he added. ``What more do you want
the guy to do?''

Dr. Slaoui has stepped away from other commitments: He resigned last
week from Lonza, which will manufacture Moderna's vaccine if it goes
into production. And he said he left his position as an adviser to a
company that works with Chinese businesses to develop therapies against
the virus.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/05/20/science/00VIRUS-MODERNA2/merlin_172650756_c35e3a0e-88de-437e-b943-354698907ac9-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Dr. Slaoui also said that if the value of GlaxoSmithKline accrues higher
than that of the pharmaceutical sector of the S\&P 500 Index by the time
he leaves the job, and if GSK has received any investment from the
government for the Covid-19 program, he will donate the difference in
his stock value to the National Institutes of Health, for research.

Michael R. Caputo, assistant secretary for public affairs at H.H.S.,
said that the agency's ethics office had cleared Dr. Slaoui to hold onto
his GSK investment and that he had agreed not to trade other
coronavirus-related stocks. He added that Dr. Slaoui's contract now
included an ethics addendum, but could not provide details.

Mr. Caputo said Dr. Slaoui's role would be to recommend decisions that
would be considered by government officials, including the chief
operating officer Gen. Gustave Perna and others supervising the project.

Ms. Canter, a former ethics lawyer in the Obama and Clinton
administrations, the Securities and Exchange Commission and other
agencies, pointed out that GSK's vaccine candidate with Sanofi could
wind up competing with other manufacturers vying for government approval
and support.

``If he retains stock in companies that are investing in the development
of a vaccine, and he's involved in overseeing this process to select the
safest vaccine to combat Covid-19, regardless of how wonderful a person
he is, we can't be confident of the integrity of any process in which he
is involved,'' Ms. Canter said.

In addition, his affiliation with Medicxi could complicate matters:
\href{https://www.medicxi.com/sections/about}{Two of its investors} are
GSK and a division of Johnson \& Johnson, which is also developing a
potential vaccine.

Moderna has already received nearly \$500 million from the government to
help scale up production.

In stepping down from Moderna's board, Dr. Slaoui also gave up the
potential for future stock gains. Equilar estimated that he stood to
forfeit 73,000 options to buy shares valued at \$4.2 million.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{}

\hypertarget{the-coronavirus-outbreak-}{%
\subsubsection{The Coronavirus Outbreak
›}\label{the-coronavirus-outbreak-}}

\hypertarget{frequently-asked-questions}{%
\paragraph{Frequently Asked
Questions}\label{frequently-asked-questions}}

Updated July 27, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{should-i-refinance-my-mortgage}{%
  \paragraph{Should I refinance my
  mortgage?}\label{should-i-refinance-my-mortgage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/coronavirus-money-unemployment.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{It
    could be a good idea,} because mortgage rates have
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/16/business/mortgage-rates-below-3-percent.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{never
    been lower.} Refinancing requests have pushed mortgage applications
    to some of the highest levels since 2008, so be prepared to get in
    line. But defaults are also up, so if you're thinking about buying a
    home, be aware that some lenders have tightened their standards.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{what-is-school-going-to-look-like-in-september}{%
  \paragraph{What is school going to look like in
  September?}\label{what-is-school-going-to-look-like-in-september}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    It is unlikely that many schools will return to a normal schedule
    this fall, requiring the grind of
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/05/us/coronavirus-education-lost-learning.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{online
    learning},
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/29/us/coronavirus-child-care-centers.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{makeshift
    child care} and
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/03/business/economy/coronavirus-working-women.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{stunted
    workdays} to continue. California's two largest public school
    districts --- Los Angeles and San Diego --- said on July 13, that
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/13/us/lausd-san-diego-school-reopening.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{instruction
    will be remote-only in the fall}, citing concerns that surging
    coronavirus infections in their areas pose too dire a risk for
    students and teachers. Together, the two districts enroll some
    825,000 students. They are the largest in the country so far to
    abandon plans for even a partial physical return to classrooms when
    they reopen in August. For other districts, the solution won't be an
    all-or-nothing approach.
    \href{https://bioethics.jhu.edu/research-and-outreach/projects/eschool-initiative/school-policy-tracker/}{Many
    systems}, including the nation's largest, New York City, are
    devising
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/26/us/coronavirus-schools-reopen-fall.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{hybrid
    plans} that involve spending some days in classrooms and other days
    online. There's no national policy on this yet, so check with your
    municipal school system regularly to see what is happening in your
    community.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{is-the-coronavirus-airborne}{%
  \paragraph{Is the coronavirus
  airborne?}\label{is-the-coronavirus-airborne}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    The coronavirus
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/04/health/239-experts-with-one-big-claim-the-coronavirus-is-airborne.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{can
    stay aloft for hours in tiny droplets in stagnant air}, infecting
    people as they inhale, mounting scientific evidence suggests. This
    risk is highest in crowded indoor spaces with poor ventilation, and
    may help explain super-spreading events reported in meatpacking
    plants, churches and restaurants.
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/06/health/coronavirus-airborne-aerosols.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{It's
    unclear how often the virus is spread} via these tiny droplets, or
    aerosols, compared with larger droplets that are expelled when a
    sick person coughs or sneezes, or transmitted through contact with
    contaminated surfaces, said Linsey Marr, an aerosol expert at
    Virginia Tech. Aerosols are released even when a person without
    symptoms exhales, talks or sings, according to Dr. Marr and more
    than 200 other experts, who
    \href{https://academic.oup.com/cid/article/doi/10.1093/cid/ciaa939/5867798}{have
    outlined the evidence in an open letter to the World Health
    Organization}.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{what-are-the-symptoms-of-coronavirus}{%
  \paragraph{What are the symptoms of
  coronavirus?}\label{what-are-the-symptoms-of-coronavirus}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Common symptoms
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/symptoms-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{include
    fever, a dry cough, fatigue and difficulty breathing or shortness of
    breath.} Some of these symptoms overlap with those of the flu,
    making detection difficult, but runny noses and stuffy sinuses are
    less common.
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/27/health/coronavirus-symptoms-cdc.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{The
    C.D.C. has also} added chills, muscle pain, sore throat, headache
    and a new loss of the sense of taste or smell as symptoms to look
    out for. Most people fall ill five to seven days after exposure, but
    symptoms may appear in as few as two days or as many as 14 days.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{does-asymptomatic-transmission-of-covid-19-happen}{%
  \paragraph{Does asymptomatic transmission of Covid-19
  happen?}\label{does-asymptomatic-transmission-of-covid-19-happen}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    So far, the evidence seems to show it does. A widely cited
    \href{https://www.nature.com/articles/s41591-020-0869-5}{paper}
    published in April suggests that people are most infectious about
    two days before the onset of coronavirus symptoms and estimated that
    44 percent of new infections were a result of transmission from
    people who were not yet showing symptoms. Recently, a top expert at
    the World Health Organization stated that transmission of the
    coronavirus by people who did not have symptoms was ``very rare,''
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/09/world/coronavirus-updates.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq\#link-1f302e21}{but
    she later walked back that statement.}
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

In the past, he also worked for a company with extensive dealings in
China, which has become a target of the president's criticism during the
pandemic. Mr. Trump and others have questioned whether China did enough
to contain the coronavirus and assist other countries in controlling its
spread.

The company, Brii Biosciences, where Dr. Slaoui was an adviser until
Friday, has ties to China's top business leadership.

The company's high-profile list of investors includes Boyu Capital, the
private equity firm where Jiang Zhicheng, the grandson of the former
Chinese president Jiang Zemin, was a partner until January of this year,
according to corporate filings. Sequoia Capital and Yunfeng Capital, the
private equity fund of Jack Ma, the co-founder of Alibaba, are also
investors.

In April, Brii, which has offices in Durham, N.C.,
\href{https://www.briibio.com/news/45.html}{announced a partnership}and
licensing deal over its Covid antibody research with Tsinghua University
and the 3rd People's Hospital of Shenzhen.

In a statement, Brii said Dr. Slaoui ``received compensation consistent
with his service'' and left with ``a small amount of stock options.''
The company added that Dr. Slaoui was not involved in Brii's coronavirus
work in China.

Dr. Slaoui said he would resign from the boards of Clasado and Artizan
Biosciences, both companies that work on treatments for intestinal
problems. He said he would remain on the board of SutroVax, which
recently raised \$110 million from investors and is developing vaccines
for pneumonia. He will also continue on the boards of Divide \& Conquer,
and Monopteros, which work on cancer treatments.

At his first appearance in the White House Rose Garden, Dr. Slaoui
divulged that he had ``recently seen early data from a clinical trial
with a coronavirus vaccine, and these data made me feel even more
confident that we will be able to deliver a few hundred million doses of
vaccine'' --- enough to inoculate much of the United States --- ``by the
end of 2020.''

While he did not mention Moderna specifically, the company did release
partial data the following Monday morning, saying that its vaccine
candidate appeared safe and had provoked an immune response in eight of
45 people.

Some researchers and ethicists criticized the company's decision to
publicize only a piece of a study that had not been published in a
peer-reviewed journal. The National Institute of Allergy and Infectious
Diseases, the agency led by Dr. Anthony Fauci and Moderna's partner on
the vaccine, has not commented.

Moderna has yet to produce any successful vaccine and has a lot riding
on its Covid-19 project. Its technology, which uses genetic material
from the virus called mRNA, is relatively new and unproven. And many
vaccine candidates fail after showing preliminary promise, or cause
serious side effects in later human trials.

By late Monday, Moderna kicked off
\href{https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20200518005788/en/Moderna-Announces-Pricing-Public-Offering-Shares-Common}{a
big stock offering i}n which it hopes to raise \$1.34 billion with the
sale of 17.6 million shares. The company, which expected to close the
offering on Thursday, is looking to raise capital to help bankroll
vaccine development.

The company went public in 2018 with a \$600 million initial public
offering, the biggest to date for a biotech company. Its board includes
several members of venture capital firms --- Flagship Pioneering and
General Catalyst. Flagship was one of the early backers of Moderna and
owns 17 percent of its stock. Another large shareholder is the pharma
company AstraZeneca. Until late last year, the big hedge fund Viking
Global was a sizable investor in Moderna, but it slashed its holdings at
the end of 2019, according to regulatory filings.

Moderna's chief executive, Stéphane Bancel, owns 8.7 percent of
outstanding stock and last year received a compensation package worth
\$8.9 million.

The company has approval to begin a second-phase trial involving 600
people, and said it was moving on an accelerated timetable to begin the
third phase in July with thousands of people.

Many public health experts continue to say it is unlikely that a vaccine
will be ready for mass production before next year.

Cao Li contributed research.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
