Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/world/europe}{Europe}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/world/europe}{Europe}\textbar{}`Life Has to Go On': How
Sweden Has Faced the Virus Without a Lockdown

\url{https://nyti.ms/2VMYIN8}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{the-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=41cc07d0-f4c0-11ea-b745-fdde6a7fe5f7\&variant=undefined}{The
Coronavirus
Outbreak}}{The Coronavirus Outbreak}}\label{the-coronavirus-outbreak}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  live\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/11/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=41cccb20-f4c0-11ea-b745-fdde6a7fe5f7\&variant=undefined}{Latest
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=41ccf230-f4c0-11ea-b745-fdde6a7fe5f7\&variant=undefined}{Maps
  and Cases}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=41ccf231-f4c0-11ea-b745-fdde6a7fe5f7\&variant=undefined}{Vaccine
  Tracker}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/10/us/politics/fda-coronavirus-vaccine.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=41ccf232-f4c0-11ea-b745-fdde6a7fe5f7\&variant=undefined}{F.D.A.
  Regulators' Self-Defense}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/09/upshot/coronavirus-surprise-test-fees.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=41ccf233-f4c0-11ea-b745-fdde6a7fe5f7\&variant=undefined}{Surprise
  Test Fees}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{life-has-to-go-on-how-sweden-has-faced-the-virus-without-a-lockdown}{%
\section{`Life Has to Go On': How Sweden Has Faced the Virus Without a
Lockdown}\label{life-has-to-go-on-how-sweden-has-faced-the-virus-without-a-lockdown}}

The country was an outlier in Europe, trusting its people to voluntarily
follow the protocols. Many haven't, but it does not seem to have hurt
them.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/04/27/world/00virus-sweden1/merlin_171953613_bb296f3a-9879-4c73-8687-81b750b7838c-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/thomas-erdbrink}{Thomas
Erdbrink} and Christina Anderson

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Published April 28, 2020Updated July 8, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

STOCKHOLM --- She stood leaning on her cane, briefly resting among
dozens of bubbly young Swedes out enjoying one of the first sunny spring
days of the year.

``I'm trying not to get too close to people,'' said Birgit Lilja, 82,
explaining that she had left her house to pick up a new identity card in
person. ``But I trust them to be careful with me.''

Trust is high in
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/22/world/europe/sweden-coronavirus-pariah-scandinavia.html}{Sweden}
--- in government, institutions and fellow Swedes. When the government
defied conventional wisdom and refused to order a wholesale lockdown to
``flatten the curve'' of the coronavirus epidemic, public health
officials pointed to trust as a central justification.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/28/world/europe/sweden-coronavirus.html}{Swedes,
they said, could be trusted} to stay home, follow social distancing
protocols and wash their hands to slow the spread of the virus ---
without any mandatory orders. And, to a large extent, Sweden does seem
to have been as successful in controlling the virus as most other
nations.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/04/27/world/00virus-sweden2/merlin_171953643_f7243022-9b9c-494e-9f53-ed424d8e3a71-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Sweden's death rate of 22 per 100,000 people is the same as that of
Ireland, which has
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/11/world/europe/ireland-leo-varadkar-coronavirus.html}{earned
accolades} for its handling of the pandemic, and far better than in
Britain or France.

Yet, on this warm spring day, at least, there was little evidence that
people were observing the protocols --- adding further mystery to
Sweden's apparent success in handling the scourge without an
economically devastating lockdown.

All around Ms. Lilja along Skanegatan Street in the Sodermalm
neighborhood of Stockholm, younger Swedes thronged bars, restaurants and
a crowded park last week, drinking in the sun.

They laughed and basked in freedoms considered normal in most parts of
the world not long ago, before coronavirus lockdowns, quarantines and
mass restrictions upended social norms. As other nations in Europe begin
to consider reopening their economies, Sweden's experience would seem to
argue for less caution, not more.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-the-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/11/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: The Coronavirus
Outbreak}}{Latest Updates: The Coronavirus Outbreak}}\label{latest-updates-the-coronavirus-outbreak}}

Updated 2020-09-12T06:16:33.399Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/11/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-dfb8a16}{Fauci
  cautions the virus could disrupt life in the U.S. until `maybe even
  towards the end of 2021.'}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/11/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-7104d154}{From
  Asia to Africa, China promotes its vaccine candidates to win friends.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/11/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-393ad215}{The
  other way the virus will kill: hunger.}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/11/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

More live coverage:
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/11/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Markets}

``My respect for those who died, but we are doing something right here
in Sweden,'' said Johan Mattsson, 44, as he was having a drink at a cafe
on Skanegatan Street.

The restaurant consultant praised the freedoms he had in Sweden compared
to other countries. ``I'm not seeing very different statistics in many
other countries,'' he said. ``I'm happy we didn't go into lockdown. Life
has to go on.''

Image

Diners at a restaurant in Stureplan, Stockholm, on
Friday.~Credit...Andres Kudacki for The New York Times

While other countries were slamming on the brakes, Sweden kept its
borders open, allowed restaurants and bars to keep serving, left
preschools and grade schools in session and placed no limits on public
transport or outings in local parks. Hairdressers, yoga studios, gyms
and even some cinemas have remained open.

Gatherings of more than 50 people are banned. Museums have closed and
sporting events have been canceled. At the end of March, the authorities
banned visits to nursing homes.

That's roughly it. There are almost no fines, and police officers can
only ask people to oblige. Pedestrians wearing masks are generally
stared at as if they have just landed from Mars.

On Sunday, five restaurants were closed down for failing to observe
social distancing requirements. They were not fined, however, and will
be permitted to reopen after passing an inspection, Per Follin, the
regional medical officer with the Department of Communicable Disease
Control and Prevention, said.

Throughout the crisis Sweden has had enough intensive care units to deal
with Covid-19 patients, the minister of health and social affairs, Lena
Hallengren, said in an interview, referring to the disease caused by the
virus. ``We have 250 empty beds right now.''

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/04/21/world/coronavirus-missing-deaths.html}{A
compilation of mortality figures by The New York Times} found that many
countries were undercounting Covid-19 deaths by the thousands, while
Sweden reported just 400 more deaths than expected between March 9 and
April 19.

This is not to say that Sweden has escaped Covid-19's deadly
consequences entirely.

The
\href{https://www.folkhalsomyndigheten.se/smittskydd-beredskap/utbrott/aktuella-utbrott/covid-19/}{Swedish
Public Health Authority} has admitted that the country's seniors have
been hit hard, with the virus spreading through 75 percent of the 101
care homes in Stockholm. Employees of the homes complain of shortages of
personal protective equipment.

Image

Students in Stockholm celebrating the completion of their secondary
education last week. Gatherings of more than 50 are
banned.Credit...Andres Kudacki for The New York Times

The authority announced last week that more than 26 percent of the 2
million inhabitants of Stockholm will have been infected by May 1. But
even that figure was presented as something of a win: a number of
infections that might limit future outbreaks, reached without suffering
an inordinate number of deaths.

The freer approach has not fully insulated Sweden's economy, mainly
because the country is dependent on exports, the minister of finance,
Magdalena Andersson, said. She said the economy was likely to shrink by
7 percent this year, ``but of course hairdressers, restaurants and
hotels are less affected compared to other countries.''

From the first signs of the pandemic, the Swedish Public Health
Authority decided that a lockdown would be pointless. ``Once you get
into a lockdown, it's difficult to get out of it,'' the country's state
epidemiologist, Anders Tegnell, said. ``How do you reopen? When?''

Scientists like Mr. Tegnell, who has become something of a celebrity in
Sweden, and not politicians have driven the debate over the coronavirus
response.

Political leaders rarely attend news conferences about the virus, and
the Swedish Constitution prevents the government from meddling in the
affairs of independent administrative authorities, such as the Public
Health Authority.

While there was some early talk in Sweden of achieving ``herd
immunity,'' which would mean infecting at least 60 percent of the
population, Mr. Tegnell denies that was ever the government's policy.

Image

Sun tanning at Sickla beach in Nacka, on the outskirts of
Stockholm.Credit...Andres Kudacki for The New York Times

``Basically we are trying to do the same thing that most countries are
doing --- slow down the spread as much as possible,'' he said. ``It's
just that we use slightly different tools than many other countries.''

When responses are assessed after the crisis, Mr. Tegnell acknowledges,
Sweden will have to face its broad failing with people over the age of
70, who have accounted for a staggering 86 percent of the country's
2,194 fatalities to date.

That percentage is roughly on par with most other countries, but some
critics here say the mortality rate among seniors could have been far
lower with adequate preparation. In a letter to one of Sweden's most
prominent newspapers, Dagens Nyheter,
\href{https://www.dn.se/debatt/folkhalsomyndigheten-har-misslyckats-nu-maste-politikerna-gripa-in/}{22
scientists} accused the Public Health Authority of negligence.

``They tell people, stay home, but they also keep the restaurants
open,'' said Lena Einhorn, a virologist and one of the signatories of
the letter. ``They are advising people working in elderly homes only to
wear masks when a patient is sick. Their policies are both ambiguous and
rigid.''

In the absence of recommendations from the Public Health Authority, a
Jewish care home near Stockholm unilaterally decided to ban visitors,
said Aviva Kraitsik, the head of operations, who asked that the
facility's name be withheld because of previous threats it has received.

Image

More than a quarter of Stockholm's~ inhabitants will have been infected
by May, public health officials said.Credit...Andres Kudacki for The New
York Times

The health authority even went so far as to order the ``no visitors''
signs removed. Ms. Kraitsik refused. ``I said they could put me behind
bars,'' she said. ``I was prepared to take my punishment to protect our
residents.''

But it was too late. The virus had already crept inside, and eventually
killed 11 of the 76 inhabitants.

It was only after the home required employees to wear face shields and
masks when working with all the residents, even those displaying no
symptoms, that it managed to halt the spread of the infection, Ms.
Kraitsik said.

The minister of health and social affairs, Ms. Hallengren, acknowledged
that there had been a shortage of protective gear, though she also noted
that ``many people in the health care sector for the elderly aren't used
to working with P.P.E.''

Image

Basking in the sun after a long winter. At least one person in Stockholm
was obeying social distancing rules.Credit...Andres Kudacki for The New
York Times

``They should have been able to prevent this,'' said Elisabeth Asbrink,
a writer and publicist who has been critical of the government's
approach. In recent years Sweden, like many other countries, has
transferred such homes from state to private control, she said, and the
level of care had suffered. ``This has not been good for the weak and
the elderly, especially now.''

Such thoughts were far from the minds of the dozens of graduating
students who gathered to celebrate Friday night in several bars on
Medborgarplatsen Square in Stockholm. They crowded around the bar,
hugging and kissing, and generally flouting the rules. The police made
no move to stop them.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
