\href{/section/business/economy}{Economy}\textbar{}`Sudden Black Hole'
for the Economy With Millions More Unemployed

\url{https://nyti.ms/2x6yprJ}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/news-event/coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{The
Coronavirus Outbreak}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  live\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/04/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Latest
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Maps
  and Cases}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Vaccine
  Tracker}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/02/us/covid-college-reopening.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{College
  Reopening}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/live/2020/08/03/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Economy}
\end{itemize}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/04/09/business/09virus-jobless6/09virus-jobless6-superJumbo.jpg}

Sections

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\hypertarget{sudden-black-hole-for-the-economy-with-millions-more-unemployed}{%
\section{`Sudden Black Hole' for the Economy With Millions More
Unemployed}\label{sudden-black-hole-for-the-economy-with-millions-more-unemployed}}

Jobless claims now exceed 16 million as shutdowns from the coronavirus
pandemic widen and problems with getting benefits persist.

Credit...

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/patricia-cohen}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/02/16/multimedia/author-patricia-cohen/author-patricia-cohen-thumbLarge.jpg}}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/tiffany-hsu}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/12/06/multimedia/author-tiffany-hsu/author-tiffany-hsu-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/patricia-cohen}{Patricia Cohen} and
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/tiffany-hsu}{Tiffany Hsu}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Published April 9, 2020Updated May 28, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

With the coronavirus outbreak shutting businesses in every state, fresh
evidence of the economic devastation was delivered Thursday as a
government report showed that 6.6 million more
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/self-employed-workers-unemployment-coronavirus-stimulus-package.html}{workers}
had lost their jobs.

The \href{https://www.dol.gov/ui/data.pdf}{Labor Department
announcement}, reflecting last week's filings for
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/23/business/economy/unemployment-benefits.html}{unemployment
benefits}, meant that more than 16 million people had been put out of
work in just three weeks, an unheard-of figure. Two years of job losses
from the last recession produced barely half that total.

Many economists say the actual job losses so far are almost certainly
greater, and there is wide agreement that they will continue to mount.

It's as if ``the economy as a whole has fallen into some sudden black
hole,'' said Kathy Bostjancic, chief U.S. financial economist at Oxford
Economics.

The Federal Reserve
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/15/business/economy/federal-reserve-coronavirus.html}{redoubled
its effort} to break that fall on Thursday with an ambitious plan to
help companies and state and local governments gain access to funding.
The Fed said its new and expanded programs could pump \$2.3 trillion
into the economy.

The central bank's intervention was welcomed in financial markets, with
the S\&P 500 stock index ending the day with a gain of almost 1.5
percent.

But additional relief from Washington
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/04/09/us/politics/congress-coronavirus-small-businesses.html}{hit
a Senate roadblock} over what to include. Republicans have proposed
\$250 billion to replenish a loan program for distressed small
businesses, while Democrats want \$250 billion more to assist hospitals
and state and local governments dealing with coronavirus-related
expenses and revenue shortfalls.

What it will take to stabilize the economy is no more than guesswork,
many analysts say. The purposeful and sudden halt in economic activity
has no precedent, and no one knows when the restrictions on movement and
commerce enacted to slow infections will be lifted.

6

million

16,780,000

5

Claims were filed in

the last three weeks

4

Initial jobless claims, per week

Seasonally adjusted

3

2

RECESSION

1

0

'04

'08

'09

'12

'16

'20

6

million

16,780,000

5

Claims were filed in

the last three weeks

4

3

RECESSION

2

Initial jobless claims, per week

Seasonally adjusted

1

0

'04

'08

'09

'12

'16

'20

16,780,000

6

million

Claims were filed in

the last three weeks

5

Initial jobless claims, per week

4

Seasonally adjusted

3

RECESSION

2

1

0

'04

'08

'09

'12

'16

'20

16,780,000

6

million

Claims were filed in

the last three weeks

5

4

3

RECESSION

2

Initial jobless claims, per week

Seasonally adjusted

1

0

'04

'08

'09

'12

'16

'20

Source: Department of Labor

By The New York Times

Several economists expect that by the end of the month, more than 20
million people will have been thrown out of work, pushing the
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/04/16/business/economy/unemployment-numbers-coronavirus.html}{unemployment
rate} toward 15 percent. In February, it was 3.5 percent, a result of
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/04/03/business/economy/coronavirus-jobs-report.html}{113
straight months of job growth}.

The country's gross domestic product, the broadest measure of the goods
and services produced, could fall this quarter at an annual rate of as
much as 35 percent from the preceding three months.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-economy}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes.com/live/2020/08/03/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates:
Economy}}{Latest Updates: Economy}}\label{latest-updates-economy}}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/live/2020/08/03/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#the-chicago-fed-president-says-its-up-to-congress-to-save-the-economy}{13h
ago}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/live/2020/08/03/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#the-chicago-fed-president-says-its-up-to-congress-to-save-the-economy}{The
Chicago Fed president says it's up to Congress to save the economy.}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/live/2020/08/03/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#faa-says-boeing-has-effectively-mitigated-defects-in-the-737-max}{14h
ago}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/live/2020/08/03/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#faa-says-boeing-has-effectively-mitigated-defects-in-the-737-max}{F.A.A.
says Boeing has `effectively mitigated' defects in the 737 Max.}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/live/2020/08/03/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#small-businesses-got-emergency-loans-but-not-what-they-expected}{16h
ago}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/live/2020/08/03/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#small-businesses-got-emergency-loans-but-not-what-they-expected}{Small
businesses got emergency loans, but not what they expected.}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/live/2020/08/03/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

More live coverage:
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/04/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Global}

It is clear that this quarter will be ``really terrible,'' Ms.
Bostjancic said. ``We just don't know the degree of terribleness.''

Despite feverish efforts in many states to expand staffing and upgrade
technological capacity,
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/04/16/us/california-unemployment-edd-coronavirus.html}{unemployment}
offices have been vastly overpowered by demand. Applicants in several of
the hardest-hit places, like New York and California, say they've made
dozens of attempts --- even hundreds --- to get through online or by
telephone. Some have still not succeeded.

Kendall Clark, an information technology recruiter in The Woodlands,
Texas, said she had not managed to file despite more than 1,200
attempts, some at 1 a.m.

``I'm stuck, I'm frustrated, and I don't really know where to go from
here,'' said Ms. Clark, who lives with her husband and two sons. ``The
plan is that we don't pay some bills, but pay the mortgage so we don't
lose the house.''

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/04/09/business/09virus-jobless1/09virus-jobless1-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Although
\href{https://oui.doleta.gov/unemploy/pdf/uilawcompar/2019/complete.pdf}{each
state sets} the level and duration of its unemployment benefits, the
federal \$2 trillion emergency relief act passed two weeks ago expanded
the program, widening eligibility and extending the period for
compensation.

Those payments will be crucial in helping families survive the crisis,
said
\href{https://www.frbsf.org/economic-research/economists/robert-valletta/}{Robert
G. Valletta}, senior vice president and associate director of research
at the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco.

``It's exactly the kind of bridge that we need to make sure people are
able to maintain some level of household stability and come out of this
without complete devastation,'' he said. Once the epidemic recedes, the
hope is that many laid-off workers will be rehired.

Even with a check from the government, though, covering bills can be a
struggle.

Lyn Douglass and her husband, William Hickey, who live in the Los
Angeles neighborhood of North Hollywood, are feeling the pinch, even
though California has relatively generous unemployment benefits.

Mr. Hickey, 40, who worked at an events planning company for the past 14
years, was furloughed at the end of March and has no idea when he will
get his job back. ``I'm in a bit of a limbo state right now,'' he said.
``It's terrifying.''

Ms. Douglass, a casting producer and a wedding videographer, said her
work started to dry up a few weeks earlier. Now nearly all of her spring
gigs have been canceled.

They filed unemployment claims and have started receiving benefits, but
said they had lost 75 percent of their average income. The state's
benefits can replace 60 to 70 percent of wages up to a maximum of \$450,
but, Ms. Douglass said, ``it's gotten to be so financially dire, I'm
going to have to sell some of my cameras to pay rent.''

Image

Lyn Douglass and William Hickey said that even with unemployment
benefits they had lost 75 percent of their average
income.Credit...Patrick T. Fallon for The New York Times

The couple spent a day calling creditors asking for more lenient payment
terms on their Target card, their cable bill and other expenses. Most
were understanding, they said.

``We have to prioritize what we're purchasing --- our cat food, our own
food,'' Ms. Douglass, 40, said. ``We would usually rent a movie on Vudu,
but now that's out the window. Every dime is important to us.''

More than 925,000 new claims were filed in California alone last week.
New York, Michigan, Florida, Georgia and Texas also saw big jumps in the
number of new applicants. Although the national figures are seasonally
adjusted, the state totals are not.

Getting money immediately into the hands of people who need it not only
helps households buy groceries and pay rent during an acute crisis but
also aids in the economy's recovery.

``That helps to keep establishments open and running,'' said Cathy
Barrera, founding economist of the Prysm Group, and that could help
prevent a short, sharp shock from turning into a prolonged slump after
the epidemic ebbs.

The government's relief package --- which includes low-interest loans
and grants for businesses, ready cash for individuals and expanded
unemployment insurance --- was enacted with that goal in mind.

Individuals should soon start receiving \$1,200 emergency assistance
checks. But Ms. Barrera worries that the expanded unemployment benefits
won't come through rapidly enough.

``I am concerned that the way this relief has been channeled through the
existing unemployment insurance system --- which can be difficult to
access in an expedient way --- can be causing us some problems,'' she
said.

Several states, including Connecticut, have
\href{https://www.stamfordadvocate.com/business/article/CT-governor-cites-5-week-DOL-delay-for-15169776.php}{warned
that checks could be delayed} up to five weeks because of the deluge.
Others, like Florida, start benefits only when a claim is filed,
regardless of the difficulties that applicants have had.

The new Pandemic Unemployment Assistance, for example, allows workers
who don't normally qualify --- like independent contractors, part-timers
and recent hires --- to receive weekly benefits.

But
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/04/08/business/economy/coronavirus-gig-unemployment.html}{like
many others}, Kandy Thomas, a self-employed dog trainer and animal
caregiver in Salt Lake City, found barriers to collecting. The state
website she checked said that ``these benefits are not yet available as
we are awaiting further guidance from the U.S. Department of Labor on
the process for implementing these programs.''

Image

``This is the first time in 20 years I've had to worry,'' said Kandy
Thomas, who runs a dog-training business.Credit...Lindsay D'Addato for
The New York Times

``There's nothing for someone like me,'' Ms. Thomas said. ``As soon as
you say you're self-employed, you're done.''

Ms. Thomas, who lives with three rescue dogs and has five chickens, said
she usually earned \$5,000 to \$6,000 a month and sometimes as much as
\$10,000. She was booked solid during the spring and had to turn some
clients away, she said, but over three days last month, everyone
canceled. She has no money coming in now.

``This is the first time in 20 years I've had to worry,'' she said. ``I
was like, oh, my God, my whole world's falling apart. The first week, I
was a mess. I was so depressed, so sickened. But you can't worry about
what you can't control. I'm strong, and I always have been.''

Normally,
\href{https://www.cbpp.org/research/economy/policy-basics-how-many-weeks-of-unemployment-compensation-are-available}{most
states offer roughly half of a worker's previous wage} for up to 26
weeks of unemployment, but the benefits can
\href{https://oui.doleta.gov/unemploy/content/sigpros/2020-2029/January2020.pdf}{vary
widely among states}.

At the end of 2019, the average weekly benefit in Mississippi was \$215,
and just 9 percent of
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/04/16/business/economy/unemployment-numbers-coronavirus.html}{unemployed}
workers there were eligible to receive any payments, according to a
\href{https://www.brookings.edu/blog/up-front/2020/04/07/how-does-unemployment-insurance-work-and-how-is-it-changing-during-the-coronavirus-pandemic/}{Brookings
Institution analysis}. In Massachusetts, the average weekly benefit was
\$550, and 57 percent of jobless workers qualified.

In Florida and North Carolina, benefits last for only 12 weeks.

Under the new federal law, jobless workers will get an additional \$600
each week through July. They will also be able to receive benefits for
an additional 13 weeks.

Many states have yet to send out the \$600 supplement. New York started
issuing the additional money this week. The Texas Workforce Commission
is working to start the payments by Sunday, a spokesman said. Other
states estimate longer delays.

In Utah, Ms. Thomas said she was not counting on receiving any jobless
benefits, but plans to use the \$1,200 stimulus check --- when she
receives it --- to help cover some bills, including her business and
health insurance.

``Thank God for my chickens,'' she said. ``They've been giving me eggs
when I can't find any in the store.''

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
