Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/sports}{Sports}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/sports}{Sports}\textbar{}The N.B.A. and China Are Showing
Signs of Reconciliation

\url{https://nyti.ms/2OUj5nE}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{the-nba-and-china-are-showing-signs-of-reconciliation}{%
\section{The N.B.A. and China Are Showing Signs of
Reconciliation}\label{the-nba-and-china-are-showing-signs-of-reconciliation}}

They have been at odds since October, but the tension related to
protests in Hong Kong is showing faint signs of easing as the N.B.A.
honors its All-Stars.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/02/14/sports/14nba-china-lede/merlin_163158933_7f2ea54f-4ac0-4029-87f8-60657f5f8757-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/sopan-deb}{Sopan Deb}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Published Feb. 14, 2020Updated Feb. 19, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

The day after Kobe Bryant died, the Chinese ambassador to the United
States, Cui Tiankai,
\href{https://twitter.com/AmbCuiTiankai/status/1221869773828567040?s=20}{posted
a statement on Twitter}: ``Saddened by the tragic loss of \#KobeBryant.
An inspiration for many and a legend of his generation, he will always
be remembered for his contribution to the world of sport and to
\#ChinaUS people-to-people exchanges.''

Though Bryant was a huge star in the country ---
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/01/28/sports/basketball/kobe-NBA-global.html}{even
the most popular sports figure, for awhile} --- the ambassador's message
was notable. China and the N.B.A. have been on the outs
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/10/06/sports/daryl-morey-rockets-china.html}{since
October}, when Daryl Morey, the general manager of the Houston Rockets,
shared an image on Twitter that showed support for the pro-democracy
protesters in Hong Kong. This roiled the Chinese government and
instantly derailed decades of league efforts to court the country's
sizable basketball audience, initiating a conflict at the rare
intersection of sports, domestic politics, corporate profits and
international relations.

Four months later, China is grappling with the coronavirus that has
sickened thousands of its people and disrupted the economy, and as the
N.B.A. embarks on its signature All-Star weekend, in Chicago, there are
signs that tension between the two sides has begun to dissipate, even
beyond the tweet from Cui.

``Right now, our focus is on working with global health organizations to
provide whatever assistance we can to the people of China in response to
the coronavirus outbreak,'' N.B.A. Commissioner Adam Silver told The New
York Times on Thursday in an emailed statement. ``Many of our Chinese
partners were unable to attend our N.B.A. All-Star events because of
travel restrictions, but all of the weekend's events will be carried in
China on Tencent.''

This, too, is notable. Tencent, the Chinese streaming network, after
initially stopping its coverage, has been showing up to three games a
night. China's state-run television network, China Central Television,
canceled its broadcasts of the preseason games between the Los Angeles
Lakers and the Nets and several other related league events in the
aftermath of Morey's tweet. Silver, at a live event soon after, said the
Chinese government had demanded that Morey be fired ---
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/10/17/sports/basketball/nba-china-adam-silver.html}{but
he immediately said no}. The N.B.A. has not been back on CCTV since.

There are those around the league who believe there is a chance that
CCTV airs the N.B.A. All-Star Game --- and more games after that. Joe
Tsai, the co-founder of the Chinese e-commerce conglomerate Alibaba and
owner of the Nets,
\href{https://www.bloomberg.com/news/features/2020-01-22/nets-owner-joe-tsai-on-brooklyn-beijing-the-hong-kong-protests}{recently
told Bloomberg}, ``Once you're on the air, everything will come back.''
(Tsai declined to comment.)

At the time of the initial controversy, Yao Ming, the former Rockets
great and chairman of the Chinese Basketball Association, was described
as ``extremely hot''
\href{https://apnews.com/aba5856440624249962f0606602e5098}{by Silver
over the situation}. But he
\href{https://www.nba.com/article/2020/01/21/david-stern-memorial-service-story}{traveled
to the United States last month} to attend a memorial service for David
Stern, the former commissioner of the N.B.A. Silver and Yao spoke at the
memorial, according to a source familiar with the discussion who was not
authorized to disclose it publicly. Last week, Huang Ping, the Chinese
consul general,
\href{https://www.scmp.com/news/china/diplomacy/article/3049014/coronavirus-chinese-consul-general-new-york-thanks-nba-its}{thanked
the league at a media briefing} in New York for donating \$1.4 million
to the Hubei Province, the center of the coronavirus, to help fight its
spread. Several N.B.A. teams
\href{https://www.nba.com/nets/news/2020/01/28/brooklyn-nets-host-chinese-culture-night-wednesday-jan-29-barclays-center}{marked
the Chinese New Year} with promotions at their arenas, as they have in
other years.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/02/14/sports/14nba-china-body/merlin_106803116_3ecf8890-826d-4027-ba40-55d3f159ed38-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

While the protests in Hong Kong remain a hot button topic in China, as
the reaction to Morey showed, Kristen Looney, an assistant professor of
Asian studies and government at Georgetown University, said China could
choose to move on as if nothing happened.

``They do that occasionally. It's big business for them too, having the
N.B.A. in China,'' Looney said. ``Hundreds of millions of people watch
basketball in China --- and I know they're unhappy with lack of access.
But I doubt anything happens during this N.B.A. season, unless the
government decides that bringing the game back would be a welcome
distraction from the public health crisis.''

The stakes are high for the league. Since 2004, the N.B.A. has played 28
games in China. Star players travel every year for promotional tours.
Shoe sales are a major source of revenue for manufacturers. There are
more basketball fans in China, a country with 1.4 billion residents,
than in the U.S., which has a population of 330 million. The league
maintains its business in China with about 200 employees in offices in
Shanghai, Beijing, and Hong Kong. It also has an office in Taiwan, the
democratic island claimed by Beijing that has asserted its independence
from China.

``I see it as something that's going to take time,'' said Todd Ramasar,
an N.B.A. agent with overseas clients who has also negotiated deals in
China. ``I don't think it's something as simple as saying this is
centered around the N.B.A. This is much bigger than that.''

The timing of the All-Star game, on Sunday, may be a stroke of good luck
for the N.B.A. because of the larger domestic politics involved. On
Friday, the first phase of the trade deal
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/01/15/business/economy/china-trade-deal.html}{struck
last month} between China and the U.S.
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/01/15/business/economy/china-trade-deal-text.html}{will
take effect}, signaling the warmest point in the relationship between
the two countries since President Trump took office.

Earlier this month, at his
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/02/05/us/politics/state-of-union-transcript.html}{State
of the Union} speech, Trump said, ``We have perhaps the best
relationship we've ever had with China, including with President Xi,''
referring to China's leader, Xi Jinping. On Feb. 7, Trump
\href{https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/1225728755248828416}{praised
Xi for the Chinese government's} response to the coronavirus.

But there is also mixed messaging --- an indication of the often fraught
relationship between the two countries. At the end of January, Secretary
of State Mike Pompeo
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/01/30/world/europe/pompeo-uk-china-huawei.html}{called
the ruling party} in China the ``the central threat of our times.''

It is unclear what the business impact of the China fallout has been for
the N.B.A. One indicator is the league's salary cap, the amount that
each team can spend on player contracts each season. It is determined by
the amount of basketball related income the N.B.A. takes in. Next
season, it is projected to be \$116 million, an increase from \$109.1
million this season,
\href{https://twitter.com/wojespn/status/1222991117869887490?s=20}{according
to ESPN} --- an indication that the league is in a healthy place.
However, projections can change. And China is one of several external
revenue streams.

Image

Yao Ming, center, spent nine years with the Houston Rockets, a pairing
that established a strong connection between Chinese basketball fans and
the team that extended beyond his career.Credit...Andrej Cukic/EPA, via
Shutterstock

There are also critics in America who believe that the league should
limit its dealings with an authoritarian government.

At home, the N.B.A. faced blowback from politicians all over the
spectrum following Morey's Twitter post, which read ``Fight for Freedom.
Stand with Hong Kong.'' The critics, including many Democratic
presidential candidates and their ideological foes, like Senator Ted
Cruz of Texas, accused the N.B.A. of capitulating to a repressive regime
to increase its bottom line. The league said at the time that the anger
from the Chinese mainland was ``regrettable'' and Morey had ``deeply
offended many of our friends and fans in China.'' The Chinese version of
the statement read differently and said that the league was ``extremely
disappointed in the inappropriate comment'' by Morey. Morey has not
spoken about the issue publicly since a follow-up
\href{https://twitter.com/dmorey/status/1181000808399114240?ref_src=twsrc\%5Etfw\%7Ctwcamp\%5Etweetembed\%7Ctwterm\%5E1181000808399114240\&ref_url=https\%3A\%2F\%2Fwww.nytimes.com\%2F2019\%2F10\%2F06\%2Fsports\%2Fdaryl-morey-rockets-china.html}{statement
in which} he said he did not mean to ``cause any offense.'' He declined
to comment for this article.

In the months since, the United States has had to confront the fact that
many businesses have interests in China. Bob Iger, the chief executive
officer of Disney, said at a conference in October
\href{https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2019-10-23/disney-s-iger-says-he-won-t-take-position-on-hong-kong-protests}{that
he would not criticize} China's handling of the Hong Kong protesters
because ``to take a position that could harm our company in some form
would be a big mistake. I just don't believe it's something we should
engage in a public manner.'' The comments went unmentioned by many of
the same politicians who blasted the N.B.A.

Silver has also made clear that he would like the league to make amends
with China, regardless of the optics of doing business with an
oppressive regime. Mike Bass, an N.B.A. spokesman, said the league has
``no plans to stop distributing our games in China.''

``We continue to believe in the unique power of sports to bring people
together across cultures,'' Bass said.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
