Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}Will You Have Enough Time to
Vote by Mail in Your State?

\url{https://nyti.ms/2DjidXa}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/12/us/politics/biden-trump-poll-wisconsin-minnesota.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{New
  York Times Poll}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/election-states-biden-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Paths
  to 270}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/us/elections/2020-presidential-election-calendar.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Voting
  Deadlines}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/31/us/politics/vote-by-mail-deadlines.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Voting
  by Mail}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Politics
  Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{comments}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{commentsContainer}{Comments}}{Comments}}\label{comments}}

\href{}{Will You Have Enough Time to Vote by Mail in Your
State?}\href{}{Skip to Comments}

The comments section is closed. To submit a letter to the editor for
publication, write to
\href{mailto:letters@NYTimes.com}{\nolinkurl{letters@NYTimes.com}}.

\hypertarget{will-you-have-enough-time-to-vote-by-mail-in-your-state}{%
\section{Will You Have Enough Time to Vote by Mail in Your
State?}\label{will-you-have-enough-time-to-vote-by-mail-in-your-state}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/larry-buchanan}{Larry
Buchanan},
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/lazaro-gamio}{Lazaro Gamio}
and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/alicia-parlapiano}{Alicia
Parlapiano}Aug. 31, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
  \emph{183}
\end{itemize}

Yes, but it's risky to procrastinate.

In 35 states, voters can request ballots so close to Election Day that
it may not be feasible for their ballots to be mailed to them and sent
back to election officials in time to be counted.

16 states

19 states

6 states

9 states + D.C.

Do not allow enough

time for last-minute

voting by mail

Might allow enough

time for last-minute

voting by mail

Allow enough time

for last-minute

voting by mail

Send ballots to

most voters

automatically

\textless{} 3 days

\textless{} 3 days

3+ days

3+ days

7+ days

7+ days

7+ days

7+ days

Last day

to request

Voter gets

ballot

Ballot must

arrive

Last day

to request

Voter gets

ballot

Ballot must

arrive

Last day

to request

Voter gets

ballot

Ballot must

arrive

Ballots

mailed

Voter gets

ballot

Ballot must

arrive

16 states

19 states

6 states

9 states + D.C.

Do not allow enough

time for last-minute

voting by mail

Might allow enough

time for last-minute

voting by mail

Allow enough time

for last-minute

voting by mail

Send ballots to

most voters

automatically

\textless{} 3 days

\textless{} 3 days

3+ days

3+ days

7+ days

7+ days

7+ days

7+ days

Last day

to request

Voter gets

ballot

Ballot must

arrive

Last day

to request

Voter gets

ballot

Ballot must

arrive

Last day

to request

Voter gets

ballot

Ballot must

arrive

Ballots

mailed

Voter gets

ballot

Ballot must

arrive

16 states

19 states

Do not allow enough time for

last-minute voting by mail

Might allow enough time for

last-minute voting by mail

\textless{} 3 days

\textless{} 3 days

3+ days

3+ days

Last day

to request

Voter gets

ballot

Ballot must

arrive

Last day

to request

Voter gets

ballot

Ballot must

arrive

6 states

9 states + D.C.

Allow enough time for

last-minute voting by mail

Send ballots to most

voters automatically

7+ days

7+ days

7+ days

7+ days

Last day

to request

Voter gets

ballot

Ballot must

arrive

Ballots

mailed

Voter gets

ballot

Ballot must

arrive

16 states

19 states

Do not allow enough time for

last-minute voting by mail

Might allow enough time for

last-minute voting by mail

\textless{} 3 days

\textless{} 3 days

3+ days

3+ days

Last day

to request

Voter gets

ballot

Ballot must

arrive

Last day

to request

Voter gets

ballot

Ballot must

arrive

6 states

9 states + D.C.

Allow enough time for

last-minute voting by mail

Send ballots to most

voters automatically

7+ days

7+ days

7+ days

7+ days

Last day

to request

Voter gets

ballot

Ballot must

arrive

Ballots

mailed

Voter gets

ballot

Ballot must

arrive

16 states

Do not allow enough time for

last-minute voting by mail

\textless{} 3 days

\textless{} 3 days

Last day

to request

Ballot must

arrive

Voter gets ballot

19 states

Might allow enough time for

last-minute voting by mail

3+ days

3+ days

6 states

Allow enough time for

last-minute voting by mail

7+ days

7+ days

9 states + D.C.

Send ballots to most

voters automatically

7+ days

7+ days

Ballots mailed*

Note: In every state, ballots are sent to overseas and military voters
at least 45 days before the election.·Sources: State boards of
elections; secretaries of state

In the 2018 midterm elections, more than a quarter of all rejected mail
ballots --- 114,000 votes --- were not counted because they were late.
But voters should have plenty of time to cast a ballot by mail in
November, as long as they don't wait until the last minute to request
one.

Most states begin sending ballots to voters more than a month before
Election Day. North Carolina, for example, will begin mailing ballots on
Sept. 4 --- a full 60 days before the general election. Alabama will
begin on Sept. 9, and Kentucky on Sept. 15.

Voting deadlines and other rules may still change, but here's the
current breakdown of how much time people have to vote by mail in each
state:

\hypertarget{16-states-do-not-allow-enough-time-for-last-minute-mail-voting}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{16 states \textbf{do not allow enough time}
for last-minute mail
voting}{16 states do not allow enough time for last-minute mail voting}}\label{16-states-do-not-allow-enough-time-for-last-minute-mail-voting}}

Note: Mississippi and North Dakota do not have deadlines for requesting
mail ballots.·Sources: State boards of elections; secretaries of state

The Postal Service has said that it is equipped to handle an
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/11/us/politics/vote-by-mail-us-states.html}{expected
surge in election mail}, which is projected to still be
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/20/upshot/coronavirus-election-mail-volume.html}{less
than the volume of mail sent during last year's Christmas holiday
season}. But
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/14/us/politics/usps-vote-mail.html}{it
warned states} that they need to allow a buffer of seven days each way
to ensure on-time delivery of ballots.

In most places, it probably won't take that long. In 2018,
\href{https://www.uspsoig.gov/sites/default/files/document-library-files/2019/19XG010NO000.pdf}{more
than 95 percent of election mail} arrived in one to three days --- a
standard that the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/reuters/2020/08/21/us/politics/21reuters-usa-election-post-office-senate.html}{current
postmaster general has committed} to for November, despite
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/15/us/post-office-vote-by-mail.html?action=click\&module=RelatedLinks\&pgtype=Article}{reports
of postal slowdowns} in some places.

But 16 states allow voters to apply for mail ballots so close to
Election Day that their votes could be at risk of being too late if they
are sent and returned through the Postal Service. Officials in these
places recommend applying for and sending in ballots early, or
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/17/us/politics/postal-service-voting.html}{dropping
them off} at local election offices or in secure drop boxes if
available.

In Minnesota, voters can request a ballot the day before the election,
too late to be mailed to them on time. But if voters request their
ballots early and postmark them by Election Day, they should arrive in
enough time to be counted. Montana has the same deadline for requesting
a ballot but does not accept those returned after the election.

``If you do not want to leave your house, you want to mail your ballot
back close to Election Day, and you're not in a state where a postmark
or other information matters,'' said Tammy Patrick, a senior adviser at
the Democracy Fund, ``you could encounter a challenge or an issue in
your vote being counted.''

\hypertarget{19-states-might-allow-enough-time-for-last-minute-mail-voting}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{19 states \textbf{might allow enough time}
for last-minute mail
voting}{19 states might allow enough time for last-minute mail voting}}\label{19-states-might-allow-enough-time-for-last-minute-mail-voting}}

*No estimate provided for when first ballots will be mailed out, or
dates vary by county.·Note: Some counties or states send out ballots out
as marketing mail, which has a three- to 10-day delivery standard and
costs less than first-class mail. Historically, this mail has been
treated similarly to first-class mail for elections, and the postmaster
general has indicated that will continue this year. Deadlines to request
ballots in Kentucky and Virginia are early enough to allow for a round
trip in the mail. But voters could risk being late if they wait until
postmark deadlines to return their ballots.·Sources: State boards of
elections; secretaries of state

These 19 states provide last-minute voters with windows of at least
three days for receiving ballots and three days for returning them ---
which is less than half the time the Postal Service recommends but
within the delivery target
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/reuters/2020/08/21/us/politics/21reuters-usa-election-post-office-senate.html}{promised
by the postmaster general}. But that's cutting it close, especially
because election officials also need time to process applications before
they mail the ballots.

Some states have pushed back against the Postal Service's recommendation
for seven-day windows each way. ``Idaho's absentee ballot request
deadline already provides sufficient time for ballots to be mailed to
the voter, marked by the voter, and returned by the voter,'' said Jason
Hancock, Idaho's deputy secretary of state, in an email. ``There is no
need for Idaho to make any changes.''

Officials in other states have had trouble changing their deadlines. In
Ohio, Secretary of State Frank LaRose pushed to move the deadline to
apply for mail ballots to an earlier date. But the legislature failed to
approve the proposal, so he is urging voters to send in their
applications early.

``If a voter is informed of a deadline set in state law, the fair
assumption is that it's a feasible one,''
\href{https://www.dispatch.com/opinion/20200727/column-time-is-running-out-for-crucial-ohio-election-law-fix}{Mr.
LaRose wrote in an op-ed}. ``In this case, it's not.''

\hypertarget{6-states-allow-enough-time-for-last-minute-mail-voting}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{6 states \textbf{allow enough time} for
last-minute mail
voting}{6 states allow enough time for last-minute mail voting}}\label{6-states-allow-enough-time-for-last-minute-mail-voting}}

*No estimate provided for when first ballots will be mailed out.·Note:
States shown have at least 14 days between ballot request deadlines and
return deadlines. But the U.S.P.S. has recommended a 15-day window to
leave time for officials to process applications.·Sources: State boards
of elections; secretaries of state

A handful of states should allow enough time for last-minute voters to
request and return ballots on time. Maryland
\href{https://www.elections.maryland.gov/press_room/documents/USPS\%20Statement.pdf}{moved
its application deadline} earlier by a week and is now allowing ballots
10 days to arrive if postmarked by Election Day.

Still, even if voters are able to successfully cast a ballot right at
their state's deadline, it doesn't mean they should. The message from
election experts echoes a phrase common in the early days of the
coronavirus outbreak: voting early will help ``flatten the curve'' of
election mail and allow plenty of time for officials to process an
unprecedented number of ballots.

Data from the presidential primaries in the four states below show large
spikes in ballots arriving right before or on Election Day. It will be a
challenge for small local elections offices to handle a flood of ballots
all at once in November, said Ms. Patrick of Democracy Fund, who
previously was an election official in Arizona.

20\%

When election offices received mail ballots

15\%

Georgia

Indiana

Washington

Maine

At least 5,000 ballots that were returned and received after election
day were not counted.

A quarter of ballots were received the day before or on Election Day.

More ballots arrived the day after Election Day than on it.

10\% of mail ballots

5\%

60 days before

election

Election

Day

60

30

Election

Day

60

30

Election

Day

60

30

Election

Day

When election offices received mail ballots

Georgia

10\% of mail ballots

5\%

60 days before

election

Election

Day

Indiana

10\%

At least 5,000 ballots that were returned and received after election
day were not counted.

5\%

60

30

Election

Day

Washington

10\%

More ballots arrived the day after Election Day than on it.

5\%

60

30

Election

Day

20\%

15\%

Maine

A quarter of ballots were received the day before or on Election Day.

60

30

Election

Day

In Washington State, ballots can be postmarked by Election Day and still
be counted.·Sources: State boards of elections; secretaries of state

Another benefit of returning a ballot early: many states allow voters to
fix, or ``cure,'' their ballots if they are rejected for problems like a
missing signature or a signature that does not match one on file. But
officials would need time to notify voters of mistakes, and fixes often
need to be made by Election Day or shortly after.

\hypertarget{9-states-and-dc-will-send-ballots-to-most-voters-automatically}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{9 states and D.C. \textbf{will send ballots
to most voters}
automatically}{9 states and D.C. will send ballots to most voters automatically}}\label{9-states-and-dc-will-send-ballots-to-most-voters-automatically}}

Note: Most of these states were given narrow warnings by the Postal
Service because they allow new registrations or address changes close to
Election Day. Nevada and Oregon were found to allow sufficient time for
such voters. Some Utah counties will accept ballots that arrive 14 days
after the election if postmarked by the day before the election. Vermont
will accept ballots on Election Day if returned to a polling
place.·Sources: State boards of elections; secretaries of state

In states with all-mail elections, there is a lower risk for voters who
procrastinate. While they do have to worry about returning their ballots
on time, they generally do not have to request them. Nine states, and
the District of Columbia, plan to send every registered voter, or every
active registered voter, a ballot for the November election.

President Trump's re-election campaign has filed lawsuits in several
states that have expanded mail voting,
\href{https://www.courtlistener.com/recap/gov.uscourts.njd.442794/gov.uscourts.njd.442794.1.0.pdf}{including
New Jersey}, where the Democratic governor issued an executive order
that
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/14/nyregion/nj-vote-by-mail-election.html}{all
active registered voters would receive a ballot}. The president has
intensified his
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/31/us/politics/trump-usps-mail-delays.html}{criticisms
of the Postal Service} and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/mail-in-vote-fraud-ballot.html}{continued
to make false accusations} about the risks of voting by mail.

Officials in some states conducting all-mail elections have taken issue
with the president's message.

``Politicizing these administrative processes is dangerous and
undermines public confidence in our elections,'' said Kim Wyman, the
secretary of state in Washington. ``Though it is imperative the agency
maintain its functionality and efficiency, this volume of work is by no
means unusual, and is an operation I am confident the U.S. Postal
Service is sufficiently prepared to fulfill.''

Read 183 Comments

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{our-2020-election-guide}{%
\section{Our 2020 Election Guide}\label{our-2020-election-guide}}

Updated ~Sept. 12, 2020

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

\begin{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{the-latest}{%
  \subsection{The Latest}\label{the-latest}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    President Trump has failed to erase Joseph R. Biden Jr.'s lead
    across a set of key swing states,
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/12/us/politics/biden-trump-poll-wisconsin-minnesota.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{according
    to a poll}~conducted by The Times and Siena College.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{paths-to-270}{%
  \subsection{Paths to 270}\label{paths-to-270}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Joe Biden and Donald Trump need 270 electoral votes to reach the
    White House. Try building
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/election-states-biden-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{your
    own coalition of battleground states}~to see potential outcomes.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{voting-deadlines}{%
  \subsection{Voting Deadlines}\label{voting-deadlines}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Early voting for the presidential election starts in September~in
    some states. Take a look at
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/us/elections/2020-presidential-election-calendar.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{key
    dates}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/us/elections/2020-presidential-election-calendar.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{where
    you
    liv}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/us/elections/2020-presidential-election-calendar.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{e}.
    If you're voting by
    mail,~\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/31/us/politics/vote-by-mail-deadlines.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{it's
    risky to procrastinate}.
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/joe-biden.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{}

    \hypertarget{joe-biden}{%
    \section{Joe Biden}\label{joe-biden}}

    \hypertarget{democrat}{%
    \subsection{Democrat}\label{democrat}}

    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/donald-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{}

    \hypertarget{donald-trump}{%
    \section{Donald Trump}\label{donald-trump}}

    \hypertarget{republican}{%
    \subsection{Republican}\label{republican}}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \hypertarget{keep-up-with-our-coverage}{%
  \subsection{Keep Up With Our
  Coverage}\label{keep-up-with-our-coverage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Get an
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{email}~recapping
    the day's news
  \item
    Download our mobile app on
    \href{https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nytimes/id284862083?ls=1\&mat_click_id=5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\&referrer=mat_click_id\%3D5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\%26link_click_id\%3D722930677036718082}{iOS}~and
    \href{http://a.localytics.com/android?id=com.nytimes.android\&referrer=utm_source\%3Dother_nyt_mobile_web\%26utm_medium\%3DWeb\%2520page\%26utm_term\%3DGeneral\%2520Mobile\%2520Page\%26utm_campaign\%3DNYT\%2520Mobile\%2520General\%2520Page}{Android}~and
    turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
