Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}Donald Trump Agrees to Pay
\$25 Million in Trump University Settlement

\url{https://nyti.ms/2f8G3CH}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{donald-trump-agrees-to-pay-25-million-in-trump-university-settlement}{%
\section{Donald Trump Agrees to Pay \$25 Million in Trump University
Settlement}\label{donald-trump-agrees-to-pay-25-million-in-trump-university-settlement}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2016/11/19/us/19trumpuniversity/19trumpuniversity-articleInline.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By \href{http://www.nytimes.com/by/steve-eder}{Steve Eder}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Nov. 18, 2016
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Donald J. Trump has reversed course and agreed on Friday to pay \$25
million to settle a series of lawsuits stemming from his defunct
for-profit education venture, Trump University, finally putting to rest
fraud allegations by former students, which have dogged him for years
and hampered his presidential campaign.

The settlement was announced by the New York attorney general just 10
days before one of the cases, a federal class-action lawsuit in San
Diego, was set to be heard by a jury. The deal averts a potentially
embarrassing and highly unusual predicament: a president-elect on trial,
and possibly even taking the stand in his own defense, while scrambling
to build his incoming administration.

It was a remarkable concession from a real estate mogul who derides
legal settlements and has mocked fellow businessmen who agree to them.

But the allegations in the case were highly unpleasant for Mr. Trump:
Students paid up to \$35,000 in tuition for a programs that, according
to the testimony of former Trump University employees, used
high-pressure sales tactics and employed unqualified instructors.

The agreement wraps together the outstanding Trump University
litigation, including two federal class-action cases in San Diego, and a
separate lawsuit by Eric T. Schneiderman, the New York attorney general.
The complaints alleged that students were cheated out of thousands of
dollars in tuition through deceptive claims about what they would learn
and high-pressure sales tactics.

``I am pleased that under the terms of this settlement, every victim
will receive restitution and that Donald Trump will pay up to \$1
million in penalties to the State of New York for violating state
education laws,'' Mr. Schneiderman said in a statement. ``The victims of
Trump University have waited years for today's result, and I am pleased
that their patience --- and persistence --- will be rewarded by this
\$25 million settlement.''

The settlement is a significant reversal from Mr. Trump, who had
steadfastly rejected the allegations and vowed to fight the lawsuits,
asserting that students filled out evaluations showing they were mostly
happy with what they had learned in seminars. When political opponents
pressed him on the claims during the campaign, Mr. Trump doubled down,
saying he would eventually reopen Trump University.

``It's something I could have settled many times,'' Mr. Trump
\href{http://www.nytimes.com/politics/first-draft/2016/02/26/conservative-group-to-air-ads-of-ex-students-complaining-about-trump-university/}{said
during a debate} in February. ``I could settle it right now for very
little money, but I don't want to do it out of principle.''

He added, ``The people that took the course all signed --- most --- many
--- many signed report cards saying it was fantastic, it was wonderful,
it was beautiful.''

But the position of Mr. Trump and his legal team appeared to soften soon
after his election victory on Nov. 8. At a hearing last week, Daniel
Petrocelli, a lawyer for Mr. Trump, expressed interest in moving toward
a settlement. Meanwhile, Mr. Trump's lawyers were seeking to delay the
trial in one of the California cases until after his inauguration on
Jan. 20, while also requesting that he be allowed to testify on video.

At a hearing on the case in San Diego on Friday, Mr. Petrocelli said Mr.
Trump had settled the case ``without an acknowledgment of fault or
liability.''

The judge overseeing the two California cases, Gonzalo Curiel, was
thrust into the limelight of the campaign in May when Mr. Trump spent
several minutes at a rally denouncing the judge's decisions in the case,
calling him a ``hater'' and questioning his impartiality because of his
\href{http://www.nytimes.com/2016/06/04/us/politics/donald-trump-university-judge-gonzalo-curiel.html}{Mexican
heritage}.

After he faced days of criticism for his remarks on the judge, Mr. Trump
\href{https://www.donaldjtrump.com/press-releases/donald-j.-trump-statement-regarding-trump-university}{released
a statement} saying his words had been ``misconstrued as a categorical
attack against people of Mexican heritage.'' He also asserted that he
was justified in questioning the fairness of his trial, given various
rulings in the case that went against him. Still, he concluded, ``we
will win this case!''

Judge Curiel said in court Friday that he hoped that the settlement
agreement --- and the end of the presidential campaign --- would begin
``a healing process that this country very sorely needs.''

Under the agreement, Mr. Trump will pay \$21 million to settle the two
California class-action suits and \$4 million to settle with the New
York attorney general. The lawyers for the plaintiffs waived their
attorneys' fees. The deal still has to be approved in court, which could
take months.

About 7,000 students will share in the settlement, according to their
lawyers. The customers will be eligible to recoup at least half of what
they spent at Trump University, and some could receive a full refund,
the lawyers said.

Even before he was in the throes of his presidential bid, Mr. Trump
began mounting a vigorous public defense of himself and Trump
University. A website,
\href{http://www.98percentapproval.com/}{98percentapproval.com}, touted
high marks it received from students. A New York Times report in March,
though,
\href{http://www.nytimes.com/2016/03/12/us/politics/donald-trump-trump-university.html}{showed
how some students} recalled being pressured to give positive reviews.

Trump University, which operated from 2004 to 2010, included free
introductory seminars across the country, focusing largely on real
estate investing and learning Mr. Trump's secrets. Students could then
purchase more expensive packages costing up to \$35,000.

Documents made public through the litigation revealed that some former
Trump University managers had given testimony about its unscrupulous and
exploitative business practices. One sales executive testified that the
operation was ``a facade, a total lie.'' Another manager called it a
``fraudulent scheme.''

Other records showed how Mr. Trump had overstated the depth of his
involvement in the programs. Despite claims that Mr. Trump had
handpicked instructors, he acknowledged in testimony that he had not.

In addition to the financial rewards, the conclusion of the Trump
University cases brings vindication to former students, mostly ordinary
people across the country who felt they had been robbed of their savings
by Mr. Trump, a successful businessman they respected and admired.

One student, Jeffrey Tufenkian, who enrolled with his wife to pursue a
real estate career,
\href{http://www.nytimes.com/2011/05/13/nyregion/feeling-deceived-over-homes-that-were-trump-in-name-only.html}{told
The New York Times in 2011} that the experience ``was almost completely
worthless.''

``Trump University has no interest in taking care of its customers,''
said Mr. Tufenkian, who paid \$35,000 for a ``Gold Elite'' class, which
he said at the time wiped out much of his savings.

Alan Garten, a lawyer for Mr. Trump, said Friday that his side was
``pleased'' with the settlement.

``While we have no doubt that Trump University would have prevailed at
trial based on the merits of this case, resolution of these matters
allows President-elect Trump to devote his full attention to the
important issues facing our great nation,'' he said in a statement.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{Â©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
