Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/us}{U.S.}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/us}{U.S.}\textbar{}Trying Again: A Plan for Reopening
California

\url{https://nyti.ms/32Kjq2c}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{the-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=fcced740-f279-11ea-b9bc-3185cbd6b8a2\&variant=undefined}{The
Coronavirus
Outbreak}}{The Coronavirus Outbreak}}\label{the-coronavirus-outbreak}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  live\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/08/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=fcced741-f279-11ea-b9bc-3185cbd6b8a2\&variant=undefined}{Latest
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=fcced742-f279-11ea-b9bc-3185cbd6b8a2\&variant=undefined}{Maps
  and Cases}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=fcced743-f279-11ea-b9bc-3185cbd6b8a2\&variant=undefined}{Vaccine
  Tracker}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/02/your-money/eviction-moratorium-covid.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=fcced744-f279-11ea-b9bc-3185cbd6b8a2\&variant=undefined}{Eviction
  Moratorium}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/09/02/magazine/food-insecurity-hunger-us.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=fcced745-f279-11ea-b9bc-3185cbd6b8a2\&variant=undefined}{American
  Hunger}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

California Today

\hypertarget{trying-again-a-plan-for-reopening-california}{%
\section{Trying Again: A Plan for Reopening
California}\label{trying-again-a-plan-for-reopening-california}}

Monday: Here's what you need to know about California's second big
reopening plan. Also: Eviction legislation; and Chadwick Boseman.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/jill-cowan}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/12/10/multimedia/author-jill-cowan/author-jill-cowan-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/jill-cowan}{Jill Cowan}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Aug. 31, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/31/us/31saloncatoday/merlin_176329767_d5e47879-9ea9-4cc0-8e62-dfd67ac24181-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\emph{Good morning.}

On Friday, more than a month after the state
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/14/us/california-counties-reopening.html}{ordered
most indoor businesses} to close again, Gov. Gavin Newsom unveiled
California's second attempt at a comprehensive plan to reopen.

``We've learned a lot over the last number of months,'' Mr. Newsom said.

Gone is the county ``monitoring list'' system, which was rolled out
piecemeal and has been criticized as confusing and fragmented.

In its place going forward, the governor said, is a framework that sorts
each of the state's 58 counties into a tier, which will determine how
much businesses are restricted.

Unlike the monitoring-list model, which was based on a matrix of numbers
that was difficult to parse, the new system is based largely on new
daily case numbers per 100,000 residents, as well as positivity rates.

\emph{{[}Track coronavirus cases}
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/california-coronavirus-cases.html\#cases}{\emph{in
each California county}}\emph{.{]}}

Gone is leeway for county public health officials to make their own case
to reopen; counties now won't be able to move to a less restrictive tier
unless they have met that tier's criteria for at least two consecutive
weeks. And each county must stay in its current tier for at least three
weeks before it can move.

If a county's numbers worsen for two weeks in a row, it will be moved to
a more restrictive tier.

``We're going to be more stubborn this time,'' Mr. Newsom said.

The state's earlier moves to reopen businesses were criticized for being
too hasty and driven by the impatience of some businesses and some
smaller, largely rural counties, rather than by evidence. (This month,
for instance, The Los Angeles Times
\href{https://www.latimes.com/projects/how-rushed-la-reopening-sparked-covid-19-cases/}{published
this timeline} showing how a rush to reopen businesses in Los Angeles
County contributed to the virus's alarming spread.)

Still, experts have said that the intense focus on whether to reopen
nonessential businesses like restaurants, bars and movie theaters has
come at the expense of
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/28/us/newsom-coronavirus-valley.html}{what
should have been more stringent enforcement} of restrictions at large
essential workplaces, where lower-wage workers were never able to stop
working.

That is true particularly in the Central Valley, which has become the
state's most troubling and persistent hot spot.

\emph{{[}Read more about the state's}
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/28/us/newsom-coronavirus-valley.html}{\emph{move
to focus on the Central Valley}}\emph{--- and why some said it should've
come sooner.{]}}

\hypertarget{latest-updates-the-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/08/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: The Coronavirus
Outbreak}}{Latest Updates: The Coronavirus Outbreak}}\label{latest-updates-the-coronavirus-outbreak}}

Updated 2020-09-09T08:22:37.235Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/08/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-313b443d}{AstraZeneca
  halts a vaccine trial to investigate a participant's illness.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/08/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-4438dd7}{Facing
  a surge in cases, Britain plans to limit most gatherings to six
  people.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/08/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-679303d7}{Nine
  drugmakers pledge to thoroughly vet any coronavirus vaccine.}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/08/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

More live coverage:
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/08/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Markets}

Mr. Newsom said on Friday that enforcement ``strike teams,'' including
officials from various state agencies, have been doing spot checks
aggressively for months, but that an expansion of enforcement capacity
is ``being negotiated'' in the state's Legislature.

\textbf{Here are answers to questions you might have:}

\textbf{How did we get here?}

All the way
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/coronavirus-california-reopening-phases.html}{back
in April}, Mr. Newsom laid out what he described as a science-driven,
deliberate phased process for reopening based on metrics such as
hospitalizations, case growth and deaths.

But over the months that followed, the complexity of reopening a state
with 58 very different counties spread across vast and varied geography
became apparent.

Ceding to pressure from some businesses and officials mostly in smaller,
more rural counties, Mr. Newsom announced a process for certain
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/19/us/california-reopening.html}{counties
to move more quickly to reopen businesses} than the rest of the state,
effectively loosening the restrictions and adding complexity.

Then the state shifted to the ``monitoring list,'' which eventually came
to encompass 90 percent of the state's population.

In July,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/23/us/california-coronavirus-new-york-cases.html}{as
cases surged},
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/14/us/california-counties-reopening.html}{state
officials announced} that bars, which had been allowed to reopen indoors
in many places, would have to shutter. Indoor operations of restaurants,
card rooms and movie theaters were also ordered to close.

The result was a kind of
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/23/us/california-covid-19-cases.html}{emotional
and economic whiplash}.

\textbf{So what do the tiers mean?}

\href{https://covid19.ca.gov/safer-economy/}{There are four color-coded
tiers} ranging from most restrictive to least: purple, red, orange and
yellow. (There is no green, the governor noted --- no county should see
this as an opportunity to go back to normal.)

Counties have already been placed in a tier based on their recent new
case numbers and positivity rates. They'll be able to reopen businesses
that are allowed in their given tier as early as today.

But not a whole lot will change immediately for the vast majority of
Californians. The most restrictive tier, the purple, applies to 38
counties, including Los Angeles and Orange, that are home to more than
80 percent of the state's population.

In these counties, many kinds of businesses must remain closed, unless
they can operate outdoors, including restaurants. All bars, breweries
and distilleries must stay closed, too, even if they have outdoor space.
Hair salons, barber shops and malls can reopen indoors with
modifications, however.

Nine counties are in the second most restrictive tier, the red,
including San Diego and San Francisco, where some indoor dining will be
allowed starting today. Gyms, houses of worship and movie theaters will
also be allowed to reopen indoors with limited capacity.

About a dozen mostly smaller and more rural counties are in the two
least
\href{https://www.cdph.ca.gov/Programs/CID/DCDC/CDPH\%20Document\%20Library/COVID-19/Dimmer-Framework-August_2020.pdf}{restrictive
tiers}, which allow them to reopen bars and other indoor businesses at
higher maximum capacities.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{}

\hypertarget{the-coronavirus-outbreak-}{%
\subsubsection{The Coronavirus Outbreak
›}\label{the-coronavirus-outbreak-}}

\hypertarget{frequently-asked-questions}{%
\paragraph{Frequently Asked
Questions}\label{frequently-asked-questions}}

Updated September 4, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{what-are-the-symptoms-of-coronavirus}{%
  \paragraph{What are the symptoms of
  coronavirus?}\label{what-are-the-symptoms-of-coronavirus}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    In the beginning, the coronavirus
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/coronavirus-facts-history.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq\#link-6817bab5}{seemed
    like it was primarily a respiratory illness}~--- many patients had
    fever and chills, were weak and tired, and coughed a lot, though
    some people don't show many symptoms at all. Those who seemed
    sickest had pneumonia or acute respiratory distress syndrome and
    received supplemental oxygen. By now, doctors have identified many
    more symptoms and syndromes. In April,
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/27/health/coronavirus-symptoms-cdc.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{the
    C.D.C. added to the list of early signs}~sore throat, fever, chills
    and muscle aches. Gastrointestinal upset, such as diarrhea and
    nausea, has also been observed. Another telltale sign of infection
    may be a sudden, profound diminution of one's
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/22/health/coronavirus-symptoms-smell-taste.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{sense
    of smell and taste.}~Teenagers and young adults in some cases have
    developed painful red and purple lesions on their fingers and toes
    --- nicknamed ``Covid toe'' --- but few other serious symptoms.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{why-is-it-safer-to-spend-time-together-outside}{%
  \paragraph{Why is it safer to spend time together
  outside?}\label{why-is-it-safer-to-spend-time-together-outside}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/15/us/coronavirus-what-to-do-outside.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{Outdoor
    gatherings}~lower risk because wind disperses viral droplets, and
    sunlight can kill some of the virus. Open spaces prevent the virus
    from building up in concentrated amounts and being inhaled, which
    can happen when infected people exhale in a confined space for long
    stretches of time, said Dr. Julian W. Tang, a virologist at the
    University of Leicester.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{why-does-standing-six-feet-away-from-others-help}{%
  \paragraph{Why does standing six feet away from others
  help?}\label{why-does-standing-six-feet-away-from-others-help}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    The coronavirus spreads primarily through droplets from your mouth
    and nose, especially when you cough or sneeze. The C.D.C., one of
    the organizations using that measure,
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/14/health/coronavirus-six-feet.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{bases
    its recommendation of six feet}~on the idea that most large droplets
    that people expel when they cough or sneeze will fall to the ground
    within six feet. But six feet has never been a magic number that
    guarantees complete protection. Sneezes, for instance, can launch
    droplets a lot farther than six feet,
    \href{https://jamanetwork.com/journals/jama/fullarticle/2763852}{according
    to a recent study}. It's a rule of thumb: You should be safest
    standing six feet apart outside, especially when it's windy. But
    keep a mask on at all times, even when you think you're far enough
    apart.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{i-have-antibodies-am-i-now-immune}{%
  \paragraph{I have antibodies. Am I now
  immune?}\label{i-have-antibodies-am-i-now-immune}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    As of right
    now,\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/22/health/covid-antibodies-herd-immunity.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{~that
    seems likely, for at least several months.}~There have been
    frightening accounts of people suffering what seems to be a second
    bout of Covid-19. But experts say these patients may have a
    drawn-out course of infection, with the virus taking a slow toll
    weeks to months after initial exposure.~People infected with the
    coronavirus typically
    \href{https://www.nature.com/articles/s41586-020-2456-9}{produce}~immune
    molecules called antibodies, which are
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/07/health/coronavirus-antibody-prevalence.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{protective
    proteins made in response to an
    infection}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/07/health/coronavirus-antibody-prevalence.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{.
    These antibodies may}~last in the body
    \href{https://www.nature.com/articles/s41591-020-0965-6}{only two to
    three months}, which may seem worrisome, but that's~perfectly normal
    after an acute infection subsides, said Dr. Michael Mina, an
    immunologist at Harvard University. It may be possible to get the
    coronavirus again, but it's highly unlikely that it would be
    possible in a short window of time from initial infection or make
    people sicker the second time.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{what-are-my-rights-if-i-am-worried-about-going-back-to-work}{%
  \paragraph{What are my rights if I am worried about going back to
  work?}\label{what-are-my-rights-if-i-am-worried-about-going-back-to-work}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Employers have to provide
    \href{https://www.osha.gov/SLTC/covid-19/standards.html}{a safe
    workplace}~with policies that protect everyone equally.
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/coronavirus-money-unemployment.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{And
    if one of your co-workers tests positive for the coronavirus, the
    C.D.C.}~has said that
    \href{https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/community/guidance-business-response.html}{employers
    should tell their employees}~-\/- without giving you the sick
    employee's name -\/- that they may have been exposed to the virus.
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

\emph{{[}See the}
\href{https://www.cdph.ca.gov/Programs/CID/DCDC/CDPH\%20Document\%20Library/COVID-19/Dimmer-Framework-August_2020.pdf}{\emph{full
grid showing which businesses}} \emph{are allowed to open under each
tier.{]}}

\textbf{Will this affect school reopening?}

According to state officials, the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/17/us/california-schools-reopening-newsom.html}{same
school reopening rules} that the governor laid out in July will still
apply, except now, the counties in the most restrictive tier will be
swapped in where
\href{https://www.cdph.ca.gov/Programs/CID/DCDC/CDPH\%20Document\%20Library/COVID-19/Schools\%20Reopening\%20Recommendations.pdf}{the
rules refer} to the county monitoring list.

It's still hardly straightforward.
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/29/us/teacher-union-school-reopening-coronavirus.html}{Teachers'
unions have expressed concerns} about being forced to return to the
classroom before it's safe. The state has a
\href{https://edsource.org/2020/california-health-officials-list-conditions-for-an-elementary-school-waiver/637621}{waiver
process for some elementary schools} to reopen even in counties where
in-person instruction isn't allowed. And as thousands of
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/covid-college-cases-tracker.html}{college
students have returned to campuses}, challenges continue to emerge.

\emph{{[}Read more about}
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/spotlight/schools-reopening?}{\emph{reopening
schools here}}\emph{.{]}}

\textbf{How can I find out what's open in my county?}

The state has more questions and answers at
\href{https://covid19.ca.gov/safer-economy/}{covid19.ca.gov/safer-economy}.
You can look up more info about your county there.

\emph{(This article is part of the}
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/column/california-today}{\emph{California
Today}} \emph{newsletter.}
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/california-today}{\emph{Sign
up}} \emph{to get it delivered to your inbox.)}

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

\hypertarget{heres-what-else-to-read}{%
\subsection{Here's what else to read}\label{heres-what-else-to-read}}

Image

A group of tenants' rights lawyers and activists gathered in San
Francisco to protest what they fear is the impending rescission of Ca.
Rule 1, a temporary mandate that stopped evictions during the
pandemic.Credit...Jim Wilson/The New York Times

\begin{itemize}
\item
  The most closely watched and consequential of a handful of last-minute
  fights in the California Legislature has been over \textbf{an
  emergency deal to head off a tide of evictions}. The details of a
  proposed stopgap measure haven't assuaged the fears of tenant
  advocates. Lawmakers are set to vote on the bill today.
  {[}\href{https://calmatters.org/housing/2020/08/california-newsom-pandemic-eviction-deal/}{CalMatters}{]}
\item
  ``I wear my mask, but it doesn't work.'' \textbf{Smoke from the
  wildfires} is making the outdoors, once a respite, intolerable.
  {[}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/28/us/california-fires-smoke.html}{The
  New York Times}{]}
\end{itemize}

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

\hypertarget{and-finally-}{%
\subsection{And Finally \ldots{}}\label{and-finally-}}

Image

Chadwick Boseman in 2018.Credit...Victoria Will/Invision, via Victoria
Will/Invision/Ap

Chadwick Boseman was a private figure by Hollywood standards,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/28/movies/chadwick-boseman-dead.html}{my
colleagues wrote over the weekend}. That's maybe why it came as such a
particularly wrenching shock that the actor, 43, died on Friday at home
in Los Angeles.

But as
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/28/movies/chadwick-boseman-reaction.html}{countless
fans} have observed, he learned he had
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/29/health/colon-cancer-chadwick-boseman.html?action=click\&module=RelatedLinks\&pgtype=Article}{colon
cancer}in 2016, well before he took on some of his highest profile
roles, including T'Challa in ``Black Panther.'' Which means that he may
have had some time to think about the legacy he would leave behind.

My colleague Wesley Morris wrote that that's a body of work portraying
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/29/movies/chadwick-boseman-appraisal.html}{exceptional
Black Americans with dignity} --- and making that dignity interesting.

``Boseman was no impersonator,'' Wesley wrote. ``He was in his way a
historian.''

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

\emph{California Today goes live at 6:30 a.m. Pacific time weekdays.
Tell us what you want to see:}
\href{mailto:CAtoday@NYTimes.com}{\emph{CAtoday@NYTimes.com}}\emph{.
Were you forwarded this email?}
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/california-today?module=inline}{\emph{Sign
up for California Today here}} \emph{and}
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/column/california-today}{\emph{read
every edition online here}}\emph{.}

\emph{Jill Cowan grew up in Orange County, went to school at U.C.
Berkeley and has reported all over the state, including the Bay Area,
Bakersfield and Los Angeles --- but she always wants to see more. Follow
along here or on}
\href{https://twitter.com/JillCowan}{\emph{Twitter}}\emph{.}

\emph{California Today is edited by Julie Bloom, who grew up in Los
Angeles and graduated from U.C. Berkeley.}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
