Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/opinion}{Opinion}\textbar{}James Comey: How Trump Co-opts
Leaders Like Bill Barr

\url{https://nyti.ms/2VDZsEX}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

\href{/section/opinion}{Opinion}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{james-comey-how-trump-co-opts-leaders-like-bill-barr}{%
\section{James Comey: How Trump Co-opts Leaders Like Bill
Barr}\label{james-comey-how-trump-co-opts-leaders-like-bill-barr}}

Accomplished people lacking inner strength can't resist the compromises
necessary to survive this president.

By James Comey

Mr. Comey is the former F.B.I. director.

\begin{itemize}
\item
  May 1, 2019
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2019/05/03/opinion/01comeySub/merlin_154237827_7c13802a-c316-49e6-95b1-d35517436698-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

People have been asking me hard questions. What happened to the leaders
in the Trump administration, especially the attorney general, Bill Barr,
who I have said was due the benefit of the doubt?

How could Mr. Barr, a bright and accomplished lawyer, start channeling
the president in using words like ``no collusion'' and F.B.I.
``spying''? And downplaying acts of obstruction of justice as products
of the president's being ``frustrated and angry,'' something he would
never say to justify the thousands of crimes prosecuted every day that
are the product of frustration and anger?

How could he write and say things about the report by Robert Mueller,
the special counsel, that were apparently so misleading that they
prompted
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/04/30/us/politics/mueller-barr.html}{written
protest} from the special counsel himself?

How could Mr. Barr go before the Senate Judiciary Committee on Wednesday
and downplay President Trump's attempt to fire Mr. Mueller before he
completed his work?

And how could Rod Rosenstein, the deputy attorney general, after the
release of Mr. Mueller's report that detailed Mr. Trump's determined
efforts to obstruct justice, give a speech quoting the president on the
importance of the rule of law? Or on resigning, thank a president who
relentlessly attacked both him and the Department of Justice he led for
``the courtesy and humor you often display in our personal
conversations''?

What happened to these people?

I don't know for sure. People are complicated, so the answer is most
likely complicated. But I have some idea from four months of working
close to Mr. Trump and many more months of watching him shape others.

Amoral leaders have a way of revealing the character of those around
them. Sometimes what they reveal is inspiring. For example, James
Mattis, the former secretary of defense, resigned over principle, a
concept so alien to Mr. Trump that it took days for the president to
realize what had happened, before he could start lying about the man.

But more often, proximity to an amoral leader reveals something
depressing. I think that's at least part of what we've seen with Bill
Barr and Rod Rosenstein. Accomplished people lacking inner strength
can't resist the compromises necessary to survive Mr. Trump and that
adds up to something they will never recover from. It takes character
like Mr. Mattis's to avoid the damage, because Mr. Trump eats your soul
in small bites.

It starts with your sitting silent while he lies, both in public and
private, making you complicit by your silence. In meetings with him, his
assertions about what ``everyone thinks'' and what is ``obviously true''
wash over you, unchallenged, as they did at our private dinner on Jan.
27, 2017, because he's the president and he rarely stops talking. As a
result, Mr. Trump pulls all of those present into a silent circle of
assent.

Speaking rapid-fire with no spot for others to jump into the
conversation, Mr. Trump makes everyone a co-conspirator to his preferred
set of facts, or delusions. I have felt it --- this president building
with his words a web of alternative reality and busily wrapping it
around all of us in the room.

I must have agreed that he had the largest inauguration crowd in history
because I didn't challenge that. Everyone must agree that he has been
treated very unfairly. The web building never stops.

From the private circle of assent, it moves to public displays of
personal fealty at places like cabinet meetings. While the entire world
is watching, you do what everyone else around the table does --- you
talk about how amazing the leader is and what an honor it is to be
associated with him.

Sure, you notice that Mr. Mattis never actually praises the president,
always speaking instead of the honor of representing the men and women
of our military. But he's a special case, right? Former Marine general
and all. No way the rest of us could get away with that. So you praise,
while the world watches, and the web gets tighter.

Next comes Mr. Trump attacking institutions and values you hold dear ---
things you have always said must be protected and which you criticized
past leaders for not supporting strongly enough. Yet you are silent.
Because, after all, what are you supposed to say? He's the president of
the United States.

You feel this happening. It bothers you, at least to some extent. But
his outrageous conduct convinces you that you simply must stay, to
preserve and protect the people and institutions and values you hold
dear. Along with Republican members of Congress, you tell yourself you
are too important for this nation to lose, especially now.

You can't say this out loud --- maybe not even to your family --- but in
a time of emergency, with the nation led by a deeply unethical person,
this will be your contribution, your personal sacrifice for America. You
are smarter than Donald Trump, and you are playing a long game for your
country, so you can pull it off where lesser leaders have failed and
gotten fired by tweet.

Of course, to stay, you must be seen as on his team, so you make further
compromises. You use his language, praise his leadership, tout his
commitment to values.

And then you are lost. He has eaten your soul.

James Comey is the former F.B.I. director and author of ``A Higher
Loyalty: Truth, Lies, and Leadership.''

\emph{The Times is committed to publishing}
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/01/31/opinion/letters/letters-to-editor-new-york-times-women.html}{\emph{a
diversity of letters}} \emph{to the editor. We'd like to hear what you
think about this or any of our articles. Here are some}
\href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014925288-How-to-submit-a-letter-to-the-editor}{\emph{tips}}\emph{.
And here's our email:}
\href{mailto:letters@nytimes.com}{\emph{letters@nytimes.com}}\emph{.}

\emph{Follow The New York Times Opinion section on}
\href{https://www.facebook.com/nytopinion}{\emph{Facebook}}\emph{,}
\href{http://twitter.com/NYTOpinion}{\emph{Twitter (@NYTopinion)}}
\emph{and}
\href{https://www.instagram.com/nytopinion/}{\emph{Instagram}}\emph{.}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{Â©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
