Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/news-event/coronavirus}{The Coronavirus
Outbreak}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  live\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/01/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html}{Latest
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html}{Maps
  and Cases}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html}{Vaccine
  Tracker}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/07/29/us/schools-reopening-coronavirus.html}{What
  School May Look Like}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/live/2020/07/31/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus}{Economy}
\end{itemize}

Last Updated

July 16, 2020, 6:29 a.m. ET

July 16, 2020, 6:29 a.m. ET

\hypertarget{american-airlines-warns-employees-of-up-to-20000-job-cuts}{%
\section{American Airlines Warns Employees of Up to 20,000 Job
Cuts}\label{american-airlines-warns-employees-of-up-to-20000-job-cuts}}

\emph{This briefing is no longer being updated. Follow the latest
developments}
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/live/2020/07/16/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus}{\emph{here}}\emph{.}

\hypertarget{heres-what-you-need-to-know}{%
\subsubsection{Here's what you need to
know:}\label{heres-what-you-need-to-know}}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{opec-russia-and-other-oil-producers-will-ease-production-cuts}{}

  OPEC, Russia and other oil producers will ease production cuts.
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{jc-penney-will-cut-1000-jobs-as-part-of-its-restructuring-plan}{}

  J.C. Penney will cut 1,000 jobs as part of its restructuring plan.
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{walmart-will-require-all-customers-to-wear-masks}{}

  Walmart will require all customers to wear masks.
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{black-business-owners-had-a-harder-time-getting-federal-aid-a-study-finds}{}

  Black business owners had a harder time getting federal aid, a study
  finds.
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{goldman-sachs-reports-its-best-trading-results-in-years}{}

  Goldman Sachs reports its best trading results in years.
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{bbc-news-expands-its-cost-saving-plan-to-cut-520-jobs}{}

  BBC News expands its cost-saving plan to cut 520 jobs.
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{stocks-rise-as-another-vaccine-candidate-raises-hopes-on-wall-street}{}

  Stocks rise as another vaccine candidate raises hopes on Wall Street.
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{surging-virus-cases-and-renewed-lockdowns-threaten-economic-recovery}{}

  Surging virus cases and renewed lockdowns threaten economic recovery.
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{catch-up-heres-what-you-may-have-missed}{}

  Catch up: Here's what you may have missed.
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{american-airlines-says-it-could-furlough-up-to-20000-workers}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{american-airlines-says-it-could-furlough-up-to-20000-workers}{American
Airlines says it could furlough up to 20,000
workers.}}{American Airlines says it could furlough up to 20,000 workers.}}\label{american-airlines-says-it-could-furlough-up-to-20000-workers}}

Copied to clipboard.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/07/15/business/15markets-brf-airlines/merlin_173989038_4d10cec3-d938-4ff0-aa4f-9df9e05d750d-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\textbf{American Airlines} told employees on Wednesday that it could
furlough as many as 20,000 people starting Oct. 1, after federal
stimulus funds expire.

``We know American will be smaller going forward and we must right-size
all aspects of our airline to adjust to that new reality,'' the
airline's chief executive, Doug Parker, and president, Robert Isom, said
in a letter to employees. ``Although this is a day none of us wanted to
see, we have created new, generous programs intended to help offset as
many front line furloughs as possible.''

Despite planning to send out legally required warnings to 25,000
employees, American said it expects to be overstaffed by about 20,000
workers this fall. The warnings, which the airline started sending on
Wednesday, will go to nearly 10,000 flight attendants, 3,200 maintenance
workers, 2,900 passenger service employees and 2,500 pilots, among
others. Last week, \textbf{United Airlines}
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/08/business/united-airlines-furlough-36000.html}{said
it could furlough} as many as 36,000 workers in the fall.

Both airlines hope to reduce those numbers by encouraging employees to
retire early or accept buyout packages. American said it would offer
some employees the option to take leave from the company for up to two
years while receiving part of their salary and retaining health and
travel benefits.

Passenger airlines were able to avoid draconian cuts after Congress
passed the CARES Act in March, which set aside \$25 billion to help the
companies pay workers, provided they refrain from substantial cuts
through Sept. 30. American was the largest recipient, receiving \$5.8
billion in mostly grants and some loans. Delta Air Lines received \$5.4
billion and United received \$5 billion.

The unions that represent pilots, flights attendants and other workers
at American and other airlines have voiced support for extending that
funding through March 31. In the letter on Wednesday, American echoed
that support.

Delta Air Lines and \textbf{Southwest Airlines} have warned that they
may also make similar cuts this fall.

--- \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/niraj-chokshi}{Niraj Chokshi}

\hypertarget{opec-russia-and-other-oil-producers-will-ease-production-cuts}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{opec-russia-and-other-oil-producers-will-ease-production-cuts}{OPEC,
Russia and other oil producers will ease production
cuts.}}{OPEC, Russia and other oil producers will ease production cuts.}}\label{opec-russia-and-other-oil-producers-will-ease-production-cuts}}

Copied to clipboard.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/07/15/business/15opec/merlin_173099943_7f0bb98c-55f9-4ac9-abd8-19f6a1906b99-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Officials from the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries and
Russia said Wednesday that cuts in oil output that had helped shore up
the energy market in recent months would be eased modestly in August, as
detailed\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/04/09/business/energy-environment/opec-saudiarabia-russia-oil-coronavirus.html}{under
an agreemen}t reached in April.

Oil ministers from Saudi Arabia, Russia and other producers met
Wednesday by video conference to review market conditions. The group
said in a statement after the meeting that ``there were encouraging
signs of improvement as economies around the world open up.''

The lockdowns, intended to curb the spread of the coronavirus, slammed
demand for oil by reducing driving, air travel and other activities that
use the fuel. But demand has slowly risen in recent months.

Beginning in August, the cuts in output will be reduced from 9.7 million
barrels a day --- or about 10 percent of global production in normal
times --- to around 8.1 million barrels a day, according to Saudi
Arabia's oil minister, Prince Abdul Aziz bin Salman, who ran the
meeting.

The production increases will come at a time when the coronavirus
pandemic is surging in some countries, including the United States and
Brazil, potentially jeopardizing recovery of demand for oil.

However, the Saudi oil minister said that with countries having gained
experience in dealing with the virus in recent months, he thought any
outbreaks were likely to be contained.

On Wednesday, the price of Brent crude, the international benchmark, was
up about 2 percent to more than \$43 a barrel. West Texas Intermediate,
the American standard, also rose, to about \$41 a barrel.

--- \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/stanley-reed}{Stanley Reed}

\hypertarget{advertisement}{%
\subsubsection{Advertisement}\label{advertisement}}

\protect\hyperlink{after-dfp-ad-mid1}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{jc-penney-will-cut-1000-jobs-as-part-of-its-restructuring-plan}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{jc-penney-will-cut-1000-jobs-as-part-of-its-restructuring-plan}{J.C.
Penney will cut 1,000 jobs as part of its restructuring
plan.}}{J.C. Penney will cut 1,000 jobs as part of its restructuring plan.}}\label{jc-penney-will-cut-1000-jobs-as-part-of-its-restructuring-plan}}

Copied to clipboard.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/07/15/business/15markets-brf-penney/merlin_174566424_f84dfbf9-6b2e-4e29-a5e5-b600af190204-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\textbf{J.C. Penney}, the 118-year-old retailer that
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/05/15/business/jc-penney-bankruptcy-coronavirus.html}{filed
for bankruptcy} in May, said
\href{https://ir.jcpenney.com/news-events/press-releases/detail/619/jcpenney-announces-organizational-restructuring}{on
Wednesday} that it would cut 1,000 corporate, field management and
international jobs, as the company shrinks and closes 152 stores.

The layoffs are separate from job cuts tied to the retailer's first
round of store closures, where most liquidation sales
\href{https://companyblog.jcpnewsroom.com/storeclosings/}{have started.}
A spokeswoman for J.C. Penney has said that the retailer plans to close
up to 250 locations over all, which would leave it with roughly 600
stores.

J.C. Penney, which is based in Plano, Texas, said in bankruptcy filings
that it had nearly 85,000 associates, but did not specify how many were
full or part time.

The cuts at the corporate level add to the broader pain in the retail
industry, which has been left reeling from the pandemic. The disruption
has forced a spate of bankruptcies since May and spurred layoffs at
surviving retailers. Macy's said
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/25/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus.html}{last
month}that it would cut about 3,900 corporate and management jobs, or 25
percent of that staff.

--- \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/sapna-maheshwari}{Sapna Maheshwari}

\hypertarget{walmart-will-require-all-customers-to-wear-masks}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{walmart-will-require-all-customers-to-wear-masks}{Walmart
will require all customers to wear
masks.}}{Walmart will require all customers to wear masks.}}\label{walmart-will-require-all-customers-to-wear-masks}}

Copied to clipboard.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/07/15/business/15-markets-brf-walmart/15-markets-brf-walmart-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\textbf{Walmart} will begin requiring that all of its customers wear
masks in its stores, starting on Monday.

The new rule from the nation's largest retailer, which has more than
5,000 stores nationwide, is a strong statement about wearing masks in
public space at a time when the issue has become politicized.

In a statement, Walmart said that 65 percent of its stores, which
include Walmarts and \textbf{Sam's Clubs}, are in areas where there is
already some form of government mandate to wear masks.

At Sam's Clubs, the company said that it would provide complimentary
masks to customers who did not already have one. (Sam's Club customers
have to pay a membership fee to shop there.)

But in Walmart stores --- which are far more numerous --- the details
for this new policy are still being ironed out.

The company said it was creating a new job called a ``health
ambassador.'' That person will be stationed next to the front door and
will remind customers of the new rule.

``Ambassadors will receive special training to help make the process as
smooth as possible for customers,'' Walmart said, and ``will work with
those who show up at a store without a face covering to find a solution
that works for everyone.''

The retailer did not immediately identify what those possible solutions
might be or say that it would provide masks to customers who didn't have
one.

Walmart joins a growing list of companies that are requiring customers
to wear masks, including \textbf{Starbucks} and \textbf{Best Buy}. The
retailer \textbf{Kohl's} said on Wednesday that its customers would be
required to wear masks starting Monday, and the grocery chain
\textbf{Kroger}
\href{https://twitter.com/KrogerNews/status/1283496129825513474}{announced
on Twitter} that its customers would, too, starting July 22.

--- \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/michael-corkery}{Michael Corkery}

\hypertarget{black-business-owners-had-a-harder-time-getting-federal-aid-a-study-finds}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{black-business-owners-had-a-harder-time-getting-federal-aid-a-study-finds}{Black
business owners had a harder time getting federal aid, a study
finds.}}{Black business owners had a harder time getting federal aid, a study finds.}}\label{black-business-owners-had-a-harder-time-getting-federal-aid-a-study-finds}}

Copied to clipboard.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/07/15/business/15virus-pppbias/merlin_173891673_efb90f4a-ea7b-413e-a880-9216c5ccd946-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Black business owners are more likely to be hindered in seeking
coronavirus financial aid than their white peers, a new study has found.

\href{https://ncrc.org/despite-gaping-holes-in-government-data-tests-show-ppp-borrowers-faced-discrimination/}{The
study} looked at how more than a dozen Washington-area banks handled
requests for loans under the federal government's Paycheck Protection
Program. It was conducted by the National Community Reinvestment
Coalition, a nonprofit organization in Washington, in partnership with
researchers from universities in Utah and New Jersey.

From late April to late May, the researchers and the nonprofit group,
which advocates better access to capital for low-income and minority
communities, sent pairs of would-be loan applicants to branches of 17
banks. In each pair, a Black borrower and a white borrower shared
similar credit and asset characteristics. To make the study more
conservative, the researchers gave each Black borrower a slightly better
financial profile than his or her white counterpart.

The Black borrowers were offered different products and treated
significantly worse by employees than white borrowers in 43 percent of
the tests, the study found. Of the 17 banks, some of which were tested
through multiple branches, 13 had at least one test in which a white
borrower was treated better than his or her Black counterpart. In the
rest of the tests, the pairs were treated relatively equally or the
difference wasn't significant enough to count as a violation of fair
lending laws, in the researchers' view.

Critics of the \$660 billion program --- which was intended to prop up
small businesses through forgivable loans --- have said that its
structure was likely to
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/04/10/business/minority-business-coronavirus-loans.html}{perpetuate
historical inequalities} in the financial system, where Black Americans
have struggled to obtain credit and capital.

--- \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/emily-flitter}{Emily Flitter}

\hypertarget{advertisement-1}{%
\subsubsection{Advertisement}\label{advertisement-1}}

\protect\hyperlink{after-dfp-ad-mid2}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{goldman-sachs-reports-its-best-trading-results-in-years}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{goldman-sachs-reports-its-best-trading-results-in-years}{Goldman
Sachs reports its best trading results in
years.}}{Goldman Sachs reports its best trading results in years.}}\label{goldman-sachs-reports-its-best-trading-results-in-years}}

Copied to clipboard.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/07/15/business/15-markets-brf-goldman/merlin_170488995_fc310b97-3a9e-4b88-9450-1d3ffd030d66-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Buoyed by heightened activity in the markets, \textbf{Goldman Sachs}
reported its highest bond-trading revenue in nine years, helping it to
deliver a solidly profitable quarter despite increased costs and a
slowdown in other areas of its business.

Revenue spiked in Goldman's trading area, more than doubling the unit's
performance from a year ago, and rose dramatically in its
investment-banking business. Overall, the firm's revenue for the second
quarter was \$13.3 billion, a 41 percent upswing from the same period
last year. Its earnings were \$2.4 billion, essentially the same as a
year ago.

During the quarter, compensation costs rose substantially, as did other
expenses that were not specified, perhaps reflecting an increasing
set-aside for future legal costs. That theme has been borne out by
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/14/business/big-banks-quarterly-results.html}{other
large banks} this week, whose quarterly profits plunged as they stowed
away money to protect them from future losses.

--- \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/kate-kelly}{Kate Kelly}

\hypertarget{bbc-news-expands-its-cost-saving-plan-to-cut-520-jobs}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{bbc-news-expands-its-cost-saving-plan-to-cut-520-jobs}{BBC
News expands its cost-saving plan to cut 520
jobs.}}{BBC News expands its cost-saving plan to cut 520 jobs.}}\label{bbc-news-expands-its-cost-saving-plan-to-cut-520-jobs}}

Copied to clipboard.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/07/15/business/15markets-brf-bbc/merlin_174148854_84204a2c-c5fc-45a7-8d29-f18a2fb18ae1-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

BBC News is cutting 520 jobs as part of a sprawling cost-cutting plan,
\href{https://www.bbc.co.uk/mediacentre/latestnews/2020/news-modernisation-update}{70
more jobs than previously announced} because the pandemic has put more
strain on the British broadcaster's budget.

In January, 450 job losses were announced but then postponed in March to
meet the demands of covering coronavirus and its impact. The reactivated
plan, detailed on Wednesday, will be even more sweeping.
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/12/06/world/europe/boris-johnson-andrew-neil-interview.html}{``The
Andrew Neil Show,''}hosted by the longtime political interviewer,
\href{https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/entertainment-arts-53416067}{will be
cut}, business news coverage will be scaled down, and there will be
reductions in World Service programming, among other changes.

``The increased financial pressure on the BBC as a result of Covid-19
means the number of job losses in BBC News will rise to around 520,''
the organization, which has been financed by an annual license fee paid
by listeners and viewers for nearly 100 years, said on Wednesday. ``This
will include senior management posts.''

In 2016, the BBC announced it needed to save 800 million pounds (\$1
billion), with about a tenth of that coming from the 6,000-person news
department. In addition to the 520 job losses in BBC News, the BBC said
in recent weeks it would cut
\href{https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/entertainment-arts-53263793}{600 jobs
from regional services in England, Scotland, Northern Ireland and
Wales}.

The BBC has also renewed its plan to
\href{https://www.theguardian.com/media/2020/jul/09/bbc-to-end-free-tv-licences-for-most-over-75s}{end
free TV}licenses for people over 75, a move that has caused clashes with
the government.

Earlier on Wednesday,
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/live/2020/07/15/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus\#the-guardian-seeing-unsustainable-losses-will-cut-180-jobs}{The
Guardian newspaper}said it planned to cut 12 percent of its work force,
about 180 jobs.

--- Eshe Nelson

\hypertarget{stocks-rise-as-another-vaccine-candidate-raises-hopes-on-wall-street}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{stocks-rise-as-another-vaccine-candidate-raises-hopes-on-wall-street}{Stocks
rise as another vaccine candidate raises hopes on Wall
Street.}}{Stocks rise as another vaccine candidate raises hopes on Wall Street.}}\label{stocks-rise-as-another-vaccine-candidate-raises-hopes-on-wall-street}}

Copied to clipboard.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/07/15/business/15markets-brf-stocks/merlin_174540324_b5e461b7-fecd-40ca-a07b-b7d06f5e090a-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Stocks rose on Wednesday, lifted by a drugmaker's report of progress
with a promising, but early-stage, candidate for a coronavirus vaccine,
and data on industrial production added to evidence of the economy's
recovery.

The S\&P 500 jumped about 1 percent. Markets in Frankfurt, Paris and
London also rose sharply.

Oil prices were also higher, on a day when major producers decided to
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/12/business/economy/opec-russia-oil-production-coronavirus.html}{ease
restrictions on output}. The production curbs were approved in April
when the industry was facing a calamitous fall in oil demand, and any
relaxing of the rules would signal stronger energy markets.

The gains on Wall Street were largely spurred by news from the
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/14/health/cornavirus-vaccine-moderna.html?action=click\&module=Top\%20Stories\&pgtype=Homepage}{biotech
company}\textbf{\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/14/health/cornavirus-vaccine-moderna.html?action=click\&module=Top\%20Stories\&pgtype=Homepage}{Moderna}},
based in Cambridge, Mass., which said an experimental drug provoked a
positive immune response and appeared safe among the first 45 people who
received it. It is the first coronavirus vaccine to be tested in humans,
and Moderna's shares were sharply higher.

Policymakers and economists have long predicted that a complete recovery
in growth depends on the development of a vaccine, and investors have
been quick to respond to even the slightest signs of progress toward
one.

On Wednesday, the rally was led by companies that have the most to gain
from a return to pre-pandemic levels of travel and consumption.
\textbf{American Airlines}, \textbf{Gap}, and \textbf{MGM Resorts} ---
which have become a proxy for the market's enthusiasm about a rebound
--- were all among the best-performing stocks in the S\&P 500.

Investors also learned that industrial production in the United States
jumped by more than expected in June, recovering from earlier declines
as factories were reopened. The report is just the latest of several ---
from data on housing sales to hiring --- that highlight the economy's
bounce back from the depths of a recession earlier in the year.

That recovery, however, is threatened by a rise in new coronavirus cases
around the world. And as governments reimpose restrictions on activity
and government assistance programs come to an end, some economists have
warned that the recovery is likely to take longer than investors
anticipate.

--- \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/kevin-granville}{Kevin Granville}
and Mohammed Hadi

\hypertarget{advertisement-2}{%
\subsubsection{Advertisement}\label{advertisement-2}}

\protect\hyperlink{after-dfp-ad-mid3}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{surging-virus-cases-and-renewed-lockdowns-threaten-economic-recovery}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{surging-virus-cases-and-renewed-lockdowns-threaten-economic-recovery}{Surging
virus cases and renewed lockdowns threaten economic
recovery.}}{Surging virus cases and renewed lockdowns threaten economic recovery.}}\label{surging-virus-cases-and-renewed-lockdowns-threaten-economic-recovery}}

Copied to clipboard.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/07/14/business/14dc-virus-econ-01/merlin_171513651_f6fb6c04-feb1-44ed-8fb3-202b405fee63-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

The United States economy is headed for a tumultuous autumn, with the
threat of closed schools, renewed government lockdowns, empty stadiums
and an uncertain amount of federal support for businesses and unemployed
workers all
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/15/business/economy/economic-recovery-coronavirus-resurgence.html}{clouding
hopes for a rapid rebound from recession}.

For months, the prevailing wisdom among investors, Trump administration
officials and many economic forecasters was that after plunging into
recession this spring, the country's recovery would accelerate in late
summer and take off in the fall as the virus receded, restrictions on
commerce loosened, and consumers reverted to more normal spending
patterns. Job gains in May and June fueled those rosy predictions.

But failure to suppress a
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html}{resurgence
of confirmed infections} is threatening to choke the recovery and push
the country back into a recessionary spiral --- one that could inflict
long-term damage on workers and businesses large and small, unless
Congress reconsiders the scale of federal aid that may be required in
the months to come.

The looming economic pain was evident on Tuesday as big companies
forecast gloomy months ahead. Delta Air Lines said it was
\href{https://www.cnbc.com/2020/07/14/delta-dal-posts-2q-loss-amid-coronavirus-pandemic.html}{cutting
back plans} to add flights in August and beyond, citing flagging
consumer demand. The nation's
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/14/business/big-banks-quarterly-results.html}{biggest
banks} warned that they were setting aside billions of dollars to cover
anticipated losses as customers fail to pay their mortgages and other
loans in the months to come.

``The earlier-than-anticipated resumption in activity has been
accompanied by a sharp increase in the virus spread in many areas,''
Lael Brainard, a Federal Reserve governor, said on Tuesday. ``Even if
the virus spread flattens, the recovery is likely to face headwinds from
diminished activity and costly adjustments in some sectors, along with
impaired incomes among many consumers and businesses.''

--- \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/jim-tankersley}{Jim Tankersley} and
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/ben-casselman}{Ben Casselman}

\hypertarget{catch-up-heres-what-you-may-have-missed}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{catch-up-heres-what-you-may-have-missed}{Catch
up: Here's what you may have
missed.}}{Catch up: Here's what you may have missed.}}\label{catch-up-heres-what-you-may-have-missed}}

Copied to clipboard.

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \textbf{The Paper Store} filed for bankruptcy protection Tuesday
  citing the financial strain caused by closing all of its stores for
  weeks at a time because of coronavirus lockdowns. The chain, which has
  sold specialty gifts for 55 years, operates a warehouse and 86 stores
  throughout the Northeast and employs roughly 2,000 people. The company
  hopes to sell by late August in order to get the cash needed to buy
  millions of dollars worth of inventory for Christmas, its busiest
  season.
\item
  The Trump administration, which mistakenly sent \$1.4 billion of
  stimulus money to dead people, has begun canceling checks
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/live/2020/07/14/business/stock-market-updates-coronavirus\#the-irs-wants-the-stimulus-money-it-sent-to-dead-people-back}{that
  were delivered to the deceased}. The Internal Revenue Service said in
  an update on its website that such checks should still be returned to
  the federal government but that it was taking action to ensure they
  cannot be cashed. A Government Accountability Office report
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/25/us/politics/coronavirus-stimulus-dead-people.html}{released
  last month} found that about \$1.4 billion of the \$270 billion of
  direct stimulus payments went to the deceased.
\item
  Three of the nation's biggest banks revealed that
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/live/2020/07/14/business/stock-market-updates-coronavirus\#banks-stockpile-billions-as-they-prepare-for-things-to-get-worse}{they
  had set aside billions of dollars} to cover potential losses on loans,
  signaling that they do not expect consumers and corporations to be
  able to pay their debts in the coming months as the pandemic continues
  to gut employment and commerce. Collectively, \textbf{JPMorgan Chase},
  \textbf{Citigroup} and \textbf{Wells Fargo} have put aside \$25
  billion during the second quarter, they said. As a result, their
  quarterly profits plunged. It was Wells Fargo's first quarterly loss
  since 2008.
\item
  Lael Brainard, a Federal Reserve governor, warned that a second wave
  of coronavirus cases
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/live/2020/07/14/business/stock-market-updates-coronavirus\#a-fed-governor-warns-a-second-virus-wave-could-reignite-market-turmoil}{could
  imperil the economy and markets once again}, even though financial
  conditions have calmed since the wild days of March and the labor
  market has begun to mend. ``A broad second wave could reignite
  financial market volatility and market disruptions at a time of
  greater vulnerability,'' Ms. Brainard said, speaking to the National
  Association for Business Economics. And in any case, ``the strength of
  the recovery will depend importantly on the timing, magnitude and
  distribution of additional fiscal support.''
\item
  \textbf{Best Buy}, the electronics retailer with about 1,000 locations
  in the United States,
  \href{https://corporate.bestbuy.com/best-buy-now-requiring-face-coverings-for-store-customers/}{said
  on Tuesday}that it planned to require customers to wear face coverings
  in its stores starting Wednesday. The company said that it would
  provide masks to customers who did not have one, and would make
  exceptions for small children and people who could not wear masks for
  health reasons, according to a blog post.
\end{itemize}

--- \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/gregory-schmidt}{Gregory Schmidt}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
