Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}Joe Biden's Paid Speech
Buoyed the G.O.P. in Midwest Battleground

\url{https://nyti.ms/2Sa22Rv}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/21/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{D.N.C.
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/20/us/politics/biden-presidential-nomination-dnc.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Biden's
  Speech}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/us/elections/2020-presidential-election-calendar.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Election
  Calendar}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/11/us/politics/vote-by-mail-us-states.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Voting
  by Mail}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Politics
  Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{joe-bidens-paid-speech-buoyed-the-gop-in-midwest-battleground}{%
\section{Joe Biden's Paid Speech Buoyed the G.O.P. in Midwest
Battleground}\label{joe-bidens-paid-speech-buoyed-the-gop-in-midwest-battleground}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2019/01/24/us/politics/24biden-print/merlin_145406889_e0fdc936-f65a-4cf5-9008-498769c893f4-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/alexander-burns}{Alexander
Burns}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Jan. 23, 2019
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Joseph R. Biden Jr. swept into Benton Harbor, Mich., three weeks before
the November elections, in the midst of his quest to reclaim the Midwest
for Democrats. He took the stage at Lake Michigan College as
Representative Fred Upton, a long-serving Republican from the area,
faced the toughest race of his career.

But
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/06/us/politics/obama-letter-biden-GOP-investigation.html}{Mr.
Biden} was not there to denounce Mr. Upton. Instead, he was collecting
\$200,000 from the Economic Club of Southwestern Michigan to address a
Republican-leaning audience, according to a speaking contract obtained
by The New York Times and interviews with organizers. The group, a
business-minded civic organization, is supported in part by an Upton
family foundation.

Mr. Biden stunned Democrats and elated Republicans by praising Mr. Upton
while the lawmaker looked on from the audience. Alluding to Mr. Upton's
support for a landmark medical-research law, Mr. Biden called him a
champion in the fight against cancer --- and ``one of the finest guys
I've ever worked with.''

Mr. Biden's remarks, coming amid a wide-ranging discourse on American
politics, quickly appeared in Republican advertising. The local
Democratic Party pleaded with Mr. Biden to repair what it saw as a
damaging error, to no avail. On Nov. 6, Mr. Upton defeated his
Democratic challenger by four and a half percentage points.

As Mr. Biden considers a bid for the presidency in 2020, the episode
underscores his potential vulnerabilities in a fight for the Democratic
nomination and raises questions about his judgment as a party leader.
Mr. Biden has attempted to strike a balance since leaving office,
presenting himself as a unifying statesman who could unseat President
Trump while also working to amass a modest fortune of several million
dollars.

But Mr. Biden's appearance in Michigan plainly set his lucrative
personal activities at odds with what some Democrats saw as his duty to
the party, linking him with a civic group seen as tilting to the right
and undermining Democrats' effort to defeat Mr. Upton, a powerful
lawmaker who in 2017
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2017/05/02/us/politics/health-care-paul-ryan-fred-upton-congress.html}{helped
craft a bill to repeal the Affordable Care Act}.

Eric Lester, a retired physician who chaired the Democratic Party in
Berrien County, Mich., during the midterms, said he viewed Mr. Biden's
supportive remarks about Mr. Upton as a betrayal. Mr. Lester, who
attended the speech, said he had confronted an aide to Mr. Biden in the
hallway, telling him the former vice president had badly damaged the
Democratic cause.

``It just gives Fred Upton cover and makes it possible for him to
continue to pretend to be a useful, bipartisan fellow,'' Mr. Lester
recalled saying, adding, ``I entered the hall with positive feelings
about Mr. Biden and felt very frustrated.''

Joe Trippi, a Democratic strategist and veteran of several presidential
campaigns, said it was an open question whether voters in the party
would punish candidates they see as overly friendly or cooperative with
Republicans. He suggested that could be one of the defining pressures
for Mr. Biden if he announces his candidacy.

``I really believe the country does not want to be at war with each
other,'' Mr. Trippi said. ``But there is also the polarization going on,
where people say: Damn it, I want to fight.''

\hypertarget{latest-updates-2020-election}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/21/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: 2020
Election}}{Latest Updates: 2020 Election}}\label{latest-updates-2020-election}}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/21/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#a-boy-with-a-stutter-gave-a-gripping-convention-speech}{3m
ago}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/21/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#a-boy-with-a-stutter-gave-a-gripping-convention-speech}{A
boy with a stutter gave a gripping convention speech.}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/21/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#how-steve-bannons-arrest-disrupted-his-attempts-to-stay-relevant}{18m
ago}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/21/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#how-steve-bannons-arrest-disrupted-his-attempts-to-stay-relevant}{How
Steve Bannon's arrest disrupted his attempts to stay relevant.}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/21/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#untraceable-cash-flows-into-super-pacs-supporting-both-presidential-candidates}{41m
ago}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/21/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#untraceable-cash-flows-into-super-pacs-supporting-both-presidential-candidates}{Untraceable
cash flows into super PACs supporting both presidential candidates.}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/21/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

Several people involved in planning the event said Mr. Upton, 65, had no
role in arranging Mr. Biden's appearance, and Mr. Upton said he was not
involved. There is no evidence Mr. Biden was motivated to praise the
lawmaker by anything other than sincere admiration, stemming from Mr.
Upton's role in crafting the 21st Century Cures Act after the death of
Mr. Biden's elder son, Beau, from cancer in 2015.

Bill Russo, a spokesman for Mr. Biden, said the research-funding
legislation was the foundation of Mr. Biden's relationship with Mr.
Upton.

``It was one of the few bipartisan bills passed in an otherwise deeply
divided and gridlocked Congress,'' Mr. Russo said. ``Vice President
Biden believes to his core that you can disagree politically on a lot
and still work together in good faith on issues of common cause --- like
funding cancer research.''

Regarding Mr. Biden's decision not to endorse Mr. Upton's Democratic
challenger, Matt Longjohn, Mr. Russo said the former vice president
``received hundreds of requests for endorsements from all over the
country and endorsed in 135 races this cycle where his impact could be
greatest.''

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2019/01/21/us/politics/21bidenupton2/merlin_121583396_e2ca0ee1-4e8c-4748-9fae-20381002703f-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Since leaving office, Mr. Biden has sought out opportunities to earn
substantial income --- mainly through paid speeches and a
multimillion-dollar book deal --- and his newfound wealth would be
closely scrutinized in a presidential race. Mindful of Hillary Clinton's
stumbles in the 2016 presidential race, Mr. Biden has
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/01/01/us/politics/joe-biden-presidential-campaign-2020.html}{attempted
to set guidelines for his activities} that would minimize any political
sensitivity, declining to give paid speeches to big banks or to accept
foreign contributions to several nonprofit organizations he controls.

Mr. Biden has continued to pursue commercial activities while he is in
the final stage of making a 2020 decision; he is scheduled to give a
talk in Grand Prairie, Tex., a suburb of Dallas, on Thursday, as part of
an extended tour promoting his 2017 book, ``Promise Me, Dad.''

The speaking contract for Mr. Biden's October appearance in Michigan
suggests that the popular Democrat would have known he was addressing a
Republican-leaning crowd. The speaking series was underwritten in part
by organizations connected to Mr. Upton's family: Among the biggest
sponsors listed on the Economic Club's website are the Whirlpool
Corporation, which was co-founded by Mr. Upton's grandfather, and the
Frederick S. Upton Foundation, a family charity named for the same man.

The contract for Mr. Biden's visit shows he was paid \$200,000 for his
appearance, including a \$150,000 speaking fee and a \$50,000 travel
allowance. It also specifies that the audience would be ``primarily
older, conservative Republicans and local community members.'' The
document was disclosed in response to a Freedom of Information request
made by America Rising, a Republican group that conducts research on
Democratic candidates.

It is unclear whether the fees Mr. Biden received in this case are
standard for all his speeches. Mr. Biden's aides have declined to
confirm what his rates are for paid appearances, including the
appearance in Michigan, or how much he has earned through paid speaking
since leaving office. In at least one instance, his speaking bureau,
Creative Artists Agency,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/01/01/us/politics/joe-biden-presidential-campaign-2020.html}{offered
a reduced rate} of \$100,000, plus travel expenses, to the University of
Utah.

If Mr. Biden were to have charged a similar range of fees for all his
comparable speeches since leaving office, he would most likely have
collected between \$4 million and \$5 million through speeches over the
last two years.

Representatives of Lake Michigan College, which recently took over
management of the Economic Club speaker series, and the Fredrick S.
Upton Foundation confirmed that the Upton organization was a major
sponsor of the series. Both organizations said Mr. Upton had no role in
proposing or choosing the speakers. Lisa Cripps-Downey, president of the
Berrien Community Foundation, a nonprofit that administers the Frederick
S. Upton Foundation, confirmed that the organization had given
substantial funding to the Economic Club, with an annual grant of
\$80,000 over the last three years --- a total close to a
quarter-million dollars.

``When we see the speakers, we're just as surprised as everybody else,''
Ms. Cripps-Downey said.

Mr. Russo said Mr. Biden's team had been aware that the Frederick S.
Upton Foundation helped fund the Economic Club. He said Biden aides had
vetted the funding sources for the speaking series and concluded they
met his standards.

Mr. Upton, who confirmed in a statement that he attended Mr. Biden's
speech at Lake Michigan College, said he had ``no idea'' that Mr. Biden
would refer to him at all, let alone so favorably. The two men ran into
each other briefly at the venue, before Mr. Biden's speech, and they
agreed to follow up to discuss the medical-research law's
implementation, an aide to Mr. Upton said.

``Being in the audience with my family and hearing Vice President Biden
reference our work together was an immense honor,'' Mr. Upton said. ``He
was warmly received by everyone in attendance who were thrilled to have
him there, including myself.''

For campus speeches, Mr. Biden refuses to let schools pay him with funds
that come from the government or from extra fees charged to students ---
requirements that appear to have been met in this case.

Candice Elders, a spokeswoman for Lake Michigan College, said funding
for the speaking series there ``comes from private sources through
ticket sales, memberships, contributions, grants, sponsorships and event
proceeds.'' She said the grant from the Frederick S. Upton Foundation is
part of a fund designed to make up any difference between expenses for
the speaker series and the revenue brought in by events. Ms. Elders
estimated that the Upton grant makes up about 11 percent of the series
budget.

Ms. Elders said that no public money was used for the event, and that
Mr. Biden addressed a group that included several hundred college and
high school students while he was on campus. ``Young people from area
schools and nonprofit organizations are routinely invited to attend
Economic Club events at no cost,'' Ms. Elders said.

The greatest impact of Mr. Biden's speech, however, was outside the
lecture hall. His remarks about Mr. Upton ricocheted through Michigan's
Sixth Congressional District. Mr. Upton alluded to Mr. Biden's praise in
a debate with Mr. Longjohn the next day, and his campaign sent out a
mailer stressing Mr. Upton's bipartisan streak, including Mr. Biden's
description of him as ``the reason we're going to beat cancer.''

A business-backed Republican group, Defending Main Street, ran digital
ads on Facebook showing a grinning Mr. Biden and the crucial quote ---
``Fred Upton is one of the finest guys I've ever worked with'' --- above
a mock version of the former vice president's signature.

Mr. Lester, the local Democratic chairman, said he strove to contain the
damage. In an email to Mr. Biden's staff, Mr. Lester implored the former
vice president to back Mr. Longjohn: ``Surely VP Biden did not intend to
endorse Mr. Upton and slight the local Democratic candidate here,'' he
wrote.

Mr. Longjohn, the former national health officer of the YMCA, said in an
interview that he had been disappointed to see Mr. Biden ``clap Mr.
Upton on the back in an establishment political way.'' He said his
campaign had reached out to Mr. Biden's staff through an intermediary,
seeking to discuss his involvement in the race.

``There was nothing but silence,'' Mr. Longjohn said. ``We had just
requested a phone call and there was no response.''

\hypertarget{our-2020-election-guide}{%
\section{Our 2020 Election Guide}\label{our-2020-election-guide}}

Updated Aug. 21, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{the-latest}{%
  \subsection{The Latest}\label{the-latest}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Joe Biden
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/21/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{accepted
    the Democratic nomination}, urging Americans to have faith that they
    could ``overcome this season of darkness.''
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/21/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Here's
    the latest.}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{news-analysis}{%
  \subsection{News Analysis}\label{news-analysis}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Looming over Mr. Biden's nomination was the ever-present shadow of
    another man who's poised to dominate the campaign:
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/20/us/politics/biden-dnc-speech-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Donald
    J. Trump}.
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{keep-up-with-our-coverage}{%
  \subsection{Keep Up With Our
  Coverage}\label{keep-up-with-our-coverage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Get an
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{email}
    recapping the day's news
  \end{itemize}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Download our mobile app on
    \href{https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nytimes/id284862083?ls=1\&mat_click_id=5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\&referrer=mat_click_id\%3D5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\%26link_click_id\%3D722930677036718082}{iOS}
    and
    \href{http://a.localytics.com/android?id=com.nytimes.android\&referrer=utm_source\%3Dother_nyt_mobile_web\%26utm_medium\%3DWeb\%2520page\%26utm_term\%3DGeneral\%2520Mobile\%2520Page\%26utm_campaign\%3DNYT\%2520Mobile\%2520General\%2520Page}{Android}
    and turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
