Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/technology}{Technology}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/technology}{Technology}\textbar{}`PizzaGate' Conspiracy
Theory Thrives Anew in the TikTok Era

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Election
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/biden-vice-president-2020.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Biden's
  V.P. Search}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/07/24/us/politics/trump-biden-campaign-donors.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Map
  of Donations}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/elections/delegate-count-primary-results.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Delegate
  Count}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2019/us/politics/2020-presidential-candidates.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{The
  Candidates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Politics
  Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{pizzagate-conspiracy-theory-thrives-anew-in-the-tiktok-era}{%
\section{`PizzaGate' Conspiracy Theory Thrives Anew in the TikTok
Era}\label{pizzagate-conspiracy-theory-thrives-anew-in-the-tiktok-era}}

The false theory targeting Democrats, now fueled by QAnon and teenagers
on TikTok, is entangling new targets like Justin Bieber.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/06/28/business/28pizzagate-print10/28pizzagate-print10-articleLarge-v3.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/cecilia-kang}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2019/01/29/multimedia/author-cecilia-kang/author-cecilia-kang-thumbLarge.png}}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/sheera-frenkel}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/06/14/multimedia/author-sheera-frenkel/author-sheera-frenkel-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/cecilia-kang}{Cecilia Kang} and
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/sheera-frenkel}{Sheera Frenkel}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Published June 27, 2020Updated July 14, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

WASHINGTON --- Four minutes into a video that was posted on Instagram
last month, Justin Bieber leaned into the camera and adjusted the front
of his black knit beanie. For some of his 130 million followers, it was
a signal.

In the video, someone had posted a comment asking Mr. Bieber to touch
his hat if he had been a victim of a child-trafficking ring known
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/search?query=Pizzagate}{as PizzaGate}.
Thousands of comments were flooding in, and there was no evidence that
Mr. Bieber had seen that message. But the pop star's innocuous gesture
set off a flurry of online activity, which highlighted the resurgence of
one of social media's early conspiracy theories.

Viewers quickly uploaded hundreds of videos online analyzing Mr.
Bieber's action. The videos were translated into Spanish, Portuguese and
other languages, amassing millions of views. Fans then left thousands of
comments on Mr. Bieber's social media posts asking him if he was safe.
Within days, searches for ``Justin and PizzaGate'' soared on Google, and
the hashtag \#savebieber started trending.

Four years ago, ahead of the 2016 presidential election, the baseless
notion that Hillary Clinton and Democratic elites were running a child
sex-trafficking ring out of a Washington pizzeria
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2016/11/21/technology/fact-check-this-pizzeria-is-not-a-child-trafficking-site.html?searchResultPosition=11}{spread
across the internet}, illustrating how a crackpot idea with no truth to
it could blossom on social media --- and how dangerous it could be. In
December 2016, a
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2016/12/05/business/media/comet-ping-pong-pizza-shooting-fake-news-consequences.html?searchResultPosition=12}{vigilante
gunman showed up} at the restaurant with an assault rifle and opened
fire into a closet.

In the years afterward, Facebook, Twitter and YouTube managed to largely
suppress PizzaGate. But now, just months before the next presidential
election, the conspiracy theory is making a comeback on these platforms
--- and on
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/03/technology/tiktok-is-the-future.html}{new
ones such as TikTok} --- underlining the limits of their efforts to
stamp out dangerous speech online and how little has changed despite
rising public frustration.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/06/28/business/28pizzagate-instagram/00pizzagate-instagram-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

This time, PizzaGate is being fueled by a younger generation that is
active on TikTok, which was in its infancy four years ago, as well as on
other social media platforms. The conspiracy group
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/14/us/politics/qanon-politicians-candidates.html}{QAnon}
is also promoting PizzaGate in private Facebook groups and creating
easy-to-share memes on it.

Driven by these new elements, the theory has morphed. PizzaGate no
longer focuses on Mrs. Clinton and has taken on less of a political
bent. Its new targets and victims are a broader assortment of powerful
businesspeople, politicians and celebrities, including Mr. Bieber,
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/04/17/technology/bill-gates-virus-conspiracy-theories.html}{Bill
Gates}, Ellen DeGeneres, Oprah Winfrey and Chrissy Teigen, who are
lumped together as part of the global elite. For groups like QAnon,
PizzaGate has become a convenient way to foment discontent.

The theory has also gone global. While it previously found traction
mainly in the United States, videos and posts about it have racked up
millions of views in Italy, Brazil and Turkey.

``PizzaGate never went away because it encompasses very potent forces,''
including children's safety and the power of elites, said Alice Marwick,
a disinformation expert at the University of North Carolina at Chapel
Hill. ``But now there is so much scaffolding from people who have
researched it, it wasn't hard for others to pick up from there.''

\hypertarget{latest-updates-2020-election}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: 2020
Election}}{Latest Updates: 2020 Election}}\label{latest-updates-2020-election}}

Updated 2020-08-01T01:26:45.732Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-29fdff45}{Kamala
  Harris, a top vice-presidential contender, confronts double
  standards.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-13ec3d9c}{Karen
  Bass and Susan Rice are rising on Biden's vice-presidential
  shortlist.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-49e9a016}{Trump
  says Russian bounties to kill U.S. troops `never took place.'}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

PizzaGate is reaching a level that nearly exceeds its 2016 fever pitch,
according to an analysis by The New York Times. TikTok posts with the
\#PizzaGate hashtag have been viewed more than 82 million times in
recent months. Google searches for PizzaGate have skyrocketed.

In the first week of June, comments, likes and shares of PizzaGate also
spiked to more than 800,000 on Facebook and nearly 600,000 on Instagram,
according to data from CrowdTangle, a Facebook-owned tool for analyzing
social interactions. That compares with 512,000 interactions on Facebook
and 93,000 on Instagram during the first week of December 2016. From the
start of 2017 through January this year, the average number of weekly
PizzaGate mentions, likes and shares on Facebook and Instagram was under
20,000, according to The Times's analysis.

The conspiracy has regained momentum even as its original targets ---
Mrs. Clinton, her top aides and
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2016/11/21/technology/fact-check-this-pizzeria-is-not-a-child-trafficking-site.html}{a
Washington pizzeria, Comet Ping Pong} --- are still dealing with the
fallout.

Hateful comments have recently surged on the Facebook page and Yelp and
Google review pages for Comet Ping Pong, where the child trafficking
supposedly happened. The pizzeria's owner, James Alefantis, said he had
received fresh death threats that caused the Federal Bureau of
Investigation to open a new investigation two months ago. The F.B.I.
said Friday that it could not confirm the existence of an investigation.

``There are no real options for someone like me. I don't have the names
or numbers for people to call at Google or TikTok,'' Mr. Alefantis said.
``But I don't want to be that person who lives their life in fear.''

Representatives for Mr. Bieber didn't respond to requests for comment.

PizzaGate was born in 2016 in online forums like 4chan and Reddit, where
right-wing users and supporters of Donald J. Trump pored over hacked
emails from
\href{https://www.google.com/search?q=john+podesta+nytimes\&rlz=1C5GCEA_enUS903US903\&oq=john+podesta+nytimes\&aqs=chrome..69i57j33l2.2235j0j4\&sourceid=chrome\&ie=UTF-8}{John
D. Podesta}, Mrs. Clinton's senior campaign adviser, looking for
evidence of wrongdoing. Some emails referring to Mr. Podesta's dinner
plans mentioned pizza. A 4chan participant then connected the phrase
``cheese pizza'' to pedophiles, who on chat boards use the initials
``c.p.'' to denote child pornography.

Mr. Alefantis, who is friends with Mr. Podesta's brother, Tony, was
mentioned in several of the emails. That led internet users to connect
his pizza parlor to their conspiracy.

The theory soon appeared in bogus publications like The Vigilant Citizen
and The New Nationalist on Facebook and Instagram. On Twitter and
YouTube, other users amplified the content.

Fact checkers debunked the idea. But weeks after the November 2016
election, Edgar M. Welch, 32, a North Carolina resident, drove six hours
to Comet Ping Pong to free what he believed were enslaved children. He
shot several rounds from a military-style assault rifle into a locked
closet door of the pizzeria and eventually surrendered to the police. In
2017, he was
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2017/06/22/us/pizzagate-attack-sentence.html}{sentenced
to four years} in prison.

Image

Police vehicles outside Comet Ping Pong after a gunman who believed
PizzaGate entered the restaurant in late 2016.Credit...Jim Lo
Scalzo/European Pressphoto Agency

Soon after, YouTube, Twitter and Facebook suspended the accounts of
users who had pushed PizzaGate and took down hundreds of related posts.

To keep PizzaGate tamped down, the social media companies took other
steps. Facebook made it impossible to search for hashtags such as
\#pizzagateisreal. On YouTube, searching for \#pizzagate brought up a
label that explained the term was part of a false conspiracy. Twitter
also stopped \#pizzagate from surfacing in its trending topics in the
United States.

But starting in April, a confluence of factors renewed interest.

A documentary promoting PizzaGate, ``Out of Shadows,'' made by a former
Hollywood stuntman, was released on YouTube that month and passed around
the QAnon community. In May, the idea that Mr. Bieber was connected to
the conspiracy surfaced. Teenagers on TikTok began promoting both, as
reported earlier by
\href{https://www.thedailybeast.com/tiktok-teens-are-obsessed-with-pizzagate}{The
Daily Beast}.

A week ago, Rachel McNear, 20, watched ``Out of Shadows,'' which has
garnered 15 million views on YouTube. She then turned to Twitter, where
she came across Mr. Bieber's supposed association with PizzaGate. After
reading more on Instagram, YouTube and Facebook, she created a
one-minute description of her research on the topic and posted it to
TikTok on Monday.

``The mainstream media uses words like conspiracy theory and how it is
debunked but I'm seeing the research,'' Ms. McNear, of Timonium, Md.,
said in an interview.

Her video was taken down on Wednesday when TikTok removed the
\#PizzaGate hashtag and all content searchable with the term. A TikTok
spokeswoman said such content violated its guidelines.

That same day, Facebook also expunged PizzaGate-related comments under
Comet Ping Pong's page after a call from The Times.

YouTube said it had long demoted PizzaGate-related videos and removes
them from its recommendation engine, including ``Out of Shadows.''
Twitter said it constantly eliminates PizzaGate posts and had updated
its child sexual-exploitation policy to prevent harm from the
conspiracy. Facebook said it had created new policies, teams and tools
to prevent falsehoods like PizzaGate from spreading.

Teenagers and young adults, many of whom are just forming political
beliefs, are particularly susceptible to PizzaGate, said Travis View, a
researcher and host of the ``QAnon Anonymous'' podcast, which examines
conspiracy theories. They are drawn to celebrity photos on tabloid sites
and Hollywood blogs to uncover PizzaGate's supposed secret symbols and
clues, he said. Even a triangle --- which can signify a slice of pizza
--- can be taken as proof that a celebrity is part of a secret elite
cabal.

``It all becomes a game, and people are drawn in because it feels
participatory,'' Mr. View said.

Image

``It just doesn't go away,'' said Tony Podesta, a former Democratic
lobbyist who was targeted by PizzaGate believers in 2016.Credit...Justin
T. Gellerson for The New York Times

For Tony Podesta, John Podesta's brother, PizzaGate's revival has opened
up old wounds. He had dealt with trolling from conspiracy believers in
2016. Recently, he got a voice mail message from an anonymous caller
saying, ``Your pizza is ready.''

``It just doesn't go away,'' Mr. Podesta said. ``They are always three
steps ahead of the sheriff.''

Cecilia Kang reported from Washington, and Sheera Frenkel from Oakland,
Calif.

\hypertarget{our-2020-election-guide}{%
\section{Our 2020 Election Guide}\label{our-2020-election-guide}}

Updated July 31, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{the-latest}{%
  \subsection{The Latest}\label{the-latest}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    President Trump's assault on the Postal Service is intersecting with
    his attacks on mail-in voting.
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/politics/trump-usps-mail-delays.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Voting
    rights groups say it is a recipe for disaster.}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{bidens-vp-search}{%
  \subsection{Biden's V.P. Search}\label{bidens-vp-search}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/biden-vice-president-2020.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Here
    are 13 women} who have been under consideration to be Joe Biden's
    running mate, and why each might be chosen --- and might not be.
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{keep-up-with-our-coverage}{%
  \subsection{Keep Up With Our
  Coverage}\label{keep-up-with-our-coverage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Get an
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{email}
    recapping the day's news
  \end{itemize}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Download our mobile app on
    \href{https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nytimes/id284862083?ls=1\&mat_click_id=5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\&referrer=mat_click_id\%3D5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\%26link_click_id\%3D722930677036718082}{iOS}
    and
    \href{http://a.localytics.com/android?id=com.nytimes.android\&referrer=utm_source\%3Dother_nyt_mobile_web\%26utm_medium\%3DWeb\%2520page\%26utm_term\%3DGeneral\%2520Mobile\%2520Page\%26utm_campaign\%3DNYT\%2520Mobile\%2520General\%2520Page}{Android}
    and turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
