\href{/section/technology}{Technology}\textbar{}Start-Ups Braced for the
Worst. The Worst Never Came.

\url{https://nyti.ms/30G0IJs}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{the-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus?name=styln-coronavirus-markets\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=428c5820-e389-11ea-85ce-efb8a1120743}{The
Coronavirus
Outbreak}}{The Coronavirus Outbreak}}\label{the-coronavirus-outbreak}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  live\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/20/world/coronavirus-covid.html?name=styln-coronavirus-markets\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=428c5821-e389-11ea-85ce-efb8a1120743}{Latest
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html?name=styln-coronavirus-markets\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=428c7f30-e389-11ea-85ce-efb8a1120743}{Maps
  and Cases}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html?name=styln-coronavirus-markets\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=428c7f31-e389-11ea-85ce-efb8a1120743}{Vaccine
  Tracker}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/19/us/colleges-closing-covid.html?name=styln-coronavirus-markets\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=428c7f32-e389-11ea-85ce-efb8a1120743}{Colleges
  Closing}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/20/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?name=styln-coronavirus-markets\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=428c7f33-e389-11ea-85ce-efb8a1120743}{Economy}
\end{itemize}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/06/business/00startups1/merlin_175363401_10dc9679-b4d0-47e1-b98d-9e342f8ac145-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Sections

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\hypertarget{start-ups-braced-for-the-worst-the-worst-never-came}{%
\section{Start-Ups Braced for the Worst. The Worst Never
Came.}\label{start-ups-braced-for-the-worst-the-worst-never-came}}

The doomsday warnings about tech start-ups failing in the pandemic have
not yielded the shakeout that many expected a few months ago.

``It's been a bit of a wild ride,'' said Sam Zaid, chief executive of
the car sharing start-up Getaround.Credit...Kelsey McClellan for The New
York Times

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/erin-griffith}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2019/06/18/reader-center/author-erin-griffith/author-erin-griffith-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/erin-griffith}{Erin
Griffith}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Aug. 10, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

SAN FRANCISCO --- Getaround, a car sharing start-up, started the year by
laying off 150 employees and scaling back some operations after it spent
too much on a rapid expansion.

Two months later, with the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&module=styln-coronavirus\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{spread
of the coronavirus}, business got even worse. The company laid off
another 100 employees, asked those who remained to volunteer for pay
cuts, obtained a government loan of \$5 million to \$10 million and
battled bankruptcy rumors.

But in May, something unexpected happened: Business bounced back when
people began using the start-up's cars to get on the road again.
Getaround's revenue in the United States for the year is now 40 percent
above where it was a year ago. Last month, it brought back all of its
furloughed employees and started hiring again.

``We have seen a very, very fast recovery,'' said Sam Zaid, Getaround's
chief executive, adding that he was now raising more cash. ``It's been a
bit of a wild ride.''

When the coronavirus pandemic first hit in March, many technology
start-ups braced themselves for The End, as business dried up, venture
capitalists warned of dark times ahead and restructuring experts
predicted the beginning of a
``\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/01/technology/virus-start-ups-pummeled-layoffs-unwinding.html}{great
unwinding}'' after a decade-long boom. Five months later, those doomsday
warnings have not translated into the drastic shakeout that many had
expected.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/06/business/00startups2/merlin_175363278_43f5e27d-e2ae-4575-99be-bf325e89730a-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Funding for young companies has stayed robust, particularly for the
larger start-ups. Some of them, like the stock trading app Robinhood and
Discord, the social media site, have pulled in hundreds of millions of
dollars in new capital in recent months, boosting their valuations. And
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/17/technology/ipo-pandemic.html}{initial
public offerings of tech companies}have come roaring back, alongside a
surging stock market.

``Things generally are substantially better than our worst fears 90 days
ago,'' said Rich Wong, an investor at Accel, a Silicon Valley venture
capital firm.

The stabilization has created a surreal disconnect between tech
start-ups and the broader economy. While retailers, restaurant chains
and many other companies are filing for bankruptcy and are dealing with
one of the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/07/30/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus/the-us-economys-contraction-in-the-second-quarter-was-the-worst-on-record}{worst
downturns on
record}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/30/business/economy/q2-gdp-coronavirus-economy.html}{,}
the tech industry has largely sidestepped the worst of the destruction.

Demand has surged for start-ups that offer virtual learning,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/03/health/covid-telemedicine-congress.html}{telehealth},
e-commerce,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/04/07/technology/coronavirus-internet-use.html}{video
games and streaming}, and software for remote workers. Start-ups in
areas like fitness or children's activities also quickly adapted their
offerings to go virtual.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-the-coronavirus-outbreak-and-the-economy}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/20/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: The Coronavirus Outbreak and the
Economy}}{Latest Updates: The Coronavirus Outbreak and the Economy}}\label{latest-updates-the-coronavirus-outbreak-and-the-economy}}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/20/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#the-producer-of-unhinged-makes-a-big-bet-on-audiences-returning-to-theaters}{10h
ago}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/20/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#the-producer-of-unhinged-makes-a-big-bet-on-audiences-returning-to-theaters}{The
producer of `Unhinged' makes a big bet on audiences returning to
theaters.}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/20/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#american-airlines-to-stop-flights-to-15-cities-after-government-aid-ends}{19h
ago}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/20/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#american-airlines-to-stop-flights-to-15-cities-after-government-aid-ends}{American
Airlines to stop flights to 15 cities after government aid ends.}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/20/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#without-school-plays-and-assemblies-a-technicians-livelihood-withers}{19h
ago}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/20/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#without-school-plays-and-assemblies-a-technicians-livelihood-withers}{Without
school plays and assemblies, a technician's livelihood withers.}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/20/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

More live coverage:
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/20/world/coronavirus-covid.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Global}

That doesn't mean tech start-ups have escaped unscathed. Some --- like
those providing travel services, restaurant software or tickets to
events --- watched revenue disappear. Stay Alfred, a luxury hospitality
start-up in Washington, recently began winding down its operations,
blaming the virus.
\href{https://scalefactor.com/scaleblog/a-message-from-the-founder-and-ceo/}{ScaleFactor,
an accounting start-up in Texas}, and
\href{https://techcrunch.com/2020/06/15/stockwell-the-ai-vending-machine-startup-formerly-known-as-bodega-is-shutting-down-july-1/}{Stockwell,
an office vending machine start-up} that was previously known as Bodega,
did the same.

But over all, the money has continued flowing. Start-ups in the United
States raised \$34.3 billion in the second quarter, down slightly from
\$36 billion a year earlier, according to PitchBook and the National
Venture Capital Association. Much of the financing went to the largest
companies, with the number of ``mega-rounds'' (deals larger than \$100
million) on a pace to top last year's total.

``People are trying to focus on who they believe the winners are, on
companies that have pivoted successfully to meet the new norm,'' said
Heather Gates, a managing director at Deloitte who advises start-ups.

Across Silicon Valley, the start-up panic began dissipating around May.
That was when layoffs slowed to a trickle, according to
\href{https://layoffs.fyi/}{Layoffs.fyi}, a site that tracks start-up
layoffs. Just 5 percent of the hundreds of companies that did layoffs
went out of business, according to the site.

Hiring is now picking back up. Job openings posted to a network run by
Drafted, a recruiting company, increased 30 percent in the last month,
said Vinayak Ranade, its chief executive.

Image

Spending by start-ups on items like software, servers and ads is now
more than a third above February levels, according to Brex, which
provides corporate credit cards to start-ups.Credit...Arsenii Vaselenko
for The New York Times

Start-up expenditures also began rising again.
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/08/02/technology/brex-start-up.html}{Brex},
which provides corporate credit cards to roughly 10,000 start-ups in the
United States, said spending on items like software, servers and ads is
now more than a third above February levels --- though spending on
business travel and office snacks remains depressed.

``Everyone woke up and thought, `Wait a second, people are still going
to do business,''' said Steve Sloane, an investor at Menlo Ventures.
``They're just going to do it online.''

Some of the shift was fueled by start-ups adapting their businesses to
the pandemic. One of those was ActivityHero, an online marketplace for
children's activities. In April, the San Francisco start-up's bookings
dropped 88 percent as summer camps around the country canceled their
programs, said Peggy Chang, its chief executive. She worried the company
wouldn't survive the year.

So ActivityHero encouraged its providers to offer virtual activities,
promoting them to parents with free classes and small discounts. By the
summer, bookings were back --- just online. Now, Ms. Chang said, she
sees online activities as a springboard to expand faster when in-person
activities return.

Envoy, a start-up in San Francisco that sells sign-in systems to
offices, also suffered its first monthly net loss in February and March,
said its chief executive, Larry Gadea. But that changed in May after the
company formed a service called Protect, with features for limiting
capacity in the office and managing which employees are in the office.

Around that time, working from home was becoming untenable for some
people and companies wanted a way to allow a limited number of workers
to return. Around 100,000 workers have used Envoy's new system at 500
offices, Mr. Gadea said.

``It saved the business,'' he said.

Some larger start-ups have seized the opportunity to raise even more
cash from investors. DoorDash and Instacart, two delivery services that
have become more popular in the pandemic, collectively raised more than
\$600 million in funding in June, lifting their valuations to \$16
billion for DoorDash and \$13.7 billion for Instacart.

Image

DoorDash, which has become more popular in the pandemic, raised new
funding in June.Credit...Benjamin Rasmussen for The New York Times

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/08/technology/robinhood-risky-trading.html}{Robinhood},
the online trading start-up, raised \$280 million in May and added \$320
million in July as day trading surged while people were quarantined.
Canva, an online design software provider, saw its growth accelerate as
more people worked remotely, and it doubled its valuation to \$6 billion
in June. Discord, a social media chat service whose use increased
roughly 50 percent in the pandemic, raised \$100 million in June in a
matter of weeks.

Ruben Flores-Martinez, founder of Cashdrop, an e-commerce start-up, said
he had struck out trying to raise funding for his company in January.
But the virus pushed local merchants to move online, leading hundreds of
them to try Cashdrop's software.

``Covid just came and accelerated stuff exponentially,'' said Mr.
Flores-Martinez, who ultimately raised \$2.7 million in funding for his
start-up in July.

He said he didn't meet any of the investors in person, an increasingly
common trait of start-up deal-making in the pandemic. In a June
\href{https://medium.com/omers-ventures/we-asked-over-150-vcs-if-they-are-doing-remote-deals-heres-what-they-said-970764b920fc}{survey}
of more than 150 venture capital firms conducted by OMERS Ventures, more
than two-thirds said they were willing to do deals remotely. Half said
their pipeline of new deals was the same as or more robust than it was
before the pandemic.

Cyan Banister, a start-up investor who put money into Cashdrop, said she
had expected new deals to dry up in the pandemic. But she said her firm,
Long Journey Ventures, had met so many new companies over Zoom calls
that she and her partners instead became concerned that they were
investing too quickly. The firm has done five deals, and Ms. Banister
has made six personal investments in the pandemic.

``People made enough bread and grew enough gardens and decided to start
working on a start-up now,'' she said. ``We're seeing people start to
build things and come up with ideas.''

Even some of the hardest hit start-ups are recovering. Sonder, a home
rental start-up, laid off or furloughed 417 employees in March. Three
months later, its chief executive declared that it had returned to
``\href{https://cheddar.com/media/sonder-ceo-says-m-series-e-puts-rental-company-back-into-growth-mode}{growth
mode}'' with 100 employees returning or having their hours restored. In
June, it raised \$170 million, above a target of \$150 million, said
Chris Arsenault, a venture capitalist at Inovia Capital, which has
invested in Sonder.

Image

Brian Chesky, Airbnb's chief executive, recently expressed surprise at
how fast the company's business was rebounding.Credit...Jessica Chou for
The New York Times

The home-rental company
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/17/technology/airbnb-coronavirus-layoffs-.html}{Airbnb},
which initially lost more than \$1 billion in revenue from travel
cancellations, has also seen bookings improve to pre-pandemic levels as
people look for getaways within driving distance of their homes.

In a recent virtual meeting with employees, Brian Chesky, Airbnb's chief
executive,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/15/technology/airbnb-ipo.html}{expressed
surprise at the rebound}.

``This is something I never would have imagined telling you even eight
weeks ago,'' he said. ``It kind of defies logic in a way.''

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
