Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

Back to the Early '80s With Michael Kors

\url{https://nyti.ms/2uXqvik}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

Profile in style

\hypertarget{back-to-the-early-80s-with-michael-kors}{%
\section{Back to the Early '80s With Michael
Kors}\label{back-to-the-early-80s-with-michael-kors}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/lindsay-talbot}{Lindsay
Talbot}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  April 9, 2018
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Growing up in Merrick, Long Island,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/topic/person/michael-kors}{Michael
Kors} was surrounded by women who loved fashion: ``My mother was a
former Revlon model, my grandmother was obsessed with Bill Blass and
beige and I had two midriff-bearing aunts who idolized Cher,'' says the
designer, who drew dresses in the sand at the family beach club, where
he first observed the leisure-class glamour that would become his
eponymous label's signature. ``Everyone would arrive to their cabanas
wearing bikinis and leave for dinner in evening gowns,'' Kors recalls.
After high school, he attended the Fashion Institute of Technology in
Manhattan, but dropped out after two semesters to work as a window
dresser and ``sales boy'' at Lothar's clothing boutique on Fifth Avenue
(a favorite of Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis and Diana Ross) where he also
began selling pieces --- crisply tailored blazers, sporty sheaths and
maxi skirts --- of his own design.

Kors officially launched \href{https://www.michaelkors.com/}{his label}
in 1981 when, at age 21,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/1981/07/28/style/notes-on-fashion.html}{he
debuted} an 18-piece collection of white crepe de Chine dresses and
streamlined leather separates made for the resort season. ``New York in
the early '80s was like the wild, wild West; anything could happen,
there was so much possibility,'' says Kors. ``Glamour in those days was
everything. I would send my muses out at night wearing gold lamé gowns
with cashmere.'' Four decades later, he has over 650 stores worldwide.
In 2010, he became the youngest designer in history to receive the
CFDA's Lifetime Achievement Award. But the Broadway fanatic and
dedicated AIDS activist has never forgotten what women actually
\emph{want} to wear. Indeed, his famously loyal customers, including
Michelle Obama, Hillary Clinton and Oprah, seem to be his greatest
source of inspiration. As Kors puts it, ``I have always thought that you
are truly only as good as the people you dress.''

Here, Kors shares some of his many inspirations.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/04/05/t-magazine/05tmag-kors-slide-ZTLO/05tmag-kors-slide-ZTLO-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

``Here I am with my Peter Frampton hair backstage at my 1984 show. In
those days there were no underage models and always a lot of champagne
and cigarettes.''

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

Image

Credit...From left: Joshua Scott; courtesy of Michael Kors

\emph{Left:} ``My F.I.T. roommate Phil Zowine was a jewelry designer and
artist who tragically passed away from AIDS. I keep this bust he
sculpted when he was just 19 in the entrance of my house. I often think
about what he could have been doing today.'' \emph{Right:} ``Me at age 4
with my mother. We spent so many summer days playing cards while eating
cantaloupe and cottage cheese at our little seaside cabana on Long
Island.''

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

Image

Credit...Clockwise from top left: Joshua Scott; Advertising
Archive/Everett Collection; Joshua Scott

\emph{Top left:} ``I've been in some sort of aviators since I was a
teenager. When I was 15, I bought a pair of leather-wrapped Ray-Bans,
which I loved more than anything, but I lost them. Recently, I was
shopping on London's Portobello Road and found the exact same ones.''
\emph{Bottom left:} ``The second Broadway show I saw as a child was the
1967 production of `Hello, Dolly!' with Betty Grable. Last year, I went
to opening night of the revival starring my friend Bette Midler.''
\emph{Right:} ``Seeing `A Chorus Line' as a teenager was life changing.
The dancers' wardrobes and the drama of the grand finale knocked the
wind out of me. I dreamed of auditioning, but I'm a terrible dancer.''

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

Image

Credit...Dan and Corina Lecca Photo

``Iman in a leather V-neck at my first runway show in the fall of 1984.
It was at Tower Gallery in Chelsea, which was so damn grungy I didn't
think any fashion editors would dare show up. That space is a Bed Bath
\& Beyond now.''

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

Image

Credit...From left: Waring Abbott/Getty Images; courtesy of Moda
Operandi

\emph{Left:} ``I bought my first Bobby Short album when I was 14 at
Henri Bendel. It was such a chic store, and it didn't normally sell
records, so I knew it had to be something fabulous. Two years later, I
got to see Short perform for the first time at Café Carlyle.''
\emph{Right:} ``This is a sweater from my 2018 pre-fall collection. It
says `19' on the front and '81' on the back, a nod to the year I founded
my label and to the era that inspired my designs for the season.''

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

Image

Credit...Clockwise from left: Allan Tannenbaum/Soho Blues Gallery;
courtesy of Barney Greengrass; courtesy of Heller Gallery, New York

\emph{Left:} ``I went to Studio 54 instead of my senior prom wearing
three silk shirts, one layered on top of another. When they opened the
rope for me, it felt like my entree into New York City.'' \emph{Top
right:} ``Whenever anyone talks about disappearing New York, I say: Come
with me for breakfast at Barney Greengrass. It never changes, from the
electric-pink borscht to the wall murals of the antebellum South, which
make no sense when you're sitting there eating smoked salmon.''
\emph{Bottom right:} ``I've gotten totally addicted to Ed Moulthrop's
earthy wooden bowls, which I discovered at Gump's in San Francisco. I
love that store. It makes me feel like I'm in a Hitchcock movie.''

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

Image

Credit...From left: courtesy of Chermayeff \& Geismar \& Haviv; Clemens
Zahn/Laif/Redux

\emph{Left:} ``I was such a shopaholic as a child. Any time we went to a
museum, I'd always ask, `Is there a gift shop?' I remember being at MoMA
and begging my mother to buy me a set of white-on-white Christmas
cards.'' \emph{Right:} ``Heaven is eating vongole over a three-hour
lunch at La Fontelina in Capri, where I travel every year with my
husband Lance LePere. The setting is a feast for the senses --- the
rocks, the color of the water, the striped umbrellas and the boats going
by.''

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

Image

Credit...Christophe von Hohenberg

``My first collection was photographed for ￼a feature in Vogue in 1981.
It was my big break.''

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
