Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/business}{Business}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/business}{Business}\textbar{}Coronavirus Could End
China's Decades-Long Economic Growth Streak

\url{https://nyti.ms/3d0zzVz}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/news-event/coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{The
Coronavirus Outbreak}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  live\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/01/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Latest
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Maps
  and Cases}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Vaccine
  Tracker}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/07/29/us/schools-reopening-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{What
  School May Look Like}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/live/2020/07/31/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Economy}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{coronavirus-could-end-chinas-decades-long-economic-growth-streak}{%
\section{Coronavirus Could End China's Decades-Long Economic Growth
Streak}\label{coronavirus-could-end-chinas-decades-long-economic-growth-streak}}

The weakness raises the possibility that the Chinese economy may have
shrunk in the first quarter of this year. It would be the first
contraction since 1976.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/03/16/business/16virus-china-econ-1/16virus-china-econ-1-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/keith-bradsher}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/10/08/multimedia/author-keith-bradsher/author-keith-bradsher-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/keith-bradsher}{Keith Bradsher}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Published March 16, 2020Updated April 28, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://cn.nytimes.com/business/20200317/coronavirus-china-economy/}{阅读简体中文版}\href{https://cn.nytimes.com/business/20200317/coronavirus-china-economy/zh-hant/}{閱讀繁體中文版}

SHANGHAI --- China's growth streak has lasted for decades, surviving the
crackdown at Tiananmen Square, the global financial crisis and the trade
war with the United States. But it might not endure the
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/04/28/business/china-coronavirus-economy.html}{coronavirus}
epidemic, making it nearly impossible for the rest of the world to
escape a slowdown.

The damage was widespread in the official numbers on Monday, the first
significant batch of government data since China's vast containment
efforts brought the country to a standstill. Industrial production,
retail sales and investment all posted record double-digit drops for the
first two months of the year, compared with the same period in 2019.

The weakness raises the possibility that the entire
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/04/28/business/china-coronavirus-economy.html}{Chinese
economy} may have shrunk in the first quarter of this year. It would be
the first contraction since 1976, when China was hit by the devastating
Tangshan earthquake as well as the tumult from the death of Mao, whose
Cultural Revolution threw the economy into disarray for a decade.

The knock-on effects for the world are significant.
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/04/28/business/china-coronavirus-economy.html}{China's
factories} rely on oil and other commodities from countries like Angola,
Sierra Leone and Chile. Its shoppers love Apple iPhones, Chevrolet cars
and Starbucks coffees. Its construction of new buildings, roads and rail
lines depends on steel often made from iron ore mined in Brazil or
Australia.

If people can't be convinced to start spending money again, ``the demand
shock may spread to East Asia and then to Europe and the U.S. --- and
the world may face a disaster,'' said Cao Heping, a Peking University
economist.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/03/16/business/16virus-china-econ-2/16virus-china-econ-2-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

When the virus started spreading from Wuhan in January, China moved
aggressively to lock down the country, imposing stringent and painful
measures on the movement of people and goods. The economy ground to a
stop.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-economy}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes.com/live/2020/07/31/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates:
Economy}}{Latest Updates: Economy}}\label{latest-updates-economy}}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/live/2020/07/31/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#kodaks-chief-executive-was-given-stock-options-then-the-share-price-spiked-1000-percent}{31h
ago}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/live/2020/07/31/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#kodaks-chief-executive-was-given-stock-options-then-the-share-price-spiked-1000-percent}{Kodak's
chief executive was given stock options. Then the share price spiked
1,000 percent.}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/live/2020/07/31/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#fitch-ratings-downgrades-its-outlook-on-us-debt}{34h
ago}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/live/2020/07/31/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#fitch-ratings-downgrades-its-outlook-on-us-debt}{Fitch
Ratings downgrades its outlook on U.S. debt.}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/live/2020/07/31/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#us-sanctions-more-chinese-officials-over-human-rights-violations-as-tensions-flare}{41h
ago}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/live/2020/07/31/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#us-sanctions-more-chinese-officials-over-human-rights-violations-as-tensions-flare}{U.S.
sanctions more Chinese officials over human rights violations as
tensions flare}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/live/2020/07/31/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

More live coverage:
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/01/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Global}

Halting the world's second-largest economy has
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/12/business/china-coronavirus-economy.html}{proved
easier than restarting it}, raising worries that the economy may
continue to stumble for a while. It could be months, if not longer,
before the country is fully up and running again.

According to official statistics, most factories in China have reopened,
after being closed since the lunar new year holiday in January. But they
are operating at two-thirds of their capacity.

It's a two-part problem --- a lack of workers and buyers.

Tens of millions of migrants who work in the factories are still stuck
in quarantines or in their hometowns. Chinese state media announced
triumphantly on Monday that four busloads of workers had been allowed to
leave Hubei province, where the outbreak first emanated.

Chinese consumers aren't buying either. Car dealerships have emptied. In
Shanghai, the number of shoppers is still far below normal, from the
cheap eateries and budget shops of blue-collar neighborhoods on the
city's southside to the luxury stores of Nanjing Road, the most famous
shopping avenue in China.

Image

A factory in Zouping, in China's Shandong province. The factories that
have reopened are operating at just two-thirds of
capacityCredit...Agence France-Presse --- Getty Images

``The supply problem is fixable, it's bringing people back'' to work
from the countryside, said Ker Gibbs, the president of the American
Chamber of Commerce in Shanghai. ``The demand problem is harder.''

As China's powerful economic engine sputters, the rest of the world's
expansion is under threat.

The stock market of Australia, which sells
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2016/09/25/business/international/australia-china-mining-port-hedland.html}{vast
quantities of iron ore} to China, has been among the world's worst
performers in recent days. Germany's automakers depend heavily on the
Chinese market and have seen sales wither. Mideast energy producers have
struggled, as China has turned away shipments of liquefied natural gas
and cut way back on oil consumption.

Global economists had been wondering whether China would admit that its
economy shrank in the first quarter, given the country's tendency to
report predictable and steady growth no matter what happens. But the
government data on Monday suggests that China may break with that
dubious tradition next month in reporting economic output for the first
quarter of this year, allowing for a more accurate look at the troubled
economy.

``Most of us are expecting a negative percentage, 2 or 3 percent below
zero, or maybe lower,'' said Zhu Chaoping, a global markets strategist
in the Shanghai office of J.P. Morgan.

Government officials tried at a news briefing on Monday in Beijing to
play down the severity of the problem. ``The impact of the epidemic is
short-term, external and controllable,'' said Mao Shengyong, the
director general of the department of comprehensive statistics at the
National Bureau of Statistics, which released the data.

Image

A Mercedes-Benz dealership in Frankfurt, Germany.~The country's
automakers depend heavily on the Chinese market.Credit...Felix Schmitt
for The New York Times

Mr. Mao said that it was too soon to estimate whether the economy had
shrunk in the first quarter. The economy typically slows somewhat in
January and February after the Lunar Year holidays. So March typically
represents a disproportionate share of the quarter's output, as much as
40 percent, he said.

Economic statistics for the first two months were expected to be weak.
But the data released on Monday was more dismal than many economists had
anticipated.

Retail sales tumbled 20.5 percent from a year ago as many stores stayed
closed well beyond the usual end of the lunar new year holiday. Even
when shops did reopen in February, they had almost no customers until
early March as many people continued to stay home to avoid infection.

Industrial production fell 13.5 percent last month compared with
February of last year. Many factories did not reopen until late February
if at all.

Fixed-asset investment, which includes construction of buildings, roads
and railways, slipped 24.5 percent last month. It is expected to revive
quickly as provinces pour money into infrastructure projects this spring
to restart economic growth.

The epidemic now appears to be prompting the government to adjust its
economic goals. China's top leader, Xi Jinping, has called for
eliminating extreme poverty by the end of the year, as well as doubling
economic output between 2010 and 2020.

Image

The Australian stock market, which sells vast quantities of iron ore to
China, has been among the world's worst performers in recent
days.Credit...Adam Ferguson for The New York Times

On Monday, the government seemed to give itself some wiggle room. Just
15 minutes before the data was released, the state-run newspaper, China
Daily, published a report saying that while extreme poverty would be
eradicated this year, the other goal is now to double economic output
``by around 2021.''

Economists are uncertain how much growth would be needed for China to
achieve the target this year --- the usual estimates are somewhere
between 5 and 6 percent.

On Monday Fitch Solutions revised down its forecast for China's economic
growth this year to 5.2 percent. Commonwealth Bank of Australia also
pushed down its forecast on Monday, to just 4.2 percent.

Coral Yang contributed research.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
