Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/world/asia}{Asia
Pacific}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/world/asia}{Asia Pacific}\textbar{}Tokyo's First Female
Governor Sails to Re-Election Even as Virus Cases Rise

\url{https://nyti.ms/3dVRdsU}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{The
Coronavirus Outbreak}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  live\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/02/world/coronavirus-updates.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Latest
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Maps
  and Cases}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Vaccine
  Tracker}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/07/29/us/schools-reopening-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{What
  School May Look Like}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/07/31/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Economy}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{tokyos-first-female-governor-sails-to-re-election-even-as-virus-cases-rise}{%
\section{Tokyo's First Female Governor Sails to Re-Election Even as
Virus Cases
Rise}\label{tokyos-first-female-governor-sails-to-re-election-even-as-virus-cases-rise}}

Yuriko Koike has received high marks for her visible presence during the
pandemic, but the coronavirus's resurgence has raised anxiety in the
Japanese capital.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/07/07/world/07a3_video/05japan1-videoSixteenByNine3000.jpg}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/motoko-rich}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/10/15/multimedia/author-motoko-rich/author-motoko-rich-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/motoko-rich}{Motoko Rich}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  July 5, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

TOKYO --- In rewarding Tokyo's first female governor, Yuriko Koike, with
a second term on Sunday, voters endorsed her highly visible leadership
as the sprawling metropolis has avoided the kind of spiraling death toll
from the coronavirus seen in other world capitals.

But a recent resurgence in cases in Tokyo has made clear that her
challenge is far from over.

Even as Ms. Koike, 67, cruised to victory on Sunday, with exit polls by
Japanese news media showing her winning 60 percent of the vote, Tokyo
reported 111 new infections, its fourth straight day over 100.

The creeping increase in cases has started to raise anxieties that the
capital may have to reinstate elements of the nearly two-month
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/19/world/asia/tokyo-japan-coronavirus.html}{state
of emergency} that it emerged from at the end of May. That growing
caseload was felt in the election: About 15 percent of voters cast their
ballots before Sunday, and turnout on Election Day was just above 37
percent.

During the emergency period, in which the government issued voluntary
requests for businesses to limit operations and residents to stay home,
Ms. Koike made herself the face of Tokyo's response to the virus. She
anchored near-nightly news conferences to deliver daily test figures and
advice on how to avoid infections.

Ms. Koike presented a stark contrast to Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, who
often appeared stiff in front of the news media. He was widely
criticized when he posted an
\href{https://twitter.com/AbeShinzo/status/1249127951154712576?ref_src=twsrc\%5Etfw\%7Ctwcamp\%5Etweetembed\%7Ctwterm\%5E1249127951154712576\%7Ctwgr\%5E\&ref_url=https\%3A\%2F\%2Fenglish.kyodonews.net\%2Fnews\%2F2020\%2F04\%2F9fe49575657a-abe-criticized-over-stay-at-home-twitter-video-showing-him-lounging.html}{awkward
video on Twitter} showing himself at home drinking tea with his dog. Ms.
Koike was a much more relaxed presence when she appeared in a jovial
conversation with Japan's most famous
\href{https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ofCsslfc-So}{YouTube star,
Hikakin}.

``Seeing her face on television every day made me feel comfortable,''
Yuki Matsuura, 70, said as she voted in the Setagaya ward of Tokyo. ``I
think that she is doing the best that she can in a very difficult
situation.''

Ms. Koike said she was unlikely to request citywide business closings as
she did during the earlier state of emergency. She said that she would
prefer a ``pinpointed'' approach and that she wanted to establish a
Tokyo version of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.

A total of 22 challengers vied for the post. Ms. Koike's main rivals for
the governor's seat tried to differentiate themselves by staking out
positions on further delaying, or even canceling, the Tokyo Olympics.
Mr. Abe and the International Olympic Committee announced in March that
the Games would be
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/24/sports/olympics/coronavirus-summer-olympics-postponed.html}{postponed
from 2020 to 2021} because of the pandemic, and Ms. Koike has stuck to
the official line.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/07/05/world/05japan2/merlin_174138165_27b5559d-6c43-4400-bf65-7efa1b35b8c1-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Same-sex partnerships were another dividing line in the race. All three
of Ms. Koike's most significant opponents expressed support for them:
Kenji Utsunomiya, a former president of the Japan Bar Association who
was backed by the country's largest opposition parties, including the
Communist Party; Taisuke Ono, a former adviser to the governor of
Kumamoto in southern Japan; and Taro Yamamoto, a former actor and the
head of a newly founded party.

When asked about the issue during an online question session, Ms. Koike
said she ``didn't know'' whether she would support such a policy.

The victory on Sunday for Ms. Koike, an ultraconservative former defense
minister who speaks English and Arabic, was something of a turnabout for
her. Just a few years ago, she had seemed to have fallen out of favor
with the public: In 2017,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2017/09/25/world/asia/japan-abe-election.html}{an
upstart party} she founded to challenge Mr. Abe's governing Liberal
Democratic Party in national elections took a drubbing, forcing her to
admit ``total defeat.''

Until the pandemic, Ms. Koike's record of achievements had been thin,
and some of her decisions have drawn criticism.

Not long after she was elected in 2016, she postponed a controversial
move of
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/10/06/world/asia/tokyo-fish-market-tsukiji.html}{Tokyo's
famous seafood market} from its historic location in Tsukiji when it
emerged that contaminants in the groundwater at a newly built site far
exceeded environmental limits. But she went through with the move a year
later even as tenants suspected that the metropolitan government had
suppressed information about the safety of the new site.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{}

\hypertarget{the-coronavirus-outbreak-}{%
\subsubsection{The Coronavirus Outbreak
â€º}\label{the-coronavirus-outbreak-}}

\hypertarget{frequently-asked-questions}{%
\paragraph{Frequently Asked
Questions}\label{frequently-asked-questions}}

Updated July 27, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{should-i-refinance-my-mortgage}{%
  \paragraph{Should I refinance my
  mortgage?}\label{should-i-refinance-my-mortgage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/coronavirus-money-unemployment.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{It
    could be a good idea,} because mortgage rates have
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/16/business/mortgage-rates-below-3-percent.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{never
    been lower.} Refinancing requests have pushed mortgage applications
    to some of the highest levels since 2008, so be prepared to get in
    line. But defaults are also up, so if you're thinking about buying a
    home, be aware that some lenders have tightened their standards.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{what-is-school-going-to-look-like-in-september}{%
  \paragraph{What is school going to look like in
  September?}\label{what-is-school-going-to-look-like-in-september}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    It is unlikely that many schools will return to a normal schedule
    this fall, requiring the grind of
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/05/us/coronavirus-education-lost-learning.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{online
    learning},
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/29/us/coronavirus-child-care-centers.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{makeshift
    child care} and
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/03/business/economy/coronavirus-working-women.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{stunted
    workdays} to continue. California's two largest public school
    districts --- Los Angeles and San Diego --- said on July 13, that
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/13/us/lausd-san-diego-school-reopening.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{instruction
    will be remote-only in the fall}, citing concerns that surging
    coronavirus infections in their areas pose too dire a risk for
    students and teachers. Together, the two districts enroll some
    825,000 students. They are the largest in the country so far to
    abandon plans for even a partial physical return to classrooms when
    they reopen in August. For other districts, the solution won't be an
    all-or-nothing approach.
    \href{https://bioethics.jhu.edu/research-and-outreach/projects/eschool-initiative/school-policy-tracker/}{Many
    systems}, including the nation's largest, New York City, are
    devising
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/26/us/coronavirus-schools-reopen-fall.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{hybrid
    plans} that involve spending some days in classrooms and other days
    online. There's no national policy on this yet, so check with your
    municipal school system regularly to see what is happening in your
    community.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{is-the-coronavirus-airborne}{%
  \paragraph{Is the coronavirus
  airborne?}\label{is-the-coronavirus-airborne}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    The coronavirus
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/04/health/239-experts-with-one-big-claim-the-coronavirus-is-airborne.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{can
    stay aloft for hours in tiny droplets in stagnant air}, infecting
    people as they inhale, mounting scientific evidence suggests. This
    risk is highest in crowded indoor spaces with poor ventilation, and
    may help explain super-spreading events reported in meatpacking
    plants, churches and restaurants.
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/06/health/coronavirus-airborne-aerosols.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{It's
    unclear how often the virus is spread} via these tiny droplets, or
    aerosols, compared with larger droplets that are expelled when a
    sick person coughs or sneezes, or transmitted through contact with
    contaminated surfaces, said Linsey Marr, an aerosol expert at
    Virginia Tech. Aerosols are released even when a person without
    symptoms exhales, talks or sings, according to Dr. Marr and more
    than 200 other experts, who
    \href{https://academic.oup.com/cid/article/doi/10.1093/cid/ciaa939/5867798}{have
    outlined the evidence in an open letter to the World Health
    Organization}.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{what-are-the-symptoms-of-coronavirus}{%
  \paragraph{What are the symptoms of
  coronavirus?}\label{what-are-the-symptoms-of-coronavirus}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Common symptoms
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/symptoms-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{include
    fever, a dry cough, fatigue and difficulty breathing or shortness of
    breath.} Some of these symptoms overlap with those of the flu,
    making detection difficult, but runny noses and stuffy sinuses are
    less common.
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/27/health/coronavirus-symptoms-cdc.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{The
    C.D.C. has also} added chills, muscle pain, sore throat, headache
    and a new loss of the sense of taste or smell as symptoms to look
    out for. Most people fall ill five to seven days after exposure, but
    symptoms may appear in as few as two days or as many as 14 days.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{does-asymptomatic-transmission-of-covid-19-happen}{%
  \paragraph{Does asymptomatic transmission of Covid-19
  happen?}\label{does-asymptomatic-transmission-of-covid-19-happen}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    So far, the evidence seems to show it does. A widely cited
    \href{https://www.nature.com/articles/s41591-020-0869-5}{paper}
    published in April suggests that people are most infectious about
    two days before the onset of coronavirus symptoms and estimated that
    44 percent of new infections were a result of transmission from
    people who were not yet showing symptoms. Recently, a top expert at
    the World Health Organization stated that transmission of the
    coronavirus by people who did not have symptoms was ``very rare,''
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/09/world/coronavirus-updates.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq\#link-1f302e21}{but
    she later walked back that statement.}
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

She also led an initiative to
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2017/11/27/world/asia/japan-tokyo-smoking.html}{ban
smoking in most indoor venues in Tokyo}.

Burnishing her credentials with hard-line conservatives, she was the
first Tokyo governor to refuse during an annual ceremony to pay tribute
to Koreans who died in a massacre after the Great Kanto Earthquake of
1923. She also revoked a lease of public land to a new school for ethnic
Korean residents, many descended from people who were brought to Japan
as forced labor before and during World War II, when Japan occupied the
Korean Peninsula.

Surveys of employees of the metropolitan government, which oversees a
region of 14 million people, indicate that she is far less popular among
her city's staff than she has been with voters.

As an incumbent, Ms. Koike started with a considerable advantage,
particularly given that the Japanese news media tends not to ask tough
questions of candidates or investigate their records. The only thing
that came close to a challenge to Ms. Koike were rumors that she had
falsified her graduation from Cairo University in Egypt, prompting the
Egyptian Embassy in Tokyo to
\href{https://www.facebookcorewwwi.onion/permalink.php?story_fbid=1103403096719497\&id=520203215039491}{post
confirmation on its Facebook page} that she had received a diploma.

``The Japanese media likes scandals, but they don't really do any
serious policy review or anything that really affects our livelihood,''
said Koichi Nakano, a political scientist at Sophia University in Tokyo.
The Japanese media ``fails to inform us or fails to ask questions of the
incumbents who have a huge advantage and owe us an explanation of their
past record.''

Ms. Koike has also managed to portray herself as a renegade. Although
she started her political career as a member of the Liberal Democratic
Party and served briefly as defense minister during Mr. Abe's first term
as prime minister, she has run for governor as an independent. Some
analysts say she is more adept at political performance than actual
policy.

``She is very good at presenting catchy slogans or sound-bite phrases,''
said Jiro Yamaguchi, a professor of political science at Hosei
University in Tokyo. ``I don't think she has achieved substantive
policies during her first term, but she often appears in television
programs, especially after the outbreak of Covid-19, and she pretends to
handle the problems.''

Kazuhisa Tanaka, 63, who was voting in the Setagaya ward on Sunday
afternoon, said he had cast his vote for the incumbent by default. ``I
don't think that Koike has done the best job,'' he said. ``But who else
would I vote for?''

Hikari Hida, Makiko Inoue and Hisako Ueno contributed reporting.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{Â©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
