Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/sports}{Sports}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/sports}{Sports}\textbar{}We Asked, You Answered: Sports
Fans Reflect on Missing the Game

\url{https://nyti.ms/2ElkQrG}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{we-asked-you-answered-sports-fans-reflect-on-missing-the-game}{%
\section{We Asked, You Answered: Sports Fans Reflect on Missing the
Game}\label{we-asked-you-answered-sports-fans-reflect-on-missing-the-game}}

While live sports are back, spectators are not in most cases. We asked
readers what they were missing as fans in the stands.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/17/sports/17empty-stadium8/merlin_175796676_6f3139cc-3375-4996-9833-b85f97807e68-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By The New York Times

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Aug. 19, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Live sports are back. Live fans are (mostly) not.

You can catch some spectators projected digitally at N.B.A. games or
cardboard cutouts ``seated'' in Major League Baseball stadiums. But it's
not the same.

The echoing ``DEE-FENSE'' chant can't be heard in arenas or on TV
broadcasts. Players don't hear the roar for a home run, and there is no
chest-pounding for thousands of adoring fans.

As live sports began returning in the United States, The New York Times
asked sports fans to share what they missed about going to games.
Responses were both wistful and hopeful.

Readers said they longed for the simple pleasure of a minor league
baseball game with family and the euphoria of witnessing a hometown team
advance to the playoffs. Many expressed hope that it would someday feel
normal again to hug strangers after a sweet victory or a devastating
defeat.

Here is a selection of responses, edited for clarity and length.

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

Peter Mastrippolito, Washington D.C.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/17/sports/17emptystadiums3/attribute_8_0-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\hypertarget{the-whole-city-believed-in-the-team}{%
\subsection{The Whole City Believed in the
Team}\label{the-whole-city-believed-in-the-team}}

After over seven innings of palpable tension and despair in the crowd,
\href{https://www.mlb.com/video/soto-s-hit-clears-bases-for-lead}{Juan
Soto's base-clearing hit} to give the Nationals the lead against the
Milwaukee Brewers in their National League wild-card game last year was
like throwing a Molotov cocktail into a fireworks factory.

I've never been so elated at a game, and I've never seen a crowd go as
crazy as the Nationals fans did that night. I still rewatch Soto's hit
and still can't believe that the Nationals won that night, let alone the
World Series a few weeks later. I can't imagine a moment like that
having the same impact without the 40,000 people there experiencing the
same emotions.

Everyone was chanting ``Beat L.A.'' as we left the ballpark. It felt
like the whole city believed in the team.

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

Alyze Bellucci, El Dorado Hills, Calif.

Image

``We did not sit down for a single defensive play as the 49ers dominated
the Green Bay Packers.''Credit...Alyze Bellucci

\hypertarget{missing-hoarse-voices-and-60000-fans}{%
\subsection{Missing Hoarse Voices and 60,000
Fans}\label{missing-hoarse-voices-and-60000-fans}}

In late January, my 9-year-old son and I attended the San Francisco
49ers' N.F.C. championship game, which led them to the Super Bowl. We
had the most amazing time and we did not sit down for a single defensive
play as the 49ers dominated the Green Bay Packers.

We woke up the next morning with hoarse, raspy voices from screaming and
cheering. It's hard to believe now that earlier this year we were
closely packed in with more than 60,000 people and not remotely
concerned.

Before I had children, I worked in the front office of two Major League
Baseball teams. Fans in attendance, both from my personal and past
professional experiences, are a huge part of the game. I miss sports
with all my heart \ldots{} from my son's Little League team to the San
Francisco Giants' season.

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

Taryn Shanes, Plano, Texas

Image

Taryn Shanes was 12 when she watched the Texas Rangers win the 2010
American League Championship Series against the Yankees.Credit...Taryn
Shanes

\hypertarget{crisp-high-fives-between-strangers}{%
\subsection{Crisp High-Fives Between
Strangers}\label{crisp-high-fives-between-strangers}}

In 2010, at 12 years old, I was standing alongside my dad and thousands
of Texas Rangers fans as we witnessed the first American League
Championship Series win in franchise history.

\hypertarget{the-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\subsubsection{The Coronavirus
Outbreak}\label{the-coronavirus-outbreak}}

\hypertarget{sports-and-the-virus}{%
\paragraph{Sports and the Virus}\label{sports-and-the-virus}}

Updated Aug. 20, 2020

Here's what's happening as the world of sports slowly comes back to
life:

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    While live sports are back, spectators are not in most cases.
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/19/sports/empty-stadiums-live-fans.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_2\&context=storylines_keepup}{Readers}
    comment on what they were missing as fans in the stands.
  \item
    The Canadian Football League
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/18/sports/cfl-season-canceled.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_2\&context=storylines_keepup}{became
    the latest casualty} of the pandemic, canceling its 2020 season
    after repeated efforts to play an abbreviated schedule fell through.
  \item
    The United States Open tennis tournament will have the weakest
    women's field in its history after second-ranked
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/17/sports/tennis/us-open-women.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_2\&context=storylines_keepup}{Simona
    Halep withdrew}.
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

I wish I had recorded more of the crowd reaction: Kids cheering at the
fireworks, crisp high-fives between strangers, grown men gruffly
embracing each other and pretending not to notice the tears.

Watching the truncated 60-game season in 2020 is both comforting and
alienating. Elvis Andrus is still at shortstop and Eric Nadel still
calls the games on the radio, but who will cheer and high-five and hug
and cry if the Rangers make it all the way?

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

Anwar Abdul-Rahman, Brooklyn

Image

``Even though the bubble is happening, as a fan you don't feel the same
energy of a close game at the arena.''Credit...Anwar Abdul-Rahman

\hypertarget{missing-getting-off-work-to-check-for-tickets}{%
\subsection{Missing Getting Off Work to Check for
Tickets}\label{missing-getting-off-work-to-check-for-tickets}}

I took this photo on Nov. 22 at Barclays Center in Brooklyn when the
Nets were playing the Sacramento Kings. One of my good friends is a
Kings fan, and as a Los Angeles Lakers fan I went to boo the Kings!
\emph{(Editor's note: The Nets won, 116-97.)}

I love going to sports events at Barclays. You can get great seats for
some games on resale apps, and the energy, food and entertainment are
amazing.

Even though the bubble is happening, as a fan you don't feel the same
energy of a close game at the arena. At Barclays, I even got to see one
of my students perform with the Brooklyn Nets Beats Drumline.

I also think of the workers and other entertainers at live sporting
events and how this option for them has disappeared. I'm rooting for the
Lakers in the bubble, but I definitely wish it was live, so fans, and
even spectators on TV, could feel the energy.

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

Matt Tripp, Atlanta

Image

Auburn fans stormed the field after defeating Alabama, 48-45, in
November.Credit...Photo: Matt Tripp

\hypertarget{a-poignant-win-in-person}{%
\subsection{A Poignant Win in Person}\label{a-poignant-win-in-person}}

The last athletic event I attended was the 2019 Iron Bowl. Auburn won,
48-45, against Alabama in front of a home crowd.

As an Auburn graduate, it was a thrilling victory, but it was also
especially poignant in that it was the last game I went to with my
mother, who found out in September that she had peritoneal mesothelioma.
She would later pass away in February.

This particular game will always hold a special place in my heart, not
because of the awesome win, but because it was one of the last times I
felt normal with my family.

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

Peter Retzlaff, Jersey City, N.J.

Image

``Being able to be there in person was beyond words'': the Eagles fans
Peter Retzlaff and Larry McGearty at the Super Bowl in Minneapolis after
the 2017 season.Credit...Sean Conroy

\hypertarget{unbridled-joy}{%
\subsection{Unbridled Joy}\label{unbridled-joy}}

As a lifelong fan this --- the day the Philadelphia Eagles won their
first Super Bowl --- was the greatest day of my life. The relief, the
disbelief, the unbridled joy, the absolute ecstasy is completely
unmatched. Being able to be there in person was beyond words.

And yet a perfectly turned double play, the excitement of someone
stealing home or Ray Allen's perfect jump shot all elicit the exact same
feeling, just in a much smaller dose.

That feeling, the community of fans, and enjoying it all with family are
what make sports so magical.

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

Rachid Yousfi, PORTLAND, ORE.

Image

Rachid Yousfi and two friends decided to start meeting in a city of
their choosing to watch an M.L.S. game. In April 2019, they chose
Seattle.Credit...Rachid Yousfi

\hypertarget{an-atmosphere-that-cant-be-emulated}{%
\subsection{An Atmosphere That Can't Be
Emulated}\label{an-atmosphere-that-cant-be-emulated}}

Starting in 2019, my two friends and I began an annual reunion where we
meet at a city of our choosing to watch a Major League Soccer game. The
first was in Seattle in April 2019, when the Seattle Sounders faced Real
Salt Lake. Seeing the north end supporters' group drumming, clapping and
singing gave me goose bumps.

Seeing soccer games pick back up in Germany is great, but the atmosphere
that supporters' groups bring to the stadium can't be emulated.

I'm hopeful I'll be able to see this in full swing before long.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
