Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{/section/technology}{Technology}\textbar{}The Woman Taking Over
TikTok at the Toughest Time

\url{https://nyti.ms/3hmHoGd}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/09/11/business/00tiktok-pappas-01/merlin_176754522_a740025d-562f-4e8a-831b-d24bc44f74c2-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\hypertarget{the-woman-taking-over-tiktok-at-the-toughest-time}{%
\section{The Woman Taking Over TikTok at the Toughest
Time}\label{the-woman-taking-over-tiktok-at-the-toughest-time}}

Vanessa Pappas is keeping a focus on the app's community of creators and
users as it deals with pressure from President Trump, Beijing and a
possible sale.

Vanessa Pappas, who has overseen TikTok's North American business since
2018, was elevated to interim global chief.~Credit...Rozette Rago for
The New York Times

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/mike-isaac}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/02/16/multimedia/author-mike-isaac/author-mike-isaac-thumbLarge.jpg}}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/taylor-lorenz}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/03/18/reader-center/author-taylor-lorenz/author-taylor-lorenz-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/mike-isaac}{Mike Isaac}
and \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/taylor-lorenz}{Taylor
Lorenz}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Sept. 11, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Six weeks ago, as TikTok grappled with escalating tensions between the
United States and China, the social media app's top executives huddled
together to figure out their next steps.

Vanessa Pappas, 41, was worried. TikTok's North American business, which
she has run since 2018, was dealing with an uproar. President Trump had
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/03/technology/trump-tiktok-microsoft.html}{threatened
to ban TikTok} because of its Chinese owner, ByteDance, and many of the
more than
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/02/style/tiktok-ban-threat-trump.html}{100
million people who use TikTok} in the United States were up in arms.

So in the early hours of Aug. 1, Ms. Pappas recorded a 59-second video
from her home office in Los Angeles to calm the creators on TikTok and
its fans. ``We've heard your outpouring of support, and we wanted to say
thank you,'' she said in the
\href{https://twitter.com/tiktok_us/status/1289565422350553091}{video},
which quickly went viral under the hashtag \#SaveTikTok. ``We're not
planning on going anywhere.''

\begin{quote}
A message to the TikTok community.
\href{https://t.co/UD3TR2HfEf}{pic.twitter.com/UD3TR2HfEf}

--- TikTok (@tiktok\_us)
\href{https://twitter.com/tiktok_us/status/1289565422350553091?ref_src=twsrc\%5Etfw}{August
1, 2020}
\end{quote}

Ms. Pappas is now repeating that message as she lands in an even hotter
hot seat. Last month, Kevin Mayer, TikTok's chief executive, said
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/27/technology/tiktok-kevin-mayer-resign.html}{he
was leaving the company}, citing its uncertain political status. Ms.
Pappas was appointed TikTok's interim global head, just as the app faces
an even murkier future.

Under
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/06/technology/trump-wechat-tiktok-china.html}{an
executive order from President Trump}, ByteDance must essentially strike
a deal to sell off TikTok's U.S. operations by Sept. 20; it will have a
few weeks after that to
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/14/business/tiktok-trump-bytedance-order.html}{close
a sale}. Yet after weeks of negotiations with potential buyers such as
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/27/technology/walmart-tiktok-deal.html}{Microsoft,
Walmart and Oracle}, the discussions were thrown into disarray when the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/29/technology/china-tiktok-export-controls.html}{Chinese
government signaled} that it would weigh in on TikTok's future.

In a recent 30-minute interview over Zoom from her home, Ms. Pappas said
TikTok's predicament was ``unique'' and described what it was like to
navigate it through ``a challenging time.'' She declined to discuss
specifics about TikTok's deal talks and said she was not involved in
them.

Instead, Ms. Pappas said, she is focused on what TikTok's future could
look like if the app's ownership is bifurcated. Most of all, she said,
she is doubling down on putting TikTok's community of creators and users
--- ranging from those who post videos of cake decorating to those who
break dance --- first. Ms. Pappas later added that she regularly talked
to Zhang Yiming, ByteDance's founder and chief executive, about all of
these issues.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/09/11/business/00tiktok-pappas-2/merlin_176754438_8a6a5021-dee5-45dc-a514-cb49d1f920d2-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

To focus on its community, TikTok in July formed a
\href{https://newsroom.tiktok.com/en-us/introducing-the-200-million-tiktok-creator-fund}{Creator
Fund}, where creators can earn cash for views, starting with \$200
million. And with the pandemic forcing people indoors for the
foreseeable future, Ms. Pappas said she and her team were working on
making TikTok an uplifting place to visit. Last month, the company
\href{https://variety.com/2020/digital/news/tiktok-advertising-brand-campaign-sale-bytedance-1234738607/}{launched}
a largest national advertising campaign on television and digital media,
highlighting more than 30 popular creators under the tagline ``It starts
on TikTok.''

``We've built this product for hundreds of millions of people, and we're
not looking for that to change,'' said Ms. Pappas, a former YouTube
executive.

But keeping TikTok's community happy in such a turbulent period may be
challenging. Some creators and fans have been rattled by Mr. Trump's
moves against the app. Since his executive order, people in the United
States have installed TikTok about 6.5 million times, down 13 percent
from before the order, according to Sensor Tower, an app analytics firm.

Competitors have also pounced.
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/05/technology/tiktok-facebook-instagram-reels.html}{Facebook
introduced Reels}, a TikTok clone inside Instagram, in August. The
social network has also doled out millions of dollars to some of
TikTok's biggest stars to lure them over to using Reels.

Ms. Pappas said she wasn't worried about Facebook and Instagram Reels.
``You can certainly copy a feature, but you can't copy a community,''
she said. ``I think that's really hard to replicate.''

Tom Keiser, chief executive of Hootsuite, a social media management
company, said TikTok was right to make its power users a priority.

``They need to be investing in those folks,'' he said. ``There's so many
things out of their control, but their future growth is based on
influencers and content creators continuing to evolve and grow and
leverage the new capabilities TikTok is rolling out.''

Ms. Pappas has worked in the online influencer world since some of its
earliest days. Half Greek by birth, she grew up in Australia and speaks
with an Aussie twang. She moved to London when she was 20, and
eventually migrated to New York. In 2007, she joined Next New Networks,
a company that helped web video creators earn money from their efforts.

YouTube bought Next New Networks in 2011. Ms. Pappas joined YouTube and
quickly rose through the ranks. She was YouTube's first audience
development lead, a role that led her to connect with video makers. Her
division at YouTube
\href{https://www.theatlantic.com/technology/archive/2019/05/how-creators-became-influencers/590725/}{developed
and popularized the term ``creator''} and helped transform video
blogging, or vlogging, into a full-time job.

Ms. Pappas also wrote a book, ``The YouTube Creator Playbook,'' on how
creators could make money from their followings, in 2011. She went on to
develop YouTube's Creator Academy, an educational content portal that
teaches creators how to build a business on YouTube, and a channel
certification program, which teaches creators about digital rights
management, legal issues and advanced analytics.

TikTok lured her from YouTube at the end of 2018 to be its general
manager and head of North America, based in Los Angeles. At the time,
TikTok had just expanded globally. It was a new challenge for Ms.
Pappas, who said she had wanted to get in on the ground floor of the
next big creator movement.

``It was this burgeoning community that resonated as this next evolution
of what the creator meant and redefined the creators over again,'' she
said.

Image

``It's a different type of connection that people are seeking out and
craving, and a different type of entertainment value,'' Ms. Pappas said
of TikTok.Credit...Rozette Rago for The New York Times

Young people flocked to TikTok, which made it easy for them to create
videos with a robust mobile-first suite of video editing tools.
Lip-syncing videos and others soared in popularity.

Ms. Pappas said that unlike Facebook or Twitter, TikTok wasn't wholly
dependent on one's social graph, or how many friends someone had. The
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/05/technology/tiktok-deal-algorithm.html}{app's
discovery algorithm} instead surfaces popular trending content from
people with followings both large and small, keeping users in the app
longer and coming back more frequently.

``Anyone feels like they can be a creator,'' said Greg Justice, TikTok's
head of content programming. ``I've had friends with only a few
followers who have gone viral.''

Mr. Justice, who works closely with Ms. Pappas, said that her leadership
style was driven by data and that she often asked people to provide
information to back up their projects and proposals. That helped the
company avoid allowing dominant personalities and workplace politics
dictate the way it was run, he said.

``She really democratizes the decision making and leads to more
objectivity at the company,'' Mr. Justice said.

The American entertainment industry soon began
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/06/style/hollywood-agents-influencers.html}{reorienting
itself around TikTok}. Top Hollywood agents, casting directors and
modeling scouts scoured the app for up-and-coming stars. Brands paid
millions of dollars to tap into TikTok's coveted Gen Z audience.
Thousands of TikTok creators have made the pilgrimage to Los Angeles to
live full time as creators.

The coronavirus has strengthened the ties among the TikTok community,
Ms. Pappas said. Videos have trended under the \#HappyAtHome hashtag, as
creators riff off one another's indoor experiments.

But Ms. Pappas has also had to deal with TikTok videos that are not all
sunshine and rainbows. This month, a woman spoke out against TikTok for
a viral meme in which thousands of users --- including parents and their
children ---
\href{https://www.wbur.org/hereandnow/2020/09/07/tiktok-new-teacher-challenge-melissa-blake}{mocked
people with physical disabilities} across the platform.

TikTok noted that its community guidelines prohibit bullying and
harassment, and encouraged its users to ``exercise care and good
judgment when it comes to the content they post, including parents and
others who set an example through their behavior,'' a spokeswoman said.

Nick Tangorra, 22, a TikTok creator with
\href{https://www.tiktok.com/@nicktangorra?lang=en}{1.2 million
followers}, said he had met Ms. Pappas only once but believed that she
was the only tech leader who understood the creator community's needs.

``It starts at the top,'' he said. ``TikTok knows fully that this app is
what it is because of its creators. Vanessa is putting such an emphasis
on creators, making sure we feel supported by the platform.''

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
