Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/21/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{D.N.C.
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/20/us/politics/biden-presidential-nomination-dnc.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Biden's
  Speech}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/us/elections/2020-presidential-election-calendar.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Election
  Calendar}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/11/us/politics/vote-by-mail-us-states.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Voting
  by Mail}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Politics
  Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{jill-biden-closes-out-night-2-of-the-dnc}{%
\section{Jill Biden Closes Out Night 2 of the
D.N.C.}\label{jill-biden-closes-out-night-2-of-the-dnc}}

\emph{This briefing has ended. Follow}
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/19/us/dnc-convention-election}{\emph{our
latest coverage of the Biden vs. Trump 2020 election here}}\emph{.}

Last Updated

Aug. 19, 2020, 10:02 a.m. ET

Aug. 19, 2020, 10:02 a.m. ET

\hypertarget{heres-what-you-need-to-know}{%
\subsubsection{Here's what you need to
know:}\label{heres-what-you-need-to-know}}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{the-democrats-gave-biden-the-nomination-he-has-sought-since-1988}{}

  The Democrats gave Biden the nomination he has sought since 1988.
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{jill-biden-returns-to-her-old-classroom-to-deliver-convention-speech}{}

  Jill Biden, in her former classroom, spoke of frustration and loss
  amid the pandemic.
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{they-would-just-sit-and-joke-cindy-mccain-recounted-her-husbands-friendship-with-biden-in-a-video}{}

  `They would just sit and joke': Cindy McCain recounted her husband's
  friendship with Biden in a video.
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{ady-barkan-addressing-health-care-called-trump-an-existential-threat}{}

  Ady Barkan, addressing health care, called Trump an `existential
  threat.'
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{after-a-lively-roll-call-vote-joe-biden-is-officially-the-democratic-nominee}{}

  After a lively roll call vote, Joe Biden is officially the Democratic
  nominee.
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{alexandria-ocasio-cortez-summed-up-progressive-goals-as-she-made-the-case-for-bernie-sanders}{}

  Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez summed up progressive goals as she made the
  case for Bernie Sanders.
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{the-buck-never-stops-there-bill-clinton-said-of-trumps-white-house}{}

  `The buck never stops there,' Bill Clinton said of Trump's White
  House.
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{off-camera-jimmy-carter-hailed-bidens-character-and-decency}{}

  Off camera, Jimmy Carter hailed Biden's `character and decency.'
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{the-democrats-gave-biden-the-nomination-he-has-sought-since-1988}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{the-democrats-gave-biden-the-nomination-he-has-sought-since-1988}{The
Democrats gave Biden the nomination he has sought since
1988.}}{The Democrats gave Biden the nomination he has sought since 1988.}}\label{the-democrats-gave-biden-the-nomination-he-has-sought-since-1988}}

Copied to clipboard.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/18/us/politics/18-live-johnk-2329/18-live-johnk-2329-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/18/us/politics/roll-call-pass-dnc.html}{Democrats
formally nominated Joseph R. Biden Jr.} for the presidency on Tuesday
night, anointing him as their standard-bearer against President Trump
with an extraordinary virtual roll call vote that showcased the cultural
diversity of their coalition and exposed a generational gulf that is
increasingly defining the party.

Denied the chance to assemble in Milwaukee, Democratic activists and
dignitaries cast their votes from locations across all 50 states and
from the American territories and the District of Columbia; from the
Edmund Pettus Bridge in Selma, Ala., to the iconic welcome sign in Las
Vegas; and far beyond to the shores of Guam, ``where America's day
begins.'' They offered a grand mosaic of personal identities and
experiences, many speaking in raw terms about their personal aspirations
and adversities.

The second night of the Democratic National Convention straddled themes
of national security, presidential accountability and continuity between
the past and future leaders of the party. Like the opening night on
Monday, it took the form of a kind of political variety show. Hosted by
the actress Tracee Ellis Ross, the program skipped between recorded
tributes from political luminaries, personal testimonials from activists
and voters, and various forms of music and entertainment.

Two tributes by Republicans carried particular symbolic weight for a
Democratic candidate seeking to appeal across party lines: Colin Powell,
the retired general and former secretary of state in the George W. Bush
administration, delivered a message of support for Mr. Biden, whom he
had previously endorsed. And Cindy McCain, the widow of Senator John
McCain, appeared in a video about Mr. Biden's relationship with her
husband.

By voting to nominate Mr. Biden, Democrats delivered to the former vice
president a prize he has pursued intermittently since before the night's
most prominent young speaker, Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez,
was born. Two previous presidential campaigns ended in abrupt defeat: A
plagiarism scandal extinguished his hopes in 1988, and his next effort
in 2008 fizzled against the higher-wattage candidacies of Hillary
Clinton and former President Barack Obama.

When Mr. Biden opted not to run for president in 2016, it was widely
assumed that his dream of the Oval Office was finished. Instead, Mr.
Biden's long-awaited victory is a triumph of personal and political
endurance, representing the apex --- so far --- of a slow upward climb
by a man who entered the Senate in 1972 at the age of 30 as a grieving
single father. No other presidential candidate in modern times has
endured such a long interval between assuming a first major office and
being nominated for the presidency.

---
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/alexander-burns}{Alexander
Burns} and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/jonathan-martin}{Jonathan
Martin}

\hypertarget{bidens-champions-on-foreign-policy-push-for-a-return-of-the-old-guard}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{bidens-champions-on-foreign-policy-push-for-a-return-of-the-old-guard}{Biden's
champions on foreign policy push for a return of the old
guard.}}{Biden's champions on foreign policy push for a return of the old guard.}}\label{bidens-champions-on-foreign-policy-push-for-a-return-of-the-old-guard}}

Copied to clipboard.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/18/us/politics/18-live-johnk-23292/18-live-johnk-23292-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

The Tuesday night speaking lineup for the Democratic convention was
always intended as a muscular contrast on foreign policy and diplomatic
integrity, presented to viewers under the evening's unsubtle theme:
``Leadership Matters.''

There were two former commanders in chief, Bill Clinton and Jimmy
Carter, and a former chairman of the Joint Chiefs turned chief diplomat:
Colin Powell. There was Sally Q. Yates, the former deputy attorney
general.

John Kerry, the former secretary of state who negotiated the Iran deal
that Mr. Trump decimated, said that ``America deserves a president who
is looked up to, not laughed at.''

Earlier in the day, he sent a fund-raising email saying that Mr. Biden
could ``begin the hard work of putting back together the pieces of what
Donald Trump has smashed apart.''

But putting back the pieces is probably not a feasible option:

The relationship with China has turned poisonous. Mr. Biden's party,
still reeling from Russia's election interference in 2016, has become
more hawkish on dealing with Moscow than Republicans who once cast
themselves as the party of national security. North Korea has turned a
project to build a few bombs into an arsenal that rivals India's and
Pakistan's, and reconstituting the Iran deal, if that is even possible,
is unlikely to change the fundamental tensions dividing the Middle East.

Mr. Biden has offered few detailed policy plans to address how he would
tackle this very changed world. Instead the broad message of the virtual
convention came down to this: Trust a man who ran the Foreign Relations
Committee, who participated in the decisions to take out Osama bin Laden
with a commando strike and Iran's nuclear centrifuges with a cyber
strike, and who would arrive at the White House with an experienced
team.

To Mr. Trump and his supporters, that is Mr. Biden's vulnerability. They
say he stands for the establishment foreign policy that the current
administration took office to destroy.

Mr. Biden, in turn, is arguing that Mr. Trump has allowed adversaries to
undercut American interests, coddling strongmen, heartening the Russians
and cutting deals for his friends.

--- \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/katie-glueck}{Katie
Glueck},
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/matt-flegenheimer}{Matt
Flegenheimer} and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/david-e-sanger}{David E.
Sanger}

\hypertarget{advertisement}{%
\subsubsection{Advertisement}\label{advertisement}}

\protect\hyperlink{after-dfp-ad-mid1}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{jill-biden-in-her-former-classroom-spoke-of-frustration-and-loss-amid-the-pandemic}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{jill-biden-returns-to-her-old-classroom-to-deliver-convention-speech}{Jill
Biden, in her former classroom, spoke of frustration and loss amid the
pandemic.}}{Jill Biden, in her former classroom, spoke of frustration and loss amid the pandemic.}}\label{jill-biden-in-her-former-classroom-spoke-of-frustration-and-loss-amid-the-pandemic}}

Copied to clipboard.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/18/us/elections/Screen-Shot-2020-08-18-at-11/Screen-Shot-2020-08-18-at-11-videoSixteenByNineJumbo1600.png}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/18/us/politics/jill-biden-dnc-speech.html}{Jill
Biden}, who as second lady of the United States taught English at a
community college throughout her time in the administration, returned to
a classroom to give her convention speech on Tuesday.

Dr. Biden spoke from Brandywine High School in Wilmington, Del., where
she taught English in the early 1990s. She spoke from
\href{https://twitter.com/DrBiden/status/1295694942141067269}{Room 232},
her former classroom.

``You can hear the anxiety that echoes down empty hallways,'' Dr. Biden
said. ``There's no scent of new notebooks or freshly waxed floors. The
rooms are dark as the bright young faces that should fill them are now
confined to boxes on a computer screen.''

Dr. Biden expressed heartache over the losses from the coronavirus, as
well as the frustration and fear it was inspiring among parents of
schoolchildren. ``Like so many of you, I'm left asking, `How do I keep
my family safe?''' she said.

Dr. Biden's convention speech focused in large measure on loss ---
something that has deeply affected her husband, Joseph R. Biden Jr., in
different chapters of his life.

She recalled her early days with Mr. Biden, in the years after his first
wife and daughter were killed in a car accident.

``How do you make a broken family whole?'' she asked. ``The same way you
make a nation whole. With love and understanding, and with small acts of
kindness. With bravery. With unwavering faith.''

And she recalled how Mr. Biden pressed on after the death of their son
Beau Biden
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2015/05/31/us/politics/joseph-r-biden-iii-vice-presidents-son-beau-dies-at-46.html}{in
2015}. At the time, she said, ``I wondered if I would ever smile or feel
joy again.'' But her husband went back to work.

``Joe's purpose has always driven him forward,'' Dr. Biden said. ``His
strength of will is unstoppable. And his faith is unshakable, because
it's not in politicians or political parties or even in himself. It's in
the providence of God. His faith is in you --- in us.''

Dr. Biden, who married Mr. Biden in 1977, was once a reluctant political
spouse. But this campaign season, she emerged as one of her husband's
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/02/01/us/politics/joe-jill-biden-2020.html}{most
prolific surrogates}, maintaining public campaign schedules at a pace
that sometimes surpassed Mr. Biden's during the in-person days on the
trail early this year, and serving as a critical adviser.

When Dr. Biden finished speaking, Mr. Biden greeted her with a hug.

``Hey, everyone, I'm Jill Biden's husband,'' he said. ``You can see why
she's the love of my life and the rock of our family.''

--- \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/thomas-kaplan}{Thomas
Kaplan} and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/katie-glueck}{Katie Glueck}

\hypertarget{they-would-just-sit-and-joke-cindy-mccain-recounted-her-husbands-friendship-with-biden-in-a-video}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{they-would-just-sit-and-joke-cindy-mccain-recounted-her-husbands-friendship-with-biden-in-a-video}{`They
would just sit and joke': Cindy McCain recounted her husband's
friendship with Biden in a
video.}}{`They would just sit and joke': Cindy McCain recounted her husband's friendship with Biden in a video.}}\label{they-would-just-sit-and-joke-cindy-mccain-recounted-her-husbands-friendship-with-biden-in-a-video}}

Copied to clipboard.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/18/us/politics/18-live-kaplan-1752/merlin_158448843_697ff41b-ba94-4eac-87f7-0bd852f8b303-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Cindy McCain, the widow of Senator John McCain, lent her voice to a
video that aired as part of the Democratic National Convention on
Tuesday --- another nod to Republican voters who may be willing to cross
party lines and support Joseph R. Biden Jr.

The video recounted the longtime friendship between Mr. Biden, a former
Delaware senator, and Mr. McCain, who represented Arizona until
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/08/25/obituaries/john-mccain-dead.html}{his
death in 2018}.

``They would just sit and joke,'' Mrs. McCain said in the video. ``It
was like a comedy show sometimes to watch the two of them.''

The video described how Mr. Biden forged relationships with his Senate
colleagues over the course of his career. Mrs. McCain called it ``a
style of legislating and leadership that you don't find much anymore.''

Mrs. McCain did not explicitly endorse Mr. Biden in the video. Earlier
on Tuesday, she
\href{https://twitter.com/cindymccain/status/1295845241841360897}{wrote
on Twitter}: ``My husband and Vice President Biden enjoyed a 30+ year
friendship dating back to before their years serving together in the
Senate, so I was honored to accept the invitation from the Biden
campaign to participate in a video celebrating their relationship.''

Tuesday was the second consecutive night in which the convention
featured programming that could appeal to disaffected Republican voters.
Monday night's proceedings included remarks from several notable
Republican figures, including former Gov. John R. Kasich of Ohio. Colin
Powell, a former secretary of state in the George W. Bush
administration, also appeared on Tuesday.

Mr. Biden and Mr. McCain faced each other on opposing tickets in 2008,
when Mr. McCain was the Republican presidential nominee and Mr. Biden
was Barack Obama's running mate on the Democratic ticket.

Mr. McCain later would come under attack from President Trump, who as a
presidential candidate in 2015
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2015/07/19/us/politics/trump-belittles-mccains-war-record.html}{disparaged
Mr. McCain's Vietnam War service}. Mr. Trump
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/03/20/us/politics/trump-john-mccain.html}{continued
attacking him} even after his death.

--- \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/thomas-kaplan}{Thomas
Kaplan}

\hypertarget{colin-powell-john-kerry-and-other-national-security-figures-spoke-out-for-biden}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{colin-powell-john-kerry-and-other-national-security-figures-spoke-out-for-biden}{Colin
Powell, John Kerry and other national security figures spoke out for
Biden.}}{Colin Powell, John Kerry and other national security figures spoke out for Biden.}}\label{colin-powell-john-kerry-and-other-national-security-figures-spoke-out-for-biden}}

Copied to clipboard.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/18/autossell/Screen-Shot-2020-08-18-at-10/Screen-Shot-2020-08-18-at-10-videoSixteenByNineJumbo1600.png}

Colin Powell, a former secretary of state in the George W. Bush
administration, gave a message of support for Joseph R. Biden Jr. at the
Democratic convention on Tuesday night. It was his third consecutive
Democratic presidential endorsement but his first appearance at one of
the party's national conventions.

Mr. Powell, who had previously said he would vote for Mr. Biden, said in
his convention remarks that the country needed a ``commander in chief
who takes care of our troops in the same way he would his own family.
For Joe Biden, that doesn't need teaching. It comes from the experience
he shares with millions of families sending his beloved son off to
war.''

Mr. Powell said Mr. Biden would be a president ``who unites us''
domestically and would restore American alliances abroad. Drawing a
contrast with President Trump, Mr. Powell said that Mr. Biden would not
be swayed by ``the flattery of dictators and despots.''

Shortly before Mr. Powell spoke, another former secretary of state, John
Kerry, had even harsher words for Mr. Trump and his leadership at the
White House, invoking a recent episode that Mr. Trump has been sensitive
about, when he was
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/31/us/politics/trump-protests-george-floyd.html}{briefly
whisked to the basement} for his safety.

``Our troops can't get out of harm's way by hiding in a White House
bunker,'' said Mr. Kerry, the Democrats' 2004 presidential nominee. He
called Mr. Trump's trips overseas ``blooper reels.''

Mr. Kerry, who helped orchestrate the 2015 Iran nuclear deal that Mr.
Trump has abandoned, said that by contrast, Mr. Biden ``knows that even
the United States of America needs friends on this planet.''

Mr. Kerry, a decorated Vietnam War veteran, joined a group of national
security officials who offered pretaped testimonials, a group that
included Marie Yovanovitch, the former ambassador to Ukraine, and former
Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel, who accused Mr. Trump of ``dereliction of
duty'' for failing to ask President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia about
reports that Moscow had placed bounties on American troops in
Afghanistan.

Mr. Powell, a retired general who served as Ronald Reagan's national
security adviser and then as chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, was
once regarded as the future of the Republican Party and contemplated
running against Bill Clinton in the 1996 election. Though he is a figure
of the political past at this point ---~Mr. Powell is 83 --- he may
carry a certain moral weight in addressing moderate voters and others
who feel alienated from a party they once called home.

Mr. Powell endorsed Barack Obama in 2008 and 2012, and Hillary Clinton
in 2016.

In a convention heavily focused on racial justice and increasing
minority representation in government, it is also notable that Mr.
Powell, the Harlem-born son of Jamaican immigrants, broke several tall
racial barriers as a Republican appointee. He was the first Black person
to hold every top office he occupied: national security adviser, Joint
Chiefs chairman and secretary of state.

His appearance --- like that of another Republican,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/17/us/politics/john-kasich-biden.html}{former
Gov. John R. Kasich of Ohio}, on Monday --- is eased by a virtual
convention that lacks a Democratic audience that might otherwise be
inclined to jeer a former senior Bush administration official who helped
make the case for war in Iraq in 2003.

---
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/alexander-burns}{Alexander
Burns} and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/shane-goldmacher}{Shane
Goldmacher}

\hypertarget{advertisement-1}{%
\subsubsection{Advertisement}\label{advertisement-1}}

\protect\hyperlink{after-dfp-ad-mid2}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{ady-barkan-addressing-health-care-called-trump-an-existential-threat}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{ady-barkan-addressing-health-care-called-trump-an-existential-threat}{Ady
Barkan, addressing health care, called Trump an `existential
threat.'}}{Ady Barkan, addressing health care, called Trump an `existential threat.'}}\label{ady-barkan-addressing-health-care-called-trump-an-existential-threat}}

Copied to clipboard.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/09/18/autossell/Screen-Shot-2020-08-19-at-12/Screen-Shot-2020-08-19-at-12-videoSixteenByNineJumbo1600.png}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/18/us/politics/ady-barkan-biden-democrats.html}{Ady
Barkan}, the well-known progressive activist and supporter of ``Medicare
for all,'' put a spotlight on the critical issue of health care on
Tuesday night, addressing a subject that Democrats are likely to talk
about up and down the ballot this fall.

``Even during this terrible crisis, Donald Trump and Republican
politicians are trying to take away millions of people's health
insurance,'' Mr. Barkan said. ``With the existential threat of another
four years of this president, we all have a profound obligation to act,
not only to vote, but to make sure that our friends, family and
neighbors vote as well.''

Mr. Barkan, who has A.L.S. and spoke through a computerized voice,
appeared as part of a portion of the evening focused on health care, an
issue that was a critical advantage for Democrats in the 2018 midterm
elections and is sure to play an important role this fall as well.

Mr. Biden has campaigned on expanding health coverage under the
Affordable Care Act, the signature domestic achievement of the Obama
presidency. Mr. Trump and congressional Republicans sought to repeal the
health law in 2017 but failed, and the Trump administration is now
asking the Supreme Court
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/26/us/politics/obamacare-trump-administration-supreme-court.html}{to
overturn the law}.

Mr. Barkan took a while to come around to supporting Mr. Biden,
mirroring the political journey of many other progressives. Before
making an endorsement in the Democratic primary, Mr. Barkan said he
wanted the nominee to be
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/09/19/us/ady-barkan-activist-medicare.html}{``someone
other than Biden.''} He eventually endorsed Senator Elizabeth Warren of
Massachusetts, and then he backed Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont.
Both candidates supported Medicare for all, unlike Mr. Biden.

But Mr. Biden emerged as the presumptive nominee, and Mr. Barkan
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/08/us/politics/ady-barkan-biden-endorsement.html}{endorsed
him in July}, providing a boost to Mr. Biden as he seeks to improve his
popularity among progressive voters who were not initially drawn to his
candidacy.

In his remarks at the convention, Mr. Barkan described the existing
health care system as falling far short of what Americans deserve,
calling it ``fundamentally broken.''

``We live in the richest country in history and yet we do not guarantee
this most basic human right,'' he said. ``Everyone living in America
should get the health care they need, regardless of their employment
status or ability to pay.''

And Mr. Barkan called for the election of Mr. Biden while also urging
legislative action once he is in office.

``With a compassionate and intelligent president,'' Mr. Barkan said,
``we must act together and put on his desk a bill that guarantees us all
the health care we deserve.''

--- \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/thomas-kaplan}{Thomas
Kaplan}

\hypertarget{after-a-lively-roll-call-vote-joe-biden-is-officially-the-democratic-nominee}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{after-a-lively-roll-call-vote-joe-biden-is-officially-the-democratic-nominee}{After
a lively roll call vote, Joe Biden is officially the Democratic
nominee.}}{After a lively roll call vote, Joe Biden is officially the Democratic nominee.}}\label{after-a-lively-roll-call-vote-joe-biden-is-officially-the-democratic-nominee}}

Copied to clipboard.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/19/us/politics/19Video-Takeaways-video/merlin_175886424_2ccd7f9a-c564-4b6b-b34b-1d2e471f4ea9-videoSixteenByNineJumbo1600.jpg}

Joseph R. Biden Jr. of Delaware is now the Democratic Party's 2020
presidential nominee.

Mr. Biden, 77, reached the nomination threshold of 1,991 votes around
10:20 p.m. Eastern, when the delegation from his home state delivered
all of its 32 votes to him.

The camera flashed to a grinning Mr. Biden, who plucked off his mask and
rose from his seat in a school library where his wife, Jill, was to
deliver a speech later Tuesday night.

``Thank you from the bottom of my heart,'' he said.

The roll call vote, the central event of the national convention, was
drastically revamped to accommodate the constraints imposed by the
coronavirus pandemic. This year, it consisted of a series of pretaped
recordings of delegates listing their vote tallies, replacing the iconic
and photogenic ritual of delegates shouting their state's numbers into a
hand-held microphone.

\begin{quote}
Kamala is loving this roll call.
\href{https://t.co/sQtGnrKLAx}{pic.twitter.com/sQtGnrKLAx}

--- Doug Emhoff (@DouglasEmhoff)
\href{https://twitter.com/DouglasEmhoff/status/1295904487735988227?ref_src=twsrc\%5Etfw}{August
19, 2020}
\end{quote}

One big plus: Most of the pretaped segments were filmed outside --- on a
beach in California, at a firehouse in Connecticut, atop a train
platform (where else?) in Delaware --- bringing air, sunshine, surf and
chirping crickets to a convention for which many speeches have been
filmed indoors.

A handful of the delegates who called the roll for Mr. Biden were well
known.

Khizr Khan, the Gold Star father and immigrant who spoke out about
President Trump's immigration policies at the 2016 Democratic
convention, represented Virginia and accused the president of standing
up for ``white supremacists'' during the 2017 unrest in Charlottesville,
Va.

Mayor Muriel Bowser, who oversaw the painting of ``Black Lives Matter''
near the White House after federal law enforcement officials violently
disrupted a peaceful protest, represented Washington, D.C.

Jamie Harrison, who is mounting a strong challenge to Senator Lindsey
Graham, Republican of South Carolina and a strong Trump ally, announced
the Palmetto's State's votes for Mr. Biden.

Senator Bob Casey, Democrat of Pennsylvania, stood in front of Mr.
Biden's childhood home in Scranton as he announced that the state had
delivered 175 delegate votes to the former vice president.

Both Mr. Biden and the runner-up, Senator Bernie Sanders, were
nominated.

--- \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/glenn-thrush}{Glenn
Thrush}

\hypertarget{alexandria-ocasio-cortez-summed-up-progressive-goals-as-she-made-the-case-for-bernie-sanders}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{alexandria-ocasio-cortez-summed-up-progressive-goals-as-she-made-the-case-for-bernie-sanders}{Alexandria
Ocasio-Cortez summed up progressive goals as she made the case for
Bernie
Sanders.}}{Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez summed up progressive goals as she made the case for Bernie Sanders.}}\label{alexandria-ocasio-cortez-summed-up-progressive-goals-as-she-made-the-case-for-bernie-sanders}}

Copied to clipboard.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/18/us/politics/18dems-ledeall-aoc/18dems-ledeall-aoc-videoSixteenByNine3000-v2.jpg}

Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, Democrat of New York, had the
official role of putting the name of the 2020 runner-up, Senator Bernie
Sanders, up for the nomination on Tuesday. But Ms. Ocasio-Cortez, a
first-term member of Congress, summed up the scope of the progressive
movement and goals along the way.

Some progressives were frustrated that Ms. Ocasio-Cortez, one of the
party's rising stars, was granted only a one-minute speaking slot, but
she packed a lot into her just over 90 seconds.

She railed against the ``unsustainable brutality of an economy that
rewards explosive inequalities of wealth.'' She highlighted the central
causes that Mr. Sanders had pushed, including ``guaranteed health care,
higher education, living wages and labor rights for all people.'' And
she frontally addressed the need to ``to recognize and repair the wounds
of racial injustice, colonization, misogyny and homophobia.''

She added five words in Spanish as she called to reimagine immigration
and foreign policy policies to ``turn away from the violence and
xenophobia of our past.''

Two words that Ms. Ocasio-Cortez did not say: ``Joe Biden.'' She
explained that to her big audience on social media soon after.

\begin{quote}
If you were confused, no worries!

Convention rules require roll call \& nominations for every candidate
that passes the delegate threshold.

I was asked to 2nd the nom for Sen. Sanders for roll call.

I extend my deepest congratulations to
\href{https://twitter.com/JoeBiden?ref_src=twsrc\%5Etfw}{@JoeBiden} -
let's go win in November. 🇺🇸 \url{https://t.co/uI92P3UfLn}

--- Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez (@AOC)
\href{https://twitter.com/AOC/status/1295902565750771717?ref_src=twsrc\%5Etfw}{August
19, 2020}
\end{quote}

Before her appearance, Ms. Ocasio-Cortez had mocked Republican critics
who had tried to make hay of her short slot.

``If I can regularly roast Trump sycophants in 280 characters or less, I
can speak to progressive values in 60 secs (\& maybe filibuster a few
extra ),'' she
\href{https://twitter.com/aoc/status/1295791805867360256}{wrote} to
Bobby Jindal, the former Republican governor of Louisiana, earlier on
Tuesday.

--- \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/shane-goldmacher}{Shane
Goldmacher}

\hypertarget{advertisement-2}{%
\subsubsection{Advertisement}\label{advertisement-2}}

\protect\hyperlink{after-dfp-ad-mid3}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{a-security-guards-meeting-with-biden-went-viral-she-has-now-nominated-him-for-the-presidency}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{a-security-guards-meeting-with-biden-went-viral-she-has-now-nominated-him-for-the-presidency}{A
security guard's meeting with Biden went viral. She has now nominated
him for the
presidency.}}{A security guard's meeting with Biden went viral. She has now nominated him for the presidency.}}\label{a-security-guards-meeting-with-biden-went-viral-she-has-now-nominated-him-for-the-presidency}}

Copied to clipboard.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/18/autossell/Screen-Shot-2020-08-18-at-11/Screen-Shot-2020-08-18-at-11-videoSixteenByNineJumbo1600.png}

It was an accidental viral moment for Joseph R. Biden Jr., at a time
when his quest for the Democratic nomination seemed to be flagging. En
route to an interview last year with the editorial board of The New York
Times, Mr. Biden found himself in an elevator with
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/18/us/politics/nyt-security-guard-joe-biden-nomination.html}{Jacquelyn,
a 31-year-old security guard} who shyly admitted she was star-struck.

``I love you,'' Jacquelyn told the former vice president. ``I do. You're
like my favorite.'' Mr. Biden, smiling, asked if she had a camera. The
two posed for a selfie on her smartphone.

It was a fleeting exchange that happened to be captured by a film crew
for ``The Weekly,'' an FX show produced in collaboration with The Times.
Mr. Biden did not receive
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/01/19/us/politics/amy-klobuchar-elizabeth-warren-new-york-times-endorsement.html}{the
paper's endorsement} during the Democratic primary --- that went to
Senators Amy Klobuchar and Elizabeth Warren --- but his easy rapport
with Jacquelyn struck a chord on social media.

\begin{quote}
Honored to have won Jacquelyn's endorsement.
\href{https://t.co/tGpNZjXacu}{pic.twitter.com/tGpNZjXacu}

--- Joe Biden (@JoeBiden)
\href{https://twitter.com/JoeBiden/status/1219350885521858562?ref_src=twsrc\%5Etfw}{January
20, 2020}
\end{quote}

On Tuesday night, Jacquelyn made a more deliberate appearance before a
national TV audience. The Biden campaign selected her as the first
person to enter Mr. Biden's name into nomination for president at the
Democratic National Convention. She spoke before the start of the roll
call vote.

``I take powerful people up on my elevator all the time,'' Jacquelyn
said. ``When they get off, they go to their important meetings. Me? I
just head back to the lobby. But in the short time I spent with Joe
Biden, I could tell he really saw me, that he actually cared, that my
life meant something to him.''

Her role on Tuesday was an honor that dovetailed with some of the themes
the Biden team is keen to promote this week, including his support among
working Americans and Black women in particular. And her appearance nods
to what advisers believe is Mr. Biden's chief political strength, a
sense of empathy and ease with Americans from many walks of life.

\begin{quote}
Jacquelyn: Your nomination means the world to me. Thank you --- and I
hope you know: we love you back.
\href{https://twitter.com/hashtag/DemConvention?src=hash\&ref_src=twsrc\%5Etfw}{\#DemConvention}
\href{https://t.co/BDS1HQAxhM}{pic.twitter.com/BDS1HQAxhM}

--- Joe Biden (@JoeBiden)
\href{https://twitter.com/JoeBiden/status/1295900540694433792?ref_src=twsrc\%5Etfw}{August
19, 2020}
\end{quote}

Jacquelyn is employed by The Times as a security guard. She has no role
in the newspaper's journalism **** or editorial page, and she is not
bound by rules that prohibit many of the company's employees from
engaging in political activity.

For Jacquelyn, who Biden aides said was declining to make her last name
public, the Tuesday cameo will be the culmination of an unusual and
unexpected role in a national campaign.

``I never thought I would be in a position to do this,''
\href{https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/the-security-guard-blurted-i-love-you-to-joe-biden-in-an-elevator-one-viral-video-later-she-will-nominate-him-for-president/2020/08/18/df652f04-e178-11ea-b69b-64f7b0477ed4_story.html}{she
told The Washington Post}, which first reported on her role on Tuesday.
``I never thought I was worthy enough to do this.''

---
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/michael-m-grynbaum}{Michael
M. Grynbaum}

\hypertarget{the-buck-never-stops-there-bill-clinton-said-of-trumps-white-house}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{the-buck-never-stops-there-bill-clinton-said-of-trumps-white-house}{`The
buck never stops there,' Bill Clinton said of Trump's White
House.}}{`The buck never stops there,' Bill Clinton said of Trump's White House.}}\label{the-buck-never-stops-there-bill-clinton-said-of-trumps-white-house}}

Copied to clipboard.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/18/us/politics/Screen-Shot-2020-08-18-at-11/Screen-Shot-2020-08-18-at-11-videoSixteenByNineJumbo1600.png}

Bill Clinton, once the Democratic Party's charismatic headliner and
centrist standard-bearer, played a decidedly supporting role on Tuesday
night, offering a stinging rebuke of the ``chaos'' President Trump has
brought to the office he held from 1992 to 2000.

Mr. Clinton jokingly urged voters to support Mr. Trump if ``you want a
president who defines the job as spending hours a day watching TV and
zapping people on social media.''

The former president accused Mr. Trump of downplaying the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus}{coronavirus
crisis}, and of collapsing under the pressure of a real management
challenge.

``At a time like this, the Oval Office should be a command center,''
said Mr. Clinton, 74, speaking from his mansion in the northern suburbs
of New York City. ``Instead, it's a storm center. There's only chaos.
Just one thing never changes --- his determination to deny
responsibility and shift the blame. The buck never stops there.''

Mr. Clinton --- the last president to be impeached before Mr. Trump ---
described Mr. Biden as ``a go-to-work president. A down-to-earth,
get-the-job-done guy.''

The pandemic-imposed time constraints demanded by the crammed virtual
format of the convention pulled off a feat planners of the event have
been unable to accomplish in nearly three decades. Mr. Clinton spoke for
only a few minutes.

His introduction of President Barack Obama at the 2012 convention in
Charlotte, N.C.,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/18/us/politics/bill-clinton-convention.html}{clocked
in at 48 minutes}, far longer than his allotted time slot.

--- \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/glenn-thrush}{Glenn
Thrush}

\hypertarget{off-camera-jimmy-carter-hailed-bidens-character-and-decency}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{off-camera-jimmy-carter-hailed-bidens-character-and-decency}{Off
camera, Jimmy Carter hailed Biden's `character and
decency.'}}{Off camera, Jimmy Carter hailed Biden's `character and decency.'}}\label{off-camera-jimmy-carter-hailed-bidens-character-and-decency}}

Copied to clipboard.

Every living past Democratic president is set to speak at the Democratic
National Convention this week. That makes for a sharp and intentional
contrast with next week's Republican gathering, where the party's last
living president, George W. Bush, is not expected to appear and its last
presidential nominee, Mitt Romney, voted to impeach President Trump this
year.

The first of three former presidents to speak was a 95-year-old Jimmy
Carter, who testified that Mr. Biden has the ``experience, character,
and decency to bring us together and restore America's greatness.'' His
wife, Rosalynn Carter, also spoke.

The Carters did not appear on camera but voiced their support for Mr.
Biden over a montage of images.

Mr. Carter praised Mr. Biden as a loyal supporter of his in the Senate
in the late 1970s --- a sign of the longevity of Mr. Biden's
decades-long career.

``Joe Biden must be our next president,'' he said.

Immediately before Mr. Carter were two links to Democratic presidential
lineage: Caroline Kennedy, the daughter of President John F. Kennedy,
and Jack Schlossberg, Mr. Kennedy's grandson.

The cumulative message was an unmistakable effort to cast Mr. Biden as
firmly in the Democratic mainstream, while some Republican defectors ---
Cindy McCain, John Kasich and Colin Powell ---~made the case that Mr.
Trump falls well outside the G.O.P. tradition.

--- \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/shane-goldmacher}{Shane
Goldmacher}

\hypertarget{advertisement-3}{%
\subsubsection{Advertisement}\label{advertisement-3}}

\protect\hyperlink{after-dfp-ad-mid4}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{democrats-must-take-back-the-senate-chuck-schumer-said}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{democrats-must-take-back-the-senate-chuck-schumer-said}{`Democrats
must take back the Senate,' Chuck Schumer
said.}}{`Democrats must take back the Senate,' Chuck Schumer said.}}\label{democrats-must-take-back-the-senate-chuck-schumer-said}}

Copied to clipboard.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/18/us/politics/18-live-kaplan-17392/merlin_175880580_e9abc088-5365-47fd-8ea7-f90d732a0a08-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, the minority leader, offered a blunt
message to viewers on Tuesday night: ``America, Donald Trump has quit on
you.''

Mr. Schumer addressed the convention with less than three months until
November's elections, when the Democratic Party hopes to win control of
the Senate, where Republicans currently hold 53 seats.

``If we're going to win this battle for the soul of our nation, Joe
can't do it alone,'' Mr. Schumer said, standing with the Statue of
Liberty behind him. ``Democrats must take back the Senate. We will stay
united, from Sanders and Warren to Manchin and Warner. And with our
unity, we will bring bold and dramatic change to our country.''

Mr. Schumer was referring to four members of the Democratic caucus from
opposite wings of the party: two well-known progressives, Senators
Bernie Sanders of Vermont and Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts, and two
moderates, Senators Joe Manchin III of West Virginia and Mark Warner of
Virginia.

If Joseph R. Biden Jr. wins the presidency, the fate of the Senate will
have a big effect on his legislative prospects. He would face a much
more challenging landscape if Republicans managed to hold on to the
chamber. But Democrats have appeared in increasingly strong position,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/25/us/politics/trump-senate-republicans-poll.html}{in
part because of President Trump's unpopularity}.

--- \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/thomas-kaplan}{Thomas
Kaplan}

\hypertarget{sally-yates-said-trump-had-trampled-the-rule-of-law}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{sally-yates-said-trump-had-trampled-the-rule-of-law}{Sally
Yates said Trump had `trampled the rule of
law.'}}{Sally Yates said Trump had `trampled the rule of law.'}}\label{sally-yates-said-trump-had-trampled-the-rule-of-law}}

Copied to clipboard.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/18/autossell/Screen-Shot-2020-08-18-at-9/Screen-Shot-2020-08-18-at-9-videoSixteenByNineJumbo1600.png}

Sally Q. Yates, the former acting attorney general who was fired by
President Trump in his first month on the job for refusing to enforce a
travel ban on predominantly Muslim countries, became the first of many
so-called \#resistance heroes on the left in the Trump era.

On Tuesday, as a speaker on the second night of the Democratic National
Convention, she pressed the case that Mr. Trump, who has fashioned
himself as a ``law and order'' president, has instead ``trampled the
rule of law, trying to weaponize our Justice Department to attack his
enemies and protect his friends.''

She called his Muslim ban ``shameful and unlawful.''

``Speaking at a political convention is something I never expected to be
doing, but our democracy is at stake,'' Ms. Yates said, attacking Mr.
Trump for fawning over President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia, for trying
to ``sabotage'' the Postal Service and for undermining the F.B.I. and a
free press.

She said these types of moves ``all have one purpose: to remove any
check on his abuse of power. Put simply, he treats our country like it's
his family business. This time, bankrupting our nation's moral authority
at home and abroad.''

Ms. Yates spoke for less than five minutes, but she presented herself
and other civil servants who have served in the federal government as
under attack from a rogue president who has ``used his position to
benefit himself rather than our country.''

Ms. Yates, who was born in Georgia, has been talked about as a potential
candidate in that increasingly swing state but she has so far opted
against running for office.

--- \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/shane-goldmacher}{Shane
Goldmacher}

\hypertarget{tracee-ellis-ross-tuesdays-mc-kicked-off-the-night-hello-kamala}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{tracee-ellis-ross-tuesdays-mc-kicked-off-the-night-hello-kamala}{Tracee
Ellis Ross, Tuesday's M.C., kicked off the night: `Hello,
Kamala.'}}{Tracee Ellis Ross, Tuesday's M.C., kicked off the night: `Hello, Kamala.'}}\label{tracee-ellis-ross-tuesdays-mc-kicked-off-the-night-hello-kamala}}

Copied to clipboard.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/18/us/politics/8-live-mohamed-19172/8-live-mohamed-19172-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

The actress Tracee Ellis Ross, 47, who has won a Golden Globe Award for
her role on ``Black-ish'' and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/11/20/books/michelle-obama-tracee-ellis-ross-interview.html}{moderated
a book tour for the former first lady Michelle Obama} in 2018, is the
M.C. of the virtual convention on Tuesday.

``As a Black woman, I find myself at a crucial intersection in American
politics,'' Ms. Ross said. ``For far too long Black female leadership in
this country has been utilized without being acknowledged or valued.''

The selection of Kamala Harris as Joseph R. Biden Jr.'s running mate has
started to change all that, she added.

``Hello, Kamala,'' Ms. Ross said with a smile.

She was preceded by Mayor Tom Barrett of Milwaukee, who invited
Democrats to come to his city after the coronavirus crisis had passed.
``Unlike the president, we never made fun of face masks,'' he said. ``We
understand why we can't be together this week, and we hope you do too.''

The producers of ``Black-ish'' recently aired a 2018 episode in which
the show's characters discuss their alarm at the state of the country
under President Trump. ABC, which airs the program, had been concerned
the episode's content was too political,
\href{https://variety.com/2020/tv/news/black-ish-episode-please-baby-please-released-hulu-shelved-abc-1234730838/}{Variety}\href{https://variety.com/2020/tv/news/black-ish-episode-please-baby-please-released-hulu-shelved-abc-1234730838/}{**}\href{https://variety.com/2020/tv/news/black-ish-episode-please-baby-please-released-hulu-shelved-abc-1234730838/}{reported.}

The actress and activist Eva Longoria hosted Monday night's two-hour
convention schedule; Kerry Washington will M.C. on Wednesday and Julia
Louis-Dreyfus will do so on Thursday.

--- \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/glenn-thrush}{Glenn
Thrush}

\hypertarget{advertisement-4}{%
\subsubsection{Advertisement}\label{advertisement-4}}

\protect\hyperlink{after-dfp-ad-mid5}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{stacey-abrams-one-of-17-keynote-speakers-said-biden-would-be-a-champion-for-free-and-fair-elections}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{stacey-abrams-one-of-17-keynote-speakers-said-biden-would-be-a-champion-for-free-and-fair-elections}{Stacey
Abrams, one of 17 keynote speakers, said Biden would be `a champion for
free and fair
elections.'}}{Stacey Abrams, one of 17 keynote speakers, said Biden would be `a champion for free and fair elections.'}}\label{stacey-abrams-one-of-17-keynote-speakers-said-biden-would-be-a-champion-for-free-and-fair-elections}}

Copied to clipboard.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/18/us/politics/18-live-coop-1642/merlin_175880535_f2a3280c-aec3-47be-a799-46624a5f49bc-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Mario M. Cuomo shot to Democratic Party stardom with
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/1984/07/17/us/transcript-of-keynote-address-by-cuomo-to-the-convention.html}{a
rousing depiction of a tale of two cities} in 1984. Ann Richards
\href{https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p-tyKWNwtMU}{brought down the
house} in 1988 by
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/1988/07/19/us/transcript-of-the-keynote-address-by-ann-richards-the-texas-treasurer.html}{declaring
of George H.W. Bush}: ``Poor George, he can't help it. He was born with
a silver foot in his mouth.'' Barack Obama
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2016/07/27/magazine/the-speech-that-made-obama.html}{launched
himself toward the White House} in 2004 with his stirring account of
``the hope of a skinny kid with a funny name who believes that America
has a place for him, too.''

But in this year's Democratic National Convention, there was not --- for
the first time in memory --- a single keynote speaker handed the
opportunity to capture the imagination of delegates and viewers at home.

Instead of designating a star for the party's future, the Democrats
assembled a mash-up of 17 of the ``next generation of party leaders'' to
speak via video montage Tuesday night.

The list of speakers included Stacey Abrams of Georgia, who
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/08/13/us/politics/stacey-abrams-fair-fight-2020.html}{considered
a 2020 presidential run} herself after falling short in a bid to win her
state's governorship in 2018; three members of Congress; eight state
legislators; two mayors; Jonathan Nez, the president of the Navajo
Nation; and Nikki Fried, Florida's agriculture commissioner --- the only
Democrat elected to statewide office in the critical battleground state.

One after another, speaking in short snippets, they offered a volley of
criticism aimed at President Trump and talked up Joseph R. Biden Jr.

``You deserve more than the constant chaos that Donald Trump delivers,''
said Mayor Robert Garcia of Long Beach, Calif.

Representative Conor Lamb of Pennsylvania added: ``Take it from me. When
you're in the trenches, you want Joe Biden right there next to you.''

Ms. Abrams offered closing remarks, saying that Mr. Biden would be ``a
champion for free and fair elections.''

``Our choice is clear,'' she said. ``A steady, experienced public
servant who can lead us out of this crisis just like he's done before.
Or a man who only knows how to deny and distract. A leader who cares
about our families, or a president who only cares about himself.''

She added, ``Faced with a president of cowardice, Joe Biden is a man of
proven courage.''

--- \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/reid-j-epstein}{Reid J.
Epstein},
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/adam-nagourney}{Adam
Nagourney} and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/thomas-kaplan}{Thomas
Kaplan}

\hypertarget{our-2020-election-guide}{%
\section{Our 2020 Election Guide}\label{our-2020-election-guide}}

Updated Aug. 21, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{the-latest}{%
  \subsection{The Latest}\label{the-latest}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Joe Biden
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/21/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{accepted
    the Democratic nomination}, urging Americans to have faith that they
    could ``overcome this season of darkness.''
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/21/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Here's
    the latest.}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{news-analysis}{%
  \subsection{News Analysis}\label{news-analysis}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Looming over Mr. Biden's nomination was the ever-present shadow of
    another man who's poised to dominate the campaign:
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/20/us/politics/biden-dnc-speech-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Donald
    J. Trump}.
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{keep-up-with-our-coverage}{%
  \subsection{Keep Up With Our
  Coverage}\label{keep-up-with-our-coverage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Get an
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{email}
    recapping the day's news
  \end{itemize}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Download our mobile app on
    \href{https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nytimes/id284862083?ls=1\&mat_click_id=5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\&referrer=mat_click_id\%3D5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\%26link_click_id\%3D722930677036718082}{iOS}
    and
    \href{http://a.localytics.com/android?id=com.nytimes.android\&referrer=utm_source\%3Dother_nyt_mobile_web\%26utm_medium\%3DWeb\%2520page\%26utm_term\%3DGeneral\%2520Mobile\%2520Page\%26utm_campaign\%3DNYT\%2520Mobile\%2520General\%2520Page}{Android}
    and turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
