Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/sports/football}{Pro
Football}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/sports/football}{Pro Football}\textbar{}Full Round 1 2020
N.F.L. Picks and Analysis

\url{https://nyti.ms/2Vv0oKO}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{full-round-1-2020-nfl-picks-and-analysis}{%
\section{Full Round 1 2020 N.F.L. Picks and
Analysis}\label{full-round-1-2020-nfl-picks-and-analysis}}

Going through all the selections of the first round, from Joe Burrow at
No. 1 to his Louisiana State teammate Clyde Edwards-Helaire at No. 32.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/04/23/sports/23nfldraft-live-top-2/merlin_171873954_874f14e8-a33c-444a-85dc-30e0cc8efa93-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/ken-belson}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/02/16/multimedia/author-ken-belson/author-ken-belson-thumbLarge.jpg}}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/ben-shpigel}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/02/20/multimedia/author-ben-shpigel/author-ben-shpigel-thumbLarge.jpg}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/ken-belson}{Ken Belson}
and \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/ben-shpigel}{Ben
Shpigel}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  April 23, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Live, from Roger Goodell's basement, the first round of the N.F.L. draft
offered something of a surprise gift on Thursday night: A chance to
focus on selections over spectacle with a smooth run through the top 32
picks.

Sure, the evening generated plenty of questions to keep sports fans
engaged, despite the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/coronavirus-sports-leagues-returning-canceled.html}{almost
universal shutdown of competition} during
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus}{the
coronavirus pandemic}: Is Utah State quarterback Jordan Love really the
successor to Aaron Rodgers in Green Bay? Do the New England Patriots
ever pass on trading down?

But mostly the so-called virtual draft played out as an intimate
occasion, taking the audience into young players' homes as their futures
took shape.

Here's a look at how the first round went, pick by pick. The second and
third rounds are scheduled for Friday, beginning at 7 p.m., and the
draft ends with four more rounds on Saturday.

\hypertarget{heres-how-the-selections-were-made}{%
\subsubsection{Here's how the selections were
made:}\label{heres-how-the-selections-were-made}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-9c6317c}{1. Cincinnati Bengals: Joe Burrow,
  Quarterback}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-78370c67}{2. Washington Redskins: Chase Young,
  Defensive End}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-349a0dbb}{3. Detroit Lions: Jeff Okudah,
  Cornerback}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-76d0d77d}{4. New York Giants: Andrew Thomas,
  Offensive Tackle}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-1311ed4c}{5. Miami Dolphins: Tua Tagovailoa,
  Quarterback}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-1f4f47de}{6. Los Angeles Chargers: Justin
  Herbert, Quarterback}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-78d7c085}{7. Carolina Panthers: Derrick Brown,
  Defensive Tackle}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-20b7c286}{8. Arizona Cardinals: Isaiah
  Simmons, Linebacker}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-6d4fa1b7}{9. Jacksonville Jaguars: C.J.
  Henderson, Cornerback}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-13d30fd9}{10. Cleveland Browns: Jedrick Wills
  Jr., Offensive Tackle}
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{1-cincinnati-bengals-joe-burrow-quarterback}{%
\subsection{1. Cincinnati Bengals: Joe Burrow,
Quarterback}\label{1-cincinnati-bengals-joe-burrow-quarterback}}

Louisiana State. 6-foot-3, 221 pounds

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/04/23/sports/23nfldraft-live-burrow-screenshot/merlin_171873732_c5967102-b565-4ba1-881a-5d2bba5f7082-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

The rebuilding Bengals needed a franchise cornerstone and --- hey, look,
it's
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/joe-burrow-nfl-draft.html}{Joe
Burrow}!

As expected, Cincinnati chose the quarterback Burrow with the No. 1
overall pick, rewarding him for his superlative season at Louisiana
State. It's the first time since 2003, when it took Carson Palmer, that
Cincinnati took a quarterback to begin the draft.

Burrow, the Heisman Trophy winner, threw for 5,671 yards and set a
Football Bowl Subdivision record with 60 touchdown passes --- the final
12 of which came in his last two games, blowouts over Oklahoma and
Clemson, to propel L.S.U. to a national title. Only one other player won
the Heisman and the national championship, and was chosen first over
all, in the same year: Cam Newton, in 2011.

``To jump up to No. 1 overall is just crazy to me but it's a dream come
true,'' Burrow said.

Quarterbacks drafted early often join teams bereft of, or at least
lacking in, offensive talent. In that respect, the Bengals are an
anomaly. Burrow enters a reasonably favorable situation, with A.J.
Green, Tyler Boyd and John Ross at receiver and Joe Mixon at running
back. Preparing for Burrow's arrival, Cincinnati fortified its defense
in free agency, signing cornerbacks Mackensie Alexander and Trae Waynes,
defensive lineman D.J. Reader and linebacker Josh Bynes.

No matter how well Burrow plays, the Bengals, in all likelihood, won't
be making the playoffs this season. But the team probably won't be 2-14
like it was in 2019, and for the first time in a long time, they'll be
exciting, and interesting, again.

\hypertarget{2-washington-redskins-chase-young-defensive-end}{%
\subsection{2. Washington Redskins: Chase Young, Defensive
End}\label{2-washington-redskins-chase-young-defensive-end}}

Ohio State. 6-5, 264

Image

Chase Young of Ohio State had 16½ sacks last season.~Credit...Rick
Scuteri/Associated Press

Coach Ron Rivera was hired to restore pride and discipline (and winning
seasons) to a decaying franchise, and for a defensive-minded coach,
buttressing the pass rush with the best defensive end prospect in the
class is a reasonable way to start. Chase Young, who led the F.B.S. last
season with 16½ sacks, joins a reconfigured defensive front --- Rivera
switched to a 4-3 from a 3-4 --- that will allow him, as well as other
ends Ryan Kerrigan and the 2019 first-round pick Montez Sweat, to
concentrate on doing what they do best: harass the quarterback.

At Ohio State, Young learned from the renowned defensive line coach
Larry Johnson Sr., who also tutored, among others, Nick and Joey Bosa,
Aaron Maybin, and Tamba Hali. Johnson challenged himself to find flaws
in Young's technique, analyzing film in slow motion, and together they
produced what might be the best over all player in the draft.

That's Young's opinion, at least. ``I definitely think I'm the best
player in the draft,'' Young said at the league's scouting combine. ``I
think I showed it on my tape.''

\hypertarget{3-detroit-lions-jeff-okudah-cornerback}{%
\subsection{3. Detroit Lions: Jeff Okudah,
Cornerback}\label{3-detroit-lions-jeff-okudah-cornerback}}

Ohio State. 6-1, 190

Image

Cornerback Jeff Okudah, at second from right, is known for shutting down
receivers.~Credit...NFL, via Associated Press

As he established himself at Ohio State as the best cornerback in his
draft class,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/jeff-okudah.html}{Jeff
Okudah found a role model in Darius Slay.} In each of the last three
seasons, Slay, who was traded to Philadelphia last month from Detroit,
was selected to the Pro Bowl. Okudah, at 6-foot-1 and 190 pounds, will
now replace him in Detroit, which had been rumored to be shopping the
pick. Jeff Hafley, Okudah's position coach at Ohio State, coached seven
years in the N.F.L., and he said Okudah has exceptional size, speed,
acceleration, instincts, inquisitiveness and competitiveness.

He started one year for the Buckeyes, who deployed him much like the
Jets handled Darrelle Revis in his prime, lining him up alone in
man-to-man coverage

Okudah projects as a marvelous fit with the Lions for a simple reason:
What team wouldn't want a shutdown cornerback?

\hypertarget{4-new-york-giants-andrew-thomas-offensive-tackle}{%
\subsection{4. New York Giants: Andrew Thomas, Offensive
Tackle}\label{4-new-york-giants-andrew-thomas-offensive-tackle}}

Georgia. 6-5, 315

Image

Andrew Thomas was picked by the Giants. He was an all-American last
season after starting 13 games at left tackle.Credit...Mark
Humphrey/Associated Press

General Manager Dave Gettleman swoons over ``hog mollies'' --- his
nomenclature for enormous offensive linemen --- and that, no doubt, is a
priority for him
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/22/sports/football/nfl-draft-giants-jets.html}{as
he builds around quarterback Daniel Jones}. In
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/andrew-thomas.html}{Andrew
Thomas}, the Giants have their hog molly. Thomas did nothing but perform
at Georgia. He won freshman all-American honors after starting all 15
games at right tackle his first season. He shifted to left tackle his
sophomore year and was named to the all-Southeastern Conference team. He
started 13 games at left tackle and was named a first-team all-American
this season.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/andrew-thomas.html}{He
takes his inspiration from music}, having grown up playing drums. As
with music, where he gained confidence through thousands of repetitions,
Thomas found comfort in the mundane. The more he practiced, he
recognized, the better he would get.

On the precipice of his N.F.L. career, Thomas still draws on his musical
background. ``It's the same thing in football,'' he said. ``Something
may happen that's unexpected, and how well you respond can change the
end of the game.''

\hypertarget{5-miami-dolphins-tua-tagovailoa-quarterback}{%
\subsection{5. Miami Dolphins: Tua Tagovailoa,
Quarterback}\label{5-miami-dolphins-tua-tagovailoa-quarterback}}

Alabama. 6-0, 217

Image

Alabama quarterback Tua Tagovailoa was taken by the Miami Dolphins even
after suffering a season-ending injury in November.Credit...NFL, via
Associated Press

The Dolphins didn't spend the last season tanking --- er, stripping
their roster to stockpile draft capital --- so they could be passive
this weekend. They avenged the mistake of passing on free agent Drew
Brees in 2006 by being aggressive and taking
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/tua-tagovailoa.html}{Tua
Tagovailoa}, whose season was derailed when he sustained a posterior
wall fracture and dislocated hip in a game in November.

Instead of competing in the SEC, he had season-ending surgery. Instead
of going No. 1 overall, he was surpassed by Burrow. The focus among
scouts wasn't about whether he was a good fit for an N.F.L. team's
offense, but whether he was durable enough to play well again.
Tagovailoa was unable to hold his own pro day because of the coronavirus
pandemic, so teams were unable to watch him throw live. Instead, he
posted video of himself training on social media. Obviously, the
Dolphins are comfortable with his health.

Their general manager, Chris Grier, was with the Dolphins (in a
different capacity) in 2006, when the team opted for Daunte Culpepper,
who wound up playing only one season in Miami. As for Brees, well, he
won a Super Bowl in New Orleans and is an all-time great. Now the
Dolphins hope that Tagovailoa redeems them.

\hypertarget{6-los-angeles-chargers-justin-herbert-quarterback}{%
\subsection{6. Los Angeles Chargers: Justin Herbert,
Quarterback}\label{6-los-angeles-chargers-justin-herbert-quarterback}}

Oregon. 6-6, 237

Image

Quarterback Justin Herbert is picked by the Los Angeles
Chargers.Credit...Vasha Hunt/USA Today Sports, via Reuters

The Los Angeles Chargers' professed adoration for Tyrod Taylor as a
possible long-term replacement for Philip Rivers was a total
smokescreen.

As they enter the season with a new starting quarterback for the first
time since 2005, there will be competition for the job between Taylor
and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/justin-herbert.html}{Justin
Herbert}, who threw for more than 10,000 yards and scored more than 100
touchdowns at Oregon.

Standing 6-foot-6, 237 pounds, Herbert's size and arm strength are
consistent with a prototypical N.F.L. quarterback, and he led the Ducks
to a Pac-12 championship and a victory at the Rose Bowl in January with
not much talent at receiver.

The question is how this
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/justin-herbert.html}{quiet
kid who has spent his entire life in Eugene}, Ore. and only recently
opened a social media account will react to living in a big city with
far more media attention. Herbert enters an excellent situation, with a
shrewd coach, Anthony Lynn, and talent across the offense, from receiver
Keenan Allen to tight end Hunter Henry.

\hypertarget{7-carolina-panthers-derrick-brown-defensive-tackle}{%
\subsection{7. Carolina Panthers: Derrick Brown, Defensive
Tackle}\label{7-carolina-panthers-derrick-brown-defensive-tackle}}

Auburn. 6-5, 326

Image

Derrick Brown, wearing the cap, will head to the Carolina
Panthers.Credit...NFL, via Associated Press

Coming from the college ranks, new Panthers coach Matt Rhule, who was at
Baylor, might have a slight advantage --- but what is he looking for? As
it happens, Rhule wanted the best defensive lineman in the Southeastern
Conference, if not the country.

From his size to his post-football aspirations, there is nothing
remotely tiny about
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/derrick-brown.html}{Derrick
Brown} --- nicknamed Baby Barack at Auburn. Brown measured 6-foot-5 and
326 pounds at the scouting combine in February. In college, he devoted
himself to helping others, on campus and in the community, serving on
leadership councils, building homes in the Dominican Republic and
working at food banks. On the field, Brown thwarted triple-teams, mauled
quarterbacks and stuffed running lanes.

Rodney Garner, who coaches Auburn's defensive line, likened Brown to an
amalgam of two N.F.L. stars he tutored at Georgia. Brown, he said, has
the athleticism of Richard Seymour and the power of Marcus Stroud.
``Coaching Derrick Brown was easy,'' Garner said in a recent interview.
``In my 31 years, I've coached some really good defensive linemen. It's
been a blessing. And he's right there at the top of the list.''

The Panthers are in the midst of an
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/24/sports/football/cam-newton-panthers-injury-release.html}{organizational
reboot under owner David A. Tepper,} who took over the team in 2018.
Gone are former league M.V.P. Cam Newton and the winningest coach in
franchise history, Ron Rivera. And after losing stalwarts at all three
levels of the defense --- lineman Gerald McCoy,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/01/15/sports/football/luke-kuechly-concussions-retire.html}{linebacker
Luke Kuechly} and cornerback James Bradberry --- certainly need a talent
infusion on defense. That begins with Brown.

\hypertarget{8-arizona-cardinals-isaiah-simmons-linebacker}{%
\subsection{8. Arizona Cardinals: Isaiah Simmons,
Linebacker}\label{8-arizona-cardinals-isaiah-simmons-linebacker}}

Clemson. 6-4, 238

Image

Credit...Joshua S. Kelly/USA Today Sports, via Reuters

The Cardinals' most obvious deficiency was along the offensive line, but
then again, no team allowed more yards last season than they did, making
overall defense a priority in this draft. Arizona shored up its defense
by selecting
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/isaiah-simmons.html}{Isaiah
Simmons}, who can play anywhere and everywhere on that side of the ball.

According to Pro Football Focus, Simmons, listed at 6-foot-4 and 238
pounds, played at least 100 snaps at five positions --- slot cornerback,
edge rusher, linebacker and both safety spots --- and finished with 16½
tackles for a loss, eight sacks, eight pass deflections and three
interceptions. ``In a league that doesn't have a lot of margin for error
when it comes to roster management, I think you immediately get more
than one person,'' Brent Venables, his defensive coordinator at Clemson,
said in a recent interview.

Simmons counterbalances the raft of hybridized offensive players
permeating the N.F.L. He has the build, speed and length to counter
players like San Francisco 49ers tight end George Kittle and Carolina
Panthers running back Christian McCaffrey, who often cause mismatches.
Modern defenses prioritize pressuring the quarterback and stopping the
pass, and Simmons can do both.

\hypertarget{9-jacksonville-jaguars-cj-henderson-cornerback}{%
\subsection{9. Jacksonville Jaguars: C.J. Henderson,
Cornerback}\label{9-jacksonville-jaguars-cj-henderson-cornerback}}

Florida. 6-1, 204

Image

C.J. Henderson of Florida was picked by the Jacksonville
Jaguars.Credit...Nfl Via Getty Images

Was it just three seasons ago that the Jaguars, buoyed by a snarling
defense,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/01/21/sports/afc-championship-patriots-jaguars.html}{reached
the A.F.C. championship game}?

That defense is unrecognizable now, having been disassembled in fits and
spurts, but especially this off-season, when cornerback A.J. Bouye,
defensive end Calais Campbell and defensive tackle Marcell Dareus all
departed.

With edge-rusher Yannick Ngakoue angling for a trade, the Jaguars
focused on that side of the ball.

C.J. Henderson **** has the speed and anticipation to erase receivers
all over the field, and his athleticism is absurd; according to
\href{https://theathletic.com/1065937/2019/07/12/bruce-feldmans-freaks-list-2019-college-football-top-athletic-performances/}{Bruce
Feldman of The Athletic}, Henderson bench presses 380 pounds and squats
545.

Henderson can play multiple techniques, man and off, and over the last
two seasons, he yielded just 20 receptions, on 44 targets, in single
coverage on the boundary, according to Pro Football Focus, making him a
prime candidate to start there as a rookie.

Daniel Jeremiah, NFL Network's draft honcho, said in a recent conference
call that Henderson has more upside than the consensus top corner, Jeff
Okudah of Ohio State, but he must improve his tackling and consistency
playing the ball downfield.

\hypertarget{10-cleveland-browns-jedrick-wills-jr-offensive-tackle}{%
\subsection{10. Cleveland Browns: Jedrick Wills Jr., Offensive
Tackle}\label{10-cleveland-browns-jedrick-wills-jr-offensive-tackle}}

Alabama. 6-4, 312

Image

Alabama offensive lineman Jedrick Wills Jr. allowed only one sack on 714
snaps last season.Credit...Vasha Hunt/Associated Press

The Browns used this opportunity to finally fill the left tackle spot
that Joe Thomas vacated when he retired three years ago.

At Alabama, Jedrick Wills Jr. anchored the right side of the offensive
line for two years, allowing only one sack and three-and-a-half
quarterback hurries on 714 snaps last season.

He played in 11 games in his first season, then replaced Matt Womack at
right tackle the following year, when he started all 15 games. His
stature grew last season, when he was voted second-team all-American and
first-team all-SEC while starting all 13 games at right tackle.

In Cleveland, he'll likely switch to the left side to protect Baker
Mayfield's blind side. Jack Conklin will probably anchor the right side.

Born to a basketball family --- his father coaches at his high school,
in Lexington, Ky., and his mom played at Eastern Kentucky --- Wills
started walking at five months old, his mother once said. ``He didn't do
a lot of crawling. He was big and strong and stout, and he just got up
one day and took off.'' Guess what? He's still big and strong and stout.

\hypertarget{11-new-york-jets-mekhi-becton-offensive-tackle}{%
\subsection{11. New York Jets: Mekhi Becton, Offensive
Tackle}\label{11-new-york-jets-mekhi-becton-offensive-tackle}}

Louisville. 6-7, 364

Image

Mekhi Becton, third from right, is hugged after getting picked by the
New York Jets.Credit...NFL, via Associated Press

Like the Giants, the Jets very much need an anchor at offensive tackle
to protect their young quarterback, as well as pass-rush help. The Jets
allowed 52 sacks last season, the fourth-most in the N.F.L.

Mekhi Becton should help. His large frame and consistent play at both
right and left tackle made him a star at Louisville. He started 10 games
at right tackle as a junior, 12 more as a sophomore, including 10 of
them at left tackle. His junior season, he started 11 games at left
tackle and was named first-team all-ACC. The Jets appear unconcerned
about a report by
\href{https://twitter.com/RapSheet/status/1251315257097596928}{Ian
Rapoport of NFL Network} who said Becton's drug test at the combine was
flagged, though it isn't clear what rule he might have violated.

The son of a transportation supervisor and a caterer (``That's why I'm
so big,'' he said at the scouting combine), Becton ran the fastest
40-yard dash (5.1) for a player his size since 2006. In ninth grade, he
shot up five inches, to 6-foot-5, and when his doctor told his mother,
Semone, that his growth plate was still open --- he wasn't done growing
yet --- she was stunned. The hardest part, she told the Louisville
Courier-Journal, was buying him clothes: ``Within a couple months,
they're high-waters. You buy these nice tennis shoes, then he skips a
size and you have to pass them on to someone else.''

He does want to lose about 10-15 pounds, to play around 350-355, in the
N.F.L., where his nimble feet and unadulterated power would allow him to
play either tackle position. Also, he can dunk.

\hypertarget{12-las-vegas-raiders-henry-ruggs-iii-wide-receiver}{%
\subsection{12. Las Vegas Raiders: Henry Ruggs III, Wide
Receiver}\label{12-las-vegas-raiders-henry-ruggs-iii-wide-receiver}}

Alabama. 5-11, 188

Image

Henry Riggs III of Alabama was the first wide receiver selected in the
draft.Credit...Vasha Hunt/Associated Press

For the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/12/13/sports/football/oakland-raiders-las-vegas-stadium.html}{Raiders,
which open a new stadium in their new home of Las Vegas} this season,
the priority has to be upgrading the receiving talent around quarterback
Derek Carr. Henry Ruggs III from Alabama fits the bill. Ruggs ran a
4.27, 40-yard dash at combine, the fastest of any position --- and the
third-fastest ever at the event since electronic timing was introduced
in 1999.

At Alabama, he was more of a deep threat, averaging 17.5 yards a
reception, as the speedy complement to Jerry Jeudy. Ruggs III was also a
kick returner his freshman and junior years.

His mom, Nataki, ran track in Kansas, and she has said that she ran a
4.23 during a workout once.

``If you ask me, she never ran that time,'' Ruggs said at the combine.
``I knew she was pretty fast. She used to run in the neighborhood, run
against guys all the time and beat them. And we used to race when I was
young --- but I was young. I was small, didn't have long legs, didn't
really know too much about running. Her track background helped her out
when we were racing to the car at the grocery store, stuff like that.
But ultimately, she'll tell you that she's not faster than me. Maybe in
her prime, she felt like it. But \ldots{} no.''

\hypertarget{13-tampa-bay-buccaneers-tristan-wirfs-offensive-tackle}{%
\subsection{13. Tampa Bay Buccaneers: Tristan Wirfs, Offensive
Tackle}\label{13-tampa-bay-buccaneers-tristan-wirfs-offensive-tackle}}

Iowa. 6-5, 320

Image

Tristan Wirfs of Iowa will have a new job protecting quarterback Tom
Brady.Credit...Justin Hayworth/Associated Press

Every move the Buccaneers make revolves around maximizing their window
with a quarterback who turns 43 in August. Tampa Bay traded up one spot,
taking the San Francisco 49ers' pick, so they could draft an offensive
lineman
to\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/20/sports/football/tom-brady-signed-tampa-bay.html}{help
protect Tom Brady.}

Tristan Wirfs should help. His diverse athletic background --- his past
in wrestling, in particular --- informed his approach to playing
offensive tackle. An absolute mauler in the run game and a reliable
pass-blocker, Wirfs played mostly right tackle at Iowa and ceded only 40
quarterback pressures on 1,138 pass-blocking snaps at Iowa, according to
Pro Football Focus.

``In wrestling, you need footwork, you need balance, awareness, body
control --- all that translates to offensive line,'' Wirfs said in a
recent interview. ``You don't get into big scrambles like you do in
wrestling on the offensive line, but you still can get out of sorts and
get your center of gravity off-kilter. To find that center of gravity
and hopefully finish a block, it's just like putting a guy on his back
in wrestling.''

In a draft class loaded with premier offensive tackles, and playing a
position reserved for the most powerful of dudes, Wirfs manages to stand
out. He won three consecutive state titles in the discus, two in the
shot put and one in wrestling, in the 285-pound weight class, in
addition to playing football.

Wirfs's mother, Sarah, raised him and his sister, Kaylia, rushing to
their athletic pursuits after her shift at Target, where she has worked
for 28 years (naturally, his favorite job of his mother's was in the
bakery, since she would bring home snacks). Just before the draft began,
he invited Sarah to walk a makeshift red carpet in front of their home,
to acknowledge her support.

\hypertarget{14-san-francisco-49ers-javon-kinlaw-defensive-tackle}{%
\subsection{14. San Francisco 49ers: Javon Kinlaw, Defensive
Tackle}\label{14-san-francisco-49ers-javon-kinlaw-defensive-tackle}}

South Carolina. 6-5, 324

Image

Javon Kinlaw, right, celebrates getting picked by the San Francisco
49ers.Credit...NFL, via Associated Press

The San Francisco 49ers have two first-round selections, but none in
Rounds 2 through 4. That means general manager John Lynch will want to
quickly fill their biggest holes, including shoring up their interior
defensive line after trading DeForest Buckner to the Indianapolis Colts
for the 13th pick in this year's draft, which they swapped with Tampa
Bay.

The 49ers took Javon Kinlaw from South Carolina, an outstanding pass
rusher with long arms, to replace Buckner.

At the scouting combine, Kinlaw called himself ``a boring person,'' but
he has neither lived a boring life, nor, as a pocket-collapsing,
backfield-prowling defensive tackle, is he a boring player. As his
mother labored to find contracting work throughout his childhood, Kinlaw
and his two brothers bounced around dangerous areas of Washington, D.C.
looking for shelter. Kinlaw regularly switched schools and in the ninth
grade moved to South Carolina to live with his father, George. Kinlaw
has said that felt so unsafe with George sometimes that he would look
for somewhere else to stay.

Eventually, at Goose Creek High School, he befriended Timothy Davis,
whose parents, Calvin and Monica, took him in. Kinlaw identified the
turning point in his life as making it to college, first to junior
college in Mississippi, then to South Carolina, where he became a
first-team all-American. ``Just having three meals,'' Kinlaw said at the
combine. ``I always tell people I didn't go to junior college for
football, really. I just went because I had somewhere to sleep. I had
free food. That's really why I went. I didn't go with the expectation
that, `Man, I'm going to go to the SEC, I'm going to go to the league. I
went because I had somewhere to sleep.'''

\hypertarget{15-denver-broncos-jerry-jeudy-wide-receiver}{%
\subsection{15. Denver Broncos: Jerry Jeudy, Wide
Receiver}\label{15-denver-broncos-jerry-jeudy-wide-receiver}}

Alabama. 6-1, 193

Image

Jerry Jeudy of Alabama can line up anywhere in a
formation.Credit...Vasha Hunt/Associated Press

After plucking Courtland Sutton in the second round last year, the
Denver Broncos needed to complement him with another receiver,
preferably one who can stretch the field now that Pro Bowl wideout
Emmanuel Sanders has left for New Orleans.

Jerry Jeudy, a polished route-runner who can line up anywhere in a
formation, fits that description. Jeudy was teammates with Henry Ruggs
III at Alabama. They became the fifth pair of college receivers from the
same school taken in the first round since 1967.

And it wasn't the traditional handshake and hug that have come to mark
N.F.L. draft picks, but Jeudy convinced Roger Goodell to perform the
Toosie Slide dance with him on social media.

As a sophomore, Jeudy won the Fred Biletnikoff Award as the best college
wide receiver in the country. He caught 68 passes for 1,315 yards and 14
touchdowns that year. His numbers dipped a bit as a junior, when he
caught 77 passes for 1,163 yards and 10 touchdowns, and was named to the
all-SEC team for the second time.

Jeudy grew up in South Florida playing with Lamar Jackson, who, he said,
taught him how to juke. His 7-year-old sister, Aaliyah --- who lived her
whole life with breathing tubes, according to reports --- died while he
played in a state playoff game as a high school senior in 2016 and he
has since dedicated his career to her memory.

Before the draft, Jeudy showed up to a news conference at the combine in
February wearing a Jewish star medallion. Asked about it, he said, ``My
last name, Jeudy, people sometimes call me Jeu (Jew?), like one Jew. So
I got a Jewish star. I'm not Jewish though.'' Thanks for clarifying,
Jerry.

\hypertarget{16-atlanta-falcons-aj-terrell-cornerback}{%
\subsection{16. Atlanta Falcons: A.J. Terrell,
Cornerback}\label{16-atlanta-falcons-aj-terrell-cornerback}}

Clemson. 6-1, 195

Image

A.J. Terrell of Clemson returned an interception for a touchdown in the
national championship game for the 2018 season against
Alabama.Credit...Ben Margot/Associated Press

The priority for the Atlanta Falcons is improving the defense ---
everywhere. No, really. Everywhere. They were 23rd in defense last
season, allowing 24.9 points per game, and the team plays in a division
with Drew Brees and the Saints as well as Tom Brady and the Buccaneers,
two teams that promise to score a lot of points this coming season.

To fend off those gunslingers, the Falcons took A.J. Terrell, a
cornerback from Clemson. Terrell's struggles toward the end of 2019 ---
Ja'Marr Chase of Louisiana State disassembled him during the national
championship game --- offset a strong career at Clemson, where he
intercepted six passes and defended 11 more during his three seasons in
the Tigers' secondary.

His tackles, though, declined last season, a comedown from a superb
second year. No doubt, Dan Quinn, a defensive minded head coach, will
work on that.

\hypertarget{17-dallas-cowboys-ceedee-lamb-wide-receiver}{%
\subsection{17. Dallas Cowboys: CeeDee Lamb, Wide
Receiver}\label{17-dallas-cowboys-ceedee-lamb-wide-receiver}}

Oklahoma. 6-2, 198

Image

CeeDee Lamb, third from the right, was one of the top wide receivers
available in a deep class at the position.Credit...NFL, via Associated
Press

The Cowboys' decision hinged on the irreconcilable impulses of their
owner, Jerry Jones, who was presented with an ideal, if unexpected,
conundrum: Take the best receiver available or an edge-rushing bookend
to complement DeMarcus Lawrence?

Dallas went for offense, grabbing CeeDee Lamb (6-foot-2, 198 pounds),
who averaged 21.4 yards on his 62 receptions and 14 touchdowns last
season at Oklahoma, to a receiving corps that already has Amari Cooper
and Michael Gallup.

\href{https://profootballtalk.nbcsports.com/2020/04/23/jerry-jones-will-draft-at-home-alone-with-no-one-to-stop-him/}{Jones
had said}before the draft that he was looking forward to selecting in
quarantine, where no one would be able to talk him out of his pick. In
typically flashy Jonesian fashion, the Cowboys team owner appeared
onscreen to be holed up in some kind of futuristic holding area.

In addition to putting up nearly 3,300 receiving yards and 32 touchdown
receptions in three college seasons, he was also the main punt returner
for the Sooners. Lamb lived in New Orleans --- ``being a kid from
Louisiana, that's all we knew was Reggie Bush'' --- until Hurricane
Katrina forced his family to move to Houston. Asked at the combine where
his work ethic comes from, he said, ``It's kind of being in a dark place
at a young age and not having everything that I wanted growing up. It
pushes me a lot to get a lot of things that I want now, and it all comes
with work. So why not work for what I want? I'd rather work than it just
be given to me.''

\hypertarget{18-miami-dolphins-austin-jackson-offensive-tackle}{%
\subsection{18. Miami Dolphins: Austin Jackson, Offensive
Tackle}\label{18-miami-dolphins-austin-jackson-offensive-tackle}}

Southern California. 6-5, 322

Image

Austin Jackson was a first-team all-Pac 12 player at Southern California
last season.Credit...Rick Scuteri/Associated Press

The Dolphins' to-do list Thursday night entailed, above all, identifying
their quarterback,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/tua-tagovailoa.html}{Tua
Tagovailoa at No. 5.} With that accomplished, Miami, with its second
pick of the first round, proceeded to take someone who will protect him.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/austin-jackson.html}{Austin
Jackson}(6-foot-5, 322 pounds), who is only 20, started all 13 games at
left tackle and was selected first-team all-Pac 12 at Southern
California, where his grandfather, Melvin, once played.

Jackson's younger sister, Autumn, has a rare inherited type of anemia
that prevents bone marrow from producing red blood cells. A 100 percent
match, Jackson last summer donated his bone marrow to Autumn, who, he
said at the combine, is making a full recovery in their hometown of
Phoenix. ``I'm glad I could do it,'' Jackson said. ``I feel like
everybody would have done it for their little sister or sibling.''

He couldn't train for three weeks after the procedure, which took place
in his lower back. ``I had to take the whole off-season to go home and
be with her and train on my own. I couldn't afford to get sick.
Otherwise the procedure would have been prolonged. I battled back
through fall camp and through the season to gain my strength back.''

\hypertarget{19-las-vegas-raiders-damon-arnette-cornerback}{%
\subsection{19. Las Vegas Raiders: Damon Arnette,
Cornerback}\label{19-las-vegas-raiders-damon-arnette-cornerback}}

Ohio State. 6-0, 195

Image

Ohio State cornerback Damon Arnette almost declared for the draft last
year.Credit...Aj Mast/Associated Press

The Raiders, after failing to reach an agreement with the free agent Eli
Apple, addressed their cornerback need with Damon Arnette (6-foot-0, 195
pounds).

Arnette was all set to declare for the draft last year --- according to
The Athletic, he had written up his announcement --- before a
conversation with a longtime family friend, the former N.F.L. receiver
Cris Carter (also a former Buckeye), changed his mind.

Carter told Arnette that he wasn't ready to play in the N.F.L. yet, and
though his words stung, they were helpful.

``He has never really steered me wrong,'' Arnette said at the scouting
combine. ``He's always been there when it comes to making major
decisions in my life. I respect him for that. I love him for that.''
Arnette returned to Ohio State much improved, and as a senior he had
eight passes defended and an interception, which he returned 96 yards
for a touchdown against Indiana.

\hypertarget{20-jacksonville-jaguars-klavon-chaisson-linebacker}{%
\subsection{20. Jacksonville Jaguars: K'Lavon Chaisson,
Linebacker}\label{20-jacksonville-jaguars-klavon-chaisson-linebacker}}

L.S.U. 6-3, 254

Image

K'Lavon Chaisson speaks on his cellphone as he is taken by the
Jacksonville Jaguars.Credit...NFL, via Associated Press

The Jaguars bolstered their outside pass-rush by taking K'Lavon Chaisson
(6-foot-3, 254 pounds) of L.S.U., who was selected as the most valuable
defensive player of the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/12/27/sports/ncaafootball/lsu-oklahoma-college-football-playoff.html}{2019
Peach Bowl after recording six tackles and two sacks against Oklahoma.}

By the time he arrived at the league's scouting combine seven weeks
later, his confidence had only soared.

Asked what distinguished him from other defensive linemen, Chaisson
said:``It's obvious. I'm going to be honest. I'm actually the most
valuable player in the draft, when it comes to it. We all know that.
When you hire someone do you want to hire someone who speaks one
language or do you want to hire someone that speaks three languages? I
speak three languages. I do pass rush. I can drop in coverage and cover
anybody you want me to cover. I can play the run. And no offensive
lineman has ever just moved me off the ball, or bullied me. So I feel
like that's what makes me more dimensional. And a more valuable player
than anybody else in the draft.''

\hypertarget{21-philadelphia-eagles-jalen-reagor-wide-receiver}{%
\subsection{21. Philadelphia Eagles: Jalen Reagor, Wide
Receiver}\label{21-philadelphia-eagles-jalen-reagor-wide-receiver}}

Texas Christian. 5-11, 206

Image

Among other talents, Jalen Reagor won the state long jump championship
in Texas.Credit...Sue Ogrocki/Associated Press

Did you all see who Carson Wentz threw to last season? The Eagles'
receiver woes
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/10/02/sports/football/unlike-agholor-drops-eagles.html}{sparked
a viral meme} last season. Unlike in 2019, the team's priority is
surrounding Wentz with receiving talent and improving their team speed.
Doing anything else with this pick would have been an extraordinarily
unpopular decision in Philadelphia, and the Eagles mollified their fans
by taking Jalen Reagor (5-foot-11, 206 pounds) of Texas Christian, an
athletic marvel with a N.F.L. alum in the family: His father, Montae, a
defensive lineman, played nine seasons with the Broncos, Colts and
Eagles.

Jalen won the state long jump championship in Texas, where he played
football for former N.F.L. quarterback Jon Kitna. He can squat 620
pounds, yet was among the fastest receivers in the Big 12. He was also a
reliable kickoff and punt returner. Reagor, who led the Big 12 with 14
touchdown catches and averaged 21.4 yards per catch, has the potential
to be a gadget star on the right offense and with the right coaching
staff. At the combine, Reagor compared himself to the 49ers' Deebo
Samuel or Chiefs' Tyreek Hill --- whom he said he watched ``every day''
--- while \href{https://nfldraft.theringer.com/}{The Ringer's draft
guide} likened him to Percy Harvin, which, minus the hip issues,
wouldn't be the worst thing.

\hypertarget{22-minnesota-vikings-justin-jefferson-wide-receiver}{%
\subsection{22. Minnesota Vikings: Justin Jefferson, Wide
Receiver}\label{22-minnesota-vikings-justin-jefferson-wide-receiver}}

L.S.U. 6-1, 202

Image

Justin Jefferson, right, is set up to complement Adam Thielen with the
Minnesota Vikings.Credit...USA Today Sports, via Reuters

The Vikings lost not one, not two, but three cornerbacks (Mackensie
Alexander, Xavier Rhodes and Trae Waynes). Considering the value
elsewhere in the draft, the team might feel it can address that position
at No. 25.

After trading Stefon Diggs to Buffalo, Minnesota needs a receiver to
complement Adam Thielen, and Justin Jefferson does that.

Jefferson (6-foot-1, 202 pounds) starred in the slot at Louisiana State,
where former offensive coach Joe Brady schemed him open for easy
receptions off run-pass option plays, screens and downfield balls in the
Tigers' high-powered spread offense.

He had a monster junior year, catching an N.C.A.A.-best 111 passes for
1,540 yards and 18 touchdowns. Maybe he was destined to make it to the
N.F.L., too: He placed third at the national Punt/Pass/Kick championship
when he was 9 years old.

\hypertarget{23-los-angeles-chargers-kenneth-murray-linebacker}{%
\subsection{23. Los Angeles Chargers: Kenneth Murray,
Linebacker}\label{23-los-angeles-chargers-kenneth-murray-linebacker}}

Oklahoma. 6-2, 241

Image

Kenneth Murray is headed to the Los Angeles Chargers, who traded with
the New England Patriots to make the selection.Credit...Brandon
Wade/Associated Press

All of the intrigue surrounding the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/22/sports/football/patriots-nfl-draft-bill-belichick.html}{Patriots
in their first draft}without Tom Brady at quarterback --- do they draft
his replacement? A defensive lineman? A linebacker? --- dissipated when
they engaged in their favorite pastime, trading down to hoard more
picks. The Chargers, seeking to bolster their defense, happily obliged,
offering a second-rounder (37th overall) and a third-round selection
(71st over all).

Los Angeles traded up to select Kenneth Murray, a sideline-to-sideline
force at Oklahoma, where he had 36½ tackles for loss over his three
seasons. And Murray (6-foot-2, 241 pounds) has a background as
impressive as his football career. The son of a retired police officer,
Dianna, and a pastor, Kenneth Sr., Murray has one biological sibling, a
sister, and three adopted siblings, all of whom have a genetic disorder
that has delayed their physical and mental development. They joined the
family when Murray was 10, in fifth grade.

Murray said at the scouting combine that he has learned how to be
``truly selfless'' from them, and he is ever more cognizant of his
responsibility to maximize his ability. ``Every time I come home, they
can't talk but they know who I am and they know my voice, they know when
I touch them,'' Murray said.

Growing up, he would volunteer at a community center for underprivileged
children, and there he learned C.P.R., training that proved critical
last July. He and his girlfriend were returning from church in Norman,
Okla., when they noticed a woman stricken on the ground at an
intersection. He parked his car in the middle of the street, rushed over
and was able to revive her.

\hypertarget{24-new-orleans-saints-cesar-ruiz-center}{%
\subsection{24. New Orleans Saints: Cesar Ruiz,
Center}\label{24-new-orleans-saints-cesar-ruiz-center}}

Michigan. 6-3, 307

Image

Cesar Ruiz was a top prospect in high school and steadily improved
during his three years in college.Credit...Nfl Via Getty Images

This is probably Drew Brees's last season. He already has his next gig
lined up, you know? But instead of loading up what just might be the
N.F.C.'s best roster with a playmaking linebacker or a
yards-after-the-catch receiving dynamo, the Saints fortified the
interior of their offensive line with Cesar Ruiz (6-foot-3, 307 pounds).

The position has been a bit of a hole for the team after longtime center
Max Unger retired before the 2019 season.

Ruiz was the top center prospect in the country out of high school. At
Michigan, he started at right guard as a freshman, and steadily improved
the next two seasons. Ruiz is considered athletic, aggressive and quick,
and could start at guard or center, though he may be overmatched against
larger defensive linemen.

\hypertarget{25-san-francisco-49ers-brandon-aiyuk-wide-receiver}{%
\subsection{25. San Francisco 49ers: Brandon Aiyuk, Wide
Receiver}\label{25-san-francisco-49ers-brandon-aiyuk-wide-receiver}}

Arizona State. 6-0, 205

Image

Brandon Aiyuk excels in gaining yards after catching the
ball.Credit...Christian Petersen/Getty Images

The San Francisco 49ers acquired the Vikings' pick at No. 25 and sent
their 31st pick and two others in later rounds to Minnesota. With Deebo
Samuel as their top receiver, they need to give quarterback Jimmy
Garoppolo another top target. So they chose Brandon Aiyuk, the speedster
from Arizona State.

Aiyuk a junior college transfer excels in grabbing yardage after the
catch. No, like, really excels. In mid-October, according a story by The
Athletic, Aiyuk was averaging more yards after the catch (13.6) than
Jerry Jeudy was averaging per catch. ``My background is at running
back,'' Aiyuk said. ``It's like being a back again after the catch. I
think it's the strength of my game and it really makes a difference.''
He finished with 1,192 yards and eight touchdowns last season in Tempe.

Aiyuk's a stud kickoff and punt returner, which gives
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/01/31/sports/football/49ers-super-bowl.html}{Kyle
Shanahan, who loves versatile players}, even more options.

\hypertarget{26-green-bay-packers-jordan-love-quarterback}{%
\subsection{26. Green Bay Packers: Jordan Love,
Quarterback}\label{26-green-bay-packers-jordan-love-quarterback}}

Utah State. 6-4, 224

Image

Could Jordan Love be the successor to Aaron Rodgers in Green
Bay?Credit...Eli Lucero/The Herald Journal, via Associated Press

Miami traded its third pick of the first round to the Green Bay Packers,
who used it to choose
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/jordan-love.html}{Jordan
Love}, a quarterback from Utah State. This raises instant questions
about whether he is being brought in to succeed Aaron Rodgers --- now 36
--- just as Rodgers arrived as Brett Favre's replacement when he was 35.

Given that the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/packers-49ers}{Packers
made it to the N.F.C. championship game} last year, the team could have
tried to find a few missing pieces to help Rodgers get back to the Super
Bowl.

Instead, they put down a marker on the post-Rodgers era, whenever that
begins. Despite throwing the most interceptions (17) in Division I in
2019, Love is the most tantalizing prospect
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/01/30/sports/football/Chiefs-patrick-mahomes.html}{since
Patrick Mahomes}, who, despite obvious bountiful physical ability, had
to quell the perception that playing in an
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/08/13/sports/air-raid-kliff-kingsbury-kyler-murray.html}{Air
Raid} offense at Texas Tech would hinder him in the N.F.L.
(\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/02/03/sports/football/patrick-mahomes-comeback-super-bowl.html}{Spoiler
alert: It hasn't}.)

From a strictly stylistic standpoint, Love resembles Mahomes. Love's arm
strength, coupled with a flair for extending plays, passing on the run
and throwing from odd angles, produced a
\href{https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0ki92VlkEic}{string of absurd
highlights}. His film --- from last season, especially --- also contains
instances of lapsed mechanics, forced throws and shaky field vision.
Like another former Mountain West quarterback, Josh Allen, whom the
Buffalo Bills drafted No. 7 over all two years ago, Love excelled as a
sophomore, when he was surrounded by strong personnel, then backslid
when the quality around him diminished. Besides playing with nine new
offensive starters last season, Love also acclimated to a new coaching
staff and offense.

Jim Nagy, the 18-year N.F.L. scout who is now the executive director of
the Senior Bowl, said Love has the potential to develop into the best
quarterback taken this year but that, ideally, he will sit for a season.
``In hindsight, we're all saying, `How the heck did Patrick Mahomes last
to 12?''' Nagy said, referencing the pick Kansas City used to draft him.
``If Jordan gets to the right situation and everything clicks for him,
we're going to be sitting here in three or four years saying, `How did
players X, Y and Z get drafted ahead of Jordan Love?'''

\hypertarget{27-seattle-seahawks-jordyn-brooks-linebacker}{%
\subsection{27. Seattle Seahawks: Jordyn Brooks,
Linebacker}\label{27-seattle-seahawks-jordyn-brooks-linebacker}}

Texas Tech. 6-0, 240

Image

Texas Tech linebacker Jordyn Brooks had 20 tackles for loss and three
sacks last year, even though he injured a shoulder.Credit...Rick
Scuteri/Associated Press

The Seattle Seahawks, who are defensive minded but have slipped in
recent years, chose Jordyn Brooks, a linebacker from Texas Tech. He led
the team in tackles in three of his seasons at Tech. He also had 20
tackles for loss and three sacks last year, when he injured his
shoulder.

Though the Legion of Boom is gone, Seattle still has a good core of
linebackers including Bobby Wagner, one of the best tacklers in the
game.

Brooks will probably be tested early and often because the Seahawks play
in one of the most competitive divisions in the league, the N.F.C. West,
which includes the 49ers and the Rams.

\hypertarget{28-baltimore-ravens-patrick-queen-linebacker}{%
\subsection{28. Baltimore Ravens: Patrick Queen,
Linebacker}\label{28-baltimore-ravens-patrick-queen-linebacker}}

L.S.U. 6-0, 229

Image

Patrick Queen, seated in the center, fills a need on the offensive line
for the Baltimore Ravens.Credit...NFL, via Associated Press

The Baltimore Ravens lost Marshal Yanda, perhaps the best guard in the
league, to retirement, creating need on the interior of their offensive
line. They will have to handle that later as they instead focused on
linebacker to alleviate the stress on a defense that labored to generate
pressure without a blitzing edge-rusher last season.

Patrick Queen from L.S.U. should help their needs. Quick and
instinctive, Queen did not start at L.S.U. until last season, when he
recorded 85 tackles --- 12 for loss --- and an interception, of Tua
Tagovailoa, in the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/11/09/sports/ncaafootball/lsu-alabama-tigers-tide.html}{46-41
victory over Alabama} that powered the Tigers' stampede to the national
championship. In recent years, L.S.U. has produced a slew of great
linebackers, from Kwon Alexander to Deion Jones to Devin White. Queen is
poised to be the next in that lineage.

From an early age, Queen was so athletically proficient --- he dribbled
basketballs with both hands, blasted home runs, and hurt others while
playing tackle football --- that his parents, Mary Sue and Dwayne, who
played cornerback at Nicholls State, had to show his birth certificate
to prove his age. He remains a marvel.

\hypertarget{29-tennessee-titans-isaiah-wilson-offensive-tackle}{%
\subsection{29. Tennessee Titans: Isaiah Wilson, Offensive
Tackle}\label{29-tennessee-titans-isaiah-wilson-offensive-tackle}}

Georgia. 6-6, 350

Image

Isaiah Wilson may need to improve his footwork to keep up in
zone-blocking schemes.Credit...Brett Carlsen/Associated Press

The Tennessee Titans are picking late this year happily, having made it
to the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/titans-chiefs-01-19}{A.F.C.
championship game}. They got that far because of a powerful
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/01/16/sports/derrick-henry-titans-playoffs.html}{running
game powered by Derrick Henry.} With the 29th pick, the Titans have
doubled down on the running game.

The team lost right tackle Jack Conklin in free agency, and they've
replaced him with Isaiah Wilson, a tackle from Georgia.

Wilson started slow at Georgia but his size (6-foot-6, 350 pounds) and
athleticism paid dividends, as he started all 14 games at right tackle
and earned freshman all-American honors. An ankle injury limited him to
11 games the following year, but still was named to the second-team
Associated Press All-American. His play was at times uneven,
particularly in pass protection, but he excelled in man-to-man blocks.
He may need to improve his footwork to keep up in zone-blocking schemes.

The Brooklyn native has a fun streak, too. According to
\href{https://nymag.com/intelligencer/2016/12/reasons-to-love-new-york-2016.html}{New
York magazine}, Wilson loves ``SpongeBob SquarePants.''

\hypertarget{30-miami-dolphins-noah-igbinoghene-cornerback}{%
\subsection{30. Miami Dolphins: Noah Igbinoghene,
Cornerback}\label{30-miami-dolphins-noah-igbinoghene-cornerback}}

Auburn. 5-10, 198

Image

The remote feeds during the draft made some of the moments of
celebration more personal.Credit...NFL, via Associated Press

Miami traded its 26th pick to the Packers, who offered the 30th pick in
return. The Dolphins took a top shelf quarterback (Tua Tagovailoa) and
one of the best offensive tackles available (Austin Jackson) with its
first two picks.

So it made sense that the team focused on adding to the defense with its
third first-round pick. In Noah Igbinoghene, a cornerback from Auburn,
gives Miami a solid defensive backfield.

A coveted recruit at receiver, Igbinoghene moved to cornerback after his
freshman year of college. He started his final two seasons, defending 19
passes and recording one interception. He started all 13 games (42
tackles, one for loss, seven pass break-ups) last year. He's also a good
kick returner, returning one of nine kickoff returns for a touchdown.

Noah Igbinoghene grew up in an athletic household --- his mother, Faith,
won a bronze medal for Nigeria in the 400-meter relay at the 1992
Barcelona Olympics, and his father, Festus, competed for Nigeria in
triple jump at the 1996 Atlanta Games. Igbinoghene competed in both
football and track and field at Auburn.

\hypertarget{31-minnesota-vikings-jeff-gladney-cornerback}{%
\subsection{31. Minnesota Vikings: Jeff Gladney,
Cornerback}\label{31-minnesota-vikings-jeff-gladney-cornerback}}

T.C.U. 5-10, 191

Image

Jeff Gladney made his mark defending passes for Texas
Christian.Credit...Aj Mast/Associated Press

Jeff Gladney probably won't wow many draft pundits. But for a Vikings
team with a depleted defensive backfield, having lost three cornerbacks,
he'll make any receiver he faces compete for the ball.
\href{https://theathletic.com/1648084/2020/03/02/draft-expert-dane-brugler-breaks-down-cowboys-best-case-scenario-sleepers/}{According
to Dane Brugler of The Athletic}, Gladney defended more passes (43) than
started games (42) during his stellar career at T.C.U. Playing in the
Big 12, where defense is often just a rumor, Gladney hounded some of the
conference's best receivers; Denzel Mims of Baylor called him the
toughest cornerback he faced all season.

Even if the 5-foot-10 Gladney doesn't stick as a boundary corner because
of his size, his coverage skills, tenacity and feistiness make him an
ideal candidate to flourish in the slot.

\hypertarget{32-kansas-city-chiefs-clyde-edwards-helaire-running-back}{%
\subsection{32. Kansas City Chiefs: Clyde Edwards-Helaire, Running
Back}\label{32-kansas-city-chiefs-clyde-edwards-helaire-running-back}}

L.S.U. 5-7, 207

Image

Clyde Edwards-Helaire was good at catching passes for Louisiana State,
and now he'll likely have more chances to do the same with the Kansas
City Chiefs.Credit...Mike Stewart/Associated Press

The Kansas City Chiefs have retained much of its
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/02/03/sports/football/chiefs-super-bowl-champions.html}{Super
Bowl championship team}. They re-signed cornerback Bashaud Breeland but
lost Kendall Fuller in free agency to Washington, making cornerback a
rare area of need.

Instead, they opted to bolster their sterling offense by picking running
back Clyde Edwards-Helaire from Louisiana State. The Chiefs' leading
rusher, Damien Williams, only rushed for 498 yards. But like most backs
in Andy Reid's offense, Edwards-Helaire will be asked to catch passes,
too.

A big part of L.S.U.'s undefeated championship season, Edwards-Helaire
rushed for 1,415 yards and 16 touchdowns, starting all but one of the
teams' games. He is also a versatile receiver, with 55 receptions last
season, and a capable kick returner, helping him with all-SEC honors.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
