Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/technology}{Technology}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/technology}{Technology}\textbar{}F.T.C.'s Facebook
Investigation May Stretch Past Election

\href{https://nyti.ms/3eGfYK7}{https://nyti.ms/3eGfYK7}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{ftcs-facebook-investigation-may-stretch-past-election}{%
\section{F.T.C.'s Facebook Investigation May Stretch Past
Election}\label{ftcs-facebook-investigation-may-stretch-past-election}}

The agency's handling of the case stands in stark contrast to the
antitrust investigation into Google by the Justice Department.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/07/17/business/17ftc1/merlin_154563354_adf17bd2-9408-4d00-abcd-fc346ce9bb3c-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/cecilia-kang}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2019/01/29/multimedia/author-cecilia-kang/author-cecilia-kang-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/cecilia-kang}{Cecilia
Kang}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  July 17, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

WASHINGTON --- Nearly a year ago, Joseph J. Simons, the chairman of the
Federal Trade Commission, predicted his agency would wrap up an
antitrust investigation of Facebook by the presidential election.

That goal now seems virtually impossible, according to numerous people
with knowledge of the inquiry. Instead, it will probably roll into next
year, when there may be a new president choosing its leader. The change
could alter the commission's priorities.

The investigation into whether the tech giant has broken antitrust laws
continues to move along, said the people, who spoke on the condition of
anonymity because the investigation was private. A round of document
production from the company and its rivals was done in the spring, and
staff members appear to be preparing depositions of Facebook's top
leadership, including its chief executive, Mark Zuckerberg, according to
the people. The agency also began looking into concerns by rivals about
Facebook's recent acquisition of Giphy, a search database for short
video clips.

But investigations often require multiple rounds of document requests,
and the interviews will take time to complete, indicating that the
agency is far from finishing its review and deciding whether to pursue a
lawsuit, the people said.

The Federal Trade Commission declined to comment.

The handling of the case by the agency and Mr. Simons stands in stark
contrast to
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/25/technology/barr-google-investigation.html}{the
antitrust investigation into Google by the Justice Department}. Attorney
General William P. Barr, who like Mr. Simons was appointed by President
Trump, has been vocal about his desire to wrap up the Justice
Department's antitrust inquiry into Google. He is widely expected to
bring a suit this year, though no decision has been made. Mr. Simons has
said very little publicly about the case.

Their investigations are two of the many inquiries by federal and state
regulators into Amazon, Apple, Facebook and Google. Mr. Trump has
regularly complained about the power of the tech companies, and the
Federal Trade Commission and Justice Department opened antitrust
investigations into the four companies last June. Nearly all state
attorneys general have begun investigations into Facebook and Google as
well.

Later this month, the chief executives of those companies will testify
before Congress, which has been investigating the four companies for
abusing their dominant market positions to impede competition and
ultimately harm consumers.

``We look forward to sharing our views about the competitive landscape,
along with other technology leaders, during this month's congressional
hearing,'' Facebook said in a statement, ``while also demonstrating for
enforcement agencies that our innovation provides more choices for
consumers.''

The F.T.C.'s investigation of Facebook is seen as a test of the agency's
ability to enforce antitrust laws in the internet economy, where market
definitions and theories of violations have been hard to prove. In 2013,
the agency closed an investigation into Google without charges, a
decision often criticized by consumer groups.

Last July, the F.T.C. announced a record \$5 billion settlement with
Facebook over violations of a 2011 consent decree over data abuses. Mr.
Simons has said the fine is one of his proudest achievements as the lead
member of the F.T.C., but many consumer advocates say the settlement did
not significantly restrain Facebook's business practices.

The F.T.C. has not disclosed details of its investigation, but it
appears the agency is partly focused on whether Facebook illegally
maintained its dominance in social networking through acquisitions. The
company has bought more than 80 companies over the last 15 or so years.

The agency, which has not paused the investigation during the pandemic,
has conducted hundreds of interviews and collected thousands of internal
documents. Many questions are related to past mergers like the \$21
billion acquisition of WhatsApp in 2014 and the \$1 billion purchase of
Instagram in 2012, according to the people. Facebook, Instagram and
WhatsApp are among the most popular apps in the world, with more than
three billion users altogether.

The House antitrust subcommittee has also inquired about Giphy, which is
used by competitors like Twitter, Snap and ByteDance's TikTok. The \$400
million merger, the rivals have argued, follows a long pattern of
acquisitions by Facebook that could put competitors at a disadvantage.
Giphy is not only iused by Facebook's rivals, the company has valuable
market data about them.

Facebook has said it faces stiff competition in the United States and
elsewhere, pointing to companies like TikTok. It also says that the
barriers to starting a possible challenger to its business are lower
than ever. Start-ups like Snap and TikTok have sprung up quickly over
the past 10 years, building huge businesses.

``At this point in time, it's hard to understand why it would take
substantially longer to determine whether there is a case to file unless
there are new complexities that have arisen,'' said Gene Kimmelman, a
former antitrust official at the Justice Department and a senior adviser
at the consumer group Public Knowledge.

But many investigations take a long time and the agency appears to be
exploring multiple issues related to the company.

In addition, the stakes are high. Mr. Simons, a veteran antitrust
lawyer, may be trying to ensure any case the agency makes can last no
matter who is president or chairman, Mr. Kimmelman said.

David McCabe contributed reporting.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{Â©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
