Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/world}{World}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/world}{World}\textbar{}Coronavirus Live Updates: As U.S.
Considers Fall Classes, a Divide Emerges Between Public and Private
Schools

\url{https://nyti.ms/31pgRCi}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{The
Coronavirus Outbreak}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  live\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/04/world/coronavirus-cases.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Latest
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Maps
  and Cases}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Vaccine
  Tracker}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/02/us/covid-college-reopening.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{College
  Reopening}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/04/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Economy}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

LIVE UPDATES

Updated~

Aug. 4, 2020, 2:55 p.m. ET

Aug. 4, 2020, 2:55 p.m. ET

\hypertarget{coronavirus-live-updates-as-us-considers-fall-classes-a-divide-emerges-between-public-and-private-schools}{%
\section{Coronavirus Live Updates: As U.S. Considers Fall Classes, a
Divide Emerges Between Public and Private
Schools}\label{coronavirus-live-updates-as-us-considers-fall-classes-a-divide-emerges-between-public-and-private-schools}}

Tens of millions of Americans have lost crucial jobless benefits, and
lawmakers still can't seem to agree on a relief measure. Israel's
troubled school reopenings could be a lesson for the U.S.

Right Now

The inspector general overseeing the Treasury Department's \$500 billion
pandemic recovery fund released his first report to Congress since being
appointed by President Trump in June.

\hypertarget{heres-what-you-need-to-know}{%
\subsubsection{Here's what you need to
know:}\label{heres-what-you-need-to-know}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-4825b93}{Public and private schools in
  Maryland and elsewhere are divided over in-person instruction.}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-4d1eafa8}{N.Y.C.'s health commissioner resigns
  after clashing with the mayor over the virus.}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-6b644638}{`Long days, long nights': Washington
  prepares for a prolonged fight over virus relief.}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-5c0d6427}{As Isaias makes landfall, the virus
  makes it trickier to shelter from the storm.}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-76dff678}{Trump addresses the death toll: `It
  is what it is.'}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-27d0cbff}{The W.H.O. cautions Russia on its
  vaccine rollout.}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-86f22d6}{Two N.I.H. studies are recruiting
  patients to test possible Covid-19 treatments.}
\end{itemize}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/04/us/04virus-briefing-mdschools/merlin_172035453_a62b7a02-8ceb-457e-ab5d-c17c7edfcf33-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

education roundup

\subsection{}

Public and private schools in Maryland and elsewhere are divided over
in-person instruction.

An emergency order
\href{https://twitter.com/GovLarryHogan/status/1290330304830246912}{issued
Monday} by Gov. Larry Hogan of Maryland, which countermanded a
Montgomery County Health Department directive regarding school closures,
has highlighted a divide between public and private schools over
reopening plans.

The county health department had instructed all private schools to
\href{https://www.montgomerycountymd.gov/OPI/Resources/Files/pdf/2020/NonPublicSchools_07-31-20.pdf}{start
the year teaching remotely}, as every public school district in the
Washington area has already decided to do, including those in Montgomery
County. Private schools would not be allowed to begin in-person classes
until after Oct. 1, the order said.

But Mr. Hogan, a Republican, said on Monday that county health officers
didn't have the authority to stop private schools from reopening,
\href{https://twitter.com/GovLarryHogan/status/1290330304830246912/photo/1}{noting
in his statement} that public school boards and superintendents have
made individual decisions with the help of local health officials and
saying that private institutions should be allowed to do the same.

``Private and parochial schools deserve the same opportunity and
flexibility to make reopening decisions based on public health
guidance,'' Mr. Hogan said. ``The blanket closure mandate imposed by
Montgomery County was overly broad and inconsistent with the powers
intended to be delegated to the county health officer.''

A similar dynamic is
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/16/upshot/coronavirus-school-reopening-private-public-gap.html}{playing
out in some other parts of the country}, where public schools are
opening remotely while private schools are planning in-person or various
hybrid models.

Montgomery County, just outside the nation's capital, is home to some of
the nation's most prestigious private schools, attended by the children
of politicians, public officials and diplomats. They include St.
Andrew's Episcopal School, attended by Barron Trump, the president's
youngest child.

St. Andrew's \href{https://www.saes.org/covid-19-information}{has not
yet decided} whether it will begin the school year with distance
learning or a hybrid model. But some other private schools in Maryland,
including
\href{https://www.gprep.org/about/news/~post/response-to-the-montgomery-county-health-departments-july-31-directive-20200803}{Georgetown
Preparatory}, an all-male Jesuit school in North Bethesda, planned to
let families choose between online or in-person classes, and would have
had to alter those plans under the county order.

Other key education developments:

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Students in \textbf{Mexico} will exclusively take classes broadcast on
  television or the radio when the school year begins later this month,
  in an effort to avoid further coronavirus outbreaks, the government
  announced on Monday. Schools will only reopen when authorities
  determine that new and active infections, which remain high across the
  nation, decline enough for a safe return to the classroom.
\item
  A
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/03/us/school-closing-coronavirus.html}{rash
  of positive cases} during the first week of school in some
  \textbf{parts of the United States} foreshadows a stop-and-start year
  in which students and staff members may have to bounce between
  instruction in the classroom and remotely at home because of
  infections and quarantines.
\item
  \textbf{Israel} reopened schools in May, and within days
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/04/world/middleeast/coronavirus-israel-schools-reopen.html}{infections
  were reported} at a Jerusalem high school. The virus rippled out to
  the students' homes and then to other schools and neighborhoods,
  ultimately infecting hundreds of students, teachers and relatives.
  Other outbreaks forced hundreds of schools to close, and across the
  country, tens of thousands of students and teachers were quarantined.
  As countries consider back-to-school strategies for the fall, the
  outbreaks there
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/04/world/middleeast/coronavirus-israel-schools-reopen.html}{illustrates
  the dangers of moving too precipitously}.
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{-1}{%
\subsection{}\label{-1}}

N.Y.C.'s health commissioner resigns after clashing with the mayor over
the virus.

Image

Dr. Oxiris Barbot, New York City's health commissioner, during a
coronavirus meeting in New York in March. She resigned on
Tuesday.Credit...Dave Sanders for The New York Times

New York City's health commissioner, Dr. Oxiris Barbot,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/04/nyregion/oxiris-barbot-health-commissioner-resigns.html}{resigned
on Tuesday in protest over her ``deep disappointment''} with Mayor Bill
de Blasio's handling of the coronavirus outbreak and subsequent efforts
to keep the outbreak in check.

Her departure came after
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/14/nyregion/coronavirus-de-blasio-mitchell-katz.html}{escalating
tensions} between City Hall and top Health Department officials, which
began at the start of the city's outbreak in March, burst into public
view.

``I leave my post today with deep disappointment that during the most
critical public health crisis in our lifetime, that the Health
Department's incomparable disease control expertise was not used to the
degree it could have been,'' she said in her resignation email sent to
Mr. de Blasio, a copy of which was shared with The New York Times.

``Our experts are world renowned for their epidemiology, surveillance
and response work. The city would be well served by having them at the
strategic center of the response not in the background.''

Dr. Barbot's resignation could renew questions about Mr. de Blasio's
handling of the response to the outbreak, which devastated the city in
the spring, killing more than 20,000 residents, even as it has largely
subsided in recent weeks. And it comes at a pivotal moment: Public
schools are scheduled to partially open next month, which could be
crucial for the city's recovery, and fears are growing that the outbreak
could surge again when the weather cools.

The mayor had been faulted by public health experts, including some
within the Health Department, for not moving faster to close down
schools and businesses in March, when New York emerged as an epicenter
of the pandemic.

Public health officials have bristled at the mayor's decision to strip
the Health Department of its responsibility for contact tracing and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/07/nyregion/coronavirus-contact-tracing-nyc.html}{give
it instead} to the public hospital system, known as Health + Hospitals.
The Health Department has performed such tracing for decades; the public
hospitals have not.

``It had been clear in recent days that it was time for a change,'' Mr.
de Blasio said in a hastily called news conference. ``We need an
atmosphere of unity. We need an atmosphere of common purpose.''

The mayor moved quickly to replace Dr. Barbot, immediately announcing
the appointment of a new health commissioner, Dr. Dave A. Chokshi, a
former senior leader at Health + Hospitals.

\hypertarget{-2}{%
\subsection{}\label{-2}}

`Long days, long nights': Washington prepares for a prolonged fight over
virus relief.

Image

Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin, left, and Mark Meadows, the~White
House chief of staff, on Capitol Hill last week. The two will meet with
Congressional leaders again on Tuesday to work on the coronavirus relief
package.Credit...Erin Scott/Reuters

Negotiators on Tuesday are set to reconvene on Capitol Hill to continue
hammering out differences over a coronavirus relief package, with top
Trump administration officials scheduled to return for
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/02/us/politics/coronavirus-jobless-aid.html}{another
meeting with congressional Democrats}.

Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin and Mark Meadows, the White House
chief of staff, will meet with Speaker Nancy Pelosi of California and
Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, the minority leader. Mr. Mnuchin and
Mr. Meadows will also join Senate Republicans for a closed-door policy
lunch.

The Senate is scheduled to take a monthlong recess at the end of the
week, but it is unclear if lawmakers will leave Washington without a
deal. Tens of millions of Americans have lost crucial
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/30/business/unemployment-payments-change.html}{unemployment
benefits} as well as a
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/23/business/evictions-moratorium-cares-act.html}{federal
moratorium on evictions}, and economists warn that permanent damage
could be wrought on the economy without action.

``I've never been a gambler,'' said Senator Lisa Murkowski, Republican
of Alaska, when asked about the prospect of a deal before the end of the
week. ``But if I were a gambler, I'd say we need to have some long days,
long nights. Work hard.''

White House officials and Democratic leaders reported some progress over
the weekend, but there are still
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/02/us/politics/coronavirus-jobless-aid.html}{substantial
differences}. Democrats are proposing a \$3 trillion rescue plan that
would include restoring \$600-per-week jobless aid payments that expired
on Friday and extending them through January, while Republicans are
pushing a \$1 trillion package that would reduce those payments
substantially.

President Trump on Monday raised the idea of using an executive order to
address the moratorium on evictions, while also hurling insults at
Democratic leaders who were meeting with his top advisers in search of a
compromise. But he
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/03/us/politics/congress-jobless-aid-talks-trump.html}{has
been notably absent from the negotiations} themselves.

Mr. Trump accused Democrats of being focused on getting ``bailout
money'' for states controlled by Democrats, and unconcerned with
extending unemployment benefits.

Democrats have proposed providing more than \$900 billion to strapped
states and cities whose budgets have been decimated, but it is
Republicans who have proposed slashing the jobless aid. Democrats have
refused to do so, cementing the stalemate.

Fueling an already complicated impasse, outside advisers are also trying
to get the president to bypass Congress and unilaterally impose a
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/23/business/payroll-tax-cut-trump-recession.html}{temporary
payroll tax cut, an idea that Mr. Trump has championed} but that his
negotiators dropped amid opposition from both parties.

Congressional staff and lobbyists who are engaged in discussions said on
Monday that the talks between administration officials and Ms. Pelosi
and Mr. Schumer had essentially frozen negotiations between top
Democrats and Republicans on key committees who would have to hammer out
the details of any deal.

That could leave the parties little time to flesh out any compromises
over additional aid to businesses or individuals, yielding a plan that
mostly consists of re-upping existing aid programs like the Paycheck
Protection Program and direct payments to individuals.

\hypertarget{tracking-the-coronavirus-}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html}{Tracking
the Coronavirus
›}}{Tracking the Coronavirus ›}}\label{tracking-the-coronavirus-}}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html}{}

\hypertarget{where-cases-are-rising-fastest}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{Where cases are \textbf{rising}
fastest}{Where cases are rising fastest}}\label{where-cases-are-rising-fastest}}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/hawaii-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

Hawaii
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/rhode-island-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

R.I.
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/new-jersey-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

N.J.
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/alaska-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

Alaska
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/nebraska-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

Neb.
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/missouri-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

Mo.
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/massachusetts-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

Mass.
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/south-dakota-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

S.D.
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/puerto-rico-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

P.R.
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/illinois-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

Ill.
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/oklahoma-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

Okla.
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/maryland-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

Md.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html}{}

\hypertarget{us-hot-spots-}{%
\subsubsection{U.S. hot spots ›}\label{us-hot-spots-}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2020/03/16/coronavirus-maps/b0d73d23a7cc6fac169d2f3bc174cccb1e3b3ad7/images/orphan_usa-threeByTwoSmallAt2X.png}
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/world/coronavirus-maps.html}{}

\hypertarget{worldwide-}{%
\subsubsection{Worldwide ›}\label{worldwide-}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2020/03/16/coronavirus-maps/b0d73d23a7cc6fac169d2f3bc174cccb1e3b3ad7/images/orphan_world-threeByTwoSmallAt2X.png}

\hypertarget{-3}{%
\subsection{}\label{-3}}

As Isaias makes landfall, the virus makes it trickier to shelter from
the storm.

Image

 Damage in Southport, N.C., on Tuesday as Hurricane Isaias moved through
the state.Credit...Gerry Broome/Associated Press

Storm shelters in North Carolina,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/04/us/isaias-storm-updates.html}{where
Hurricane Isaias made landfall late Monday}, prepared to deal with a
dual threat from severe weather and the virus by screening for symptoms
of the virus and socially distancing people who took shelter.

``Our state has weathered our fair share of storms in recent years,''
Gov. Roy Cooper said over the weekend. ``We know how to plan, prepare
and respond when it's over. Nothing about that has changed, but this
time, we're going to have to do it with a mask on.''

The state's Department of Public Safety also urged residents to bring
their own blankets and bedding, and asked people to stay at motels or
with relatives if possible. Shelters will serve meals in sealed
containers rather than in typical serving lines.

Gov. Philip D. Murphy of New Jersey also urged residents to take
shelter, but not to break social-distancing guidelines by staying with
large groups of friends or relatives.

``I'm not a fan of hurricane parties,'' Mr. Murphy said on Monday,
referring to the events that became something of a tradition in Florida
during minor storms. ``If it's a hurricane party, you're inside. It just
doesn't make sense, folks. It doesn't end well. And we know that.''

The storm made landfall on Monday night in Ocean Isle Beach, N.C., as a
Category 1 hurricane, but weakened as it pushed through North Carolina
and into Virginia on Tuesday morning. Still, forecasters warn that
Isaias will bring powerful winds and heavy rains as it continues moving
north toward New York and New Jersey and into New England.

\hypertarget{-4}{%
\subsection{}\label{-4}}

Trump addresses the death toll: `It is what it is.'

A day before the United States surpassed
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/29/us/coronavirus-deaths-150000.html}{150,000
deaths from the coronavirus}, President Trump appeared resigned to the
toll, saying in an interview, ``It is what it is.''

``They are dying. That's true,'' Mr. Trump told
\href{https://www.axios.com/full-axios-hbo-interview-donald-trump-cd5a67e1-6ba1-46c8-bb3d-8717ab9f3cc5.html}{Axios
in an interview} recorded on July 28 and released in its entirety on
Monday. ``It is what it is. But that doesn't mean we aren't doing
everything we can. It's under control as much as you can control it.''

The president's critics say he could have done much more to keep the
virus from spreading to the extent it has, including encouraging states
to be more cautious in reopening instead of encouraging them.

The country's death toll, currently nearly 156,000, is far from the
total of ``75, 80 to 100,000'' deaths that
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/03/us/politics/trump-coronavirus.html}{Mr.
Trump predicted in early May} when he credited himself with preventing
the toll from being worse.

Even after his predictions proved wrong, Mr. Trump has continued to
credit himself for the United States not being even worse off.

``One person's too much,'' Mr. Trump told Axios. ''And those people that
really understand it, that really understand it, they said it's an
incredible job that we've done.''

\hypertarget{-5}{%
\subsection{}\label{-5}}

The W.H.O. cautions Russia on its vaccine rollout.

Image

Work on a coronavirus vaccine at a laboratory in St. Petersburg, Russia,
in June. Moscow's aggressive timeline for vaccinating its population has
raised safety concerns.~Credit...Anton Vaganov/Reuters

The World Health Organization on Tuesday urged Russia to follow
established guidelines for producing safe and effective vaccines, after
Moscow announced that it would begin widespread vaccination of its
population in October with a vaccine that had not yet been fully tested
in clinical trials.

Amid a global race to develop the first effective coronavirus vaccine,
experts have raised concerns about cutting corners in research and
putting people at risk with an unsafe product. Last week Dr. Anthony
Fauci, director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious
Diseases in the United States, warned Congress about programs like
Russia's that are not transparent.

``I do hope that the Chinese and the Russians are actually testing the
vaccine before they are administering the vaccine to anyone,'' Dr. Fauci
said at hearing.

Russia is moving ahead with several prototypes, its officials said, and
at least one effort, developed by the Gamaleya Institute in Moscow, has
reached advanced stages of testing. The vaccine candidate is similar to
one developed by Oxford University and AstraZeneca, using modified
viruses that typically cause mild colds in humans.

Russia said it will start so-called Phase III trials of the vaccine this
month. In Phase III, trials test for effectiveness in humans, after
testing in animals. It is the last stage before approval, allowing
widespread use.

The candidate vaccine reportedly has been tested to some extent on
soldiers, and the Russian defense ministry said those soldiers all had
volunteered. The institute's director said on Russian television that he
himself had also tried the vaccine before it finished testing in
monkeys.

\hypertarget{-6}{%
\subsection{}\label{-6}}

Two N.I.H. studies are recruiting patients to test possible Covid-19
treatments.

The National Institutes of Health announced Tuesday the launch of a key
second, phase of clinical trials for an antibody treatment **** to help
patients early in the course of Covid-19.

The two studies, which are now recruiting patients, are testing drugs
called monoclonal antibodies produced by Eli Lilly and its partner,
Abcellera Biologics in Vancouver. Researchers hope to have results in
October or November.

The process began in March, and has progressed at ``record speed,'' said
Daniel Skovronsky, chief scientific officer at Eli Lilly. Two and a half
months later, the company began safety tests in humans, ``surely a
record speed,'' he said.

The first study, dubbed ACTIV 2, will start with 220 Covid-19 patients
who are ill but not hospitalized. Half will receive the antibodies and
half a placebo infusion. If there are signs the drug is helping, the
trial will expand to a total of 2,000 patients with the hope that the
drug reduces the duration of symptoms and speeds the time it takes for
the virus to be undetectable in the patients' upper respiratory tracts.

The second study, ACTIV 3, will begin with 300 patients who are
hospitalized but not gravely ill who have had symptoms for 10 days or
less, though patients with virus-caused organ damage are excluded. Half
of the patients will receive a placebo infusion. If the drug appears
helpful, the study will move on to 1,000 individuals.

The antibodies used in these trials were produced from serum from a
Washington patient who was one of the first people to recover from
Covid-19. Researchers at Abcellera selected this antibody from many in
the patient's blood because it was most effective at blocking the virus.

Without knowing if the drug will be beneficial, Eli Lilly is preparing
to meet a goal of having 100,000 doses by the end of the year, Dr.
Skovronsky said.

As these clinical trials progress, the researchers may add other
treatments as well.

\hypertarget{-7}{%
\subsection{}\label{-7}}

What Lockdown 2.0 looks like: Harsher rules and deeper confusion.

Image

Police officers and soldiers on patrol at a popular running track in
Melbourne, Australia on Tuesday. The city has become a confounding
matrix of hefty fines for disobeying strict lockdown
rules.Credit...William West/Agence France-Presse --- Getty Images

Australia's second-largest city, Melbourne
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/04/world/australia/coronavirus-melbourne-lockdown.html}{has
imposed some of the toughest restrictions in the world} as it grapples
with a spiraling coronavirus outbreak in a country that once thought it
had the pandemic beat.

But as officials cast about for ways to break the chain of infections,
the city has become a confounding matrix of hefty fines for
disobedience, minor exceptions for everything from romantic partners to
home building, and endless versions of the question: So, wait, can I
\_\_\_\_?

Restaurant owners are wondering about food delivery after an 8 p.m.
curfew began on Sunday. Teenagers are asking if their boyfriends and
girlfriends count as essential partners. Can animal shelter volunteers
walk dogs at night? Are house cleaners essential for those struggling
with their mental health? Can the virus-tested exercise outside?

``This is such a weird, scary, bizarro time that we live in,'' said
Tessethia Von Tessle Roberts, 25, a student in Melbourne who admits to
having hit a breaking point a few days ago, when her washing machine
broke.

``Our health care workers are hustling around the clock to keep us
alive,'' she said. ``Our politicians are as scared as we are, but they
have to pretend like they have a better idea than we do of what's going
to happen next.''

Pandemic lockdowns, never easy, are getting ever more confusing and
contentious as they evolve in the face of second and third rounds of
outbreaks that have exhausted both officials and residents. With success
against the virus as fleeting as the breeze, the new waves of
restrictions feel to many like a bombing raid that just won't end.

U.S. ROUNDUP

\hypertarget{-8}{%
\subsection{}\label{-8}}

The virus reaches the last untouched corner of California.

Image

When Modoc County reported its first two coronavirus cases last week,
officials asked to hear from any residents who had been to a bar
recently. An owner of the Brass Rail in Alturas said one of the new
cases was a waitress at the bar.Credit...Scott Sonner/Associated Press

In rural Modoc County, Calif., population 8,800, social distancing was a
way of life well before the virus. The county seat, Alturas, has just
one blinking red traffic signal. And for five months, officials hoped
that the county's isolation in the northeastern corner of the state
would spare it.

But the virus finally reached Modoc, the last county in the state
without a confirmed case, when a couple in Alturas tested positive last
week.

The county has not named the two people who contracted the virus, but
Jodie Larranaga, an owner of the Brass Rail bar and restaurant, said it
was a waitress who worked at the bar and her husband. She said the
couple had recently returned from a family vacation in Fresno.

The county Health Department put out a request on Tuesday for anyone who
had visited a bar in the previous two weeks to call a hotline. But Ms.
Larranaga said that the department was not casting the net wide enough.
``This couple has been all over the place,'' she said. ``They were all
around town.''

Most people still go maskless when they shop in Alturas, despite a
statewide order to wear masks in public places --- an order that the
county sheriff refuses to enforce.

Juan Ledezma, the owner of a thrift store in Alturas, estimated that 20
percent of customers come in with a mask on. ``I don't ask them to do it
because they might get offended,'' he said.

\hypertarget{-9}{%
\subsection{}\label{-9}}

Caterers rush to adjust as most events are canceled or severely scaled
down.

Image

David Cingari picks up an order for his pop-up restaurant in Stamford,
CT last month.Credit...Amr Alfiky/The New York Times

The pandemic has the nation's caterers --- roughly 12,000 individuals or
companies with annual revenues of more than \$60 billion --- reeling.
Many say they
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/04/business/coronavirus-struggling-caterers.html}{expect
their business to be down between 80 and 90 percent this year}.

Corporate cafeterias that they provide food and staff to remain closed.
Events like graduation and anniversary parties, bar mitzvahs, charity
dinners and weddings have been canceled or pushed into next year.

And the ones that took place were on a decidedly smaller scale. ``We did
one 50-person wedding,'' said David Cingari of David's Soundview
Catering in Stamford, Conn. ``It was a clambake in the backyard. That
was supposed to be a 250-person wedding.''

On a recent Saturday, he was dashing about at a pop-up restaurant he
opened in mid-June, serving lobster rolls, blackened mahi-mahi tacos and
smashburgers alongside cocktails like the Painkiller to socially
distanced diners.

He made about \$600, far from the roughly \$6,600 that a 210-person
wedding (petite lobster rolls on toasted brioche, coconut shrimp with
mango aioli) and a bar mitzvah party for 180 (torched s'mores and a
chocolate fountain) planned for that day, pre-pandemic, would have
brought in.

The collapse of the catering industry this year also directly affects
bartenders, wait staff and others who typically work these events as
part-time employees.

The industry --- a collection of large corporations like Aramark and
Compass Group and thousands of smaller companies owned by individuals
--- is not tracking how many caterers have permanently closed because of
the pandemic, but they say it will happen.

And while caterers say they are taking a financial beating, many feel
better situated than those in the restaurant business. Instead of paying
often expensive rent in desirable locations like most restaurants,
caterers typically pay less for large kitchens that can be off the
beaten track.

\hypertarget{-10}{%
\subsection{}\label{-10}}

The deadline for the 2020 census has been moved up by a month.

Image

Census data is used to divvy up trillions of dollars in federal
aid.Credit...Gabriele Holtermann/Sipa, via Associated Press

Counting for the 2020 census will end on Sept. 30, a month earlier than
previously scheduled, the Census Bureau said in a statement on Monday.

The census is constitutionally required to count all residents of the
United States every 10 years, but the 2020 effort
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/18/us/coronavirus-census.html}{has
faltered amid the pandemic}. In recent weeks, the Trump administration
and Senate Republicans appeared to signal that they
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/28/us/trump-census.html}{wanted
the census finished well ahead of schedule}.

Census data is enormously important. It is used to reapportion all 435
House seats and thousands of state and local districts, as well as to
divvy up trillions of dollars in federal aid.

``Under this plan, the Census Bureau intends to meet a similar level of
household responses as collected in prior censuses, including outreach
to hard-to-count communities,'' the Census Bureau said in its
\href{https://www.census.gov/newsroom/press-releases/2020/delivering-complete-accurate-count.html}{statement}.

Critics said the move was pushed by the White House and motivated by
partisanship.

``We're dealing with a census that's been really challenged by
Covid-19,'' said Vanita Gupta, a former head of the Justice Department's
civil rights division who is now the
\href{https://civilrights.org/about/our-staff/vanita-gupta/}{president
of the Leadership Conference on Civil and Human Rights}. ``And in the
middle of this pandemic, the administration has tried to sabotage the
census for partisan gain, to move its anti-immigrant agenda and to
silence communities of color.''

She added that rural communities could be badly hurt by an undercount.

On Monday night, the White House referred questions to the Commerce
Department, which oversees the Census Bureau. It did not immediately
respond to a request for comment.

\hypertarget{-11}{%
\subsection{}\label{-11}}

A reporter offers a glimpse inside the N.B.A. bubble.

Image

Credit...Illustration by The New York Times; Getty Images

The Times's Marc Stein has covered pro basketball for almost 30 years,
but he says he has seen nothing like
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/04/sports/nba-bubble-coronavirus.html}{life
inside the league's so-called bubble} at Walt Disney World in Florida:

\begin{quote}
Every day in the bubble starts the same for reporters. We record our
temperature and oxygen saturation readings via a league-sanctioned app
to receive access at checkpoints within the bubble.

Then we head to the testing room, with access set aside exclusively for
reporters in the 9 a.m. hour, to receive three shallow throat swabs and
one shallow swab of each nostril --- daily.

There is no guarantee that the N.B.A. can continue to keep the
coronavirus from infiltrating this first-of-a-kind village that houses
22 teams.

But it already seems clear that the bubble approach was the only
approach that had any shot in 2020.
\end{quote}

Reporting was contributed by Livia Albeck-Ripka, Pam Belluck, Emma
Bubola, Ben Carey, Damien Cave, Emily Cochrane, Michael Gold, J. David
Goodman, Maggie Haberman, Mike Ives, Isabel Kershner, Gina Kolata,
Giulia McDonnell Nieto del Rio, Marc Stein, Eileen Sullivan, Jim
Tankersley, Michael Wines, Will Wright and Karen Zraick.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
