Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/world}{World}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/world}{World}\textbar{}Coronavirus Live Updates: Fight
Over Aid Package Drags On

\url{https://nyti.ms/33nG3vt}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{The
Coronavirus Outbreak}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  live\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/04/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Latest
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Maps
  and Cases}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Vaccine
  Tracker}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/02/us/covid-college-reopening.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{College
  Reopening}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/03/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Economy}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

LIVE UPDATES

Updated~

Aug. 4, 2020, 6:03 a.m. ET

Aug. 4, 2020, 6:03 a.m. ET

\hypertarget{coronavirus-live-updates-fight-over-aid-package-drags-on}{%
\section{Coronavirus Live Updates: Fight Over Aid Package Drags
On}\label{coronavirus-live-updates-fight-over-aid-package-drags-on}}

Tens of millions of Americans have lost crucial jobless benefits, and
lawmakers still can't seem to agree on a relief measure. Israel's
troubled school reopenings could be a lesson for the U.S.

Right Now

The secretary general of the United Nations, António Guterres, said that
more than a billion children worldwide were affected by school closures
last month.

\hypertarget{heres-what-you-need-to-know}{%
\subsubsection{Here's what you need to
know:}\label{heres-what-you-need-to-know}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-6b644638}{`Long days, long nights': Washington
  prepares for a prolonged fight over virus relief.}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-7af9fca0}{Israel's rocky reopening of its
  schools may be a lesson for the U.S.}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-33bf9168}{Hurricane Isaias arrives in North
  Carolina as officials along the East Coast scramble.}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-6bfd36ea}{Italian sex workers face poverty and
  illness during the pandemic.}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-3bc78c4}{The deadline for the 2020 census has
  been moved up by a month.}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-bfeb498}{New Zealand newlyweds, stranded in
  the Falkland Islands, went home on a fishing boat.}
\end{itemize}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/04/us/04virus-briefing-negotiations/merlin_175270614_82064422-bea7-46e4-99fd-f10e541c14c2-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\subsection{}

`Long days, long nights': Washington prepares for a prolonged fight over
virus relief.

Negotiators on Tuesday are set to reconvene on Capitol Hill to continue
hammering out differences over a coronavirus relief package, with top
Trump administration officials scheduled to return for
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/02/us/politics/coronavirus-jobless-aid.html}{another
meeting with congressional Democrats}.

Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin and Mark Meadows, the White House
chief of staff, will meet with Speaker Nancy Pelosi of California and
Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, the minority leader. Mr. Mnuchin and
Mr. Meadows will also join Senate Republicans for a closed-door policy
lunch.

The Senate is scheduled to take a monthlong recess at the end of the
week, but it is unclear if lawmakers will leave Washington without a
deal. Tens of millions of Americans have lost crucial
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/30/business/unemployment-payments-change.html}{unemployment
benefits} as well as a
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/23/business/evictions-moratorium-cares-act.html}{federal
moratorium on evictions}, and economists warn that permanent damage
could be wrought on the economy without action.

``I've never been a gambler,'' said Senator Lisa Murkowski, Republican
of Alaska, when asked about the prospect of a deal before the end of the
week. ``But if I were a gambler, I'd say we need to have some long days,
long nights. Work hard.''

White House officials and Democratic leaders reported some progress over
the weekend, but there are still
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/02/us/politics/coronavirus-jobless-aid.html}{substantial
differences}. Democrats are proposing a \$3 trillion rescue plan that
would include restoring \$600-per-week jobless aid payments that expired
on Friday and extending them through January, while Republicans are
pushing a \$1 trillion package that would reduce those payments
substantially.

President Trump on Monday raised the idea of using an executive order to
address the moratorium on evictions, while also hurling insults at
Democratic leaders who were meeting with his top advisers in search of a
compromise. But
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/03/us/politics/congress-jobless-aid-talks-trump.html}{he
has been notably absent from the negotiations} themselves.

Mr. Trump accused Democrats of being focused on getting ``bailout
money'' for states controlled by Democrats, and unconcerned with
extending unemployment benefits.

Democrats have proposed providing more than \$900 billion to strapped
states and cities whose budgets have been decimated, but it is
Republicans who have proposed slashing the jobless aid. Democrats have
refused to do so, cementing the stalemate.

Fueling an already complicated impasse, outside advisers are also trying
to get the president to bypass Congress and unilaterally impose a
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/23/business/payroll-tax-cut-trump-recession.html}{temporary
payroll tax cut, an idea that Mr. Trump has championed} but that his
negotiators dropped amid opposition from both parties.

Congressional staff and lobbyists who are engaged in discussions said on
Monday that the talks between administration officials and Ms. Pelosi
and Mr. Schumer had essentially frozen negotiations between top
Democrats and Republicans on key committees who would have to hammer out
the details of any deal.

That could leave the parties little time to flesh out any compromises
over additional aid to businesses or individuals, yielding a plan that
mostly consists of re-upping existing aid programs like the Paycheck
Protection Program and direct payments to individuals.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html}{Tracking
the Coronavirus~›}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html}{}

\hypertarget{where-cases-are-rising-fastest}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{Where cases are \textbf{rising}
fastest}{Where cases are rising fastest}}\label{where-cases-are-rising-fastest}}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/hawaii-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

Hawaii

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/rhode-island-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

R.I.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/new-jersey-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

N.J.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/massachusetts-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

Mass.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/nebraska-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

Neb.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/missouri-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

Mo.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/alaska-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

Alaska

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/oklahoma-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

Okla.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/south-dakota-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

S.D.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/new-hampshire-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

N.H.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/illinois-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

Ill.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/montana-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

Mont.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html}{}

\hypertarget{us-hot-spots-}{%
\subsubsection{U.S. hot spots~›}\label{us-hot-spots-}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2020/03/16/coronavirus-maps/65bf0c6883e2d9d68afa51d181e1fa9779cd7420/images/orphan_usa-threeByTwoSmallAt2X.png}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/world/coronavirus-maps.html}{}

\hypertarget{worldwide-}{%
\subsubsection{Worldwide~›}\label{worldwide-}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2020/03/16/coronavirus-maps/65bf0c6883e2d9d68afa51d181e1fa9779cd7420/images/orphan_world-threeByTwoSmallAt2X.png}

\hypertarget{-1}{%
\subsection{}\label{-1}}

Israel's rocky reopening of its schools may be a lesson for the U.S.

Image

Gymnasia Ha'ivrit high school in Jerusalem became the center of a major
virus outbreak after Israeli schools reopened in May.Credit...Dan
Balilty for The New York Times

As the United States and other countries anxiously consider how to
reopen schools, Israel, one of the first countries to do so,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/04/world/middleeast/coronavirus-israel-schools-reopen.html}{illustrates
the dangers of moving too precipitously}.

Confident that it had beaten the coronavirus and desperate to reboot a
devastated economy, the Israeli government invited the entire student
body back in late May.

Within days, infections were reported at a Jerusalem high school, which
quickly mushroomed into the largest outbreak in a single school in
Israel, possibly the world.

The virus rippled out to the students' homes and then to other schools
and neighborhoods, ultimately infecting hundreds of students, teachers
and relatives. Other outbreaks forced hundreds of schools to close.
Across the country, tens of thousands of students and teachers were
quarantined.

Israel's advice for other countries?

``They definitely should not do what we have done,'' said Eli Waxman, a
professor at the Weizmann Institute of Science and chairman of the team
advising Israel's National Security Council on the pandemic. ``It was a
major failure.''

The lesson, experts say, is that even communities that have gotten the
spread of the virus under control need to take strict precautions when
reopening schools. Smaller classes, mask wearing, keeping desks six feet
apart and providing adequate ventilation, they say, are likely to be
crucial until a vaccine is available.

``If there is a low number of cases, there is an illusion that the
disease is over,'' said Dr. Hagai Levine, a professor of epidemiology
and the chairman of the Israeli Association of Public Health Physicians.
``But it's a complete illusion.''

The United States is facing similar pressures to fully reopen schools,
but is in a far worse position than Israel was in May: Israel had fewer
than 100 new infections a day then. The United States is now averaging
more than 60,000 new cases a day, and some states continue to set
alarming records.

On Tuesday, the secretary general of the United Nations, António
Guterres,
\href{https://twitter.com/antonioguterres/status/1290500206572666881}{said
that over a billion children worldwide were affected by school closures}
last month, exacerbating what he called a ``learning crisis'' before the
pandemic in which more than 250 million children had been out of school.
``We are at a defining moment for the world's children and young
people,'' Mr. Guterres said.

\hypertarget{-2}{%
\subsection{}\label{-2}}

Hurricane Isaias arrives in North Carolina as officials along the East
Coast scramble.

Image

Damage in Southport, N.C., early Tuesday as Hurricane Isaias moved
through the state.Credit...WECT-TV, via Associated Press

Hurricane Isaias made landfall in southern North Carolina on Monday
night, at a time when many people in the Southeast are already
beleaguered by the coronavirus outbreak.
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/03/us/isaias-storm-updates.html}{Here
are the latest updates on the storm}.

Disruptions in testing could complicate efforts to gauge virus
transmission in states that have struggled to contain it.

In Florida, for example, 43 state-run
\href{https://floridadisaster.org/covid19/testing-sites/}{testing sites}
were forced to close on Friday as Isaias, then a tropical storm, headed
for the state's east coast. The number of lab results
\href{http://ww11.doh.state.fl.us/comm/_partners/covid19_report_archive/state_reports_latest.pdf}{received
daily by Florida's Health Department}, which had generally been in the
90,000 range in the past two weeks, fell on Sunday to about 61,000.

Officials have told residents in the storm's projected path to prepare
themselves, and businesses are concerned about how much damage it will
bring.

``It's a wait-and-see game,'' said Jay Slevin, the manager of a pizzeria
about a mile from the shore in Myrtle Beach, S.C., southwest of where
Isaias made landfall.

Officials are also changing how they run shelters and advising residents
to regard them as a last resort,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/26/us/virus-texas-storm.html}{out
of fear that the virus could spread} in crowded indoor spaces.

At
\href{https://www.ncdps.gov/storm-update?fbclid=IwAR3gtINKPXqQdsJixuf1kwBKbAtEMz62wzyoDHlu7FDBN1HTarDlw8FlVwQ}{a
briefing on Monday}, Gov. Roy Cooper of North Carolina advised residents
in vulnerable areas to stay with friends or family or to go to a hotel.
But he added that shelters would open for those who need them, with
health screenings, social distancing and cleaning protocols.

``I know that North Carolinians have had to dig deep in recent months to
tap into our strength and resilience during the pandemic, and that
hasn't been easy,'' he said. ``But with this storm on the way, we have
to dig a little deeper.''

\hypertarget{-3}{%
\subsection{}\label{-3}}

Italian sex workers face poverty and illness during the pandemic.

In Italy, prostitution is not illegal, nor is it regulated as an
official occupation, making the country's 70,000 sex workers largely
ineligible to receive economic relief. Many have been forced to take
their chances by returning to work in order to avoid poverty.

In May, organizations that promote the rights of Italian sex workers
sought to draw the government's attention and get support, arguing that
the pandemic showed the harm of forcing sex work underground.

In March, Regina Satariano, a 60-year-old sex worker in Tuscany, started
hearing about colleagues who hadn't eaten and a landlord who had
threatened to evict a group of 17 housemates, all sex workers who were
out of work because of the pandemic.

Ms. Satariano put together her savings and bought bags of pasta, tomato
sauce, chicken and soap to distribute to her colleagues. But without
support from the state, she said, many sex workers will continue to go
hungry. If officials don't change things now, she added, ``they never
will.''

In other European countries, such as the Netherlands and Germany, sex
workers can enter formal contracts with their clients. During the
lockdown, those who were officially registered with the government were
eligible for economic relief.

Scotland also included sex workers in its relief programs. In Greece,
where prostitution is legal and regulated, brothels were allowed to
reopen on June 15, provided that sex workers kept their clients' names
and contact details for four weeks for tracing purposes.

In Italy,
\href{https://www.produzionidalbasso.com/project/covid19-nessuna-da-sola-solidarieta-immediata-alle-lavoratrici-sessuali-piu-colpite-dall-emergenza/}{various
charities and associations have raised money} for groceries, medicines,
bills and rent to benefit the country's sex workers. But for the most
part, Italian sex workers, who are often from immigrant communities,
have had to fend for themselves.

A recent report by the Sex Workers' Rights Advocacy Network and the
International Committee on the Rights of Sex Workers in Europe showed
that many sex workers defied lockdown rules in order to work, putting
both themselves and their clients at risk.

\hypertarget{-4}{%
\subsection{}\label{-4}}

The deadline for the 2020 census has been moved up by a month.

Image

Census data is used to divvy up trillions of dollars in federal
aid.Credit...Gabriele Holtermann/Sipa, via Associated Press

Counting for the 2020 census will end on Sept. 30, a month earlier than
previously scheduled, the Census Bureau said in a statement on Monday.

The census is constitutionally required to count all residents of the
United States every 10 years, but the 2020 effort
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/18/us/coronavirus-census.html}{has
faltered amid the pandemic}. In recent weeks, the Trump administration
and Senate Republicans appeared to signal that they
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/28/us/trump-census.html}{wanted
the census finished well ahead of schedule}.

Census data is enormously important. It is used to reapportion all 435
House seats and thousands of state and local districts, as well as to
divvy up trillions of dollars in federal aid.

``Under this plan, the Census Bureau intends to meet a similar level of
household responses as collected in prior censuses, including outreach
to hard-to-count communities,'' the Census Bureau said in its
\href{https://www.census.gov/newsroom/press-releases/2020/delivering-complete-accurate-count.html}{statement}.

Critics said the move was pushed by the White House and motivated by
partisanship.

``We're dealing with a census that's been really challenged by
Covid-19,'' said Vanita Gupta, a former head of the Justice Department's
civil rights division who is now the
\href{https://civilrights.org/about/our-staff/vanita-gupta/}{president
of the Leadership Conference on Civil and Human Rights}. ``And in the
middle of this pandemic, the administration has tried to sabotage the
census for partisan gain, to move its anti-immigrant agenda and to
silence communities of color.''

She added that rural communities could be badly hurt by an undercount.

On Monday night, the White House referred questions to the Commerce
Department, which oversees the Census Bureau. It did not immediately
respond to a request for comment.

\hypertarget{-5}{%
\subsection{}\label{-5}}

New Zealand newlyweds, stranded in the Falkland Islands, went home on a
fishing boat.

Image

Feeonaa and Neville Clifton in late July, aboard the Antarctic fishing
vessel that took them home to New Zealand from the Falkland Islands.

A newly married couple from New Zealand who were stranded for months in
the remote Falkland Islands have managed to return home --- by catching
a ride for more than 5,000 nautical miles on an Antarctic fishing boat.

The couple, Feeonaa and Neville Clifton, were honeymooning in the south
Atlantic archipelago, about 300 miles off the coast of Argentina, as
South America's coronavirus epidemic began to escalate in March. After
their flights home via Brazil were canceled, they remained in lockdown
with an aunt in the Falklands, where Mr. Clifton was born.

The couple have been together more than 25 years and raised three
children, but decided only recently to marry and take a honeymoon. Ms.
Clifton said they spent their time in lockdown rekindling old hobbies,
like playing card games.

``I think maybe I fell in love with him just a little bit more,'' she
added of her husband.

That was the easy part.

Ms. Clifton, 48, said that when they began planning their escape from
the Falklands, one of their only options was a military transport
through Africa and Britain.

``At the time we were being told Latam might fly next month, and then
again the next month after that,'' she said, referring to Latam
Airlines, a major carrier in the region. ``Unfortunately the deadline
kept getting further and further pushed back.''

They explored other travel options, but each seemed complex and likely
to put them at increased risk of contracting the virus.

Eventually, they settled on the San Aotea II, a fishing boat that was
heading their way. The only catch was that the journey would take 29
days and traverse the notoriously treacherous Southern Ocean.

But Ms. Clifton, who had never spent a night on a boat, said the trip
was surprisingly calm, and that the crew helped pass the time by playing
cards with them.

The couple arrived in New Zealand on Tuesday morning after testing
negative for the virus. Ms. Clifton said in a telephone interview a few
hours later that they still felt ``extremely wobbly'' --- to the point
where a shopkeeper they came upon during the drive home thought they
were dancing.

``We were just trying to stand up straight,'' she said.

Reporting was contributed by Livia Albeck-Ripka, Pam Belluck, Emma
Bubola, Emily Cochrane, Maggie Haberman, Mike Ives, Isabel Kershner, Jim
Tankersley, Michael Wines and Karen Zraick.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
