Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/business/dealbook}{DealBook}\textbar{}Howard Schultz to
Step Down as Starbucks Executive Chairman

\url{https://nyti.ms/2Hk6umU}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/17/us/dnc-convention?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{D.N.C.
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/17/us/politics/democratic-national-convention-live-stream-analysis.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Watch
  Live}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/dnc-schedule.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Convention
  Guide}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/us/elections/2020-presidential-election-calendar.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Key
  Dates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/11/us/politics/vote-by-mail-us-states.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Voting
  by Mail}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Politics
  Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

DealBook Business and Policy

\href{/column/dealbook}{DealBook}

\hypertarget{howard-schultz-to-step-down-as-starbucks-executive-chairman}{%
\section{Howard Schultz to Step Down as Starbucks Executive
Chairman}\label{howard-schultz-to-step-down-as-starbucks-executive-chairman}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/06/05/business/05db-sorkin-1/05db-sorkin-1-articleLarge-v2.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By \href{http://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/andrew-ross-sorkin}{Andrew
Ross Sorkin}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  June 4, 2018
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

SEATTLE --- Howard Schultz, the outspoken executive chairman of
Starbucks, will leave the company at the end of the month, bringing to
an end the tenure of a socially conscious entrepreneur
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2016/12/01/business/dealbook/starbucks-chief-howard-schultz-to-step-down-next-year.html}{who
turned a local Seattle coffee chain} into a global giant with more than
28,000 stores in 77 countries.

Mr. Schultz's decision to retire, a plan he said he privately outlined
to the board a year ago, will most likely stoke speculation that he is
considering a run for president in 2020. He is frequently mentioned as a
potential candidate for the Democratic Party and has become increasingly
vocal on political issues, including criticizing President Trump last
year as ``a president that is creating episodic chaos every day.''

While Mr. Schultz, 64, typically bats away speculation about his
political ambitions with an eye roll or a pithy answer, on Monday he
acknowledged for the first time that it is something he may consider.

``I want to be truthful with you without creating more speculative
headlines,'' he told The New York Times. ``For some time now, I have
been deeply concerned about our country --- the growing division at home
and our standing in the world.''

``One of the things I want to do in my next chapter is to figure out if
there is a role I can play in giving back,'' he continued. ``I'm not
exactly sure what that means yet.''

Asked directly if he was considering running for president, he said: ``I
intend to think about a range of options, and that could include public
service. But I'm a long way from making any decisions about the
future.''

Mr. Schultz said he and the board had expected to announce his departure
last month, but that plan was upended after an
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/04/15/us/starbucks-philadelphia-black-men-arrest.html}{episode
at a Philadelphia store} in mid-April in which two black men were
arrested after waiting inside one of the company's stores without making
a purchase. Last week, Starbucks closed all of its company-owned stores
around the country for four hours for
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/05/29/business/starbucks-closing-racial-bias-training.html}{racial
bias training}, a program that Mr. Schultz had spearheaded.

{[}\emph{Read: ``Starbucks's Tall Order: Tackle}
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/05/29/business/starbucks-closing-racial-bias-training.html}{\emph{Systemic
Racism}} \emph{in 4 Hours.''{]}}

\hypertarget{latest-updates-2020-election}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/17/us/dnc-convention?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: 2020
Election}}{Latest Updates: 2020 Election}}\label{latest-updates-2020-election}}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/17/us/dnc-convention?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#michelle-obama-hits-trump-for-lacking-empathy-in-searing-keynote-speech}{4m
ago}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/17/us/dnc-convention?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#michelle-obama-hits-trump-for-lacking-empathy-in-searing-keynote-speech}{Michelle
Obama hits Trump for lacking empathy in searing keynote speech.}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/17/us/dnc-convention?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#senator-amy-klobuchar-calls-for-unity-its-how-to-get-stuff-done}{9m
ago}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/17/us/dnc-convention?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#senator-amy-klobuchar-calls-for-unity-its-how-to-get-stuff-done}{Senator
Amy Klobuchar calls for unity: `It's how to get stuff done.'}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/17/us/dnc-convention?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#bernie-sanders-offers-a-message-of-unity-this-election-is-about-preserving-our-democracy}{19m
ago}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/17/us/dnc-convention?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#bernie-sanders-offers-a-message-of-unity-this-election-is-about-preserving-our-democracy}{Bernie
Sanders offers a message of unity: `This election is about preserving
our democracy.'}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/17/us/dnc-convention?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

The possibility that Mr. Schultz, who has spent three decades leading
Starbucks, could run for president has become far more realistic with
the election of Mr. Trump, a real estate developer and
reality-television star before his political career.

Mr. Trump's successful candidacy has set off a wave of speculation about
business leaders eyeing a shot at the White House. Robert Iger, Disney's
chief executive, publicly said he had been considering running for
president until he struck a deal to buy 21st Century Fox.
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/04/05/business/dealbook/facebook-mark-zuckerberg-privacy.html}{Jamie
Dimon}, chief executive of JPMorgan Chase, is also thought of as a
possible candidate, and Mark Cuban, the billionaire owner of the Dallas
Mavericks N.B.A. team, has said he planned to consider running as
Republican, but would need to convince his wife first.

``She asked me if I want to stay married,'' Mr. Cuban
\href{https://twitter.com/carlquintanilla/status/928680541137920000}{said}
last November.

Under Mr. Schultz's leadership, Starbucks has waded into debates over
social issues such as gay rights, race relations, veterans' rights, gun
violence and student debt. Mr. Schultz was an early champion of the idea
of a corporate executive as a moral leader as he sought to achieve what
he described as ``the fragile balance between profit and conscience.''

Still, Mr. Schultz cautioned against reading too much into his decision
to leave Starbucks. ``I want to be of service to our country, but that
doesn't mean I need to run for public office to accomplish that,'' he
said.

He stepped away from the chief executive role at Starbucks last April,
handing the reins to Kevin Johnson. It was the second time that Mr.
Schultz had made that move, having given up the role in 2000 to become
chairman, only to return to the chief executive position eight years
later.

His latest departure, however, is a greater separation than before.
Myron E. Ullman, the former chairman of J. C. Penney, will become
Starbucks's new chairman, and Mr. Schultz will be given an honorary
title of chairman emeritus.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/06/05/business/05db-sorkin-2/05STARBUCKS1-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Mr. Schultz said he planned to work on his family foundation and write a
book about ``social impact work and the efforts to redefine the role and
responsibility of a public company.''

Bill Gates, the co-founder of Microsoft, whose father was the lawyer who
helped Mr. Schultz buy Starbucks in 1987, said, ``Howard has built an
amazing organization in Starbucks, and it's exciting to consider what he
might accomplish philanthropically.''

On Monday, just hours before Mr. Schultz planned to send a letter to the
company's 350,000 employees around the world announcing his decision, he
visited Starbucks's first store at Pike Place Market for the last time
as its leader.

``I've been doing this for almost 40 years,'' he said. ``Taking my green
apron off is hard. It is emotional. More emotional than I thought it
would be.''

``I told myself a long time ago that if I was ever going to explore a
second act, I couldn't do it while still at the company,'' he added.

Mr. Schultz's legacy as an entrepreneur will be defined as much for his
vision to create a global coffee chain as for his progressive approach
to running the company --- or, as he has often said, ``to build the
company my father never got to work for.''

Mr. Schultz, who grew up in the Canarsie section of Brooklyn, said
watching his father, a World War II veteran who became a truck driver
and later a taxi driver, struggle to make enough money to pay for basics
had led him to offer complete health benefits for full- and part-time
employees and their domestic partners, a first for such a chain. He
later provided stock options for part-time workers and offered to cover
college tuition for students enrolled in online courses at Arizona State
University.

``Howard proved that a company could be more successful and profitable
by elevating humanity,'' said Mellody Hobson, president of Ariel
Investments and a Starbucks director who will become vice chairwoman
when Mr. Schultz steps down.

Under Mr. Schultz, the company's financial success has been immense.
Shares of Starbucks have risen 21,000 percent since the company's
initial public offering in 1992; an investor who had put in \$10,000
then would have more than \$2 million today.

Still, Mr. Schultz's progressive approach to management has not been
without criticism. The company announced two weeks ago that it would let
customers and non-customers alike use its restrooms following the
incident in Philadelphia, and it was soon criticized by some as putting
its store managers in increasingly complex and difficult situations that
they may not be properly trained to handle.

And Mr. Trump has criticized Starbucks as trying to be too politically
correct, bashing the company for no longer selling Christmas-themed
cups. ``Maybe we should boycott Starbucks?'' Mr. Trump said on the
campaign trail.

For Starbucks, Mr. Schultz's departure will most likely be seen --- both
internally and externally --- as a new challenge. While Mr. Schultz had
already handed over the chief executive title to Mr. Johnson, he largely
remained the face of the company as he continued to champion the idea of
Starbucks as ``the third place'' --- a meeting ground between home and
work that he modeled from coffee bars in Italy after he took a trip
there in 1983.

Starbucks itself is transitioning in the United States from a
fast-growing company to one that's more likely to rise and fall with the
rest of the economy. Still, it is growing wildly in China, where it is
planning to open as many as two new stores a day. It is one of the few
American companies that operate in China without a local partner.

Mr. Schultz, however, said his decision to leave now --- even after the
episode in Philadelphia --- illustrated the complete confidence he had
in Mr. Johnson, the company's top management and its board.

``The timing was never going to be perfect,'' he said.

At the original Pike Place Market store early Monday, with only a
handful of customers looking on, Mr. Schultz leaned over to inscribe the
wall next to an espresso bar he installed himself in 1987: ``This is
where it all began. My dream to build a company that fosters respect and
dignity and create a place where we can all come together over a cup of
coffee. Onward with love.''

\hypertarget{our-2020-election-guide}{%
\section{Our 2020 Election Guide}\label{our-2020-election-guide}}

Updated Aug. 17, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{the-latest}{%
  \subsection{The Latest}\label{the-latest}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    The virtual Democratic Convention gets underway as Joe Biden retains
    a sizable lead over President Trump in polls.
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/17/us/dnc-convention?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Follow
    the latest updates.}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{convention-guide}{%
  \subsection{Convention Guide}\label{convention-guide}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Michelle Obama is headlining the first night, along with speakers
    ranging ideologically from Bernie Sanders to John Kasich.
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/dnc-schedule.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Here's
    what to watch for.}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{how-to-watch}{%
  \subsection{How to Watch}\label{how-to-watch}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    The convention airs from 9 p.m. to 11 p.m. Eastern time.
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/17/us/politics/democratic-national-convention-live-stream-analysis.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{The
    New York Times is streaming it} alongside live analysis from our
    reporters.
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{keep-up-with-our-coverage}{%
  \subsection{Keep Up With Our
  Coverage}\label{keep-up-with-our-coverage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Get an
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{email}
    recapping the day's news
  \end{itemize}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Download our mobile app on
    \href{https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nytimes/id284862083?ls=1\&mat_click_id=5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\&referrer=mat_click_id\%3D5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\%26link_click_id\%3D722930677036718082}{iOS}
    and
    \href{http://a.localytics.com/android?id=com.nytimes.android\&referrer=utm_source\%3Dother_nyt_mobile_web\%26utm_medium\%3DWeb\%2520page\%26utm_term\%3DGeneral\%2520Mobile\%2520Page\%26utm_campaign\%3DNYT\%2520Mobile\%2520General\%2520Page}{Android}
    and turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
