Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}Obama Warns That Dropped
Charges Against Flynn Put `Rule of Law' at Risk

\url{https://nyti.ms/2SObPM7}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Election
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/biden-vice-president-2020.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Biden's
  V.P. Search}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/07/24/us/politics/trump-biden-campaign-donors.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Map
  of Donations}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/elections/delegate-count-primary-results.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Delegate
  Count}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2019/us/politics/2020-presidential-candidates.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{The
  Candidates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Politics
  Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{obama-warns-that-dropped-charges-against-flynn-put-rule-of-law-at-risk}{%
\section{Obama Warns That Dropped Charges Against Flynn Put `Rule of
Law' at
Risk}\label{obama-warns-that-dropped-charges-against-flynn-put-rule-of-law-at-risk}}

Speaking to 3,000 supporters, the former president took a sharper line
toward the Trump administration than he typically does in public.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/05/10/us/politics/09dc-obama/merlin_172207692_6ff94484-b3b9-4b9e-9f2d-1d4e964d42df-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/glenn-thrush}{Glenn Thrush} and
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/michael-crowley}{Michael Crowley}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  May 9, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

WASHINGTON --- Former President Barack Obama said on Friday that the
Justice Department's decision to drop charges against former national
security adviser Michael T. Flynn jeopardized the ``rule of law,''
adding his voice to the criticism of the extraordinary move.

``There is no precedent that anybody can find for somebody who has been
charged with perjury just getting off scot-free,'' Mr. Obama said on a
call with thousands of supporters who worked in his administration or
campaigns.

Attorney General William P. Barr dropped the charges against Mr. Flynn,
who had pleaded guilty to lying in a January 2017 interview with the
F.B.I. about his contacts with Russia's ambassador to Washington during
the presidential transition. Mr. Obama has told friends that it
represented a step toward lawlessness, according to two people close to
the former president, who described him as deeply angered.

Mr. Obama said the attorney general's decision has been ``somewhat
downplayed'' in the news media, and that it added to the urgency of
electing Joseph R. Biden Jr., his former vice president and the
presumptive Democratic nominee.

The former president's comments on Mr. Flynn, which
were\href{https://news.yahoo.com/obama-irule-of-law-michael-flynn-case-014121045.html}{first
reported}by Yahoo News and confirmed by several people who heard them,
appeared to be extemporaneous and came near the end of the event, which
was held in order to mobilize Mr. Obama's supporters on behalf of Mr.
Biden.

Mr. Obama and his team are seeking to mobilize 13,000 former
administration officials and campaign veterans to fortify Mr. Biden's
relatively bare-bones, cash-starved campaign.

The former president spoke for about 15 to 20 minutes and at the end
answered questions from those on the call. Katie Hill, a spokeswoman for
Mr. Obama, said the call involved about 3,000 members of the Obama
Alumni Association.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-2020-election}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: 2020
Election}}{Latest Updates: 2020 Election}}\label{latest-updates-2020-election}}

Updated 2020-08-01T01:26:45.732Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-29fdff45}{Kamala
  Harris, a top vice-presidential contender, confronts double
  standards.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-13ec3d9c}{Karen
  Bass and Susan Rice are rising on Biden's vice-presidential
  shortlist.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-49e9a016}{Trump
  says Russian bounties to kill U.S. troops `never took place.'}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

Mr. Obama devoted most of his remarks to praising Mr. Biden, recalling
his service as vice president overseeing the administration's economic
stimulus program and its responses to the H1N1 and ebola outbreaks. Mr.
Obama described Mr. Biden as the right person to pull together the
country in a moment of crisis.

But Mr. Obama also included what one person on the call termed ``very
pointed'' criticisms of the White House's handling of the coronavirus
pandemic.

``This election that's coming up on every level is so important because
what we're going to be battling is not just a particular individual or a
political party,'' Mr. Obama said, according to a brief
\href{https://sports.yahoo.com/obama-irule-of-law-michael-flynn-case-014121045.html}{audio
excerpt} posted online by Yahoo.

``What we're fighting against is these long term trends where being
selfish, being tribal, being divided and seeing others as an enemy. That
has become a stronger impulse in American life. And by the way we're
seeing that internationally as well.''

``It's part of the reason why the response to this global crisis has
been so anemic and spotty,'' Mr. Obama continued. ``It would have been
bad even with the best of governments. It has been an absolute chaotic
disaster when that mind-set --- of `what's in it for me' and `to heck
with everybody else' --- when that mind-set is operationalized in our
government.''

Former aides stressed that the call did not signal the beginning of a
more sustained public involvement by the former president, although that
will clearly come later in the year.

Mr. Obama has adopted a public posture of muted disapproval of his
successor during his post-presidency, although he has spoken out at
moments calculated to have high impact. In the weeks before the 2018
midterm elections, Mr. Obama decried ``crazy stuff'' happening at the
Justice Department under Mr. Trump and warned that ``our democracy is at
stake.''

He has told friends he is deeply concerned that Mr. Trump, despite his
recent stumbles, will be able to successfully leverage the bully pulpit
of the presidency at a time when Mr. Biden is confined to campaigning
from his basement in Delaware.

That anxiety has now spurred Mr. Obama to take a more active advisory
role with Mr. Biden campaign, according to former aides. Mr. Obama has
been in regular communication with his former vice president, discussing
matters ranging from policy issues to the question of when Mr. Biden and
eventually Mr. Obama can hit the campaign trail in person.

He has been especially involved in the Biden team's effort to quickly
build a strong digital operation. Mr. Obama has said he views the effort
as central to competing against Mr. Trump's small-donor fund-raising
machine.

David Axelrod, who served as Mr. Obama's senior adviser in the White
House and now runs the University of Chicago Institute of Politics, said
the former president was unlikely to begin speaking out more publicly
about day-to-day events in the news but would become an active promoter
of Mr. Biden closer to the election.

``He has really been assiduous about not being a commentator about
events in Washington and I don't think he's going to start now,'' said
Mr. Axelrod, who was not on the call and is not advising any campaign.
``But he's going to be very involved in the campaign and if you look at
what he did in 2017 in the governors' races and 2018 in the midterms
when he was very active, I think you see a template for what you can
expect here.''

One thing that is unlikely to change is Mr. Obama's reluctance --- at
least for now --- to call out his successor by name.

Mr. Obama did mention Mr. Trump, albeit in passing, during 11 rallies he
held in late 2018 on behalf of Democratic congressional candidates but
has only sporadically done so since then. No one interviewed about his
event Friday could recall hearing the president's name except when a
moderator asked Mr. Obama how Democrats could defeat Mr. Trump.

People around Mr. Obama said he preferred not to say Mr. Trump's name,
both out of disdain and a strategic desire not to get ``dragged down''
into a personal fight with his successor, as one former aide put it.

The practice has become so ingrained, Mr. Obama's aides and friends have
joked, that it reminds them of the Harry Potter novels in which most
characters refused to even utter the name of the arch-villain Voldemort,
instead referring to him as ``He Who Must Not Be Named.''

Peter Baker contributed reporting.

\hypertarget{our-2020-election-guide}{%
\section{Our 2020 Election Guide}\label{our-2020-election-guide}}

Updated July 31, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{the-latest}{%
  \subsection{The Latest}\label{the-latest}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    President Trump's assault on the Postal Service is intersecting with
    his attacks on mail-in voting.
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/politics/trump-usps-mail-delays.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Voting
    rights groups say it is a recipe for disaster.}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{bidens-vp-search}{%
  \subsection{Biden's V.P. Search}\label{bidens-vp-search}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/biden-vice-president-2020.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Here
    are 13 women} who have been under consideration to be Joe Biden's
    running mate, and why each might be chosen --- and might not be.
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{keep-up-with-our-coverage}{%
  \subsection{Keep Up With Our
  Coverage}\label{keep-up-with-our-coverage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Get an
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{email}
    recapping the day's news
  \end{itemize}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Download our mobile app on
    \href{https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nytimes/id284862083?ls=1\&mat_click_id=5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\&referrer=mat_click_id\%3D5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\%26link_click_id\%3D722930677036718082}{iOS}
    and
    \href{http://a.localytics.com/android?id=com.nytimes.android\&referrer=utm_source\%3Dother_nyt_mobile_web\%26utm_medium\%3DWeb\%2520page\%26utm_term\%3DGeneral\%2520Mobile\%2520Page\%26utm_campaign\%3DNYT\%2520Mobile\%2520General\%2520Page}{Android}
    and turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
