Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}Pelosi to Recall House for
Postal Service Vote as Democrats Press for DeJoy to Testify

\url{https://nyti.ms/2Y6z6eB}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/12/us/politics/biden-trump-poll-wisconsin-minnesota.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{New
  York Times Poll}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/election-states-biden-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Paths
  to 270}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/us/elections/2020-presidential-election-calendar.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Voting
  Deadlines}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/31/us/politics/vote-by-mail-deadlines.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Voting
  by Mail}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Politics
  Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{pelosi-to-recall-house-for-postal-service-vote-as-democrats-press-for-dejoy-to-testify}{%
\section{Pelosi to Recall House for Postal Service Vote as Democrats
Press for DeJoy to
Testify}\label{pelosi-to-recall-house-for-postal-service-vote-as-democrats-press-for-dejoy-to-testify}}

The House will cut short its summer recess to consider legislation that
would counter changes at the Postal Service that critics say undermine
casting ballots by mail.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/16/us/politics/16dc-postal/merlin_175699260_8bdf490a-64a7-49ed-9198-d6a2d4275e42-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/emily-cochrane}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/11/28/multimedia/author-emily-cochrane/author-emily-cochrane-thumbLarge-v3.png}}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/catie-edmondson}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2019/11/20/us/politics/catie-edmonson-twitter-chatblog/catie-edmonson-twitter-chatblog-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/emily-cochrane}{Emily
Cochrane} and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/catie-edmondson}{Catie
Edmondson}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Published Aug. 16, 2020Updated Aug. 21, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

WASHINGTON --- Speaker Nancy Pelosi of California announced on Sunday
that she would call the House back from its annual summer recess for a
vote this week on legislation to block changes at the Postal Service
that voting advocates warn could disenfranchise Americans
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/11/us/politics/vote-by-mail-us-states.html}{casting
ballots by mail} during the pandemic.

The announcement came after the White House chief of staff on Sunday
signaled openness to providing emergency funding to help the agency
handle a surge in mail-in ballots, and as Democratic state attorneys
general said that they were exploring legal action against cutbacks and
changes at the Postal Service.

The moves underscored
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/15/us/post-office-vote-by-mail.html}{rising
concern across the country} over the integrity of the November election
and how the Postal Service will handle
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/11/us/politics/vote-by-mail-us-states.html}{as
many as 80 million ballots} cast by Americans worried about venturing to
polling stations because of the coronavirus. President Trump has
repeatedly derided mail voting as vulnerable to fraud, without evidence,
and the issue had become a prominent sticking point in negotiations over
the next round of coronavirus relief.

The House was not scheduled to return for votes until Sept. 14, but is
now expected to consider a Postal Service bill as soon as Saturday,
according to a senior Democratic aide familiar with the plans.
Representative Steny H. Hoyer of Maryland, the majority leader, is
expected to announce the final schedule on Monday.

``Lives, livelihoods and the life of our American democracy are under
threat from the president,'' Ms. Pelosi said
\href{https://www.speaker.gov/newsroom/81620-0}{in a letter to
Democratic lawmakers}. ``That is why I am calling upon the House to
return to session later this week.''

The abrupt return to Washington was announced just hours after Democrats
called on top Postal Service officials to testify on Capitol Hill this
month about recent policies that they warned pose ``a grave threat to
the integrity of the election.'' It also demonstrates the growing alarm
over changes the Postal Service is enforcing under its leader, Louis
DeJoy, the postmaster general and a Trump megadonor, less than three
months before a general election. Some of the changes, which Mr. DeJoy
describes as cost-cutting measures, include
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/15/us/post-office-vote-by-mail.html}{ending
overtime pay and the removal or transfer of some sorting machines}.

The move also increases political pressure on Republican senators facing
competitive re-election in
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/21/us/postal-service-mail-rural.html}{rural
states like Montana and Alaska that are heavily mail dependent}, some of
which have already expressed unease with delays in mail delivery.
(Senator Susan Collins, Republican of Maine, called on the Senate to
return and act on a coronavirus relief package that included funding for
the agency.) It is unclear whether the Senate will take up the
legislation, which would require the agency to maintain current service
standards until Jan. 1, 2021, or until after the pandemic is over.

Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, the minority leader, demanded on
Sunday that Senator Mitch McConnell, Republican of Kentucky and the
majority leader, bring senators back to Capitol Hill to take up the
House measure that he said in a statement ``will undo the extensive
damage Mr. DeJoy has done at the Postal Service.''

Mark Meadows, the White House chief of staff, said on Sunday that no
mail-sorting machines would be dismantled before Election Day and
insisted that the notion that they would be was a false ``political
narrative by my Democrat colleagues.''

``The president of the United States is not going to interfere with
anybody casting their votes in a legitimate way, whether it's the post
office or anything else,'' he said, speaking on CNN's ``State of the
Union.''

But Democrats point to the Postal Service's decision to
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/14/us/politics/usps-vote-mail.html}{tell
states} last month that it may not be able to meet their deadlines for
delivering last-minute mail-in ballots.

``The postmaster general and top Postal Service leadership must answer
to the Congress and the American people as to why they are pushing these
dangerous new policies that threaten to silence the voices of millions,
just months before the election,'' top Democrats said in a joint
statement on Sunday. Mr. DeJoy had been
\href{https://oversight.house.gov/sites/democrats.oversight.house.gov/files/2020-08-03\%20CBM\%20to\%20DeJoy\%20-PMG\%20re\%20Witness\%20Invite.pdf}{scheduled
to appear} before the House Oversight Committee in late September, and
lawmakers have already
\href{https://oversight.house.gov/news/press-releases/pelosi-schumer-top-committee-democrats-press-postmaster-general-for-answers-on}{requested
information} about the changes.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/16/us/politics/16dc-postal2/merlin_175749405_edbd7530-1a2c-4aa6-8f06-a826d1da5b05-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

But Ms. Pelosi and Representative Carolyn B. Maloney of New York, the
chairwoman of the House Oversight Committee, pressed for Mr. DeJoy and
Robert M. Duncan, the chairman of the Postal Service Board of Governors,
to testify on Aug. 24. Mr. Schumer and Senator Gary Peters of Michigan,
the top Democrat on the Homeland Security Committee, said Senate
Democrats had begun investigating the slowdown in mail deliveries. Mr.
Peters urged his Republican counterpart, Senator Ron Johnson of
Wisconsin, to hold a similar hearing.

A coalition of Democratic attorneys general are also considering suing
the administration over the implications of recent policy changes at the
Postal Service for the November election. Washington State is expected
to be the first to file this week, and Pennsylvania and New York are
likely to follow, according to two people with knowledge of the
discussions.

``We are going to make sure that every American's vote counts this fall,
whether cast by mail or in person,'' said Mark R. Herring, the attorney
general of Virginia, one of the states considering legal action.
**``**My colleagues and I are working as we speak to determine what
Trump and DeJoy are doing, whether they have already violated or are
likely to violate any laws, and what tools we have at our disposal to
put a stop to President Trump's ongoing attack on our Postal Service and
our democracy.''

The changes under Mr. DeJoy, who has significant financial interests in
the Postal Service's rivals and contractors, in addition to Mr. Trump's
frequent attacks on the agency, have prompted concerns about its
politicization. Since his appointment in May, Mr. DeJoy has put in place
cost-cutting measures that he says are intended to overhaul an agency
beleaguered by billion-dollar losses.

Mr. Trump, for his part, has assailed the service near daily, baselessly
claiming that the election could be riddled with fraud if voting by mail
is widely used. (He also requested an absentee ballot in Florida, public
records show.) He has made clear that he
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/13/us/politics/trump-postal-service-mail-voting.html}{opposes
providing additional relief} to the agency, though he said he would not
veto an economic stimulus package over such funding.

Protesters in Washington called over the weekend for the resignation of
the postmaster general, saying changes under his purview had jeopardized
people's ability to vote.

About 100 people gathered outside Mr. DeJoy's apartment complex on
Saturday, according to videos posted on social media. Banging spoons on
pots, blaring horns and chanting ``resign'' in the wealthy residential
neighborhood of Kalorama, many in the group were wearing masks and
maintaining social distance.

Posts on social media also showed protesters
\href{https://www.shutdowndc.org/post/shut-down-dc-delivers-democracy-to-postmaster-general-louis-dejoy}{delivering
fake absentee ballots} to the entrance of Mr. DeJoy's building,
cluttering the glass front doors with folded sheets of paper that read:
``Save the post office. Save our democracy.''

Reporting was contributed by Hailey Fuchs, Aishvarya Kavi and Annie
Karni from Washington, and Lucy Tompkins from New York.

\hypertarget{our-2020-election-guide}{%
\section{Our 2020 Election Guide}\label{our-2020-election-guide}}

Updated ~Sept. 12, 2020

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

\begin{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{the-latest}{%
  \subsection{The Latest}\label{the-latest}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    President Trump has failed to erase Joseph R. Biden Jr.'s lead
    across a set of key swing states,
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/12/us/politics/biden-trump-poll-wisconsin-minnesota.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{according
    to a poll}~conducted by The Times and Siena College.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{paths-to-270}{%
  \subsection{Paths to 270}\label{paths-to-270}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Joe Biden and Donald Trump need 270 electoral votes to reach the
    White House. Try building
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/election-states-biden-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{your
    own coalition of battleground states}~to see potential outcomes.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{voting-deadlines}{%
  \subsection{Voting Deadlines}\label{voting-deadlines}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Early voting for the presidential election starts in September~in
    some states. Take a look at
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/us/elections/2020-presidential-election-calendar.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{key
    dates}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/us/elections/2020-presidential-election-calendar.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{where
    you
    liv}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/us/elections/2020-presidential-election-calendar.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{e}.
    If you're voting by
    mail,~\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/31/us/politics/vote-by-mail-deadlines.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{it's
    risky to procrastinate}.
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/joe-biden.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{}

    \hypertarget{joe-biden}{%
    \section{Joe Biden}\label{joe-biden}}

    \hypertarget{democrat}{%
    \subsection{Democrat}\label{democrat}}

    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/donald-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{}

    \hypertarget{donald-trump}{%
    \section{Donald Trump}\label{donald-trump}}

    \hypertarget{republican}{%
    \subsection{Republican}\label{republican}}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \hypertarget{keep-up-with-our-coverage}{%
  \subsection{Keep Up With Our
  Coverage}\label{keep-up-with-our-coverage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Get an
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{email}~recapping
    the day's news
  \item
    Download our mobile app on
    \href{https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nytimes/id284862083?ls=1\&mat_click_id=5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\&referrer=mat_click_id\%3D5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\%26link_click_id\%3D722930677036718082}{iOS}~and
    \href{http://a.localytics.com/android?id=com.nytimes.android\&referrer=utm_source\%3Dother_nyt_mobile_web\%26utm_medium\%3DWeb\%2520page\%26utm_term\%3DGeneral\%2520Mobile\%2520Page\%26utm_campaign\%3DNYT\%2520Mobile\%2520General\%2520Page}{Android}~and
    turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
