Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}How Biden Could Learn From
Conor Lamb's Victory in Trump Country

\url{https://nyti.ms/2DWU88O}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/09/08/us/elections/results-new-hampshire-primary-elections.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{New
  Hampshire Results}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/09/us/trump-vs-biden?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Election
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/election-states-biden-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Paths
  to 270}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/31/us/politics/vote-by-mail-deadlines.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Voting
  by Mail}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/us/elections/2020-presidential-election-calendar.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Key
  Dates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Politics
  Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{how-biden-could-learn-from-conor-lambs-victory-in-trump-country}{%
\section{How Biden Could Learn From Conor Lamb's Victory in Trump
Country}\label{how-biden-could-learn-from-conor-lambs-victory-in-trump-country}}

Throughout his campaign, Joe Biden has repeatedly returned to the same
themes and strategies that supported Mr. Lamb to a surprise victory in a
district that Donald Trump carried by about 20 points in 2016.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/16/us/politics/16lamb-biden1/merlin_175577808_c69eb9f1-1a52-4cc7-bac2-f5e1a0619d17-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/reid-j-epstein}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2019/06/25/reader-center/author-reid-epstein/9e877853d8234217b58e5762253aa771-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/reid-j-epstein}{Reid J.
Epstein}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Published Aug. 16, 2020Updated Aug. 20, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

MT. LEBANON, Pa. --- When Joseph R. Biden Jr.
\href{https://www.c-span.org/video/?442166-1/vice-president-biden-campaigns-conor-lamb-pennsylvania}{came
to the Pittsburgh suburbs} in 2018 to stump for Conor Lamb's long shot
special election campaign, he made a pitch directly to the sort of
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/03/11/us/pennsylvania-conor-lamb-unions.html}{blue-collar
union workers} who had abandoned the Democratic Party when Hillary
Clinton was on the ballot.

``I don't know all of you personally, but I know you,'' Mr. Biden said
at a rally a week before Mr. Lamb became the first Democrat to flip a
Republican House seat during
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/20/us/politics/trump-pennsylvania.html}{Donald
Trump's} presidency. ``I know this state. I know this region. I know
what it's made up of. I know the values that underpin all of what you
believe in --- family, community, again, not leaving anybody behind.''

Two and a half years later, Mr. Biden is preparing for a virtual party
convention, beginning on Monday, that will formally install him as the
Democratic Party's 2020 presidential nominee. He arrived at this moment
with a sizable lead over President Trump in the polls, using a playbook
first employed to success by Mr. Lamb two years ago, and then borrowed
by dozens of Democrats during the midterm elections later that year.

Mr. Biden has repeatedly returned to the same themes and strategies that
supported Mr. Lamb to a surprise, if razor-thin, victory in a district
that Mr. Trump carried by about 20 points in 2016 --- and where
Democrats were so insignificant that they had not fielded a candidate
since 2012.

Mr. Lamb's victory showed Democrats how to prevail in Republican
territory during the Trump era: focus on kichen-table issues; inspire
defections from college-educated suburban voters --- especially women
--- who had been core Republican voters for decades; and offer
conservative-leaning voters a sober, reassuring alternative to a chaotic
president.

It helped that Mr. Lamb was a Marine veteran and a former federal
prosecutor --- a résumé of service to the country that he and fellow
Democrats used to contrast themselves with Mr. Trump and Republicans who
came from the business world.

Mr. Biden has likewise used his decades of experience in the Senate and
eight years as vice president to highlight his own public service, while
reminding audiences that he regularly ranked among the least-wealthy
senators to demonstrate his commitment to the middle class.

Though Mr. Trump twice traveled to Pennsylvania to hold rallies for Mr.
Lamb's opponent, Mr. Lamb, seeking to distance himself from his party's
left-leaning brand, turned away entreaties from nearly all ambitious
national Democrats interested in stumping for him --- all except for Mr.
Biden, with whom he spent a day traversing the district speaking to
union workers.

``There are a lot of people who voted for me in 2018, not so much for
reasons of policy or party, but just reasons of change,'' Mr. Lamb said
from atop a picnic table during an outdoor interview this past week in a
park near his home in Mt. Lebanon, a suburb. ``People were unsatisfied
with how things were going, and I promised that I would do my job
differently than the guy you had before me. And I think that's what Vice
President Biden is basically doing.''

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/16/us/politics/16lamb-biden2/merlin_175577766_0b4a642d-4e4e-4c3f-bb2e-c22e10a2b66e-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

There is no guarantee that Mr. Biden can replicate Mr. Lamb's path to
victory. Mr. Trump has retained devout loyalty from Republican voters. A
November presidential contest will drive turnout far higher than in the
special election in which Mr. Lamb won his surprise victory, or the 2018
midterm elections when Democrats won a sweeping triumph in the nation's
suburbs.

When Mr. Lamb won in March 2018, he served notice for Democrats aiming
to wrest control of the House and give the party control of at least one
lever of the federal government. The answer to defeating Trump-aligned
Republican candidates was not to emphasize the president's erratic,
divisive tenure in the Oval Office. Instead Democratic candidates
focused narrowly on policies affecting voters' lives, like protecting
provisions in the Affordable Care Act and casting Republicans as a party
pandering to corporations and the very rich, attacking the 2017 tax cut
that Republican Party leaders had intended to use as the tent pole
achievement for their midterm campaigns.

During his remarks at Mr. Lamb's rally, Mr. Biden called the tax cut
``obscene.''

``It's really hard to screw up a tax cut, but they managed to do it,''
said Meredith Kelly, who was then the communications director for the
House Democrats' campaign arm. ``It set a narrative that fit very nicely
into what Biden has done.''

In Congress, Mr. Lamb is a rank-and-file Democrat who has not rocked the
boat or voted against the party's leadership on any significant issues.
At home, he's cultivated an image of a Democrat focused on Pennsylvania
jobs above all else --- a sentiment he says Mr. Biden has echoed.

``No matter what side of an issue my party was on when I went to
Washington, I would be fighting for their jobs no matter what,'' Mr.
Lamb said. ``How many times did Vice President Biden use the word `jobs'
in his speech about energy and climate change? He used the word `jobs' a
million times. He was talking about climate change, but kept reminding
people that this is a policy that's about their jobs. And I think, to
me, that was him taking that lesson too, that that's ultimately what
people care about the most.''

When Mr. Biden's presidential campaign began, he ran on a platform that
was far less flashy than his top rivals, progressives like Elizabeth
Warren and Bernie Sanders. He wasn't for a single-payer health care
system or adding extra Supreme Court justices or funding an array of new
federal programs with a wealth tax on millionaires.

Instead Mr. Biden's platform looked a lot like what Mr. Lamb ran on in
2018: protecting Social Security, Medicare and health care while
opposing tax cuts for corporations and the wealthy. And even though he's
adopted an array of more liberal-leaning positions since becoming the
presumptive nominee, Mr. Biden is still viewed as a politician most
concerned with working-class Americans.

``People say the same thing about Conor and Joe,'' said Representative
Mike Doyle, a Democrat whose district abuts Mr. Lamb's. ``Here in
Western P.A., someone will say he's a regular guy. That was a Trump
plus-20 district, and he won it because he stuck to the things the
people in Western Pennsylvania really care about and because people
thought he was an average guy. He's a regular guy. He's one of them, and
Joe's one of them.''

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/2020-election}{Election
2020 ›}

\hypertarget{live-updates}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/09/us/trump-vs-biden}{Live
Updates}}{Live Updates}}\label{live-updates}}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/09/us/trump-vs-biden\#democrats-worry-about-a-partisan-slant-at-the-postal-service-where-trump-allies-dominate-the-board}{}

Sept. 9, 2020, 8:51 a.m. ET

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/09/us/trump-vs-biden\#democrats-worry-about-a-partisan-slant-at-the-postal-service-where-trump-allies-dominate-the-board}{Democrats
worry about a partisan slant at the Postal Service, where Trump allies
dominate the
board.}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/09/us/trump-vs-biden\#the-nras-new-candidate-grades-show-a-continuing-decline}{}

Sept. 9, 2020, 8:19 a.m. ET

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/09/us/trump-vs-biden\#the-nras-new-candidate-grades-show-a-continuing-decline}{The
N.R.A.'s new candidate grades show a continuing
decline.}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/09/us/trump-vs-biden\#biden-announces-a-plan-to-push-companies-to-keep-jobs-in-the-us}{}

Sept. 9, 2020, 8:15 a.m. ET

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/09/us/trump-vs-biden\#biden-announces-a-plan-to-push-companies-to-keep-jobs-in-the-us}{Biden
announces a plan to push companies to keep jobs in the U.S.}

Polls show that in addition to suburban voters, Mr. Biden is having
success in breaking Republicans' longtime lock on older voters.
\href{https://static.foxnews.com/foxnews.com/content/uploads/2020/07/Fox_July-18-20-2020_Complete_Pennsylvania_Topline_July-23-Release.pdf}{A
Fox News poll of Pennsylvania last month} found Mr. Biden leading Mr.
Trump by seven percentage points among voters 65 or older.
\href{https://www.cnn.com/election/2016/results/exit-polls/pennsylvania/president}{Exit
polls in 2016} found Mr. Trump won older voters by a 10-point margin.

Image

Downtown Mt. Lebanon, a tony suburb of Pittsburgh where Mr. Lamb
lives.Credit...Ross Mantle for The New York Times

Ralph Perkins, an 89-year-old retired mining engineer from Canonsburg,
Pa., 20 miles southwest of Pittsburgh, said he was likely to vote for
Mr. Biden after casting a ballot for every Republican presidential
nominee since Dwight D. Eisenhower in 1952.

The one thing that could lead him to vote a second time for Mr. Trump,
Mr. Perkins said, would be if Mr. Biden supported defunding the police.
But after calling the local Washington County Democratic chairman, Ben
Bright, Mr. Perkins said his fears were allayed.

``Biden, I think he's very much superior to Trump,'' Mr. Perkins said.
``Do I think he's perfect? I'm not head over heels for him, but I think
he's fine.''

Mr. Bright, who began volunteering for the party after Mr. Trump's 2016
victory and became the county chairman in 2018, said Mr. Biden appeals
to the same type of voters who crossed party lines to back Mr. Lamb.

``The main issues that Democrats stand for now are what Conor ran on,''
Mr. Bright said. ``Affordable health care, good-paying jobs for middle
class people, strengthening unions and better public education.''

Mr. Lamb's 2020 Republican opponent, Sean Parnell, an Army veteran,
out-raised him by more than \$270,000 during the three-month period
ending on June 30. Still, Mr. Lamb is favored to win re-election in the
district, which was redrawn in his favor by the Pennsylvania Supreme
Court after his March 2018 victory.

Republicans discount Mr. Lamb's victory as an aberration, the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/01/17/us/politics/trump-pennsylvania-house-special-election.html}{result
of a flawed opponent} who failed to raise a significant amount of money
and Mr. Lamb's squeaky-clean image that, they say, has been tarnished by
more than two years of voting for Democratic priorities in the House.

Rick Saccone, the Republican state legislator who lost to Mr. Lamb,
``wasn't the best candidate we could have fielded,'' said Rob Gleason, a
former chairman of the Pennsylvania Republican Party.

Image

Mr. Lamb's election showed Democrats that winning in conservative
districts required defections from college-educated suburban voters, who
had been core Republican voters for decades.Credit...Ross Mantle for The
New York Times

Mr. Saccone, who during the campaign called himself ``Trump before Trump
was Trump'' in an attempt to appeal to the president's supporters, said
the anti-Trump energy in Pennsylvania would make it ``tough'' for the
president to win the state again. He attributed his own loss to Mr.
Lamb's refusal to embrace some of the Democrats' more liberal positions
on the environment and social issues.

``When they had a choice between a conservative Republican and someone
who looked like a conservative Democrat, they went with the Democrat,''
Mr. Saccone said.

In the interview last week, Mr. Lamb was clear about why he embraced the
support from Mr. Biden, and few others.

``Although everyone knows he's a Democrat, he really understands western
Pennsylvania,'' Mr. Lamb said. ``I couldn't think of anybody on a
national stage that kind of speaks the language of western Pennsylvania
better than him. And I think he helped us draw attention to the fact
that I was kind of a Democrat of the old school and someone that people
can trust to fight for them.''

\hypertarget{our-2020-election-guide}{%
\section{Our 2020 Election Guide}\label{our-2020-election-guide}}

Updated ~Sept. 9, 2020

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

\begin{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{the-latest}{%
  \subsection{The Latest}\label{the-latest}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Joe Biden heads today to Michigan, a battleground state where
    President Trump has resumed advertising ahead of a visit there on
    Thursday.
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/09/us/trump-vs-biden?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Read
    live updates}.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{how-to-win-270}{%
  \subsection{How to Win 270}\label{how-to-win-270}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Joe Biden and Donald Trump need 270 electoral votes to reach the
    White House. Try building
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/election-states-biden-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{your
    own coalition of battleground states}~to see potential outcomes.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{voting-by-mail}{%
  \subsection{Voting by Mail}\label{voting-by-mail}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Will you have enough time to vote by mail in your state? Yes, but
    it's risky to procrastinate.
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/31/us/politics/vote-by-mail-deadlines.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Check
    your state's deadline.}
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/joe-biden.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{}

    \hypertarget{joe-biden}{%
    \section{Joe Biden}\label{joe-biden}}

    \hypertarget{democrat}{%
    \subsection{Democrat}\label{democrat}}

    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/donald-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{}

    \hypertarget{donald-trump}{%
    \section{Donald Trump}\label{donald-trump}}

    \hypertarget{republican}{%
    \subsection{Republican}\label{republican}}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \hypertarget{keep-up-with-our-coverage}{%
  \subsection{Keep Up With Our
  Coverage}\label{keep-up-with-our-coverage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Get an
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{email}~recapping
    the day's news
  \item
    Download our mobile app on
    \href{https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nytimes/id284862083?ls=1\&mat_click_id=5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\&referrer=mat_click_id\%3D5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\%26link_click_id\%3D722930677036718082}{iOS}~and
    \href{http://a.localytics.com/android?id=com.nytimes.android\&referrer=utm_source\%3Dother_nyt_mobile_web\%26utm_medium\%3DWeb\%2520page\%26utm_term\%3DGeneral\%2520Mobile\%2520Page\%26utm_campaign\%3DNYT\%2520Mobile\%2520General\%2520Page}{Android}~and
    turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
