\includegraphics{https://storage.googleapis.com/vi-assets/static-assets/nyt5/20180802/images/foundation/logos/nyt-logo-163x30.png}

\hypertarget{apollo-11-as-they-shot-it}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\textbf{Apollo 11} As They Shot
It}{Apollo 11 As They Shot It}}\label{apollo-11-as-they-shot-it}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  To the Moon
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/07/18/science/apollo-11-moon-landing-photos-ul.html}{One
  Small Step}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/07/18/science/apollo-11-moon-earth-photos-ul.html}{Returning
  Home}
\end{itemize}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}

\hypertarget{-30-minutes-after-launch-}{%
\subsection{ 30 Minutes After Launch }\label{-30-minutes-after-launch-}}

michael collins Hey, Buzz?

buzz aldrin Yeah.

collins How would you like the camera?

aldrin O.K.

...

collins All right, Buzz, here's one Hasselblad for you.

...

collins Have we got any daylight? I can't see outside at all.

neil armstrong Nothing yet.

...

aldrin Let's get into the Hasselblad, get the right settings on it.

collins O.K.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}

...

armstrong We ought to be coming out into the daylight here in a little
bit.

...

collins Jesus Christ, look at that horizon!

armstrong Isn't that something?

collins Goddamn, that's pretty! This is unreal. I'd forgotten.

armstrong Get a picture of that.

collins Ooh, sure, I will.

collins I've lost a Hasselblad. Has anybody seen a Hasselblad floating
by? It couldn't have gone very far, big son of a gun like that.

...

armstrong It's too late for sunrise, anyway.

...

collins Ah! Here it is.

armstrong Find it?

collins Yes.

armstrong Beautiful.

collins It was floating in the aft bulkhead.

...

collins I got a little horizon. Man, look at that!

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}

...

collins Fantastic. I have no conception of where we're pointed or which
way we are or a crapping thing, but it's a beautiful low-pressure cell
out here.

...

armstrong Now, how we doing checklist-wise? Let's make sure we don't
screw up and forget.

...

\hypertarget{-translunar-injection-}{%
\subsection{ Translunar Injection }\label{-translunar-injection-}}

mission control, houston \emph{Apollo 11, this is Houston. Slightly less
than one minute to ignition, and everything is go.}

...

aldrin There we go. Thrust.

armstrong Ignition! Call it at 15.

collins Ignition. O.K.

armstrong Whew!

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}

...

armstrong Hey, Houston, Apollo 11. That Saturn gave us a magnificent
ride.

houston \emph{Roger, 11. We'll pass that on. And it certainly looks like
you are well on your way now.}

...

\hypertarget{-separating-and-docking-with-the-eagle-}{%
\subsection{ Separating and Docking With the Eagle
}\label{-separating-and-docking-with-the-eagle-}}

armstrong O.K., Houston, we're about to sep.

collins Thrusting.

armstrong Sep!

...

collins Flies like a spacecraft instead of a simulator. Hope that's
good.

collins Sure beautiful. I hope you got some pictures, Buzz.

...

aldrin I can't get much with the Hasselblad. That window's no good, I'm
afraid.

...

collins Stand by, we're closing.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}

...

collins That wasn't the smoothest docking I've ever done.

armstrong Well, it felt good from here.

...

\hypertarget{-outward-bound-}{%
\subsection{ Outward Bound }\label{-outward-bound-}}

aldrin Hi, Houston, Apollo 11. How many miles out do you have us now?

houston \emph{We have you --- stand by, Buzz. Roughly about 50,000.
Stand by.}

aldrin It's a beautiful sight.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}

...

aldrin O.K., Houston. You suppose you could turn the Earth a little bit
so we could get a little bit more than just water?

houston \emph{Roger, 11. I don't think we got much control over that.
Looks like you'll have to settle for the water.}

...

\hypertarget{-inspecting-the-eagle-}{%
\subsection{ Inspecting the Eagle }\label{-inspecting-the-eagle-}}

armstrong Mike must have done a smooth job in that docking. There isn't
a dent or a mark on the probe.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}

...

armstrong Looks like we'll be ready to go into the LM {[}lunar module
Eagle{]} early if that's O.K. with you all down there.

houston \emph{Roger. It's fine with us, Neil. Go ahead any time you
wish. Over.}

...

houston \emph{11, that's real good camerawork.}

armstrong That'll be the most unusual position a cameraman's ever had,
hanging by his toes from a tunnel and taking the picture upside down.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}

...

houston \emph{Is Collins going to go in and look around?}

armstrong We're willing to let him go but he hasn't come up with the
price of the ticket yet.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}

...

houston \emph{Roger. 11, Houston. It's pretty hard to describe this
view. It's really --- really great.}

aldrin Now you know how we feel.

...

\hypertarget{-behind-the-moon-}{%
\subsection{ Behind the Moon }\label{-behind-the-moon-}}

aldrin Hello, Houston. Apollo 11.

houston \emph{Apollo 11, Houston. Good morning.}

...

aldrin We've got the sun right behind the edge of the moon now.

houston \emph{Roger.}

aldrin It's quite an eerie sight.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}

...

\hypertarget{-lunar-orbit-insertion-}{%
\subsection{ Lunar Orbit Insertion }\label{-lunar-orbit-insertion-}}

houston \emph{11, this is Houston. You are go for L.O.I. Over.}

aldrin Roger. Go for L.O.I.

...

armstrong Burning. We're looking good.

...

collins I take back any bad things I ever said about M.I.T. --- which I
never have.

...

armstrong That was a beautiful burn.

...

collins Hello, Moon. How's the old backside?

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}

...

collins Well, there's no doubt that this is a little smaller than the
Earth --- would you look at that curvature?

...

armstrong What a spectacular view!

...

collins Like you to know this quest for science has caused me to lose my
lunch. Floating around in here somewhere, but I can't find it.

...

\hypertarget{-earthrise-}{%
\subsection{ Earthrise }\label{-earthrise-}}

collins Where the hell is the horizon with the world coming over it? I
guess it's behind us, huh?

armstrong Up there? We should be getting Earthshine --- Earthrise
features --- should be coming up pretty soon.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}

collins Your f/8 is 250, at infinity?

aldrin Yes.

collins Good deal. Keep working, you got a lot of film.

...

\hypertarget{-undocking-the-eagle-}{%
\subsection{ Undocking the Eagle }\label{-undocking-the-eagle-}}

collins Eagle, you read Columbia?

aldrin Roger. Loud and clear.

...

collins You cats take it easy on the lunar surface. If I hear you
huffing and puffing, I'm going to start bitching at you.

aldrin O.K., Mike.

...

aldrin Looks like a good sep.

collins Looks good to me.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}

...

armstrong Roger. Eagle's undocked.

houston \emph{Roger. How does it look, Neil?}

armstrong The Eagle has wings.

...

collins I think you've got a fine-looking flying machine there, Eagle,
despite the fact you're upside down.

armstrong Somebody's upside down.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}

...

collins You guys take care.

armstrong See you later.

collins Thrusting.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}

...

\hypertarget{-descending-to-the-surface-}{%
\subsection{ Descending to the Surface
}\label{-descending-to-the-surface-}}

houston \emph{Eagle, Houston. If you read, you're go for powered
descent. Over.}

...

aldrin Rog. We read you.

...

armstrong Program alarm.

houston \emph{It's looking good to us. Over.}

armstrong It's a 1202.

aldrin 1202.

armstrong Give us a reading on the 1202 program alarm.

houston \emph{Roger. We got you --- we're go on that alarm.}

...

houston \emph{Eagle, Houston. You're go for landing. Over.}

...

houston \emph{30 seconds {[}of fuel left{]}.}

...

aldrin Drifting forward just a little bit. That's good.

aldrin Contact light.

armstrong Shutdown.

aldrin O.K., engine stop.

...

houston \emph{We copy you down, Eagle.}

\hypertarget{apollo-11-as-they-shot-it-1}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\textbf{Apollo 11} As They Shot
It}{Apollo 11 As They Shot It}}\label{apollo-11-as-they-shot-it-1}}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/07/18/science/apollo-11-moon-landing-photos-ul.html}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/07/20/apollo11-as-they-shot-it/7caf80ed3d0f8338374f5772ac76f6c3b000da57/apollo11-footer-lm.png}

Next chapter:

\hypertarget{one-small-step}{%
\paragraph{One Small Step}\label{one-small-step}}

Produced by Jonathan Corum, Mika Gröndahl, Evan Grothjan, Marcelle
Hopkins, Jon Huang, Lingdong Huang, Yuliya Parshina-Kottas, Karthik
Patanjali and Graham Roberts. Additional production by Paul Fjeld,
Destinée-Charisse Royal, Rumsey Taylor, Lian Chang and The Mill.

This project combines condensed mission transcripts with selected
photographs taken by the Apollo 11 astronauts from July 16-24, 1969.

Sources: NASA; Apollo Flight Journal; Apollo Lunar Surface Journal.
Photos from NASA's Johnson Space Center and the Project Apollo Archive.
