\includegraphics{https://storage.googleapis.com/vi-assets/static-assets/nyt5/20180802/images/foundation/logos/nyt-logo-163x30.png}

\hypertarget{apollo-11-as-they-shot-it}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\textbf{Apollo 11} As They Shot
It}{Apollo 11 As They Shot It}}\label{apollo-11-as-they-shot-it}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/07/18/science/apollo-11-as-they-shot-it-ul.html}{To
  the Moon}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/07/18/science/apollo-11-moon-landing-photos-ul.html}{One
  Small Step}
\item
  Returning Home
\end{itemize}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}

\hypertarget{-leaving-the-moon-}{%
\subsection{ Leaving the Moon }\label{-leaving-the-moon-}}

mission control, houston \emph{Tranquility Base, Houston. Over.}

neil armstrong Good morning, Houston.

...

houston \emph{You're cleared for takeoff.}

buzz aldrin Roger. Understand. We're number 1 on the runway.

...

aldrin 26, 36 feet per second up.

armstrong The Eagle has wings.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}

...

armstrong Well, it's all over but the docking.

...

michael collins I see you don't have any landing gear.

armstrong That's good. You're not confused on which end to dock with,
are you?

...

\hypertarget{-earthrise-}{%
\subsection{ Earthrise }\label{-earthrise-}}

collins I got the Earth coming up already. It's fantastic!

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}

...

armstrong O.K., we're all yours, Columbia.

...

\hypertarget{-reunited-in-orbit-}{%
\subsection{ Reunited in Orbit }\label{-reunited-in-orbit-}}

houston \emph{Hello, Eagle. Houston. Do you read? Over.}

collins Houston, this is Columbia. Reading you loud and clear. We're all
three back inside.

...

houston \emph{How does it feel up there to have some company?}

collins Damn good, I'll tell you.

...

houston \emph{We heard on the news today, 11, that last night after you
--- yesterday after you made your landing, New York Times came out with
a --- headlines, the}
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/07/18/science/apollo-11-john-noble-wilford.html}{largest
headlines} \emph{they've ever used in the history of the newspaper.}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}

collins Save us a copy. I'm glad to hear it was fit to print.

...

\hypertarget{-trans-earth-injection-}{%
\subsection{ Trans-Earth Injection }\label{-trans-earth-injection-}}

houston \emph{Apollo 11, Houston. You are go for T.E.I. Over.}

armstrong Apollo 11. Thank you.

...

collins Okay. Stand by.

...

collins Burn! A good one.

...

aldrin Beautiful burn. S.P.S., I love you! You are a jewel! Whoosh!

...

armstrong What are you doing, Mike? What you taking pictures of?

collins Oh, I don't know. Wasting film, I guess.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}

...

aldrin Hey, I hope somebody's getting the picture of the Earth coming
up.

collins Not quite pitched far enough. Well, maybe I can get it out ---

armstrong I can get around to here.

collins {[}Garble{]} your window.

armstrong Upside down, turn the camera upside down. Then it'll look
right.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}

...

houston \emph{Apollo 11, Houston. Have you finished taking pictures?
Over.}

armstrong We're just finishing up, Charlie.

houston \emph{Rog.}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}

...

collins Nice to sit here and watch the Earth getting larger and larger
and the moon smaller and smaller.

houston \emph{Roger.}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}

...

\hypertarget{-final-shots-}{%
\subsection{ Final Shots }\label{-final-shots-}}

houston \emph{Apollo 11. Good morning from Houston. Over.}

armstrong Good morning. 11.

...

collins The Earth is really getting bigger up here and, of course, we
see a crescent.

collins We've been taking pictures and we've still got four exposures to
go, and we'll take those and then pack the camera.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}

...

collins We can see the moon passing by the window and it looks what I
consider to be a correct size.

...

collins And the sun is going down on schedule. It's getting real dark in
here.

houston \emph{Apollo 11. Houston. Copy.}

...

houston \emph{Apollo 11, Houston. You're still looking mighty fine here.
You're cleared for landing.}

\hypertarget{apollo-11-as-they-shot-it-1}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\textbf{Apollo 11} As They Shot
It}{Apollo 11 As They Shot It}}\label{apollo-11-as-they-shot-it-1}}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/spotlight/apollo-11-moon-landing}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/07/20/apollo11-as-they-shot-it/7caf80ed3d0f8338374f5772ac76f6c3b000da57/apollo11-footer-splash.png}

Related coverage:

\hypertarget{apollo-11-50th-anniversary}{%
\paragraph{Apollo 11 50th
Anniversary}\label{apollo-11-50th-anniversary}}

Read again:
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/07/18/science/apollo-11-as-they-shot-it-ul.html}{To
The Moon}

Produced by Jonathan Corum, Mika Gröndahl, Evan Grothjan, Marcelle
Hopkins, Jon Huang, Lingdong Huang, Yuliya Parshina-Kottas, Karthik
Patanjali and Graham Roberts. Additional production by Paul Fjeld,
Destinée-Charisse Royal, Rumsey Taylor, Lian Chang and The Mill.

This project combines condensed mission transcripts with selected
photographs taken by the Apollo 11 astronauts from July 16-24, 1969.

Sources: NASA; Apollo Flight Journal; Apollo Lunar Surface Journal.
Photos from NASA's Johnson Space Center and the Project Apollo Archive.
