Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/us}{U.S.}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/us}{U.S.}\textbar{}Chicago Police and Federal Agents to
Team Up on Gun Violence

\url{https://nyti.ms/2ttTaJE}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{chicago-police-and-federal-agents-to-team-up-on-gun-violence}{%
\section{Chicago Police and Federal Agents to Team Up on Gun
Violence}\label{chicago-police-and-federal-agents-to-team-up-on-gun-violence}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2017/07/01/us/01Chicago/01Chicago-articleLarge-v3.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By \href{http://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/mitch-smith}{Mitch Smith}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  June 30, 2017
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

CHICAGO --- As a candidate, Donald J. Trump frequently mentioned the
shootings that claim hundreds of lives here each year. As a new
president, he threatened on Twitter to
\href{https://twitter.com/realdonaldtrump/status/824080766288228352?lang=en}{``send
in the Feds!''} if the local authorities did not stop the ``carnage.''
Five months later, Mr. Trump had another message about the city, as
officials here announced a program that deploys more federal agents to
address the city's gun crime.

``Crime and killings in Chicago have reached such epidemic proportions
that I am sending in Federal help,'' Mr. Trump
\href{https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/880739852286918656}{wrote
Friday morning on Twitter}.

His post preceded an official announcement on Friday of the Chicago
Crime Gun Strike Force, comprising agents from the Bureau of Alcohol,
Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives, as well as prosecutors, Chicago police
officers and Illinois state troopers. The team will include about 20
A.T.F. agents and about 20 members of the Chicago Police Department, and
it was described by the federal authorities as the first permanent unit
of its kind in the country.

``Their sole responsibility will be to fight gun crime in the city of
Chicago,'' said Special Agent Tim Jones of the A.T.F., the team's
commander. ``Our hope is that with more agents here, there will be more
cases recommended for prosecution.''

Yet some in Chicago --- where more than 760 people were killed last
year, the most of any American city --- were skeptical about how much
influence a few dozen more investigators would have.

Chicago has a tense relationship with the president. Last year, a large
protest scuttled Mr. Trump's plans for a campaign rally in the city,
where his surname is emblazoned on a downtown skyscraper. Mayor Rahm
Emanuel has frequently criticized the president's policies, while also
saying at times that he would welcome more federal law enforcement.

``Apparently this morning the president saw fit to take a brief break
from attacking journalists on Twitter to attack one particular major
U.S. city instead,'' said a spokesman for Mr. Emanuel, Adam Collins.
``If the president was as interested in taking action on public safety
as he is in tweeting about it, we would have seen these resources months
ago.''

Chicago officials have long advocated stricter gun laws as a way to
reduce shootings. A White House spokeswoman, Sarah Huckabee Sanders,
speaking during an off-air briefing on Friday, was asked if part of the
increase in crime was part of a larger ``gun control problem'' that
could be dealt with through a change in firearms laws.

``I think that the problem there, pretty clearly, it's a crime
problem,'' she said. ``I think that crime is probably driven more by
morality than anything else. So I think this is a law enforcement
issue.''

But some here suggested that the president's efforts were unlikely to
yield significant results. Representative Danny K. Davis, Democrat of
Illinois, said Mr. Trump should be increasing funding for social service
programs, and cautioned, ``I don't think we're going to be able to
police ourselves out of the violence.''

``The way you'd really do that is change people's attitudes, change
their minds, change the approach to life,'' said Mr. Davis, whose
teenage grandson was shot and killed in Chicago last year. ``I don't
think the A.T.F. will do much in terms of the violence or the crime.''

Shari Runner, the president of the Chicago Urban League, said the A.T.F.
collaboration could be helpful, even though she said she had doubts
about the president's motives.

If it ``reduces the amount of guns flowing into the city, I'm all for
it; let's do it,'' Ms. Runner said. ``But it's not because the president
all of a sudden decided he was going to send the feds in. That's a lot
of hype and hyperbole.''

In February, the A.T.F. announced it would send more agents to Chicago.
This week, police officials said the bureau was stationing a mobile
ballistics lab in the city for part of the summer, when violence here
traditionally peaks. But the practical effect remains unclear.

``Six months ago, we made it clear that we would welcome additional
federal support, and six months later, we appreciate the 20 new A.T.F.
agents that are now arriving,'' Mr. Collins said. ``But the progress
C.P.D. has made this year has happened without any of the new resources
from the federal government we requested.''

Through Friday, 1,360 shootings had been reported in the city, about 200
fewer than during the same period in 2016. The number of criminal
homicides --- 320 so far in 2017, compared with 322 at this point last
year --- has hardly changed.

The A.T.F. and other federal law enforcement agencies already have large
field offices in Chicago and have frequently partnered with the local
police on investigations. Chicago police officials said the new unit
would focus on preventing illegally possessed guns from flowing through
the city and on targeting people repeatedly involved in gun crimes, both
of which have long been cited as drivers of the violence. The unit is
also intended to team up front-line law enforcement officers with state
and federal prosecutors.

Anthony Riccio, the chief of the Police Department's Bureau of Organized
Crime, said the new team would ``significantly help our efforts to trace
and stop the flow of illegal guns,'' including over the Independence Day
weekend, often one of the city's most violent.

But police leaders also acknowledged the unit's limitations. Kevin
Navarro, Chicago's first deputy police superintendent, said that
``preventing crime and reducing gun violence won't be solved by one
strategy.''

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{Â©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
