Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}Biden Adds a Claim to His
Biography: An Arrest in South Africa

\url{https://nyti.ms/2wEWFRb}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/20/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{D.N.C.
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/20/us/politics/biden-presidential-nomination-dnc.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Biden's
  Speech}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/us/elections/2020-presidential-election-calendar.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Election
  Calendar}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/11/us/politics/vote-by-mail-us-states.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Voting
  by Mail}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Politics
  Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{biden-adds-a-claim-to-his-biography-an-arrest-in-south-africa}{%
\section{Biden Adds a Claim to His Biography: An Arrest in South
Africa}\label{biden-adds-a-claim-to-his-biography-an-arrest-in-south-africa}}

Joe Biden has recounted a story --- three times in two weeks --- about
being arrested on his way to see Nelson Mandela. He did not mention it
in his memoir or speak prominently of it before.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/02/20/us/politics/20bidenmandela/20bidenmandela-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/katie-glueck}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/01/29/reader-center/author-katie-glueck/author-katie-glueck-thumbLarge.png}}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/thomas-kaplan}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2019/08/28/reader-center/author-thomas-kaplan/author-thomas-kaplan-thumbLarge-v2.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/katie-glueck}{Katie
Glueck} and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/thomas-kaplan}{Thomas
Kaplan}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Feb. 21, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

LAS VEGAS --- In at least three campaign appearances over the past two
weeks,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/joe-biden.html}{Joseph
R. Biden Jr.} has told a similar story as he tries to revive his
campaign in states with more diverse voters. On a trip to South Africa
years ago, he has said, he was arrested as he sought to visit Nelson
Mandela in prison.

``This day, 30 years ago, Nelson Mandela walked out of prison and
entered into discussions about apartheid,'' Mr. Biden said at a campaign
event in South Carolina last week. ``I had the great honor of meeting
him. I had the great honor of being arrested with our U.N. ambassador on
the streets of Soweto trying to get to see him on Robbens Island.''

Mr. Biden referred to his own **** arrest twice more in the next seven
days, including at a campaign stop here on Tuesday where he spoke of
getting arrested in South Africa between efforts to coax his wife to
marry him. That proposal occurred in 1977, both Bidens have said.

But if Mr. Biden, then a United States senator from Delaware, was in
fact arrested while trying to visit Mr. Mandela, he did not mention it
in his 2007 memoir when writing about a 1970s trip to South Africa, and
he has not spoken of it prominently on the 2020 campaign trail. A check
of available news accounts by The New York Times turned up no references
to an arrest. South African arrest records are not readily available in
the United States.

\href{https://history.house.gov/People/Detail/21064}{Andrew Young}, a
former congressman and mayor of Atlanta who was the U.S. ambassador to
the United Nations from 1977 to 1979, said that he had traveled with Mr.
Biden over the years, including to South Africa. But Mr. Young said that
he had never been arrested in South Africa and expressed skepticism that
members of Congress would have faced arrest there.

``No, I was never arrested and I don't think he was, either,'' Mr.
Young, now 87, said in a telephone interview.

Mr. Young added: ``Now, people were being arrested in Washington. I
don't think there was ever a situation where congressmen were arrested
in South Africa.'' He emphasized his great respect for Mr. Biden, though
he said he was currently supporting former Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg of
New York for the presidency.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-2020-election}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/19/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: 2020
Election}}{Latest Updates: 2020 Election}}\label{latest-updates-2020-election}}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/19/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#night-3-featured-more-policy-a-focus-on-women-and-a-full-throated-rejection-of-trump-by-his-predecessor}{7h
ago}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/19/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#night-3-featured-more-policy-a-focus-on-women-and-a-full-throated-rejection-of-trump-by-his-predecessor}{Night
3 featured more policy, a focus on women and a full-throated rejection
of Trump by his predecessor.}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/19/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#trump-live-tweeted-obamas-speech-tonight-hell-appear-on-fox-news-right-before-bidens-tomorrow}{9h
ago}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/19/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#trump-live-tweeted-obamas-speech-tonight-hell-appear-on-fox-news-right-before-bidens-tomorrow}{Trump
live-tweeted Obama's speech tonight. He'll appear on Fox News right
before Biden's tomorrow.}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/19/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#advocates-for-domestic-violence-survivors-praised-biden-in-a-video}{9h
ago}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/19/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#advocates-for-domestic-violence-survivors-praised-biden-in-a-video}{Advocates
for domestic violence survivors praised Biden in a video.}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/19/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

Former Senator Gary Hart, a Democrat from Colorado who joined the Senate
in 1975 and who was a vocal opponent of apartheid, said in a brief phone
call, ``I know nothing about that,'' when asked about Mr. Biden's
account.

The Times could not account for all of the details of Mr. Biden's
overseas travel during the period that included the South Africa trip.
Mr. Biden's campaign did not respond to five efforts to seek comment and
clarification.

Mr. Biden's repetition in recent days of the story about an arrest in
South Africa comes as he confronts challenging political headwinds. Once
the national front-runner, he turned in disappointing results in Iowa
and New Hampshire, two heavily white states, where he finished fourth
and fifth, respectively. His campaign is banking on
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/02/17/us/politics/joe-biden-nevada.html}{at
least a second-place finish} in Nevada on Saturday and a victory in
South Carolina, two diverse states where voters of color play crucial
roles. He regularly uses his remarks to try to connect with black
voters, such as saying in Nevada and elsewhere that he was ``raised in
the black church.''

In South Carolina in particular, Mr. Biden is pinning his hopes on a
strong showing with African-American voters, a constituency with which
he polled strongly throughout much of the race, though he now faces
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/02/13/us/politics/biden-black-voters-south-carolina.html}{increasing
competition} for the support of black voters.

After recounting the story of his arrest while campaigning in South
Carolina last week, Mr. Biden subsequently told it twice more in Nevada,
mistakenly saying Robbens Island instead of Robben, where Mr. Mandela
was held for much of his 27-year imprisonment.

And on Sunday, as he had in South Carolina, he also delivered a coda to
the story.

``After he got free and became president, he came to Washington and came
to my office,'' Mr. Biden said of Mr. Mandela at a black history awards
brunch in Las Vegas. ``He threw his arms around me and said, `I want to
say thank you.' I said, `What are you thanking me for, Mr. President?'
He said, `You tried to see me. You got arrested trying to see me.'''

On Tuesday, speaking in Las Vegas at an event with Asian-American and
Pacific Islander voters, he said that he ``came back from South Africa,
trying to see Nelson Mandela and getting arrested for trying to see
him,'' right before he received an answer to his marriage proposal from
his now-wife, Jill Biden.

Mr. Biden has previously discussed visiting South Africa as a young
senator --- but his emphasis in discussing his travel there has not been
on an arrest.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/02/20/us/politics/20bidenmandela2/merlin_168809463_9569cd92-a9d0-434a-ab4b-f491095e5b19-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

In a
\href{https://www.cbsnews.com/video/biden-signs-condolence-book-for-nelson-mandela/}{December
2013 clip from CBS News}, Mr. Biden, expressing admiration for Mr.
Mandela, mentioned a congressional delegation trip he took to South
Africa. He also described being thanked, years later, by the iconic
civil rights leader, but did not mention his own arrest. Instead, he
said Mr. Mandela expressed gratitude for
\href{https://www.chicagotribune.com/news/ct-xpm-1986-07-24-8602230193-story.html}{his
support} of anti-apartheid sanctions.

In a 2013 statement marking the death of Mr. Mandela, Mr. Biden, then
vice president, recalled how he had traveled to Soweto with Mr. Young,
but he did not mention an arrest.

``I saw his world the way it used to be when I visited South Africa as a
34-year-old senator,''
\href{https://obamawhitehouse.archives.gov/the-press-office/2013/12/05/statement-vice-president-death-nelson-mandela}{the
statement said}. ``When I exited the plane I was directed to one side of
the tarmac, while the African-American congressmen traveling with me
were sent to the other side. I refused to break off, and the officials
finally relented. When I tried to enter Soweto township with Congressmen
Andrew Young of Atlanta and Charles Diggs of Detroit, I remember their
tears of anger and sadness.''

Mr. Young, in the phone interview, said he did encounter discrimination
on his trips to South Africa over the years, but said, ``I would not
forget going to jail, but I know I did not ever go to jail in South
Africa.''

Mr. Biden and Dr. Biden wrote about a South Africa trip in their
memoirs, too. According to their accounts, Mr. Biden went there after
giving Dr. Biden an ultimatum following multiple marriage proposals.
They both have said that Mr. Biden sought a response when he returned
from the trip.

Neither Mr. Biden nor Dr. Biden mentioned an arrest when describing the
proposal.

``The 10 days in Africa felt like forever,'' Mr. Biden wrote in his book
``Promises to Keep.'' ``I had gotten through worse, but I knew that if
Jill said no, it was going to hurt like hell.''

It was in that context --- a lighthearted retelling of multiple marriage
proposals --- that Mr. Biden brought up Mr. Mandela at the campaign
event on Tuesday.

``When I came back,'' he said, ``first thing I did, I landed in
Philadelphia and I went back to her apartment.''

Last year, Mr. Biden
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/08/29/us/politics/joe-biden-gaffes-military-history.html}{faced
scrutiny} after
\href{https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/as-he-campaigns-for-president-joe-biden-tells-a-moving-but-false-war-story/2019/08/29/b5159676-c9aa-11e9-a1fe-ca46e8d573c0_story.html}{The
Washington Post reported} that he had misstated details in a story about
the war in Afghanistan that he told on the campaign trail.

Former Senator Bob Kerrey, a supporter of Mr. Biden's who joined the
Senate in 1989 as a Democrat from Nebraska, suggested that perhaps there
could have been an arrest of senators but no charges by the government,
and noted, ``a step away from arrest is to be detained.''

``I had some senators I wish had been arrested,'' Mr. Kerrey joked in a
phone interview. ``He's not on that list.''

But he said that he had never heard the story before.

Kitty Bennett contributed research.

\hypertarget{our-2020-election-guide}{%
\section{Our 2020 Election Guide}\label{our-2020-election-guide}}

Updated Aug. 20, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{convention-recap}{%
  \subsection{Convention Recap}\label{convention-recap}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Joe Biden accepted the Democratic nomination, urging Americans to
    have faith that they could
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/20/us/politics/Joe-Biden-accepts-democratic-nomination.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{``overcome
    this season of darkness.''}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{news-analysis}{%
  \subsection{News Analysis}\label{news-analysis}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Looming over Mr. Biden's nomination was the ever-present shadow of
    another man who's poised to dominate the campaign:
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/20/us/politics/biden-dnc-speech-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Donald
    J. Trump}.
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{keep-up-with-our-coverage}{%
  \subsection{Keep Up With Our
  Coverage}\label{keep-up-with-our-coverage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Get an
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{email}
    recapping the day's news
  \end{itemize}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Download our mobile app on
    \href{https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nytimes/id284862083?ls=1\&mat_click_id=5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\&referrer=mat_click_id\%3D5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\%26link_click_id\%3D722930677036718082}{iOS}
    and
    \href{http://a.localytics.com/android?id=com.nytimes.android\&referrer=utm_source\%3Dother_nyt_mobile_web\%26utm_medium\%3DWeb\%2520page\%26utm_term\%3DGeneral\%2520Mobile\%2520Page\%26utm_campaign\%3DNYT\%2520Mobile\%2520General\%2520Page}{Android}
    and turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
