Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/nyregion}{New York}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/nyregion}{New York}\textbar{}Ghislaine Maxwell, Associate
of Jeffrey Epstein, Is Arrested

\url{https://nyti.ms/3eSUI4N}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{ghislaine-maxwell-associate-of-jeffrey-epstein-is-arrested}{%
\section{Ghislaine Maxwell, Associate of Jeffrey Epstein, Is
Arrested}\label{ghislaine-maxwell-associate-of-jeffrey-epstein-is-arrested}}

Ms. Maxwell was accused of helping Mr. Epstein recruit, groom and then
sexually abuse girls, one as young as 14.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/07/02/nyregion/02maxwell/02maxwell-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/nicole-hong}{Nicole
Hong},
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/benjamin-weiser}{Benjamin
Weiser} and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/mihir-zaveri}{Mihir Zaveri}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Published July 2, 2020Updated July 22, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

The girl was 14 years old when she met the financier
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/13/nyregion/ghislaine-maxwell-jeffrey-epstein.html}{Jeffrey
Epstein} and his companion,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/14/nyregion/ghislaine-maxwell-bail.html}{Ghislaine
Maxwell}, in the 1990s. They tried to become her friend, taking her
shopping and to the movies. Ms. Maxwell asked about her family and
school.

Then,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/14/nyregion/ghislaine-maxwell-bail.html}{Ms.
Maxwell} began undressing in front of the girl and recruiting her to
participate in sexualized massages of Mr. Epstein, prosecutors said. The
pattern continued for years, as Ms. Maxwell fed Mr. Epstein's dark
desires and participated in some of the abuse herself, according to a
newly unsealed indictment.

Ms. Maxwell,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/07/15/us/ghislaine-maxwell-epstein.html}{the
daughter of a publishing magnate and once a fixture on New York's social
scene,} was arrested on Thursday in New Hampshire, where the authorities
said she had been hiding. She was charged with luring multiple underage
girls into Mr. Epstein's orbit.

The arrest of Ms. Maxwell, Mr. Epstein's former girlfriend and longtime
associate, was the latest twist in a legal saga that has been a source
of international intrigue and conspiracy theories. The case has drawn in
prominent academics, politicians, business leaders and even British
royalty.

Ms. Maxwell's arrest came almost exactly one year after Mr. Epstein was
charged in a
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/07/08/nyregion/jeffrey-epstein-charges.html?module=inline}{federal
indictment}with sexually exploiting and abusing dozens of girls and
women at his mansion in Manhattan, his estate in Palm Beach, Fla., and
other locations.

\hypertarget{the-indictment-of-ghislaine-maxwell}{%
\subsection{The Indictment of Ghislaine
Maxwell}\label{the-indictment-of-ghislaine-maxwell}}

Read the full document of charges against Ms. Maxwell.

\includegraphics{https://int.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/data/documenthelper/7061-u-s-v-ghislaine-maxwell-indict/96d918f9d16dbd14e656/optimized/thumbnail.png}

A month after his arrest, in August 2019, Mr. Epstein
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/11/20/nyregion/jeffrey-epstein-death.html}{hanged
himself} in his cell at the Metropolitan Correctional Center in Lower
Manhattan, where he had been jailed pending trial on sex trafficking
charges. After his death, federal prosecutors said they would continue
to investigate his associates.

For the past year, Ms. Maxwell, now 58, had been hiding out in various
locations in New England, prosecutors wrote in a memo on Thursday. She
switched her email address and registered a new phone number under the
name ``G Max.'' She ordered packages using a different person's name for
the shipping label.

Most recently, Ms. Maxwell was living on a 156-acre property in
Bradford, N.H., where she was arrested, prosecutors said. The property
was acquired in an all-cash purchase in December, and prosecutors said
the buyer's identity had been shielded by a limited liability
corporation.

The authorities had been tracking Ms. Maxwell's movements and had
recently learned about her relocation to the New Hampshire home, an
F.B.I. official said.

The indictment charged Ms. Maxwell with six counts, including
transportation of a minor with intent to engage in criminal sexual
activity. She also faces perjury charges for statements she made during
a deposition in 2016 about her role in Mr. Epstein's alleged sex
trafficking operation.

``Maxwell enticed minor girls, got them to trust her, then delivered
them into the trap that she and Epstein had set for them,'' Audrey
Strauss, the acting U.S. attorney for the Southern District of New York,
said at a news conference on Thursday.

Lawrence A. Vogelman, a lawyer for Ms. Maxwell, declined to comment. She
has previously denied wrongdoing in civil lawsuits.

The indictment lists three minor victims who prosecutors say were
recruited by Ms. Maxwell from 1994 to 1997, without identifying them by
name. Federal laws allow the government to prosecute sex offenses
committed against minors at any point in the victim's lifetime.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/07/02/nyregion/02maxwell-arrest/02maxwell-arrest-videoSixteenByNine3000-v2.jpg}

Ms. Maxwell appeared Thursday afternoon in federal court in New
Hampshire, where a magistrate judge ordered her detained and sent to New
York, pending further proceedings there.

In a memo arguing that Ms. Maxwell should be jailed until trial,
prosecutors said she posed an extreme flight risk, partly because of her
financial resources. Investigators said they had identified more than 15
bank accounts linked to Ms. Maxwell, whose total balance at times was
more than \$20 million.

Prosecutors described her total financial picture as ``opaque and
indeterminate.'' Between 2007 and 2011, more than \$20 million was
transferred from accounts associated with Mr. Epstein to accounts
associated with Ms. Maxwell, prosecutors said.

For years, Mr. Epstein had been dogged by lawsuits, news articles and
even a state criminal case in Florida accusing him of preying on girls
and women. But he had avoided any lasting repercussions until his arrest
last year by federal authorities, who launched a wide-ranging inquiry
into his associates.

As part of the investigation, federal authorities had sought the
cooperation of Prince Andrew, the second son of Queen Elizabeth II. He
had been a longtime friend of both Ms. Maxwell and Mr. Epstein.

In an unusual move,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/08/nyregion/jeffrey-epstein-prince-andrew.html}{prosecutors
had announced publicly} that the prince refused to help with their
investigation. Last month, the prince's lawyers said he had agreed to
provide New York prosecutors with a written statement, but would not sit
for an interview.

On Thursday, Ms. Strauss said federal prosecutors would still like to
speak with Prince Andrew. The investigation is ongoing, and officials
urged others who might have been victims to contact the authorities.

``The example set by the women involved in this investigation has been a
powerful one,'' said William F. Sweeney Jr., head of the F.B.I. office
in New York. ``They persevered against the rich and the connected, and
they did so without a badge, a gun or a subpoena, and they stood
together.''

Mr. Epstein,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/07/10/business/jeffrey-epstein-net-worth.html}{who
grew up with modest means in Brooklyn and built a life of luxury,}
socialized with powerful executives and politicians, including
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/21/nyregion/trump-ghislaine-maxwell-jeffrey-epstein.html}{President
Trump} and former President Bill Clinton.

A video from 1992 that was released last year showed Mr. Trump and Mr.
Epstein watching and commenting on women together at an event at
Mar-a-Lago, Mr. Trump's club in Palm Beach, Fla. Mr. Trump told
reporters last year that
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/07/17/us/politics/trump-jeffrey-epstein-video.html}{he
had not spoken to Mr. Epstein in 15 years}.

Mr. Clinton has taken trips on Mr. Epstein's private jet and visited his
home in New York, but the two had not spoken in a decade, a spokesman
said last year.

Last year's indictment against Mr. Epstein was brought under Geoffrey S.
Berman, then the U.S. attorney in Manhattan.
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/20/nyregion/trump-geoffrey-berman-fired-sdny.html}{President
Trump fired Mr. Berman less than two weeks ago}, which led to Mr.
Berman's top deputy, Ms. Strauss, taking over the investigation.

Ms. Strauss said that the timing of the charges had nothing to do with
Mr. Berman's firing.

Lawsuits have long
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/08/14/style/ghislaine-maxwell-terramar-boats-jeffrey-epstein.html}{accused
Ms. Maxwell} of managing a network of recruiters to entice young and
often financially strapped girls and women into Mr. Epstein's scheme,
promising he would help them with their education and careers.

After Ms. Maxwell befriended girls and established a rapport with them,
she would ``normalize sexual abuse'' by undressing in front of them or
talking about sexual topics, the indictment said.

When Mr. Epstein offered to pay for travel and educational opportunities
for some of the girls, Ms. Maxwell encouraged them to accept his
assistance, prosecutors said.

Mr. Epstein would then abuse the girls in his residences and other
locations in New York, New Mexico, Florida and London, according to the
indictment.

Ms. Maxwell would also sometimes be present when Mr. Epstein sexually
abused girls, which ``helped put the victims at ease because an adult
woman was present,'' according to the indictment.

In one instance in 1996, the indictment said, Ms. Maxwell gave an
underage girl an unsolicited massage in New Mexico while the girl was
topless.

The victim, identified as Minor Victim-2, is Annie Farmer, according to
a person familiar with her. The allegations from New Mexico match a
claim made by Ms. Farmer
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/08/26/us/epstein-farmer-sisters-maxwell.html}{in
an account given last year to The New York Times} and in a lawsuit she
filed against Mr. Epstein's estate.

Investigators said they corroborated victim accounts with
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/07/26/nyregion/jeffrey-epstein-pilots.html}{flight
records}, diary entries, business records and other contemporaneous
documents.

Prosecutors also accused Ms. Maxwell of lying under oath during a 2016
deposition in a lawsuit. When Ms. Maxwell was asked whether Mr. Epstein
had a scheme to recruit underage girls for sexual massages, she
responded: ``I don't know what you're talking about,'' the indictment
said.

Last year, federal prosecutors accused Mr. Epstein of paying girls and
women to give him massages while they were nude or topless, in
encounters that typically included sex acts. That activity was said to
have occurred between 2002 and 2005.

Earlier this year, Ms. Maxwell
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/18/business/jeffrey-epstein-ghislaine-maxwell-lawsuit.html}{sued
Mr. Epstein's \$600 million estate}, saying that he had promised to pay
her legal fees for any claims from women who accused her of recruiting
them for sexual massages. The estate has set up a restitution fund for
victims, and at least 70 women have expressed interest.

Ms. Maxwell was born in France and grew up in a mansion in
Buckinghamshire, England, where she socialized with aristocrats and
royals. She attended Oxford and moved to New York in 1991, around the
time that her father, the British publishing magnate Robert Maxwell,
bought The Daily News.

Her father died that year after tumbling off a
boat\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/1991/12/20/business/maxwell-s-empire-it-grew-it-fell-special-report-charming-big-bankers-billions.html}{in
the midst of mounting debt}. Ms. Maxwell then moved into a modest
apartment on the Upper East Side.

After Ms. Maxwell and Mr. Epstein started dating, she began spending
time at his estate in Florida, entertaining prominent visitors from
around the world.

In 2000, Ms. Maxwell moved into a townhouse less than 10 blocks from Mr.
Epstein's mansion that was purchased by an anonymous LLC represented by
Mr. Epstein's longtime lawyer.

In a Vanity Fair article a few years later, Mr. Epstein described Ms.
Maxwell as his ``best friend.'' Ms. Maxwell helped manage Mr. Epstein's
properties and introduced him to the celebrities and business executives
who would form his social circle.

Questions about the nature of their close relationship, however, emerged
over the years.

Mr. Epstein pleaded guilty in 2008 in Florida to state charges of
soliciting prostitution, and a 2009 lawsuit against Mr. Epstein claimed
that he and Ms. Maxwell sexually abused one woman,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/08/09/nyregion/epstein-sex-slave-documents.html}{Virginia
Giuffre}, when she was 16. Ms. Maxwell has denied the claims.

Despite the connection with Mr. Epstein, Ms. Maxwell's social standing
had appeared unscathed for years. In 2013, she
\href{https://bfa.com/home/photo/679638?term=ghislaine\%20maxwell}{stood
with Lloyd C. Blankfein}, then the chief executive of Goldman Sachs, at
an event supporting marriage equality and was
\href{https://bfa.com/home/photo/852481?term=ghislaine\%20maxwell}{pictured
alongside Michael R. Bloomberg}, then the mayor of New York, at a book
party.

But Ms. Giuffre filed a defamation suit against her in 2015, and Ms.
Maxwell disappeared from the New York party circuit.

After Mr. Epstein's arrest, she stopped appearing in public entirely.

Matthew Goldstein and James B. Stewart contributed reporting. Kitty
Bennett contributed research.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
