Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/opinion}{Opinion}\textbar{}One Job Is Better Than Two

\url{https://nyti.ms/2ZA6cFP}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

\href{/section/opinion}{Opinion}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{one-job-is-better-than-two}{%
\section{One Job Is Better Than Two}\label{one-job-is-better-than-two}}

Millions of Americans have full-time jobs that don't pay enough to make
ends meet. So they have to work a second job, too.

By
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/binyamin-appelbaum}{Binyamin
Appelbaum} and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/damon-winter}{Damon Winter}

Mr. Appelbaum is a member of the editorial board. Mr. Winter is a staff
photographer on assignment for Opinion.

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Sept. 1, 2019
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2019/09/01/opinion/01laborspread-ashley/01laborspread-ashley-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

It's easy for most people to find a job in America on Labor Day 2019.
The unemployment rate is very low; store windows are plastered with help
wanted signs.

But for millions of Americans, one job is not enough.

Bridget Hughes, 29, works a regular day shift at a Burger King in Kansas
City, Mo. Three nights a week, she also works the overnight shift at a
nearby McDonald's. She makes \$10 an hour at Burger King and \$9.50 an
hour at McDonald's and, together with her husband's job at a gas
station, they manage to feed their three children and to pay the rent.

``When I thought of my future, I thought I was going to be at football
games and soccer practices and cheerleading, when in all actuality I'm
lucky if I'm home for birthdays,'' Ms. Hughes said. ``And my children,
they think if mommy is at work all the time then we should have the
money. But the reality is that I'm at work all the time and I don't have
the money.''

More than eight million people --- roughly 5 percent of all workers ---
held more than one job at a time in July, according to the most recent
federal data. The economy has been growing for more than a decade, but
their lives offer a reminder that not all Americans are thriving.

Like Ms. Hughes, most people with multiple jobs worked a full-time job
that just didn't pay enough. Most workers find second jobs in the same
industry, but a growing number have taken on ``gig'' work like driving
for Uber.

Daniel Asnake, 49, sleeps in his car after his morning shift as a
baggage handler at Reagan National Airport outside Washington, D.C. Then
he uses the car to earn as much as \$145 a shift as an Uber driver well
into the evening. Most days, he leaves home before his two children rise
and returns after they have gone to sleep.

Ashley Cocchiara, 30, hopes to drop her second job soon. Ms. Cocchiara,
who lives south of Pittsburgh, landed a spot in a union training program
for industrial painters two years ago, and as she racks up hours, her
hourly pay is climbing. For now, she still picks up weekend shifts as a
bartender in her hometown, to make enough money to care for her
3-year-old son. By next year, she hopes painting will pay enough so she
can spend the time with her son instead.

\hypertarget{daniel-asnake}{%
\subsection{Daniel Asnake}\label{daniel-asnake}}

Image

Credit...Damon Winter/The New York Times

Daniel Asnake, 49, handles baggage at Reagan National Airport, left,
outside Washington, D.C., even though a doctor told him not to lift more
than 15 pounds because of a spinal injury. After finishing his shift at
12:30 p.m., he takes a nap in his car before driving Uber passengers
into the evening, recently ending a shift in Silver Spring, Md., right.
The two jobs allow him to support his wife, Hannah Firdawoke, who is
disabled, and their two sons, Luel Daniel, 7, and Natnel Daniel, 4,
center. But he often goes a week without seeing the boys.

\hypertarget{daysy-rodriguez}{%
\subsection{Daysy Rodriguez}\label{daysy-rodriguez}}

Image

Credit...Damon Winter/The New York Times

Daysy Rodriguez, 55, outside her home in Elizabeth, N.J., left,
supplements her full-time job at a warehouse, center, with part-time
work promoting a Latin food company at a Food Bazaar, right. She also
works overnight shifts as a home care attendant on weekends. She uses
the money from her extra jobs to help her daughter pay her way through
college. Her daughter is on pace to graduate next year, and once she
does, Ms. Rodriguez plans to cut back on her hours. ``I'll be able to
rest my body and mind,'' she said. ``And I hope that happens soon.''

\hypertarget{rich-berry}{%
\subsection{Rich Berry}\label{rich-berry}}

Image

Credit...Damon Winter/The New York Times

Rich Berry, 53, at right with one of his two sons, Jared, 20, loves
coaching hockey at the State University of New York's upstate campus in
Cortland. But during his 20 years as a state trooper, Mr. Berry was not
allowed to be paid to do it. After retiring in 2015, Mr. Berry started
drawing a salary from the university, but even with a state pension, he
had to work five days a week from 7 a.m. to 3 p.m. at Meldrim's Paint
Center in Cortland, center, and part-time as a deputy for the Cortland
County Sheriff's Department, left, to pay the bills.

\hypertarget{bridget-hughes}{%
\subsection{Bridget Hughes}\label{bridget-hughes}}

Image

Credit...Damon Winter/The New York Times

Bridget Hughes has worked in fast food restaurants since she dropped out
of high school at the age of 16 to help her mother pay the bills. Ms.
Hughes, 29, works a regular day shift at a Burger King in Kansas City,
Mo., left. Three days a week, she sleeps for a few hours and then heads
to a nearby McDonald's, right, for an overnight shift. Her mother,
sister and brother help to care for her children, Rae'Aunna, 6, Dezmon,
7 and Tray'Von, 10, center.

\hypertarget{alicia-cleveland}{%
\subsection{Alicia Cleveland}\label{alicia-cleveland}}

Image

Credit...Damon Winter/The New York Times

Alicia Cleveland, left, works as a nanny for an Atlanta family three
days a week, earning \$18 an hour. Ms. Cleveland, 41, would like to find
a family that needs full-time help; in the meantime, she picks up odd
jobs as a babysitter, chauffeuring kids to activities in her Dodge
Journey. After dinner and homework with her own three children, Jaida,
9, Jordan, 13 and Jasmine, 16, center, she heads back out to drive for
Uber and Lyft, often starting on a trendy strip of restaurants near
Georgia State University, right.

\emph{Produced by Sarah Eckinger.}

\emph{The Times is committed to publishing}
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/01/31/opinion/letters/letters-to-editor-new-york-times-women.html}{\emph{a
diversity of letters}} \emph{to the editor. We'd like to hear what you
think about this or any of our articles. Here are some}
\href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014925288-How-to-submit-a-letter-to-the-editor}{\emph{tips}}\emph{.
And here's our email:}
\href{mailto:letters@NYTimes.com}{\emph{letters@NYTimes.com}}\emph{.}

\emph{Follow The New York Times Opinion section on}
\href{https://www.facebookcorewwwi.onion/nytopinion}{\emph{Facebook}}\emph{,}
\href{http://twitter.com/NYTOpinion}{\emph{Twitter (@NYTopinion)}}
\emph{and}
\href{https://www.instagram.com/nytopinion/}{\emph{Instagram}}\emph{.}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{Â©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
