\href{/section/arts}{Arts}\textbar{}Jordan Klepper Wants to Be a Colbert
for the Breitbart Era

\url{https://nyti.ms/2f0bsd5}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2017/09/24/arts/24KLEPPER1/24KLEPPER1-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Sections

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\hypertarget{jordan-klepper-wants-to-be-a-colbert-for-the-breitbart-era}{%
\section{Jordan Klepper Wants to Be a Colbert for the Breitbart
Era}\label{jordan-klepper-wants-to-be-a-colbert-for-the-breitbart-era}}

A former correspondent for ``The Daily Show'' plays an incendiary fringe
pundit on his new Comedy Central series, ``The Opposition w/ Jordan
Klepper.''

Jordan Klepper at the offices of his new show on Comedy Central, ``The
Opposition w/ Jordan Klepper.''Credit...Bryan Derballa for The New York
Times

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

By \href{http://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/dave-itzkoff}{Dave
Itzkoff}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Sept. 15, 2017
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

This was a crucial opportunity for Jordan Klepper to figure out who
Jordan Klepper is.

On a recent Friday evening, Mr. Klepper, the ``Daily Show''
correspondent, was sitting at a long conference table scattered with
office supplies, performing a comic monologue.

Playing a character who is also named Jordan Klepper, he adopted the
voice of an overconfident idiot to riff on
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2017/09/07/us/politics/trump-russia-investigation.html?mcubz=3}{the
recent news} of Donald Trump Jr.'s testimony before investigators for
the Senate Judiciary Committee.

Mr. Klepper's audience consisted of a couple dozen of his writers and
producers. There was no set or fancy computer graphics --- just a
colleague holding up printouts close to Mr. Klepper's floppy coif.

All the while, Mr. Klepper proclaimed that any accusations against Mr.
Trump were ``a nothingburger'' --- possibly a hoax or a setup by
Democrats --- and brushed off claims that Mr. Trump had been changing
his account of events.

``He knows that truth is like a story,'' Mr. Klepper said. ``It needs to
go through several rewrites before it's good to go. Don was just working
through his rough drafts.''

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2017/09/24/arts/24KLEPPER5/24KLEPPER5-articleInline.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Mr. Klepper and his colleagues are similarly putting the finishing
touches on
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2017/04/04/arts/television/jordan-klepper-the-daily-show-comedy-central-program-of-his-own.html?mcubz=3}{their
new Comedy Central series}, ``The Opposition w/ Jordan Klepper,'' before
its debut on Monday, Sept. 25.

``The Opposition,'' which will follow ``The Daily Show With Trevor
Noah'' on Monday through Thursday nights, is another topical late-night
satire, but with a twist.

Rather than take aim at mainstream outlets --- print publications,
broadcast and cable TV --- Mr. Klepper and his cast mates will play
characters inspired by more incendiary and conspiratorial sources that
have gained prominence in the Trump era: broadcasters like
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2017/06/17/opinion/sunday/the-danger-of-ignoring-alex-jones.html?mcubz=3}{Alex
Jones} and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2017/04/27/business/media/jesse-watters-ivanka-trump.html}{Jesse
Watters}, and sites like Breitbart and Infowars.

``They all see being transgressive as something that is ultimately
positive, that automatically makes you authentic,'' Mr. Klepper said of
the most notorious figures to emerge from this ecosystem. ``They're
opportunists, and they know how to sell their brand.''

Whether ``The Opposition'' prevails in a crowded late-night field and an
11:30 p.m. time slot --- one that has proved
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2016/08/16/business/media/comedy-central-cancels-larry-wilmores-late-night-show.html?mcubz=0}{challenging
for Comedy Central} since the departure of Stephen Colbert --- will
depend largely on Mr. Klepper, a three-year veteran of ``The Daily
Show,'' who has never overseen a project that demanded this much of him.

Image

A prompter with Jordan Klepper's lines.Credit...Bryan Derballa for The
New York Times

Now he is learning how to star in a show and create one at the same
time, making countless choices on the fly and hoping his instincts pay
off.

``It is all-encompassing,'' Mr. Klepper said a few days before the
practice show. ``We can't be worried about perfection --- we have to
commit to decisions and see how they play out.''

At this stage of the process, he said, ``I think I know how to get
through a day.''

Mr. Klepper, 38, a tall, congenial comedian who grew up in Kalamazoo,
Mich., and trained at improv comedy theaters like Second City and
Upright Citizens Brigade, was speaking from a barely furnished corner
office in what used to be the grand ballroom of the Hotel Pennsylvania
in midtown Manhattan.

All kinds of construction were taking place around him: Walls were being
built, scripts were being written and newly hired performers were
figuring out their onscreen personas.

Earlier that morning, Mr. Klepper and his staff had met to review the
previous day's headlines and news footage and discuss how they might
yield satirical pieces that are particularly compatible with the voice
of the show and its host.

Image

Grace Leeson, left, provides visuals for Mr. Klepper's monologue during
a run-through.Credit...Bryan Derballa for The New York Times

``There are so many great shows right now, with incredibly smart people,
with amazing, earnest takes,'' Mr. Klepper said about the competition
for ``The Opposition'' (which includes Mr. Colbert's ``Late Show,'' on
CBS; HBO's ``Last Week Tonight With John Oliver''; and TBS's ``Full
Frontal With Samantha Bee,'' all hosted by alums of ``The Daily Show'').
What suits him best, he said, is ``taking a point of view that is out
there, and heightening that through absurdity and stupidity.''

That comic perspective served Mr. Klepper well at ``The Daily Show,''
which he joined in 2014, a year before the departure of its longtime
host Jon Stewart.

During the tenure of Mr. Noah and the administration of President Trump,
Mr. Klepper has often played the foil: ``the buffoonish and yet smart
character on our show,'' as Mr. Noah described him, ``an aloof yet
endearing individual who navigates through this new world.''

Or, as Mr. Klepper put it, ``I've often said I have a big, dumb face.''

Mr. Klepper has also been a frequent visitor to the president's campaign
and post-victory rallies, where
\href{https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eFQhw3VVToQ}{attendees readily
confessed} some far-fetched beliefs to him. (One rally-goer stridently
told him he ``would like to get to the bottom of'' why President Obama,
who took office in 2009, could not be found in the Oval Office during
the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001.)

Some of these gatherings were not so comical to Mr. Klepper. ``I've seen
the anger,'' he said. ``I've seen the crowd bare its teeth.''

Image

Jody Morlock, right, gives the host of ``The Opposition w/ Jordan
Klepper'' a touch of makeup in the studio in Midtown
Manhattan.Credit...Bryan Derballa for The New York Times

But like it or not, Mr. Klepper said that Mr. Trump's success required
some kind of reckoning with the fringe sources where many of his
supporters get their information.

``People threw their hands up in the air after Trump won and were like,
`People believe this? This is crazy,''' he said. ``But half the country
is getting their information from other places.''

Mr. Klepper got the chance to dive deeper into this fever swamp at the
end of last year, when Comedy Central approached him about developing
his own late-night show.

The opportunity would not have arisen if not for
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2016/08/16/business/media/comedy-central-cancels-larry-wilmores-late-night-show.html}{the
failure of ``The Nightly Show,''} a short-lived companion series to
``The Daily Show.'' Hosted by Larry Wilmore, a comedic commentator on
race and politics, ``The Nightly Show'' was introduced in January 2015
and canceled in August 2016 because of low ratings.

Kent Alterman, the Comedy Central president, said he and his colleagues
were not looking for another ``Daily Show'' spinoff, and they spoke to a
wide range of talents --- some already on the network --- as they
reappraised the 11:30 p.m. slot.

Image

Mr. Klepper, center, with the writers Russ Armstrong, left, and Owen
Parsons.Credit...Bryan Derballa for The New York Times

The network's selection of Mr. Klepper drew some condemnation, partly
because it added another white guy to the largely homogeneous ranks of
late-night TV hosts, and partly because,
\href{https://www.theatlantic.com/entertainment/archive/2017/06/is-jordan-klepper-the-future-of-comedy-central/529932/}{in
the eyes of some critics}, Mr. Klepper hadn't done enough in his time at
``The Daily Show'' to distinguish himself from the pack.

But Mr. Alterman said that Mr. Klepper was chosen because he seemed to
have the right take for the right time. ``The relativity of reality has
become so commonplace it's disconcerting,'' Mr. Alterman said. ``Facts
don't seem to matter. Reality doesn't seem to matter. It's what you will
it to be or what you say it is. Jordan is particularly adept at mining
that for comedy.''

Mr. Klepper does not deny that his character-based approach to satire
will inevitably draw comparisons to
\href{http://www.cc.com/video-clips/wul2p2/the-colbert-report-on-topic---best-of-the-colbert-report}{``The
Colbert Report,''} the acclaimed series that Mr. Colbert hosted from
2005 to 2014 in the guise of a fatuous right-wing commentator named
Stephen Colbert. (Mr. Klepper even addresses his viewers as ``couch
warriors,'' just as Mr. Colbert called them ``nation.'')

``Colbert showed that you can do a character as a sustainable way in
which to attack that landscape,'' Mr. Klepper said. But where Mr.
Colbert modeled his alter ego on the Fox News stalwart Bill O'Reilly,
Mr. Klepper said ``The Opposition'' was doing something different: ``We
have to tell our stories through a different mind-set, a different
filter,'' he said. ``We have to make it about \emph{now}.''

The hope is that eventually ``The Daily Show'' and ``The Opposition''
will interact with and play off each other, as Mr. Stewart's and Mr.
Colbert's programs did in their heyday.

Image

Mr. Klepper with his writing staff discussing current events they can
use in their show, which begins Sept. 25.Credit...Bryan Derballa for The
New York Times

Mr. Noah, who is also an executive producer on ``The Opposition,'' said
he still had a lot of learning to do at ``The Daily Show,'' but would
try to offer Mr. Klepper any wisdom he has gained from his modest head
start.

``We're in a very similar position, just separated by a few years,'' Mr.
Noah said. ``I've told him, `I can remind you of what makes you the
funniest version of who you are, when you forget it.'''

But Mr. Noah also said that Mr. Klepper needs to find a voice and some
territory for ``The Opposition'' that are distinct from those of ``The
Daily Show.''

``One thing I've said is, `If you're covering or doing the same thing
that I'm doing, then you're doing the wrong thing,''' Mr. Noah
explained. ``And we both know that.''

Stuart Miller, another executive producer of ``The Opposition'' and one
of several staff members who are veterans of ``The Daily Show,'' said
that past experience would carry them only so far.

What was crucial, he said, was preparing as much as possible for the
rigors of making real shows four times a week.

``We have a clock in a very real way,'' he said. ``When the show needs
to be in rehearsal, when it needs to be delivered. Every minute we're
finding is precious. Ten minutes can make all the difference in the
world.''

Back at the warm-up show, Mr. Klepper returned from a fake commercial
break to perform a monologue about Disney's controversial decision to
cast a
\href{http://screenrant.com/is-billy-magnussens-aladdin-character-a-whitewashed-prince-achmed/}{white
actor} in a live-action remake of ``Aladdin.''

As his character, Mr. Klepper proclaimed: ``The left-wing team is
charging onto the field of ignorance without facts. And once again, we
must meet them there.''

Mr. Klepper seemed pleased with the laughter this line elicited.
Reverting to himself at the end of the run-through, he told his
colleagues, ``We might just keep making TV.''

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
