Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}Pete Buttigieg Drops Out of
Democratic Presidential Race

\url{https://nyti.ms/3auvN51}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/11/us/trump-vs-biden?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Election
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/election-states-biden-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Paths
  to 270}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/us/elections/2020-presidential-election-calendar.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Key
  Dates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/31/us/politics/vote-by-mail-deadlines.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Voting
  by Mail}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Politics
  Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{pete-buttigieg-drops-out-of-democratic-presidential-race}{%
\section{Pete Buttigieg Drops Out of Democratic Presidential
Race}\label{pete-buttigieg-drops-out-of-democratic-presidential-race}}

The first openly gay major presidential candidate, Mr. Buttigieg rose to
the primary's top tier, but was unable to build a broad coalition of
voters, and lost badly in South Carolina Saturday.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/02/26/us/politics/00buttigieg-out/00buttigieg-out-videoSixteenByNine3000.jpg}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/reid-j-epstein}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2019/06/25/reader-center/author-reid-epstein/9e877853d8234217b58e5762253aa771-thumbLarge.png}}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/trip-gabriel}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2019/12/13/reader-center/author-trip-gabriel/author-trip-gabriel-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/reid-j-epstein}{Reid J.
Epstein} and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/trip-gabriel}{Trip Gabriel}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  March 1, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

SOUTH BEND, Ind. ---
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/pete-buttigieg.html}{Pete
Buttigieg}, the former small-city Indiana mayor and first openly gay
major presidential candidate, said Sunday night he was dropping out of
the Democratic race, following a crushing loss in the South Carolina
primary where his poor performance with black Democrats signaled an
inability to build a broad coalition of voters.

The decision comes just 48 hours before the biggest voting day of the
primary, Super Tuesday, when 15 states and territories will allot about
one-third of the delegates over all. The results were widely expected to
show him far behind
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/joe-biden.html}{Joseph
R. Biden Jr.} and Senator
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/bernie-sanders.html}{Bernie
Sanders}.

Mr. Buttigieg canceled plans for a Sunday night rally in Dallas and a
Monday morning fund-raiser in Austin to return to South Bend.
``Sometimes the longest way around really is the shortest way home,'' he
told supporters to loud cheers.

``The truth is that the path has narrowed to a close, for our candidacy
if not for our cause,'' he said, adding ``Tonight I am making the
difficult decision to suspend my campaign for the presidency.''

On a conference call with campaign donors on Sunday evening, Mr.
Buttigieg said he had reached the decision with regret but concluded it
was ``the right thing to do, when we looked at the math,'' according to
one person on the call. Without mentioning opponents by name, Mr.
Buttigieg said he was concerned about the impact he would have on the
race by staying in, saying Democrats needed to field ``the right kind of
nominee'' against Mr. Trump.

Mr. Buttigieg talked with Mr. Biden and former President Barack Obama on
Sunday night, according to a Democratic official familiar with the
conversations. Mr. Biden asked for Mr. Buttigieg's support and the
former mayor indicated he would consider the request. Mr. Buttigieg
wants to sleep on the decision, he told aides, some of whom believe he
should move quickly to endorse Mr. Biden.

Mr. Obama did not specifically encourage Mr. Buttigieg to endorse Mr.
Biden, said the official, who insisted on anonymity to discuss private
conversations. But Mr. Obama did note that Mr. Buttigieg has
considerable leverage at the moment and should think about how best to
use it. Should Mr. Buttigieg endorse Mr. Biden on Monday, it could
reshape the Democratic primary if many of his supporters shift to Mr.
Biden, creating a more formidable centrist challenge to Mr. Sanders's
progressive movement.

In his remarks, Mr. Buttigieg directed criticism toward Mr. Sanders,
without naming him, that he has previously made on the debate stage and
on the campaign trail.

``We need leadership to heal a divided nation, not drive us further
apart,'' he said. ``We need a broad based agenda to truly deliver for
the American people, not one that gets lost in ideology. We need an
approach strong enough not only to win the White House, but hold the
House, win the Senate and send Mitch McConnell into retirement.''

Mr. Sanders, in Los Angeles, made a brief statement congratulating Mr.
Buttigieg while also making a bid for those who backed him. ``He is the
first openly gay candidate for president of the United States and he did
extraordinarily well,'' Mr. Sanders said. ``And tonight, I just want to
welcome all of his supporters into our movement and to urge them to
joining us in the fight for real change in this country.''

Mr. Buttigieg's departure was another step in the narrowing of a
Democratic field that once featured two dozen candidates, and now has
six. His move comes one day after Tom Steyer, the billionaire former
hedge fund executive,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/02/29/us/politics/tom-steyer-drops-out.html}{dropped
out} after a disappointing finish in South Carolina.

Mr. Buttigieg, 38, skyrocketed from obscurity into the top tier of a
field of more than two dozen Democratic presidential candidates largely
on the strength of his robust fund-raising totals early last year. He
collected more than \$24 million in the three-month period ending June
30, more than any other candidate in the field.

The campaign spent nearly all of its funds to deliver
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/02/04/us/elections/results-iowa-caucus.html}{its
virtual tie for first place in Iowa} and a narrow second-place finish
behind Mr. Sanders in New Hampshire. But the rush of contributions the
campaign expected after Iowa and New Hampshire never materialized. The
Iowa Democratic Party's vote-counting fiasco robbed Mr. Buttigieg of
some of the expected momentum and media attention after the state's
caucuses, and Senator
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/amy-klobuchar.html}{Amy
Klobuchar} was the big story after her surprise third-place showing in
New Hampshire.

And Mr. Buttigieg never broadened his breadth of support in a party with
a large component of nonwhite voters, and one that has veered leftward
since 2018.

He came in
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/02/22/us/elections/results-nevada-caucus.html}{a
distant third} in the Nevada caucuses, which drew strong numbers of
Latino voters, and then
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/02/29/us/elections/results-south-carolina-primary-election.html}{fourth
place} in South Carolina, where black voters made up a majority of the
Democratic electorate. He won just 3 percent of them, according to exit
polls.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/us/politics/2020-presidential-candidates.html}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2019/01/20/us/2020-presidential-candidates-promo-1548014688187/2020-presidential-candidates-promo-1548014688187-articleLarge-v68.png}

\hypertarget{whos-running-for-president-in-2020}{%
\subsection{Who's Running for President in
2020?}\label{whos-running-for-president-in-2020}}

The field of Democratic presidential candidates has been historically
large, but all have dropped out except Joe Biden, the presumptive
Democratic nominee to challenge President Trump.

After raising more than \$76 million in 2019, an astonishing haul for a
mayor with no national profile, Mr. Buttigieg spent nearly all his war
chest in Iowa and New Hampshire. He faced campaigning coast-to-coast for
Super Tuesday with evaporating funds and little chance of clearing the
threshold of 15 percent of votes needed to amass delegates.

But Mr. Buttigieg's main challenge was his inability to appeal to voters
of color, both African Americans and Latinos.

Many establishment Democratic officials have openly worried about the
party's moderate candidates cannibalizing the center-left vote and
making it impossible to coalesce and challenge Mr. Sanders.

Mr. Buttigieg on Monday said in a town hall event on CNN that he and his
fellow moderates had not had any talks about one or more of them
dropping out. Asked the same question in a post-debate TV interview on
Tuesday, Mr. Buttigieg argued that it was he, as the candidate with the
second most delegates, whom other moderates should rally behind.

But except for a polling uptick after his strong Iowa finish, Mr.
Buttigieg's support in an average of national polls plateaued around 10
percent. That imperiled him as the race moved to the 14 Super Tuesday
states, including California and Texas, where most delegates to the
National Convention go only to candidates who win 15 percent in
congressional districts and statewide.

As Mr. Sanders, in his second presidential run, built a devoted
following of progressives with a call for political revolution, Mr.
Buttigieg tried to offer an alternative: an upbeat message of unity and
more ideological flexibility, aimed at attracting moderate Democrats,
independents and crossover Republicans. But the pitch, which some found
contained more platitudes than passion, was no match at a time of rising
anger on the left that the political establishment has failed to address
health care, income inequality and climate change.

In his quest to earn black support, Mr. Buttigieg spent more time
visiting South Carolina than any other candidate, spent more on TV ads
in the state than any candidates besides Mr. Steyer, and rolled out a
sweeping proposal, called the Douglass Plan, to redress the legacy of
racism. None of it made much of a dent with African-American voters who
had developed a deep trust in Mr. Biden over decades.

Another factor may have been the sometimes troubled history of Mr.
Buttigieg's relationship with black residents of South Bend, including
his
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/04/19/us/politics/buttigieg-black-police-chief-fired.html}{demotion
of a black police chief} and the shooting last summer of a black
resident by a white officer. Mr. Buttigieg tried to counter poor
impressions by campaigning with African-American leaders from his
hometown who vouched for him.

Reid J. Epstein reported from Selma, Ala., and Trip Gabriel reported
from Charlotte, N.C. Alexander Burns contributed reporting from New
York.

\hypertarget{our-2020-election-guide}{%
\section{Our 2020 Election Guide}\label{our-2020-election-guide}}

Updated ~Sept. 11, 2020

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

\begin{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{the-latest}{%
  \subsection{The Latest}\label{the-latest}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Joe Biden and President Trump put
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/11/us/politics/shanksville-trump-biden.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{hostilities
    on hold today to travel to ground zero and then to Shanksville, Pa.,
    where they separately honored 9/11 victims}.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{how-to-win-270}{%
  \subsection{How to Win 270}\label{how-to-win-270}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Joe Biden and Donald Trump need 270 electoral votes to reach the
    White House. Try building
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/election-states-biden-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{your
    own coalition of battleground states}~to see potential outcomes.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{voting-by-mail}{%
  \subsection{Voting by Mail}\label{voting-by-mail}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Will you have enough time to vote by mail in your state? Yes, but
    it's risky to procrastinate.
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/31/us/politics/vote-by-mail-deadlines.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Check
    your state's deadline.}
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/joe-biden.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{}

    \hypertarget{joe-biden}{%
    \section{Joe Biden}\label{joe-biden}}

    \hypertarget{democrat}{%
    \subsection{Democrat}\label{democrat}}

    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/donald-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{}

    \hypertarget{donald-trump}{%
    \section{Donald Trump}\label{donald-trump}}

    \hypertarget{republican}{%
    \subsection{Republican}\label{republican}}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \hypertarget{keep-up-with-our-coverage}{%
  \subsection{Keep Up With Our
  Coverage}\label{keep-up-with-our-coverage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Get an
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{email}~recapping
    the day's news
  \item
    Download our mobile app on
    \href{https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nytimes/id284862083?ls=1\&mat_click_id=5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\&referrer=mat_click_id\%3D5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\%26link_click_id\%3D722930677036718082}{iOS}~and
    \href{http://a.localytics.com/android?id=com.nytimes.android\&referrer=utm_source\%3Dother_nyt_mobile_web\%26utm_medium\%3DWeb\%2520page\%26utm_term\%3DGeneral\%2520Mobile\%2520Page\%26utm_campaign\%3DNYT\%2520Mobile\%2520General\%2520Page}{Android}~and
    turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
