Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/style}{Style}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/style}{Style}\textbar{}Makeup and the Mask. It's About
the Eyes.

\url{https://nyti.ms/3gnSco1}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{the-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=3424f910-f282-11ea-90f7-931d9c31b1cf\&variant=undefined}{The
Coronavirus
Outbreak}}{The Coronavirus Outbreak}}\label{the-coronavirus-outbreak}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  live\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/09/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=3424f911-f282-11ea-90f7-931d9c31b1cf\&variant=undefined}{Latest
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=3424f912-f282-11ea-90f7-931d9c31b1cf\&variant=undefined}{Maps
  and Cases}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=3424f913-f282-11ea-90f7-931d9c31b1cf\&variant=undefined}{Vaccine
  Tracker}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/02/your-money/eviction-moratorium-covid.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=3424f914-f282-11ea-90f7-931d9c31b1cf\&variant=undefined}{Eviction
  Moratorium}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/09/02/magazine/food-insecurity-hunger-us.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=34252020-f282-11ea-90f7-931d9c31b1cf\&variant=undefined}{American
  Hunger}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

skin deep

\hypertarget{makeup-and-the-mask-its-about-the-eyes}{%
\section{Makeup and the Mask. It's About the
Eyes.}\label{makeup-and-the-mask-its-about-the-eyes}}

Some pros share their tips for doing your makeup while masking.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/05/28/fashion/27SKIN-EYES-top/27SKIN-EYES-top-articleLarge-v2.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/crystal-martin}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2019/03/01/multimedia/author-crystal-martin/author-crystal-martin-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/crystal-martin}{Crystal
Martin}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  May 26, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

As a makeup artist, Keita Moore has become an observer of faces. Months
ago, in the early stages of the pandemic, he saw very little makeup when
he ran out on the occasional errand. Lately, though, he has noticed that
the faces are changing, slowly. Masks are plentiful, as are filled-in
brows and lashes coated in mascara.

**``**So many people are doing this,'' Mr. Moore said. ``It's fun to get
dressed and get cute, even if it's just to get groceries.''

Dismissing makeup as frivolity would be easier than ever now. Our
professional and social lives are scaled down, and we've withdrawn
inside. Collectively we've gone back to basics, and makeup is plainly
nonessential. But it is also a cultural artifact, reflecting the
aesthetics and ethos of the era. What will our faces show as we live
through months or years of the pandemic?

Nick Barose, a makeup artist, looked back and found makeup's future. At
the beginning of his lockdown in March, he organized his Brooklyn
apartment ``to make it more homey, since I'd actually be home,'' he
said.

That's when he discovered reference materials --- books, images,
magazine tear sheets --- he had used as he learned to do makeup. He was
drawn to avant-garde beauty editorials of the 1980s, with images of Old
Hollywood stars like Marilyn Monroe. The nostalgia boosted his mood.

``You can listen to '80s music, put on '80s makeup and fantasize about a
life that's not yours,'' Mr. Barose said.

Makeup, he predicts, will take two distinct courses as the pandemic
plays out. The first will be practical and edited, emphasizing long-wear
products and natural brows and lashes. But for some, makeup will be an
escape.

``Our reality is so uncertain that I can see people getting
experimental,'' he said. ``It's a scary time, so it's a time when you
want to dream more, too.''

Image

Basics of the new face by the makeup artist Keita Moore.Credit...via
Keita Moore

Image

Credit...via Keita Moore

\textbf{Make Foundation Transfer-Proof}

Because much of the face is covered, foundation should be used
sparingly, if at all. Instead, blend concealer under the eyes and on any
uneven spots above the nose. If you use foundation, a light application
on the exposed areas is all you need.

``Most women choose foundation for the look,'' said Keanda Snagg, a
makeup artist, meaning that they're going for color match and finish and
are usually not as concerned about performance. Now is the time to
consider a formula's staying power, too. Ms. Snagg suggests
\href{https://www.fentybeauty.com/pro-filtr-hydrating-longwear-foundation/FB30020.html}{Fenty
Pro Filt'r Hydrating Longwear Foundation}, \$35.

Mr. Moore swears by
\href{https://www.ppipremiereproducts.com/products/blue-marble-selr}{Premiere
Products Blue Marble Selr Spray,} \$14, a cult favorite setting spray,
to keep makeup in place. ``A lot of drag queens use it when they perform
onstage,'' he said. ``It makes your makeup absolutely transfer-proof.
You could lie down on a pillow and there'd be no foundation on it after
you got up.''

Erin Parsons, another makeup artist, predicts that foundation formulas
will evolve to focus on skin care. ``Masks will shift how we think about
foundation,'' Ms. Parsons said. ``When you take them off, your skin is
irritated and red. I keep thinking the next generation of foundation
will be soothing and protecting.''

\textbf{Emphasize Brows and Lashes}

The new basic face is filled-in brows and amplified lashes. ``If there's
one thing we should learn now, it's how to properly fill in your
brows,'' Mr. Moore said. Eyebrow pencils give users more control of
color density (and most people go too dark on brows), so he prefers them
to powders, which can be blotchy.

``People tend to fill in too much at the inner part of the brows,'' he
said. ``Focus on the tail because that's where most brows are sparse.
Brush your brows up and outward and fill in only where you need more
hair.''

Pick a pencil with an angled flat tip,
like\href{https://www.thelipbar.com/products/hi-brow}{the Lip Bar
Hi-Brow Gel + Pencil}, \$14. This shape helps you mimic the look and
direction of hair growth.

The \href{https://lashify.com/}{Lashify at-home lash extension kit},
\$145, creates a lash look that's a step up from a coat of mascara. The
system contains individual lashes, so your result is customizable. ``You
can just add a couple lashes to the outer end of your lashes for more
drama,'' Mr. Moore said.

Image

More mask makeup looks by Mr. Barose.Credit...via Nick Barose

Image

Credit...via Nick Barose

\textbf{Introduce Color With Eyeliner}

As our time in masks wears on, makeup artists expect we'll transition to
eye makeup that's simple yet expressive. Eyeliner is the best tool for
these times because it's uncomplicated. A bright color is interesting
and fun without requiring the layering and dimension of eye shadow.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{}

\hypertarget{the-coronavirus-outbreak-}{%
\subsubsection{The Coronavirus Outbreak
â€º}\label{the-coronavirus-outbreak-}}

\hypertarget{frequently-asked-questions}{%
\paragraph{Frequently Asked
Questions}\label{frequently-asked-questions}}

Updated September 4, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{what-are-the-symptoms-of-coronavirus}{%
  \paragraph{What are the symptoms of
  coronavirus?}\label{what-are-the-symptoms-of-coronavirus}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    In the beginning, the coronavirus
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/coronavirus-facts-history.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq\#link-6817bab5}{seemed
    like it was primarily a respiratory illness}~--- many patients had
    fever and chills, were weak and tired, and coughed a lot, though
    some people don't show many symptoms at all. Those who seemed
    sickest had pneumonia or acute respiratory distress syndrome and
    received supplemental oxygen. By now, doctors have identified many
    more symptoms and syndromes. In April,
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/27/health/coronavirus-symptoms-cdc.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{the
    C.D.C. added to the list of early signs}~sore throat, fever, chills
    and muscle aches. Gastrointestinal upset, such as diarrhea and
    nausea, has also been observed. Another telltale sign of infection
    may be a sudden, profound diminution of one's
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/22/health/coronavirus-symptoms-smell-taste.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{sense
    of smell and taste.}~Teenagers and young adults in some cases have
    developed painful red and purple lesions on their fingers and toes
    --- nicknamed ``Covid toe'' --- but few other serious symptoms.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{why-is-it-safer-to-spend-time-together-outside}{%
  \paragraph{Why is it safer to spend time together
  outside?}\label{why-is-it-safer-to-spend-time-together-outside}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/15/us/coronavirus-what-to-do-outside.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{Outdoor
    gatherings}~lower risk because wind disperses viral droplets, and
    sunlight can kill some of the virus. Open spaces prevent the virus
    from building up in concentrated amounts and being inhaled, which
    can happen when infected people exhale in a confined space for long
    stretches of time, said Dr. Julian W. Tang, a virologist at the
    University of Leicester.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{why-does-standing-six-feet-away-from-others-help}{%
  \paragraph{Why does standing six feet away from others
  help?}\label{why-does-standing-six-feet-away-from-others-help}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    The coronavirus spreads primarily through droplets from your mouth
    and nose, especially when you cough or sneeze. The C.D.C., one of
    the organizations using that measure,
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/14/health/coronavirus-six-feet.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{bases
    its recommendation of six feet}~on the idea that most large droplets
    that people expel when they cough or sneeze will fall to the ground
    within six feet. But six feet has never been a magic number that
    guarantees complete protection. Sneezes, for instance, can launch
    droplets a lot farther than six feet,
    \href{https://jamanetwork.com/journals/jama/fullarticle/2763852}{according
    to a recent study}. It's a rule of thumb: You should be safest
    standing six feet apart outside, especially when it's windy. But
    keep a mask on at all times, even when you think you're far enough
    apart.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{i-have-antibodies-am-i-now-immune}{%
  \paragraph{I have antibodies. Am I now
  immune?}\label{i-have-antibodies-am-i-now-immune}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    As of right
    now,\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/22/health/covid-antibodies-herd-immunity.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{~that
    seems likely, for at least several months.}~There have been
    frightening accounts of people suffering what seems to be a second
    bout of Covid-19. But experts say these patients may have a
    drawn-out course of infection, with the virus taking a slow toll
    weeks to months after initial exposure.~People infected with the
    coronavirus typically
    \href{https://www.nature.com/articles/s41586-020-2456-9}{produce}~immune
    molecules called antibodies, which are
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/07/health/coronavirus-antibody-prevalence.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{protective
    proteins made in response to an
    infection}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/07/health/coronavirus-antibody-prevalence.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{.
    These antibodies may}~last in the body
    \href{https://www.nature.com/articles/s41591-020-0965-6}{only two to
    three months}, which may seem worrisome, but that's~perfectly normal
    after an acute infection subsides, said Dr. Michael Mina, an
    immunologist at Harvard University. It may be possible to get the
    coronavirus again, but it's highly unlikely that it would be
    possible in a short window of time from initial infection or make
    people sicker the second time.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{what-are-my-rights-if-i-am-worried-about-going-back-to-work}{%
  \paragraph{What are my rights if I am worried about going back to
  work?}\label{what-are-my-rights-if-i-am-worried-about-going-back-to-work}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Employers have to provide
    \href{https://www.osha.gov/SLTC/covid-19/standards.html}{a safe
    workplace}~with policies that protect everyone equally.
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/coronavirus-money-unemployment.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{And
    if one of your co-workers tests positive for the coronavirus, the
    C.D.C.}~has said that
    \href{https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/community/guidance-business-response.html}{employers
    should tell their employees}~-\/- without giving you the sick
    employee's name -\/- that they may have been exposed to the virus.
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

``My favorite is winged eyeliner in any bright color --- pink, blue,
burgundy --- anything that's not black,'' Ms. Snagg said. She likes
\href{https://www.nyxcosmetics.com/eyes/eyeliner/epic-wear-liquid-liner/NYX_806.html}{NYX
Epic Wear Liquid Liner}, \$10, a waterproof formula. (``You could jump
in a pool and it wouldn't budge,'' she said.)

An eyeliner newbie can start with a simple line along the lashes and,
with practice, work up to a wing. Ms. Snagg's winged liner technique:
Draw a triangle at the outer corner of the eye. Then, using gentle
strokes, create a line that connects that triangle to the inner corner
of your eye.

\textbf{Embrace the Freedom of Masks}

During his lockdown, Mr. Barose made himself up in the style of
celebrities representing different eras, like Grace Jones, Donyale Luna
and Elizabeth Taylor. ``Because I'm being someone else, I feel more free
to do things I've never done,'' he said. ``A mask covering your face is
similar. It's a superhero effect because you're incognito.''

If you favor subdued or minimal makeup, this can be a time to explore,
to try new textures and materials. ``After a period of minimal makeup, I
could see a resurgence of the `Euphoria' makeup --- people trying things
that are a little weird because they're not as exposed,'' Ms. Parsons
said.

For example, earlier this year, she used a prosthetic adhesive to affix
tiny dried flowers she found on Amazon to the ends of lashes. ``People
have been asking me about it all the time,'' she said. ``It's so easy to
do. It's cute, and it makes you happy.''

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{Â©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
