Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/opinion/sunday}{Sunday Review}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/opinion/sunday}{Sunday Review}\textbar{}Liar, Liar,
Nation on Fire

\href{https://nyti.ms/3056vqe}{https://nyti.ms/3056vqe}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

\href{/section/opinion}{Opinion}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{liar-liar-nation-on-fire}{%
\section{Liar, Liar, Nation on Fire}\label{liar-liar-nation-on-fire}}

I'm positive that Trump's toxic.

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/maureen-dowd}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/04/02/opinion/maureen-dowd/maureen-dowd-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/maureen-dowd}{Maureen Dowd}

Opinion Columnist

\begin{itemize}
\item
  July 11, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/08/12/opinion/12Dowd-Sub/merlin_174475557_22eac968-c560-4159-89b8-2503aa1f016f-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

WASHINGTON --- Sleepy Joe and Creepy Joe haven't worked. So now they're
trying Sticky-Fingered Joe.

After Joe Biden gave his
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/09/us/politics/biden-buy-american.html}{big
economic speech} in Dunmore, Pa., they pounced.

``He plagiarized from me but he could never pull it off,'' President
Trump
\href{https://twitter.com/CBSNews/status/1281615665242214403?s=20}{told}
reporters as he left Friday for a Florida fund-raiser. ``He likes
plagiarizing.''

Kellyanne Conway told Fox News that Biden's ``Buy American'' pitch was
``rich with irony.''

``Look, this is Joe Biden plagiarizing Neil Kinnock, the Labour
leader,'' Conway said of the time Biden lifted lines from the British
politician, during his first presidential run. ``Two days ago,'' she
added, ``he's plagiarizing Bernie Sanders, and yesterday he's
plagiarizing Donald Trump, Buy American.''

``Buy American'' is a slogan that House Democrats have used for many
years, so if anyone is swiping it, it's Trump. And Joe and Bernie
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/08/us/politics/biden-bernie-sanders.html}{coming
together} on proposals is not plagiarism.

As to Kinnock, Kellyanne, I know a little something about that. That was
my front-page Times
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/1987/09/12/us/biden-s-debate-finale-an-echo-from-abroad.html}{story}
back in 1987. Biden, as he did on other occasions, got swept away with
puffing himself up and sprinted over the factual line. He overidentified
with aspects of Kinnock's life in Wales --- fusing their backgrounds ---
and borrowed some Celtic lyricism.

I wrote another
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/1987/09/16/us/biden-is-facing-growing-debate-on-his-speeches.html}{story}
at the same time about Biden lifting chunks of Robert Kennedy speeches.
But that was the fault of his speechwriter Pat Caddell, who sprinkled in
R.F.K. passages without Biden knowing.

Biden dropped out of the race. I ran into him on a back stairway in the
Senate when he was getting ready for his news conference. We looked at
each other but did not speak. I figured he'd never speak to me again.

I was wrong. One of his top aides yelled at me and told me I wouldn't be
allowed into Robert Bork's Supreme Court confirmation hearings, which
Biden was chairing. But Biden himself was friendly and fair to me
afterward, even when I wrote pieces that were highly critical of the way
he conducted the Anita Hill hearings and ripped on him for his hair
plugs. He was so un-vengeful that I began to doubt he was really Irish.
(His middle name is Robinette, after all.)

Biden has a talent for messes and has made some bad judgment calls ---
including voting to authorize the Iraq war.

But when David Axelrod told me that Barack Obama was leaning toward
putting Biden on the ticket, I thought it was a fine idea. I felt that
Obama made a mistake nudging him aside in 2016 --- I think he would have
beaten Trump.

Biden's gaffes, logorrhea, puffery and handsiness are part of the messy
package that is Uncle Joe. So are his empathy, sentimentality and
loyalty.

Biden's fabulist flights were an effort to make himself look better.
Trump's are more audacious --- and dangerous. It's the difference
between fibs and whoppers, white lies and white supremacy.

Every day, Trump wakes up and constructs an alternative universe where
his crowds are bigger, his poll results are better, the virus is
evaporating, the testing is fantastic, it's totally safe for kids to go
back to school, and he's doing the greatest job of any president in
history.

``Toxic positivity,'' the president's niece Mary Trump calls it in her
new family memoir, ``Too Much and Never Enough,'' which exposes the
gruesome underbelly of the president's gilded facade.

Mary Trump is the daughter of the president's older brother, Fred Jr.,
who died an alcoholic after a lifetime of his father's abuse. With a
Ph.D. in clinical psychology, she diagnoses her Uncle Donald as a
narcissist, of course, but also quite possibly having ``antisocial
personality disorder.''

``The country is now suffering from the same toxic positivity that my
grandfather deployed specifically to drown out his ailing wife, torment
his dying son, and damage past healing the psyche of his favorite child,
Donald J. Trump,'' she concludes. The inability of the ``court jester
from Queens,'' as Mary calls him, to succeed without being heavily
subsidized by his father created a tension where he knew he was
inadequate but could never admit it.

``At a very deep level,'' Mary writes, ``his bragging and false bravado
are not directed at the audience in front of him but at his audience of
one: his long-dead father.''

A Washington Post
\href{https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/trump-the-victim-president-complains-in-private-about-the-pandemic-hurting-himself/2020/07/09/187142c6-c089-11ea-864a-0dd31b9d6917_story.html}{story}
a few days ago underscored her point that he is the same ``desperate''
little boy. The story recounted that Trump sees himself as a victim of
the pandemic, and his mood is so ``woe is me'' that advisers tried to
cheer him up with special events --- ``bringing 18-wheelers onto the
White House South Lawn in mid-April or creating social media videos that
feature throngs of his adoring fans.''

His father's racism infected Donald, and the patriarch promoted a warped
idea of manliness. Donald's cracks about ``ugly women'' and his
disrespectful behavior in business were meant to make him look tough.

Fred Jr. was destroyed by it. But Donald is trying to destroy us with
it, with his absurd philosophy that masks are unmanly.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/07/12/opinion/12Dowd/12Dowd-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Biden, who assiduously stays masked, has never been a divider. Indeed,
there were times, as with the Anita Hill hearings and the Iraq war vote,
that he leaned too far into comity.

But Trump divides with feral pleasure. ``The atmosphere of division my
grandfather created in the Trump family is the water in which Donald has
always swum,'' Mary Trump writes, ``and division continues to benefit
him at the expense of everybody else.''

\emph{The Times is committed to publishing}
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/01/31/opinion/letters/letters-to-editor-new-york-times-women.html}{\emph{a
diversity of letters}} \emph{to the editor. We'd like to hear what you
think about this or any of our articles. Here are some}
\href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014925288-How-to-submit-a-letter-to-the-editor}{\emph{tips}}\emph{.
And here's our email:}
\href{mailto:letters@nytimes.com}{\emph{letters@nytimes.com}}\emph{.}

\emph{Follow The New York Times Opinion section on}
\href{https://www.facebook.com/nytopinion}{\emph{Facebook}}\emph{,}
\href{http://twitter.com/NYTOpinion}{\emph{Twitter (@NYTopinion)}}
\emph{and}
\href{https://www.instagram.com/nytopinion/}{\emph{Instagram}}\emph{.}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{Â©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
