Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/books/review}{Book
Review}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/books/review}{Book Review}\textbar{}The Scenes of the
Crimes: Landfalls, Stadiums and Creepy Blogs

\url{https://nyti.ms/2VGvdLo}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\href{/column/crime}{Crime}

\hypertarget{the-scenes-of-the-crimes-landfalls-stadiums-and-creepy-blogs}{%
\section{The Scenes of the Crimes: Landfalls, Stadiums and Creepy
Blogs}\label{the-scenes-of-the-crimes-landfalls-stadiums-and-creepy-blogs}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/04/19/books/review/19Crime/19Crime-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By Marilyn Stasio

\begin{itemize}
\item
  April 17, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Shady politicians, greedy public servants and rapacious property
developers are no match for V. I. Warshawski, a proper hero for these
times. In \textbf{DEAD LAND (Morrow/HarperCollins, 405 pp., \$28.99),}
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2014/09/14/books/review/sara-paretsky-by-the-book.html}{Sara
Paretsky}'s Chicago private eye gets wind of a fishy partnership that's
planning to develop a piece of lakefront property --- ostensibly for
public parkland, but possibly not. ``The landfill may be a good idea,''
acknowledges one skeptical native, ``but it's like everything else in
this town --- no transparency.'' Dire hints are dropped of ``private
meetings where money changes hands,'' and more dastardly matters surface
when one of the anti-development protesters is murdered.

A parallel plotline has V. I. discovering a homeless woman who lives
under a viaduct making beautiful music on a red plastic toy piano. When
this squatter is outed in the press as a once-famous musician named
Lydia Zamir, she's forced to run for her life --- and V. I. is blamed
for her predicament. To us, V. I. is perfect, but other characters bait
her for being so impetuous as she races off to places like Kansas and
Santa Fe. Yes, the plot is as sprawling as it sounds, but trust the
author to pull it all together, its many threads wrapped up neatly in a
great big bow.

Paretsky is justly praised for referencing vital social issues in her
mysteries, but here we also get a taste of her flair for creating
offbeat but believable characters. Zamir is her own strong person, as
are other players. As always, though, V. I. remains the most vivid
participant in this case, stubborn as a mule --- although she sees
herself as another animal entirely. ``Pretend I'm a dog,'' she advises a
new acquaintance. ``Half Rottweiler, half pit dog. I'm loyal but
fierce.'' And valiant. Don't forget valiant.

♦

I like a little woo-woo with my mysteries, and there's lots of woo-woo
in
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/08/02/books/review/sophie-hannah-by-the-book.html}{Sophie
Hannah}'s \textbf{PERFECT LITTLE CHILDREN (Morrow/HarperCollins, 329
pp., \$27.99).} This tale of domestic suspense takes so many diabolical
twists and turns, it has the kick of an amusement park attraction ---
the kind where you have to pass a height restriction before you're
allowed to ride it. The narrator, Beth Leeson, is a typical wife, mother
and busybody who takes a new interest in an old friend when she notices
that, after a dozen years, Flora Braid still looks fresh as a daisy.
``Her hair hasn't changed a bit,'' Beth marvels. Nor, it seems, has
anything else. Even Flora's two children still look to be 5 and 3,
instead of their chronological ages of 17 and 15.

Ignoring her husband's warning that she's developing an unhealthy
obsession with Flora and her family, Beth keeps snooping into her
friend's life and eventually blunders into dangerous territory. Why
haven't the children grown, she wonders, and why is there no sign of the
third child, Georgina? Hannah builds on her suspenseful premise with
well-placed clues and a superb sense of timing, all the way to a
crash-and-burn ending that will either thrill or infuriate you.

♦

What's a mother to do when she finds photos of her teenage daughter on
some creep's creepy blog? In \textbf{MASKED PREY (Putnam, 406 pp.,
\$29),} the latest entry in a long-running and totally addictive series
by
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/11/15/books/review/john-sandford-by-the-book.html}{John
Sandford}, Senator Roberta Coil turns to Lucas Davenport, a deputy U.S.
marshal known as ``somebody who can take care of business quietly and
effectively.'' Here, the business at hand is a conspiracy to threaten
the children of powerful politicians, forcing their parents to cough up
outrageous ransoms --- not in cash, but in political influence.

Sandford always delivers rousing action scenes, but this time he's
especially good on character, too. The naïve teenagers are as
persuasively drawn as the professional goons stalking them, and the
language presents an amusing exercise in the fine art of dialogue.
There's enough violence to satisfy bloodthirsty tastes, enough
information on neofascism to give us a chill, and enough sly humor to
make both American teenagers and their would-be killers sound as if
English were their second language.

♦

So, what do you think? Would it constitute a conflict of interest if you
had slept with the husband of a potential client? Personally, I would
call that a no-brainer; but Nora Trier, a forensic accountant and the
dauntless protagonist of Mindy Mejia's \textbf{STRIKE ME DOWN (Emily
Bestler/Atria, 337 pp., \$27),} finds a way to rationalize it. After
all, the celebrity client is Logan Russo, the superstar kickboxer and
owner of Strike, the nation's primo urban gym, with thousands of members
and venues in 29 major cities. Besides, the job itself --- tracking down
\$20 million in prize money that has gone missing from the company
coffers --- is both challenging and dangerous.

Mejia finds ingenious ways of making this sleazy corporate crime sexy
and hazardous. An athletic tournament called the Strike Down plays out
like the final game in a tied World Series. (The packed stadium erupts
into ``deafening'' cheers.) And Nora exhibits uncommon grit when she's
thrust into the ring of a virtual boxing match. Honestly, the things a
person has to go through to play the protagonist in what is essentially
a carefully plotted but highly unorthodox financial mystery.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
