Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/world/asia}{Asia Pacific}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/world/asia}{Asia Pacific}\textbar{}As India Reopens,
Deadly Accidents Break Out

\url{https://nyti.ms/2YIm0FG}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/news-event/coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{The
Coronavirus Outbreak}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  live\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/02/world/coronavirus-updates.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Latest
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Maps
  and Cases}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Vaccine
  Tracker}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/07/29/us/schools-reopening-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{What
  School May Look Like}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/live/2020/07/31/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Economy}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{as-india-reopens-deadly-accidents-break-out}{%
\section{As India Reopens, Deadly Accidents Break
Out}\label{as-india-reopens-deadly-accidents-break-out}}

A group of laborers trying to get home were run over by a train a day
after a disaster at a plastics factory.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/05/08/world/08india1/merlin_172300227_adb43004-a1c7-4712-b39c-ebf9676a2743-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/jeffrey-gettleman}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/10/10/multimedia/author-jeffrey-gettleman/author-jeffrey-gettleman-thumbLarge.png}}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/suhasini-raj}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2019/11/22/reader-center/author-Suhasini-Raj/author-Suhasini-Raj-thumbLarge.png}}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/hari-kumar}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2019/12/13/reader-center/author-hari-kumar/author-hari-kumar-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/jeffrey-gettleman}{Jeffrey
Gettleman}, \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/suhasini-raj}{Suhasini Raj}
and \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/hari-kumar}{Hari Kumar}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  May 8, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

NEW DELHI --- Sixteen migrant workers were crushed to death by a freight
train in central India on Friday as they were traveling home, the latest
casualties connected to
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/04/19/world/asia/india-coronavirus-lockdown.html}{India's
coronavirus lockdown} and efforts to reopen the economy.

Just the day before, a
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/05/07/world/asia/india-lg-gas.html}{disaster
at a plastics factory} that was reopening after a lockdown killed 11
people and sickened hundreds. Officials said that workers at a plant
owned by the South Korean industrial giant LG had mishandled a valve on
a styrene tank that sent a cloud of deadly vapor floating over the
outskirts of Visakhapatnam, a city of several million people, that left
people choking to death in the streets.

The moral of those stories for the Indian government, which imposed one
of the world's strictest lockdowns six weeks ago and is now trying to
restart its economy, is that
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/05/06/world/asia/india-coronavirus-lockdown-infections.html}{the
changes brought by the coronavirus carry risks beyond infection}.

Many of the country's struggles before the pandemic --- including mass
internal migration, unsafe workplaces and industrial disasters --- have
been amplified by the lockdown and the subsequent move to reopen
businesses. And with millions of its citizens working overseas to send
money home, and many of their lives now upended by the pandemic, India
is also undertaking a giant repatriation effort.

The gas leak wasn't the only industrial accident as Indian businesses
began resuming operations. On Wednesday,
\href{https://www.ndtv.com/india-news/gas-leak-at-paper-mill-in-chhattisgarhs-raigarh-hours-after-vizag-incident-2225018}{half
a dozen workers who had not been given safety gear were hospitalized}
after inhaling dangerous fumes at a paper mill in Chhattisgarh, in
central India, that was trying to restart operations after weeks of
inactivity. And on Thursday, several hundred miles to the south, in
Tamil Nadu,
\href{https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/puducherry/8-injured-in-neyveli-boiler-blast-2-critical/articleshow/75611875.cms}{a
boiler exploded at a thermal power plant}, badly burning several
workers.

``Industry is desperate to open up after the lockdown, and rules are not
being followed,'' said Shankar Gopalakrishnan, a labor rights activist.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/05/08/world/08india2/merlin_172272969_c1c275a5-4676-46c3-8de7-bd8d717308d9-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Some of the mishaps may have been exacerbated by the extraordinary
exodus of workers from India's cities. As soon as Prime Minister
Narendra Modi imposed the nationwide lockdown in late March, hundreds of
thousands of young men who were put out of work
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/29/world/asia/coronavirus-india-migrants.html}{streamed
back to their home villages}, trudging along highways in lines miles
long, hoping to survive with their families.

Mr. Modi's government appeared to be caught off guard by the scale of
the displacement. It might have hastened the spread of the coronavirus
from cities to rural areas, and it created a shifting hunger crisis of
millions of Indians who could no longer earn a living and dispersed to
all corners of the country, fearful of relying on the government for
help.

The migrants killed on Friday along the railway tracks were among this
desperate wave. In recent days, India's government, which initially
blocked migrants from moving state to state, has eased the lockdown
rules to allow some to travel. Over all, Mr. Modi's government has been
softening the lockdown, deeply concerned about the economic hit on a
country in which many people scrape by on a few dollars a day.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-global-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/01/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: Global Coronavirus
Outbreak}}{Latest Updates: Global Coronavirus Outbreak}}\label{latest-updates-global-coronavirus-outbreak}}

Updated 2020-08-02T17:52:35.962Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/01/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-34047410}{The
  U.S. reels as July cases more than double the total of any other
  month.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/01/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-780ec966}{Top
  U.S. officials work to break an impasse over the federal jobless
  benefit.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/01/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-2bc8948}{Its
  outbreak untamed, Melbourne goes into even greater lockdown.}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/01/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

More live coverage:
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/live/2020/07/31/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Markets}

At the same time, several state governments are loosening labor
protections in an effort to get industry back on its feet. Labor
activists fear that this will make it even more dangerous for workers.

On Friday around 5 a.m., a cargo train was barreling down the tracks
near the town of Aurangabad, about 200 miles northeast of Mumbai, in the
center of the country. The railways ministry said the
\href{https://twitter.com/RailMinIndia/status/1258595033260929029}{locomotive
driver had seen a group of people on the tracks and tried to stop} but
ended up hitting them.

CHINA

PAKISTAN

NEPAL

New Delhi

INDIA

Bhopal

Aurangabad ~~~~

CHHATTISGARH

Mumbai

MAHARASHTRA

Visakhapatnam ~~~~

Bay of Bengal

Arabian

Sea

TAMIL NADU

SRI LANKA

400 Miles

By The New York Times

\href{https://thewire.in/rights/aurangabad-migrant-workers-goods-train-killed}{Indian
news reports} indicated that the victims had recently been laid off from
a steel factory, and officials said they had been sleeping on the
tracks. (Most passenger train service in India has stopped, but freight
trains continue to run.)

They were on their way home, several hundred miles away, and apparently
were exhausted from walking.

``They thought trains were not moving and it was a safe spot,'' said
Dnyanoba Banapure, a government official in the area.

After hearing the news, Mr. Modi said he was
\href{https://twitter.com/narendramodi/status/1258597915536179201}{``extremely
anguished.''} But labor activists blamed him for such migrations.

Image

A rescue worker evacuating a victim of a gas leak in Visakhapatnam on
Thursday.Credit...Agence France-Presse --- Getty Images

``The government went into a lockdown without knowing what it was
getting into,'' said Gautam Mody, the general secretary of the New Trade
Union Initiative, an alliance of labor groups. The working class, Mr.
Mody said, is being pushed ``over the edge.''

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/news-event/coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{}

\hypertarget{the-coronavirus-outbreak-}{%
\subsubsection{The Coronavirus Outbreak
›}\label{the-coronavirus-outbreak-}}

\hypertarget{frequently-asked-questions}{%
\paragraph{Frequently Asked
Questions}\label{frequently-asked-questions}}

Updated July 27, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{should-i-refinance-my-mortgage}{%
  \paragraph{Should I refinance my
  mortgage?}\label{should-i-refinance-my-mortgage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/coronavirus-money-unemployment.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{It
    could be a good idea,} because mortgage rates have
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/16/business/mortgage-rates-below-3-percent.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{never
    been lower.} Refinancing requests have pushed mortgage applications
    to some of the highest levels since 2008, so be prepared to get in
    line. But defaults are also up, so if you're thinking about buying a
    home, be aware that some lenders have tightened their standards.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{what-is-school-going-to-look-like-in-september}{%
  \paragraph{What is school going to look like in
  September?}\label{what-is-school-going-to-look-like-in-september}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    It is unlikely that many schools will return to a normal schedule
    this fall, requiring the grind of
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/05/us/coronavirus-education-lost-learning.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{online
    learning},
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/05/29/us/coronavirus-child-care-centers.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{makeshift
    child care} and
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/03/business/economy/coronavirus-working-women.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{stunted
    workdays} to continue. California's two largest public school
    districts --- Los Angeles and San Diego --- said on July 13, that
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/13/us/lausd-san-diego-school-reopening.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{instruction
    will be remote-only in the fall}, citing concerns that surging
    coronavirus infections in their areas pose too dire a risk for
    students and teachers. Together, the two districts enroll some
    825,000 students. They are the largest in the country so far to
    abandon plans for even a partial physical return to classrooms when
    they reopen in August. For other districts, the solution won't be an
    all-or-nothing approach.
    \href{https://bioethics.jhu.edu/research-and-outreach/projects/eschool-initiative/school-policy-tracker/}{Many
    systems}, including the nation's largest, New York City, are
    devising
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/26/us/coronavirus-schools-reopen-fall.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{hybrid
    plans} that involve spending some days in classrooms and other days
    online. There's no national policy on this yet, so check with your
    municipal school system regularly to see what is happening in your
    community.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{is-the-coronavirus-airborne}{%
  \paragraph{Is the coronavirus
  airborne?}\label{is-the-coronavirus-airborne}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    The coronavirus
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/04/health/239-experts-with-one-big-claim-the-coronavirus-is-airborne.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{can
    stay aloft for hours in tiny droplets in stagnant air}, infecting
    people as they inhale, mounting scientific evidence suggests. This
    risk is highest in crowded indoor spaces with poor ventilation, and
    may help explain super-spreading events reported in meatpacking
    plants, churches and restaurants.
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/06/health/coronavirus-airborne-aerosols.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{It's
    unclear how often the virus is spread} via these tiny droplets, or
    aerosols, compared with larger droplets that are expelled when a
    sick person coughs or sneezes, or transmitted through contact with
    contaminated surfaces, said Linsey Marr, an aerosol expert at
    Virginia Tech. Aerosols are released even when a person without
    symptoms exhales, talks or sings, according to Dr. Marr and more
    than 200 other experts, who
    \href{https://academic.oup.com/cid/article/doi/10.1093/cid/ciaa939/5867798}{have
    outlined the evidence in an open letter to the World Health
    Organization}.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{what-are-the-symptoms-of-coronavirus}{%
  \paragraph{What are the symptoms of
  coronavirus?}\label{what-are-the-symptoms-of-coronavirus}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Common symptoms
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/symptoms-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{include
    fever, a dry cough, fatigue and difficulty breathing or shortness of
    breath.} Some of these symptoms overlap with those of the flu,
    making detection difficult, but runny noses and stuffy sinuses are
    less common.
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/04/27/health/coronavirus-symptoms-cdc.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{The
    C.D.C. has also} added chills, muscle pain, sore throat, headache
    and a new loss of the sense of taste or smell as symptoms to look
    out for. Most people fall ill five to seven days after exposure, but
    symptoms may appear in as few as two days or as many as 14 days.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{does-asymptomatic-transmission-of-covid-19-happen}{%
  \paragraph{Does asymptomatic transmission of Covid-19
  happen?}\label{does-asymptomatic-transmission-of-covid-19-happen}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    So far, the evidence seems to show it does. A widely cited
    \href{https://www.nature.com/articles/s41591-020-0869-5}{paper}
    published in April suggests that people are most infectious about
    two days before the onset of coronavirus symptoms and estimated that
    44 percent of new infections were a result of transmission from
    people who were not yet showing symptoms. Recently, a top expert at
    the World Health Organization stated that transmission of the
    coronavirus by people who did not have symptoms was ``very rare,''
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/09/world/coronavirus-updates.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq\#link-1f302e21}{but
    she later walked back that statement.}
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

The news of the migrants' deaths disturbed an Indian public already
rattled by the accident at the LG plastics factory. Preliminary
investigations indicate that the accident was caused by a leak in a
styrene tank that had been neglected for weeks.

Officials said that dangerous pressure had been building in the tank
during the lockdown and that factory workers had improperly opened a
valve, releasing a huge cloud of toxic vapor.

On Friday, police officers put up more barricades around the factory and
were not letting anyone near it. With many of the evacuated villagers
being housed in government shelters, the entire area bore a deserted
look.

All day Thursday, Indian television channels showed
\href{https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/visakhapatnam/vizag-over-1000-fall-sick-after-gas-leak-from-chemical-plant/articleshow/75590112.cms}{clips
of the accident victims}. The images of people choking on fumes and
lying motionless in the roads conjured up painful memories of the
enormous
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2008/07/07/world/asia/07bhopal.html}{industrial
accident in Bhopal}, in 1984, when a pesticide plant released toxic gas
that killed 4,000 people.

Image

Municipal workers decontaminating the area around the plant on
Friday.Credit...Reddi Narendra/Reuters

But even if this period under lockdown has caused severe problems, it
might have saved more lives than it has taken, and not just from the
coronavirus.

The number of fatal car accidents is way down --- no surprise, perhaps,
given that roads across India were deserted until this week. A
\href{https://indianexpress.com/article/india/road-accidents-during-india-lockdown-6397368/}{recent
report} found that 140 people died in car accidents nationwide from
March 24 to May 3 --- an average of 3.4 deaths per day, much lower than
the 414 people killed on average each day in 2018.

And with many people confined to their homes, as the government has
instructed, to blunt the spread of the coronavirus, figures show that
overall
\href{https://www.reuters.com/article/us-health-coronavirus-india-casualties/mortality-rates-drop-sharply-in-parts-of-india-bucking-coronavirus-trend-idUSKCN2260WM}{death
rates have been lower than normal} in many large cities, including
Mumbai and Ahmedabad.

The general sense in India is that the lockdown's strictness has helped
keep confirmed coronavirus infections relatively low, reported to be
around 60,000, for a population of 1.3 billion.

But in recent days, as the lockdown has eased and many businesses have
resumed,
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/05/06/world/asia/india-coronavirus-lockdown-infections.html}{virus
infections --- and related deaths --- are increasing}.

Jeffrey Gettleman and Hari Kumar reported from New Delhi, and Suhasini
Raj from Lucknow. Shalini Venugopal contributed reporting from New
Delhi.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
