Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\hypertarget{the-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus?name=styln-coronavirus-markets\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=LegacyCollection\&impression_id=b77e4ea0-e392-11ea-82c3-4360fe62e7fb}{The
Coronavirus
Outbreak}}{The Coronavirus Outbreak}}\label{the-coronavirus-outbreak}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  live\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/21/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?name=styln-coronavirus-markets\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=LegacyCollection\&impression_id=b77e4ea1-e392-11ea-82c3-4360fe62e7fb}{Latest
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html?name=styln-coronavirus-markets\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=LegacyCollection\&impression_id=b77e4ea2-e392-11ea-82c3-4360fe62e7fb}{Maps
  and Cases}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html?name=styln-coronavirus-markets\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=LegacyCollection\&impression_id=b77e4ea3-e392-11ea-82c3-4360fe62e7fb}{Vaccine
  Tracker}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/19/us/colleges-closing-covid.html?name=styln-coronavirus-markets\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=LegacyCollection\&impression_id=b77e4ea4-e392-11ea-82c3-4360fe62e7fb}{Colleges
  Closing}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/20/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?name=styln-coronavirus-markets\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=LegacyCollection\&impression_id=b77e4ea5-e392-11ea-82c3-4360fe62e7fb}{Economy}
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{stock-rally-fizzles-on-federal-reserve-woes}{%
\section{Stock Rally Fizzles on Federal Reserve
Woes}\label{stock-rally-fizzles-on-federal-reserve-woes}}

This briefing is no longer being updated. Follow live updates
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/19/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html}{here}.

Last Updated

Aug. 19, 2020, 8:38 p.m. ET

Aug. 19, 2020, 8:38 p.m. ET

\hypertarget{heres-what-you-need-to-know}{%
\subsubsection{Here's what you need to
know:}\label{heres-what-you-need-to-know}}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{wall-street-slumps-as-minutes-show-fed-officials-talked-of-need-for-more-stimulus}{}

  Wall Street slumps as minutes show Fed officials talked of need for
  more stimulus.
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{federal-reserve-officials-worried-about-lapsing-aid-programs-from-washington}{}

  Federal Reserve officials worried about lapsing aid programs from
  Washington.
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{goodyear-stock-falls-after-president-trump-calls-for-boycott}{}

  Goodyear stock falls after President Trump calls for boycott.
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{jpmorgan-had-explored-leasing-space-inside-post-offices-for-banking}{}

  JPMorgan had explored leasing space inside post offices for banking.
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{apple-now-worth-2-trillion-has-doubled-in-value-during-the-pandemic}{}

  Apple, now worth \$2 trillion, has doubled in value during the
  pandemic.
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{wall-street-slumps-as-minutes-show-fed-officials-talked-of-need-for-more-stimulus}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{wall-street-slumps-as-minutes-show-fed-officials-talked-of-need-for-more-stimulus}{Wall
Street slumps as minutes show Fed officials talked of need for more
stimulus.}}{Wall Street slumps as minutes show Fed officials talked of need for more stimulus.}}\label{wall-street-slumps-as-minutes-show-fed-officials-talked-of-need-for-more-stimulus}}

Copied to clipboard.

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  Stocks \textbf{tumbled on Wednesday}, with an early rally quickly
  fading after minutes of the
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/19/business/economy/fed-meeting-minutes-coronavirus.html}{Federal
  Reserve's latest meeting} showed that policymakers remained worried
  about the economy and said more spending by Washington would be
  critical to a recovery.
\end{itemize}

\begin{quote}
``Uncertainty surrounding the economic outlook remained very elevated,
with the path of the economy highly dependent on the course of the virus
and the public sector's response to it,'' minutes from the central
bank's
\href{https://www.federalreserve.gov/monetarypolicy/fomccalendars.htm}{July
28-29 meeting} showed.

Read about the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/19/business/economy/fed-meeting-minutes-coronavirus.html}{Fed
here}.
\end{quote}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \textbf{Target was the best performing stock in the S\&P 500}, ****
  jumping nearly 13 percent after the company reported a surge in sales
  in the second quarter. Online sales nearly tripled from the previous
  year and its profit rose 80 percent to nearly \$1.7 billion. Read
  about the earnings report
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/19/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus/target-profits-surge-as-online-sales-nearly-triple}{here}.
\item
  Apple touched a \textbf{\$2 trillion valuation}, the first U.S.
  company to do so. The New York Times's Jack Nicas
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/19/technology/apple-2-trillion.html}{writes}:
\end{itemize}

\begin{quote}
It took Apple 42 years to
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/08/02/technology/apple-stock-1-trillion-market-cap.html}{reach
\$1 trillion} in value. It took it just two more years to get to \$2
trillion.

Even more stunning: All of Apple's second \$1 trillion came in the past
21 weeks, while
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/07/31/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus/europes-contraction-is-its-worst-on-record}{the
global economy}
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/30/business/economy/q2-gdp-coronavirus-economy.html}{shrank
faster than ever before} in the coronavirus pandemic.
\end{quote}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  The major indexes in Europe were higher, while \textbf{oil prices
  dipped}.
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{airbnb-files-for-an-ipo-brushing-off-pandemic-concerns}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{airbnb-files-for-an-ipo-brushing-off-pandemic-concerns}{Airbnb
files for an I.P.O., brushing off pandemic
concerns.}}{Airbnb files for an I.P.O., brushing off pandemic concerns.}}\label{airbnb-files-for-an-ipo-brushing-off-pandemic-concerns}}

Copied to clipboard.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/18/business/00airbnb-promo/merlin_171592323_6685d092-eca4-40d5-8014-0a79df44556b-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\textbf{Airbnb} said on Wednesday that it had confidentially filed to go
public, taking a key step toward one of the largest public market debuts
in a generation of ``sharing economy'' start-ups.

A public offering by the company, which lets people rent out their spare
rooms or homes to travelers, would cap a volatile year in which its
business was devastated by the spread of the coronavirus.

Airbnb had been privately valued at \$31 billion before this year, and
the company must now convince investors that it can thrive and turn a
profit in a new era of limited travel.

Airbnb declined to comment beyond its
\href{https://news.airbnb.com/airbnb-announces-confidential-submission-of-draft-registration-statement/}{announcement}.

In recent years, other so-called unicorns, the name given to start-ups
valued at \$1 billion or more, have ridden a wave of growth fueled by
smartphones, gig work and copious amounts of venture capital.

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \textbf{Uber} and \textbf{Lyft} went public
\item
  \textbf{Postmates} sold itself
\item
  \textbf{WeWork} collapsed spectacularly
\end{itemize}

Why this is a good time for Airbnb to pursue I.P.O.:

\begin{quote}
Its debut will most likely be helped by an ebullient stock market, which
has remained robust despite the economic destruction caused by the
pandemic. On Tuesday, the S\&P 500 hit
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/18/business/stock-market-record.html?action=click\&module=Top\%20Stories\&pgtype=Homepage}{a
new high} as investors focused on signs that the worst might be over.

Start-ups have
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/17/technology/ipo-pandemic.html}{taken
advantage of investors' excitement for technology}. Tech companies
including Lemonade, an insurance provider, and ZoomInfo, a business
database company, watched their prices soar after listing over the
summer.
\end{quote}

--- \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/erin-griffith}{Erin
Griffith}

\hypertarget{advertisement}{%
\subsubsection{Advertisement}\label{advertisement}}

\protect\hyperlink{after-dfp-ad-mid1}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{federal-reserve-officials-worried-about-lapsing-aid-programs-from-washington}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{federal-reserve-officials-worried-about-lapsing-aid-programs-from-washington}{Federal
Reserve officials worried about lapsing aid programs from
Washington.}}{Federal Reserve officials worried about lapsing aid programs from Washington.}}\label{federal-reserve-officials-worried-about-lapsing-aid-programs-from-washington}}

Copied to clipboard.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/19/business/19markets-brf-fed/merlin_171561360_1838516f-2559-4c5f-ab39-524842d137b1-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

The stock market may have
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/18/business/stock-market-record.html}{broken
through its old high}, as if the coronavirus pandemic never happened,
but officials at the Federal Reserve are still worried about the
economy.

When they met in late July, the central bank's policymakers discussed
the need for continuing economic support with millions of workers still
at home, minutes from the central bank's
\href{https://www.federalreserve.gov/monetarypolicy/fomccalendars.htm}{July
28-29 meeting} showed.

``Uncertainty surrounding the economic outlook remained very elevated,
with the path of the economy highly dependent on the course of the virus
and the public sector's response to it,'' the minutes say.

That July meeting came just before key government support programs
lapsed, including enhanced unemployment benefits. Officials pointed out
that monetary policy and ``particularly fiscal policy'' ---~in other
words, congressionally mandated spending ---~would play important roles
in supporting business activity.

With some stimulus provisions ``set to expire shortly against the
backdrop of a still-weak labor market, additional fiscal aid would
likely be important for supporting vulnerable families, and thus the
economy more broadly, in the period ahead,'' a number of participants
said, according to the minutes.

For now, Washington is deadlocked over any new spending. Senate
Republicans began
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/18/us/politics/republicans-coronavirus-stimulus-bill.html}{circulating
the text} of a narrow coronavirus relief package on Tuesday, but it is
unlikely that Democrats will sign on.

The Fed has taken actions to support the economy. Its policies can set
the backdrop for growth to make it cheap to borrow and spend, but they
do not directly put money in consumers' and companies' pockets.

--- \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/jeanna-smialek}{Jeanna
Smialek}

\hypertarget{goodyear-stock-falls-after-president-trump-calls-for-boycott}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{goodyear-stock-falls-after-president-trump-calls-for-boycott}{Goodyear
stock falls after President Trump calls for
boycott.}}{Goodyear stock falls after President Trump calls for boycott.}}\label{goodyear-stock-falls-after-president-trump-calls-for-boycott}}

Copied to clipboard.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/19/business/19markets-brf-goodyear/19markets-brf-goodyear-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Shares of the \textbf{Goodyear Tire \& Rubber Company} fell as much as 4
percent on Wednesday, after President Trump called on his supporters to
boycott the Ohio-based company because of its policy on political attire
in the workplace.

``Don't buy GOODYEAR TIRES - They announced a BAN ON MAGA HATS,'' Mr.
Trump
\href{https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/1296092859226042368?s=20}{wrote}
on Twitter on Wednesday, referring to his ``Make America Great Again''
campaign slogan.

Mr. Trump's outburst came a day after
\href{https://www.wibw.com/2020/08/18/goodyear-employees-say-new-no-tolerance-policy-is-discriminatory/}{a
television station in Kansas} shared an image from a Goodyear training
presentation that said ``MAGA Attire'' as well as ``Blue Lives Matter,''
the slogan intended to support police officers but also decried as a
ill-suited reaction to the Black Lives Matter movement. were considered
unacceptable.

Goodyear responded on Wednesday by saying that its policy against
harassment and discrimination means that it asks that ``associates
refrain from workplace expressions in support of political campaigning
for any candidate or political party.''

\begin{quote}
Yesterday, Goodyear became the focus of a conversation that created some
misconceptions about our policies and our company. Goodyear has always
wholeheartedly supported both equality and law enforcement and will
continue to do so.
\href{https://t.co/oO6jUg2rTR}{pic.twitter.com/oO6jUg2rTR}

--- Goodyear (@goodyear)
\href{https://twitter.com/goodyear/status/1296111292827283462?ref_src=twsrc\%5Etfw}{August
19, 2020}
\end{quote}

Mr. Trump has attacked companies on Twitter in the past for policies he
disagreed with. These include the automaker \textbf{Ford}, for
manufacturing cars outside of the United States, and the drug maker
\textbf{Pfizer} because of the rising cost of pharmaceuticals.

Earlier in his presidency, those tweets often set off reactions in
financial markets and sometimes prompted changes in company policy, but
Mr. Trump's public scoldings eventually lost some of
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/03/20/us/politics/trump-twitter-businesses.html}{their
impact}.

Goodyear, which has about 60,000 employees and was
\href{https://corporate.goodyear.com/en-US/about/history.html}{founded
in 1898}, sells about half of its tires in the Americas. Its two major
rivals --- \textbf{Bridgestone} and \textbf{Michelin} ---~are not
American companies. Bridgestone is based in Japan, and Michelin in
France.

Goodyear's shares ended trading on Wednesday with a decline of about 1.6
percent.

--- Mohammed Hadi

\hypertarget{jpmorgan-had-explored-leasing-space-inside-post-offices-for-banking}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{jpmorgan-had-explored-leasing-space-inside-post-offices-for-banking}{JPMorgan
had explored leasing space inside post offices for
banking.}}{JPMorgan had explored leasing space inside post offices for banking.}}\label{jpmorgan-had-explored-leasing-space-inside-post-offices-for-banking}}

Copied to clipboard.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/19/business/19markets-brf-usps/merlin_175699377_013f1418-42c6-472c-b1d4-3175adae3b4b-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\textbf{JPMorgan Chase}, the largest bank in the United States, had
considered opening A.T.M.s and other banking facilities inside branches
of the United States Postal Service, a bank spokeswoman said.

Several months ago, the bank explored the possibility of leasing space
in post office branches, a move that would have put it in a highly
favorable position compared to its giant peers, the spokeswoman said.

Following
\href{https://library.thecapitolforum.com/docs/486eya60q0er?vtt=eyJhbGciOiJIUzI1NiIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJzY29wZSI6InZpZXdUaW1lIiwiaWF0IjoxNTk3ODUyMzQzLCJleHAiOjE1OTgwMjg3NDMsInN1YiI6IjQ4NmV5YTYwcTBlciIsImp0aSI6IjQ4NmV6enhrZGo0OSJ9.S2Supsje_DaQmEA6hsZK7HIHMEL_dMUT4WVLf0z6Ll4\&u=3zu7x0eu4e10}{a
report on Wednesday} by The Capitol Forum that cited an internal Postal
Service document describing the plans, the JPMorgan spokeswoman,
Patricia Wexler, said the bank had discussions ``about what it might
look like to lease a small number of spaces to place A.T.M.s to better
serve some historically underserved communities.''

Democrats in Congress have been pushing for the Postal Service to offer
its own banking options so that more low-income Americans can have
access to basic services, like cashing checks, without having to pay the
same rates that banks or payday lenders charge to people without bank
accounts, which can be extremely high.

Having JPMorgan's banking facilities in post office branches may have
made the idea of postal banking harder to execute. That would have been
good for JPMorgan and other large banks, which generally oppose postal
banking because it would undermine their ability to attract new
customers.

In June, a consortium of bank lobbying groups, including the American
Bankers Association, the largest such group in the country, as well as
the Bank Policy Institute, which represents the country's largest banks,
\href{https://www.aba.com/advocacy/policy-analysis/joint-financial-services-trades-letter-to-the-house-oppose-pascrell-kaptur-postal-banking-amendment}{wrote
to leaders} in the House of Representatives urging them to oppose
legislation that would have provided funding for postal banking services
for the 2021 fiscal year.

``Congress should encourage the Postal Service to focus on its core
business of physical mail delivery, and not attempt to expand the
mission to businesses outside of the Postal Service's area of
expertise,'' the groups' representatives wrote.

Ms. Wexler said JPMorgan's talks with the Postal Service were
preliminary. ``There is no agreement in place and no imminent plans to
move forward,'' she said.

--- \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/emily-flitter}{Emily
Flitter}

\hypertarget{advertisement-1}{%
\subsubsection{Advertisement}\label{advertisement-1}}

\protect\hyperlink{after-dfp-ad-mid2}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{apple-now-worth-2-trillion-has-doubled-in-value-during-the-pandemic}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{apple-now-worth-2-trillion-has-doubled-in-value-during-the-pandemic}{Apple,
now worth \$2 trillion, has doubled in value during the
pandemic.}}{Apple, now worth \$2 trillion, has doubled in value during the pandemic.}}\label{apple-now-worth-2-trillion-has-doubled-in-value-during-the-pandemic}}

Copied to clipboard.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/06/us/apple-mkt-cap-promo-1596767397262/apple-mkt-cap-promo-1596767397262-articleLarge-v3.png?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

It took \textbf{Apple} 42 years to
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/08/02/technology/apple-stock-1-trillion-market-cap.html}{reach
\$1 trillion} in value. It took it just two more years
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/19/technology/apple-2-trillion.html}{to
get to \$2 trillion}.

Even more stunning: All of Apple's second \$1 trillion was added in the
past 21 weeks, while
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/07/31/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus/europes-contraction-is-its-worst-on-record}{the
global economy}
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/30/business/economy/q2-gdp-coronavirus-economy.html}{shrank
faster than ever before} in the coronavirus pandemic.

On Wednesday Apple became the first U.S. company to hit that valuation
when its shares climbed in early trading. It was another milestone for
the maker of iPhones, Mac computers and Apple Watches, cementing its
title as the world's most valuable public company and punctuating how
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/23/technology/coronavirus-facebook-amazon-youtube.html}{the
pandemic has been a bonanza for the tech giants}.

As recently as mid-March, Apple's value was under \$1 trillion after the
stock market plunged over fears of the coronavirus. On March 23, the
stock market's nadir this year, the Federal Reserve announced
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/23/business/economy/coronavirus-fed-bond-buying.html}{aggressive
new measures} to calm investors. Since then, the stock market --- and
particularly the stocks of Apple, \textbf{Microsoft}, \textbf{Amazon},
\textbf{Alphabet} and \textbf{Facebook} --- largely soared, with the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/18/business/stock-market-record.html}{S\&P
500 hitting a new high} on Tuesday.

--- \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/jack-nicas}{Jack Nicas}

\hypertarget{target-profits-surge-as-online-sales-nearly-triple}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{target-profits-surge-as-online-sales-nearly-triple}{Target
profits surge as online sales nearly
triple.}}{Target profits surge as online sales nearly triple.}}\label{target-profits-surge-as-online-sales-nearly-triple}}

Copied to clipboard.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/19/business/19-markets-brf-target/merlin_173030055_8069ef52-7169-452e-abcb-868a10f9df12-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\textbf{Target} said on Wednesday that its profits surged to nearly
\$1.7 billion in the three months through Aug. 1, an increase of about
80 percent from the same time a year earlier, as people continued to
turn to big-box retailers for supplies during the coronavirus lockdowns.

The earnings growth came as sales rose nearly 25 percent, in part as
online sales nearly tripled from the previous year, the company said in
a
\href{https://investors.target.com/news-releases/news-release-details/target-corporation-reports-second-quarter-earnings}{statement.}

Same-store sales (from stores that were open both this year and last)
increased nearly 11 percent, while same-day services, including order
pick up and drive up, grew by 273 percent.

Target was designated as an essential service, allowing its stores to
remain open while some competitors were forced to closed. The company
said its ``comparable sales'' growth of 24.3 percent was the biggest
increase ever reported.

The company's shares rose more than 12 percent on Wednesday.

--- Gillian Friedman

\hypertarget{the-latest-qantas-reports-a-14-billion-annual-loss}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{the-latest-qantas-reports-a-1-4-billion-annual-loss}{The
latest: Qantas reports a \$1.4 billion annual
loss.}}{The latest: Qantas reports a \$1.4 billion annual loss.}}\label{the-latest-qantas-reports-a-14-billion-annual-loss}}

Copied to clipboard.

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \textbf{Qantas Airways}, Australia's national carrier, swung to a loss
  of 1.96 Australian dollars, or \$1.4 billion, for the 2020 financial
  year, as the pandemic devastated the airline industry worldwide. The
  loss was driven primarily by a write-down of assets, including its
  A380 fleet, and restructuring costs intended to help it survive during
  the pandemic, the airline said in a statement on Thursday. ``The
  impact of COVID on all airlines is clear,'' the company's chief
  executive, Alan Joyce, said in the statement. ``It's devastating and
  it will be a question of survival for many."
\item
  \textbf{Lowe's}
  \href{https://corporate.lowes.com/newsroom/press-releases/lowes-reports-second-quarter-2020-sales-and-earnings-results-08-19-20}{reported}
  a surge in profits during the second quarter, as the coronavirus
  pandemic spurred people across the country to take on home improvement
  projects while cooped up at home. The hardware chain said Wednesday it
  earned \$2.8 billion for the quarter ending July 31, compared to \$1.7
  billion during the same period last year. Net sales also jumped 30
  percent to roughly \$27 billion. The company said it invested \$460
  million to support frontline hourly workers and increase store safety
  during the quarter.
\item
  \textbf{Southwest Airlines} said in a filing on Wednesday that it had
  turned down a \$2.8 billion federal loan offered under the March
  stimulus, reflecting a modest improvement to the company's outlook and
  its belief that it can raise money at favorable terms elsewhere if
  needed.
\item
  \textbf{Amazon}
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/18/technology/amazon-office-expansion.html}{said}
  on Tuesday that it would hire 3,500 white-collar employees across the
  country, including 2,000 in New York, following through on plans it
  had largely put in place before the coronavirus made office towers
  empty as employees worked from home. The new jobs will fill a lot of
  office space that the company acquired before Covid-19 took hold in
  the United States. In early March, Amazon bought the iconic
  \textbf{Lord \& Taylor} building on Fifth Avenue from the co-working
  company \textbf{WeWork}.
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{advertisement-2}{%
\subsubsection{Advertisement}\label{advertisement-2}}

\protect\hyperlink{after-dfp-ad-mid3}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{big-tech-companies-are-reaching-new-heights-of-wealth-and-influence}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{big-tech-companies-are-reaching-new-heights-of-wealth-and-influence}{Big
tech companies are reaching new heights of wealth and
influence.}}{Big tech companies are reaching new heights of wealth and influence.}}\label{big-tech-companies-are-reaching-new-heights-of-wealth-and-influence}}

Copied to clipboard.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/12/business/12techdominance/12techdominance-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

As the economy contracts and many companies struggle to survive,
America's biggest tech companies are being lifted to new heights,
putting the industry in a position to
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/19/technology/big-tech-business-domination.html}{dominate
business} in a way unseen since the days of railroads.

A rally in technology stocks elevated the S\&P 500 index to
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/18/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus/sp-500-hits-a-record-as-traders-look-past-economic-devastation}{a
record high} on Tuesday even as the pandemic crushes the broader
economy. The stocks of \textbf{Apple}, \textbf{Amazon},
\textbf{Alphabet}, \textbf{Microsoft} and \textbf{Facebook}, the five
largest publicly traded companies in the United States, rose 37 percent
in the first seven months this year, while all the other stocks in the
S\&P 500 fell a combined 6 percent, according to Credit Suisse.

Those five companies now constitute 20 percent of the stock market's
total worth, a level not seen from a single industry in at least 70
years. Apple's stock market value, the highest of the bunch, is nearly
\$2 trillion --- double what it was just 21 weeks ago.

The tech companies' dominance of the stock market is propelled by their
unprecedented reach into our lives, shaping how we work, communicate,
shop and relax. That has only deepened during the pandemic, and as
people shop more frequently on Amazon, click on a Google or Facebook ad
or pay up for an iPhone, the companies receive a greater share of
spending in the economy and earn ever larger profits.

``Covid was the perfect positive storm for these guys,'' said Thomas
Philippon, a professor of finance at New York University.

--- \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/peter-eavis}{Peter
Eavis} and \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/steve-lohr}{Steve
Lohr}

\hypertarget{how-people-are-spending-hints-at-a-halted-recovery}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{how-people-are-spending-hints-at-a-halted-recovery}{How
people are spending hints at a halted
recovery.}}{How people are spending hints at a halted recovery.}}\label{how-people-are-spending-hints-at-a-halted-recovery}}

Copied to clipboard.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/14/us/business-visits-lockdown-promo-1597445069971/business-visits-lockdown-promo-1597445069971-articleLarge-v3.png?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Strict lockdowns ended weeks ago, but many people across the country are
still avoiding malls, restaurants and other businesses. The shift in
behavior points to
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/18/business/economy/coronavirus-economic-recovery-states.html}{a
reshaping of American commerce}, fueling questions about the strength
and speed of the economic recovery as the coronavirus continues to
spread.

Through the end of last week, daily visits to businesses were down 20
percent from last year, according to a New York Times analysis of foot
traffic data from the smartphones of more than 15 million people. After
an initial plunge in the spring, consumer habits have been slow to
recover, the data shows.

Visits to businesses have, for example, rebounded more in Alabama, a
largely conservative state, than in the more liberal Vermont. But in
comparison with last year, people in Vermont have been shopping again
more than people in California, where the virus remains a greater
threat. Everywhere, trips to pharmacies and hospitals have fallen, while
those to gas stations and convenience stores have held steady or even
increased.

How people spend will determine which companies survive, and who
ultimately keep their jobs. Continued weakness at brick-and-mortar
stores has enormous implications for an economy that has had
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/30/business/economy/q2-gdp-coronavirus-economy.html}{years
of gains wiped away} in the months since the pandemic hit. The
disparities in how people shop hint at a prolonged, uncertain and uneven
recovery.

---
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/jennifer-valentino-devries}{Jennifer
Valentino-DeVries}, Ella Koeze and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/sapna-maheshwari}{Sapna
Maheshwari}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
