Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/world/middleeast}{Middle
East}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/world/middleeast}{Middle East}\textbar{}Will the
Coronavirus End Israel's Political Paralysis?

\url{https://nyti.ms/2K3sxSL}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{The
Coronavirus Outbreak}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  live\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/04/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Latest
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Maps
  and Cases}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Vaccine
  Tracker}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/02/us/covid-college-reopening.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{College
  Reopening}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/03/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Economy}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{will-the-coronavirus-end-israels-political-paralysis}{%
\section{Will the Coronavirus End Israel's Political
Paralysis?}\label{will-the-coronavirus-end-israels-political-paralysis}}

Benny Gantz, who had been seeking to unseat Prime Minister Benjamin
Netanyahu, is now talking with his rival about forming a unity
government amid the public health crisis.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/04/14/world/14israel-explainer01/merlin_171522981_ca073347-133d-4020-b8bc-25d7769df320-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/isabel-kershner}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/10/12/multimedia/author-isabel-kershner/author-isabel-kershner-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/isabel-kershner}{Isabel
Kershner}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  April 14, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

JERUSALEM --- After three inconclusive elections resulting in a yearlong
impasse, Israel's president has given Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu
and his chief rival, Benny Gantz,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/13/world/middleeast/israel-election-netanyahu-gantz.html?action=click\&module=Latest\&pgtype=Homepage}{until
Wednesday midnight} to form a unity government.

If no agreement is reached by then, Israel will edge closer to a fourth
election, despite the state of national emergency created by the
coronavirus crisis.

On Tuesday, six weeks after
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/03/world/middleeast/israel-election-takeaways.html}{the
March 2 election} and a series of rancorous on-again, off-again
negotiations, the two sides met for talks and again failed to finalize a
deal. Here's a look at what's at stake for the two sides and why Israel
still has no elected government.

\hypertarget{why-are-israels-main-political-foes-even-in-unity-talks}{%
\subsection{Why are Israel's main political foes even in unity
talks?}\label{why-are-israels-main-political-foes-even-in-unity-talks}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/04/14/world/14israel-explainer06/merlin_170905311_79d4a6ac-9767-40b6-8d01-d1732c7b22db-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

The last election, like the two before it, produced no clear winner.

Mr. Gantz, a former army chief and leader of the centrist Blue and White
party who entered politics not much more than a year ago, came out in a
slightly better position than Mr. Netanyahu, the conservative incumbent
and Israel's longest-serving prime minister.

With more endorsements from members of Parliament, Mr. Gantz was
afforded the first chance to build a coalition. But the anti-Netanyahu
camp, encompassing Arab, Islamic and Jewish ultranationalist parties,
proved too disparate to form a government.

Mr. Netanyahu's Likud party and his right-wing and religious partners
fell short of a majority to form their own government in the 120-seat
Parliament.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-global-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/04/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: Global Coronavirus
Outbreak}}{Latest Updates: Global Coronavirus Outbreak}}\label{latest-updates-global-coronavirus-outbreak}}

Updated 2020-08-04T10:03:05.885Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/04/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-6b644638}{`Long
  days, long nights': Washington prepares for a prolonged fight over
  virus relief.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/04/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-7af9fca0}{Israel's
  rocky reopening of its schools may be a lesson for the U.S.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/04/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-33bf9168}{Hurricane
  Isaias arrives in North Carolina as officials along the East Coast
  scramble.}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/04/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

More live coverage:
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/04/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Markets}

The only way forward was for Mr. Netanyahu and Mr. Gantz to join forces
in a national unity government. Mr. Gantz resisted at first because it
meant reneging on his repeated election promises not to sit in a
government with a prime minister under indictment. Mr. Netanyahu is
facing trial on
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/11/21/world/middleeast/netanyahu-corruption-indicted.html}{charges
of bribery, fraud and breach of trust}. He has denied any wrongdoing.

Then the coronavirus hit Israel.

Mr. Netanyahu, a canny political survivor, publicly beseeched Mr. Gantz
to join him in a national emergency government to combat the health
crisis. He proposed sharing the job of prime minister, with Mr.
Netanyahu holding it for the first 18 months, and Mr. Gantz taking over
for the next 18.

Citing the common good in the face of a growing public health and
economic crisis, and seeking to avoid a fourth election, Mr. Gantz
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/26/world/middleeast/israel-netanyahu-gantz-government.html}{relented
and agreed in principle} last month.

\hypertarget{if-its-an-emergency-why-have-talks-dragged-on}{%
\subsection{If it's an emergency, why have talks dragged
on?}\label{if-its-an-emergency-why-have-talks-dragged-on}}

Image

A victim of the coronavirus was taken away in Jerusalem this month. Mr.
Netanyahu has publicly beseeched Mr. Gantz to join him in a national
emergency government to respond to the outbreak.Credit...Mahmoud
Illean/Associated Press

The pandemic has sickened thousands of Israelis and killed at least 118
so far. But negotiations over the government bogged down over political
and legal details.

First, Mr. Netanyahu and Mr. Gantz differ in their approaches to
President Trump's proposal to resolve the Israeli-Palestinian conflict.
Mr. Netanyahu has pledged to swiftly and unilaterally annex large swaths
of the occupied West Bank, while Mr. Gantz's Blue and White party has
said it is opposed to unilateral annexation in the absence of broad
international consensus.

The two sides have reportedly come to an agreement on this issue.

More problematic was what critics describe as Mr. Netanyahu's singular
goal of ensuring he can remain in office despite his legal troubles.

Mr. Netanyahu tried to change the procedures for appointing Supreme
Court judges, according to Blue and White officials. Then, analysts
said, he was seeking a way to circumvent any future Supreme Court
decision barring a candidate charged with crimes --- like himself ---
from forming a government.

By remaining in office, Mr. Netanyahu gains crucial leverage should he
try to negotiate a deal with state prosecutors, or he might try to
secure immunity from prosecution.

These demands appeared to be a sticking point for Mr. Gantz, who said he
was holding out to protect fundamental democratic values, particularly
the rule of law.

``Netanyahu and Likud know that we are reasonable partners,'' he said on
Monday night. ``They also know that there are certain areas on which we
won't compromise --- foremost among them, protecting the rule of law and
safeguarding Israeli democracy. Those are always important, but even
more so during times of crisis.''

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{}

\hypertarget{the-coronavirus-outbreak-}{%
\subsubsection{The Coronavirus Outbreak
›}\label{the-coronavirus-outbreak-}}

\hypertarget{frequently-asked-questions}{%
\paragraph{Frequently Asked
Questions}\label{frequently-asked-questions}}

Updated August 3, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{im-a-small-business-owner-can-i-get-relief}{%
  \paragraph{I'm a small-business owner. Can I get
  relief?}\label{im-a-small-business-owner-can-i-get-relief}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    The
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/small-business-loans-stimulus-grants-freelancers-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{stimulus
    bills enacted in March} offer help for the millions of American
    small businesses. Those eligible for aid are businesses and
    nonprofit organizations with fewer than 500 workers, including sole
    proprietorships, independent contractors and freelancers. Some
    larger companies in some industries are also eligible. The help
    being offered, which is being managed by the Small Business
    Administration, includes the Paycheck Protection Program and the
    Economic Injury Disaster Loan program. But lots of folks have
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/05/07/business/small-business-loans-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{not
    yet seen payouts.} Even those who have received help are confused:
    The rules are draconian, and some are stuck sitting on
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/02/business/economy/loans-coronavirus-small-business.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{money
    they don't know how to use.} Many small-business owners are getting
    less than they expected or
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/10/business/Small-business-loans-ppp.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{not
    hearing anything at all.}
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{what-are-my-rights-if-i-am-worried-about-going-back-to-work}{%
  \paragraph{What are my rights if I am worried about going back to
  work?}\label{what-are-my-rights-if-i-am-worried-about-going-back-to-work}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Employers have to provide
    \href{https://www.osha.gov/SLTC/covid-19/standards.html}{a safe
    workplace} with policies that protect everyone equally.
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/coronavirus-money-unemployment.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{And
    if one of your co-workers tests positive for the coronavirus, the
    C.D.C.} has said that
    \href{https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/community/guidance-business-response.html}{employers
    should tell their employees} -\/- without giving you the sick
    employee's name -\/- that they may have been exposed to the virus.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{should-i-refinance-my-mortgage}{%
  \paragraph{Should I refinance my
  mortgage?}\label{should-i-refinance-my-mortgage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/coronavirus-money-unemployment.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{It
    could be a good idea,} because mortgage rates have
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/16/business/mortgage-rates-below-3-percent.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{never
    been lower.} Refinancing requests have pushed mortgage applications
    to some of the highest levels since 2008, so be prepared to get in
    line. But defaults are also up, so if you're thinking about buying a
    home, be aware that some lenders have tightened their standards.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{what-is-school-going-to-look-like-in-september}{%
  \paragraph{What is school going to look like in
  September?}\label{what-is-school-going-to-look-like-in-september}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    It is unlikely that many schools will return to a normal schedule
    this fall, requiring the grind of
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/05/us/coronavirus-education-lost-learning.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{online
    learning},
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/29/us/coronavirus-child-care-centers.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{makeshift
    child care} and
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/03/business/economy/coronavirus-working-women.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{stunted
    workdays} to continue. California's two largest public school
    districts --- Los Angeles and San Diego --- said on July 13, that
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/13/us/lausd-san-diego-school-reopening.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{instruction
    will be remote-only in the fall}, citing concerns that surging
    coronavirus infections in their areas pose too dire a risk for
    students and teachers. Together, the two districts enroll some
    825,000 students. They are the largest in the country so far to
    abandon plans for even a partial physical return to classrooms when
    they reopen in August. For other districts, the solution won't be an
    all-or-nothing approach.
    \href{https://bioethics.jhu.edu/research-and-outreach/projects/eschool-initiative/school-policy-tracker/}{Many
    systems}, including the nation's largest, New York City, are
    devising
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/26/us/coronavirus-schools-reopen-fall.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{hybrid
    plans} that involve spending some days in classrooms and other days
    online. There's no national policy on this yet, so check with your
    municipal school system regularly to see what is happening in your
    community.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{is-the-coronavirus-airborne}{%
  \paragraph{Is the coronavirus
  airborne?}\label{is-the-coronavirus-airborne}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    The coronavirus
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/04/health/239-experts-with-one-big-claim-the-coronavirus-is-airborne.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{can
    stay aloft for hours in tiny droplets in stagnant air}, infecting
    people as they inhale, mounting scientific evidence suggests. This
    risk is highest in crowded indoor spaces with poor ventilation, and
    may help explain super-spreading events reported in meatpacking
    plants, churches and restaurants.
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/06/health/coronavirus-airborne-aerosols.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{It's
    unclear how often the virus is spread} via these tiny droplets, or
    aerosols, compared with larger droplets that are expelled when a
    sick person coughs or sneezes, or transmitted through contact with
    contaminated surfaces, said Linsey Marr, an aerosol expert at
    Virginia Tech. Aerosols are released even when a person without
    symptoms exhales, talks or sings, according to Dr. Marr and more
    than 200 other experts, who
    \href{https://academic.oup.com/cid/article/doi/10.1093/cid/ciaa939/5867798}{have
    outlined the evidence in an open letter to the World Health
    Organization}.
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

But Mr. Gantz has come under bitter attack from many former allies and
supporters who saw his willingness to enter into a Netanyahu-led
government, along with Mr. Netanyahu's right-wing and religious
coalition partners, as a betrayal. His party has broken up, with about
half its members headed into the opposition, leaving him with less
leverage and few political options.

``At least don't call this an emergency government,'' Yair Lapid, a
former Gantz ally,
\href{https://twitter.com/yairlapid/status/1249954842640093185}{wrote on
Twitter on Tuesday}, noting the lack of attention to health and economic
issues in the negotiations.

\hypertarget{will-a-unity-government-bring-national-healing-and-reconciliation}{%
\subsection{Will a unity government bring national healing and
reconciliation?}\label{will-a-unity-government-bring-national-healing-and-reconciliation}}

Image

Palestinian demonstrators, right, protesting President Trump's Middle
East peace initiative, near a Jewish settlement in the West Bank in
February.Credit...Majdi Mohammed/Associated Press

After a year of political deadlock, a unity deal may provide a temporary
balm for a deeply divided and anxious Israel under lockdown to fight the
coronavirus. But a unity coalition is unlikely to resolve Israel's
longstanding divisions.

Since Mr. Gantz's party would be joining a coalition that would include
Mr. Netanyahu's ultra-Orthodox allies, there is likely to be little
movement to resolve the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/09/12/world/middleeast/israeli-election-religious-secular.html?searchResultPosition=4}{religious-secular
tensions} that have roiled Israeli society for years.

With Mr. Netanyahu's right-wing partners in the government --- and with
Mr. Trump still in office --- there is also unlikely to be any
resumption of peace talks with the Palestinians. The Palestinians have
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/02/11/world/middleeast/palestinian-trump-plan-UN.html}{rejected
the Trump administration's peace plan} as hopelessly biased toward
Israel.

If a unity government were to move ahead with annexing parts of the
occupied West Bank, Israel's relations with Egypt and Jordan could also
be severely undermined.

Mr. Netanyahu has taken pride in his handling of the coronavirus crisis
so far.

``Dear citizens of Israel, our ability to respond quickly and flexibly
to the coronavirus challenge is arousing appreciation in many
countries,'' he said in a televised address on Monday.

But once the lockdown is lifted, many will find themselves out of work.
So far, the crisis has left more than a million Israelis, out of a
population of nine million, on indefinite unpaid leave or unemployed.

Mr. Netanyahu has said that under his continued stewardship, the country
will prevail.

``Previously, in the two major economic crises of this millennium, I
succeeded --- with your help --- in moving the Israeli economy on to
great achievements,'' he said in the Monday address. ``We emerged from
the crises and the Israeli economy flourished. It is my intention,
together with you, to do this again.''

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
