Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/travel}{Travel}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/travel}{Travel}\textbar{}Cruise Lines Were Shut Out of
the Stimulus. Here's Why.

\url{https://nyti.ms/3e0GoHg}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{the-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=42156fe0-e388-11ea-adda-c17bab336bc5}{The
Coronavirus
Outbreak}}{The Coronavirus Outbreak}}\label{the-coronavirus-outbreak}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  live\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/20/world/coronavirus-covid.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=42156fe1-e388-11ea-adda-c17bab336bc5}{Latest
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=42156fe2-e388-11ea-adda-c17bab336bc5}{Maps
  and Cases}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=42156fe3-e388-11ea-adda-c17bab336bc5}{Vaccine
  Tracker}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/19/us/colleges-closing-covid.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=42156fe4-e388-11ea-adda-c17bab336bc5}{Colleges
  Closing}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/20/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=42156fe5-e388-11ea-adda-c17bab336bc5}{Economy}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{cruise-lines-were-shut-out-of-the-stimulus-heres-why}{%
\section{Cruise Lines Were Shut Out of the Stimulus. Here's
Why.}\label{cruise-lines-were-shut-out-of-the-stimulus-heres-why}}

The hard-hit sector of the travel industry was left out of the \$2
trillion stimulus package. Century-old tax provisions help explain what
happened.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/04/12/travel/00Update-Cruise/00Update-Cruise-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/jonathan-wolfe}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/08/24/multimedia/author-jonathan-wolfe/author-jonathan-wolfe-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/jonathan-wolfe}{Jonathan
Wolfe}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Published April 8, 2020Updated June 26, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

President Trump on March 27 signed into law the \$2 trillion stimulus
package designed to save millions of jobs and bail out companies
devastated by the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/26/travel/coronavirus-cruises-reopening.html}{coronavirus}.
But when the dust settled, one hard-hit sector of the travel industry
was left on the sidelines: the major
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/26/travel/coronavirus-cruises-reopening.html}{cruise}
lines.

Even politicians who demanded that the industry clean up its
environmental record as a condition for receiving taxpayer funds were a
little stunned by the news.

``I have to admit I was surprised,'' Senator Richard Blumenthal,
Democrat of Connecticut, said in an interview, ``given the president's
support for the cruise industry.''

So why were the major cruise lines left out? These are the three primary
reasons.

\hypertarget{theyre-foreign-corporations}{%
\subsection{They're foreign
corporations}\label{theyre-foreign-corporations}}

In the weeks before the bill's passage both
\href{https://www.mcclatchydc.com/news/politics-government/white-house/article241044301.html}{Democrats
and Republicans expressed reservations} about bailing out the major
cruise lines because they are not American corporations and are largely
exempt from paying income taxes.

``Very emphatically and clearly, the intent of Congress is to exclude
the cruise line industry from any assistance with this bill,'' Mr.
Blumenthal said.

Under the law, companies can only qualify for a loan if they are
``created or organized in the United States and under the laws of the
United States.''

While the major cruise lines are all headquartered in Miami, they are
incorporated in foreign countries: Royal Caribbean is registered in
Liberia, Norwegian in Bermuda, and Carnival in Panama.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-the-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/20/world/coronavirus-covid.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: The Coronavirus
Outbreak}}{Latest Updates: The Coronavirus Outbreak}}\label{latest-updates-the-coronavirus-outbreak}}

Updated 2020-08-21T07:46:15.883Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/20/world/coronavirus-covid.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-68774d88}{Shutdowns,
  warnings and scoldings follow alarming incidents on college campuses.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/20/world/coronavirus-covid.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-26b58724}{Biden
  knocks Trump's pandemic response, and outlines a national strategy.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/20/world/coronavirus-covid.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-4e542da3}{U.S.
  health agencies announce moves to confront the flu season and
  plummeting child vaccination rates.}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/20/world/coronavirus-covid.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

More live coverage:
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/20/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Markets}

``If you literally go to the port of Miami and you actually look at the
flag on the stern of the ship, you won't see a U.S. flag flying in the
breeze,'' said James Walker, a maritime lawyer. ``You'll see the flag of
the Bahamas or the flag of Panama.''

The arrangement allows the major cruise lines to operate under the wage
and labor laws of the country they're registered in, paying employees
many times less than what they would in the United States. It also
grants them access to a
\href{https://scholarlycommons.law.case.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=2163\&context=jil}{century-old}
\href{https://www.law.cornell.edu/uscode/text/26/883}{provision} in the
tax code that largely exempts them from paying federal income taxes.

In 2019,
\href{https://www.google.com/url?q=https://www.sec.gov/cgi-bin/viewer?action\%3Dview\%26cik\%3D1125259\%26accession_number\%3D0000815097-20-000003\%26xbrl_type\%3Dv\%23\&source=gmail\&ust=1585410524611000\&usg=AFQjCNEwHA5U1d_yqr4lwtLHFnNItD4kcw}{Carnival}
paid income tax expenses of \$71 million on \$20.83 billion in revenue.
\href{https://www.sec.gov/ix?doc=/Archives/edgar/data/884887/000088488720000009/rcl-20191231.htm}{Royal
Caribbean} paid \$36.2 million in taxes on \$10.95 billion in revenue.
And
\href{https://www.sec.gov/cgi-bin/viewer?action=view\&cik=1513761\&accession_number=0001558370-20-001661\&xbrl_type=v}{Norwegian}
actually showed a tax benefit, money it is owed, of \$18.86 million on
\$6.46 billion in revenue.

The cruise industry defended its tax and employment policies. Bari
Golin-Blaugrund, a spokeswoman for the Cruise Lines International
Association, a trade group that represents the industry, said that the
cruise industry supports more than 421,000 jobs in the United States and
that it follows tax rules for international shipping which have
decades-long roots in U.S. tax law.

\hypertarget{questions-over-environmental-record}{%
\subsection{Questions over environmental
record}\label{questions-over-environmental-record}}

Earlier in March, a group of eight senators published
\href{https://www.markey.senate.gov/news/press-releases/whitehouse-markey-senate-democrats-request-requirements-for-airlines-and-cruise-lines-to-address-pollution-in-financial-assistance-package}{a
letter}saying that the cruise industry and airlines should only get a
bailout if they took more steps to protect the environment. Days later,
a coalition of environmental groups sent
\href{https://www.stand.earth/sites/stand/files/CongressCruiseBailoutLetter.pdf}{a
letter} to Congress asking lawmakers not to bail out the cruise
industry, citing a poor environmental record.

``The cruise sector has a decades-long track record of breaking
environmental laws and paying the fines as a matter of doing business,''
said Kendra Ulrich of Stand.earth, one of the environmental groups that
signed the letter to Congress.

She noted that Princess Cruise Lines, a Carnival Corporation subsidiary,
was fined \$40 million in 2016 for illegally dumping oil-contaminated
waste into the sea, and then covering it up. The company was fined \$20
million this year
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/06/04/business/carnival-cruise-pollution.html}{while
on probation} for discharging plastic into waters around the Bahamas and
falsifying records.

In an email, Roger Frizzell, a spokesman for Carnival Corporation, wrote
that actions were taken to address the issues that led to the recent
fines, including additional oversight, training and equipment to prevent
oil spillage, which he said has not happened again on any ship in the
fleet. Mr. Frizzell added that the company has undertaken a significant
push to ``dramatically reduce'' and remove single-use plastics on board
all of its ships since the 2016 fine.

Ms. Golin-Blaugrund, of the Cruise Line Industry Association, said the
cruise industry is committed to responsible tourism, and its
environmental policies and practices often exceed those required by law.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{}

\hypertarget{the-coronavirus-outbreak-}{%
\subsubsection{The Coronavirus Outbreak
›}\label{the-coronavirus-outbreak-}}

\hypertarget{frequently-asked-questions}{%
\paragraph{Frequently Asked
Questions}\label{frequently-asked-questions}}

Updated August 17, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{why-does-standing-six-feet-away-from-others-help}{%
  \paragraph{Why does standing six feet away from others
  help?}\label{why-does-standing-six-feet-away-from-others-help}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    The coronavirus spreads primarily through droplets from your mouth
    and nose, especially when you cough or sneeze. The C.D.C., one of
    the organizations using that measure,
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/14/health/coronavirus-six-feet.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{bases
    its recommendation of six feet} on the idea that most large droplets
    that people expel when they cough or sneeze will fall to the ground
    within six feet. But six feet has never been a magic number that
    guarantees complete protection. Sneezes, for instance, can launch
    droplets a lot farther than six feet,
    \href{https://jamanetwork.com/journals/jama/fullarticle/2763852}{according
    to a recent study}. It's a rule of thumb: You should be safest
    standing six feet apart outside, especially when it's windy. But
    keep a mask on at all times, even when you think you're far enough
    apart.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{i-have-antibodies-am-i-now-immune}{%
  \paragraph{I have antibodies. Am I now
  immune?}\label{i-have-antibodies-am-i-now-immune}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    As of right
    now,\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/22/health/covid-antibodies-herd-immunity.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{that
    seems likely, for at least several months.} There have been
    frightening accounts of people suffering what seems to be a second
    bout of Covid-19. But experts say these patients may have a
    drawn-out course of infection, with the virus taking a slow toll
    weeks to months after initial exposure. People infected with the
    coronavirus typically
    \href{https://www.nature.com/articles/s41586-020-2456-9}{produce}
    immune molecules called antibodies, which are
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/07/health/coronavirus-antibody-prevalence.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{protective
    proteins made in response to an
    infection}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/07/health/coronavirus-antibody-prevalence.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{.
    These antibodies may} last in the body
    \href{https://www.nature.com/articles/s41591-020-0965-6}{only two to
    three months}, which may seem worrisome, but that's perfectly normal
    after an acute infection subsides, said Dr. Michael Mina, an
    immunologist at Harvard University. It may be possible to get the
    coronavirus again, but it's highly unlikely that it would be
    possible in a short window of time from initial infection or make
    people sicker the second time.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{im-a-small-business-owner-can-i-get-relief}{%
  \paragraph{I'm a small-business owner. Can I get
  relief?}\label{im-a-small-business-owner-can-i-get-relief}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    The
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/small-business-loans-stimulus-grants-freelancers-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{stimulus
    bills enacted in March} offer help for the millions of American
    small businesses. Those eligible for aid are businesses and
    nonprofit organizations with fewer than 500 workers, including sole
    proprietorships, independent contractors and freelancers. Some
    larger companies in some industries are also eligible. The help
    being offered, which is being managed by the Small Business
    Administration, includes the Paycheck Protection Program and the
    Economic Injury Disaster Loan program. But lots of folks have
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/05/07/business/small-business-loans-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{not
    yet seen payouts.} Even those who have received help are confused:
    The rules are draconian, and some are stuck sitting on
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/02/business/economy/loans-coronavirus-small-business.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{money
    they don't know how to use.} Many small-business owners are getting
    less than they expected or
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/10/business/Small-business-loans-ppp.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{not
    hearing anything at all.}
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{what-are-my-rights-if-i-am-worried-about-going-back-to-work}{%
  \paragraph{What are my rights if I am worried about going back to
  work?}\label{what-are-my-rights-if-i-am-worried-about-going-back-to-work}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Employers have to provide
    \href{https://www.osha.gov/SLTC/covid-19/standards.html}{a safe
    workplace} with policies that protect everyone equally.
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/coronavirus-money-unemployment.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{And
    if one of your co-workers tests positive for the coronavirus, the
    C.D.C.} has said that
    \href{https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/community/guidance-business-response.html}{employers
    should tell their employees} -\/- without giving you the sick
    employee's name -\/- that they may have been exposed to the virus.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{what-is-school-going-to-look-like-in-september}{%
  \paragraph{What is school going to look like in
  September?}\label{what-is-school-going-to-look-like-in-september}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    It is unlikely that many schools will return to a normal schedule
    this fall, requiring the grind of
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/05/us/coronavirus-education-lost-learning.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{online
    learning},
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/29/us/coronavirus-child-care-centers.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{makeshift
    child care} and
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/03/business/economy/coronavirus-working-women.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{stunted
    workdays} to continue. California's two largest public school
    districts --- Los Angeles and San Diego --- said on July 13, that
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/13/us/lausd-san-diego-school-reopening.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{instruction
    will be remote-only in the fall}, citing concerns that surging
    coronavirus infections in their areas pose too dire a risk for
    students and teachers. Together, the two districts enroll some
    825,000 students. They are the largest in the country so far to
    abandon plans for even a partial physical return to classrooms when
    they reopen in August. For other districts, the solution won't be an
    all-or-nothing approach.
    \href{https://bioethics.jhu.edu/research-and-outreach/projects/eschool-initiative/school-policy-tracker/}{Many
    systems}, including the nation's largest, New York City, are
    devising
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/26/us/coronavirus-schools-reopen-fall.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{hybrid
    plans} that involve spending some days in classrooms and other days
    online. There's no national policy on this yet, so check with your
    municipal school system regularly to see what is happening in your
    community.
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{accusations-of-a-botched-coronavirus-response}{%
\subsection{Accusations of a botched coronavirus
response}\label{accusations-of-a-botched-coronavirus-response}}

First there was the Diamond Princess.

The world watched as the ship sat quarantined off the coast of Japan and
the coronavirus ripped through the cabin --- infecting so many
passengers that at the time it became the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/02/22/world/asia/coronavirus-japan-cruise-ship.html}{largest
concentration of coronavirus cases} outside China. The response from the
cruise line was widely
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/08/world/asia/coronavirus-cruise-ship.html}{seen
as rife with mistakes}.

What followed was a series of actions by the industry
\href{https://skift.com/2020/03/10/nothing-could-stop-the-cruise-industry-then-came-coronavirus/}{that
drew}
\href{https://www.wsj.com/articles/coronavirus-cruise-quarantine-draws-criticism-after-more-passengers-infected-11582039428}{criticism},
just as members of Congress were drafting the bill. As more ships were
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/06/us/california-coronavirus-cruise-ship.html}{hobbled
by the coronavirus}, the cruise industry was slow to respond and to
\href{https://www.businessinsider.com/how-diamond-princess-cruise-ship-coronavirus-quarantine-went-wrong-2020-2}{put
in place precautions} that would protect passengers --- at
times\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/19/travel/coronavirus-cruise-costa-luminosa.html}{seeming
to have an ad hoc approach} to
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/05/us/cruise-ship-california.html}{coronavirus
responses} on board ships.

It was a public-relations nightmare, and eventually the State Department
stepped in and warned Americans, especially those with underlying health
issues, not to board cruise ships. After the warning, the major cruise
lines suspended U.S. operations for 30 days.

The optics for the industry are not great at the moment, said James
Hardiman, the managing director of leisure equity research for Wedbush
Securities, who follows the industry.

``I think if the U.S. public turns on the television and they see a
bunch of people getting back on a cruise ship anytime soon, I think the
public reaction to that is going to be very much akin to the public
reaction when you saw a bunch of spring breakers getting drunk and
ignoring the new reality,'' he said.

The perception that going on a cruise is synonymous with bad or
irresponsible behavior, he said, ``is going to be a real problem for the
industry.''

But cruise industry officials defended their actions. Mr. Frizzell wrote
in an email that Carnival Corporation responded quickly to news of the
outbreak in Asia --- well before other industries. He added that
Carnival enacted a raft of changes in response to the virus including
restricting passengers who had traveled to China, instituting
temperature checks and health screenings, and canceling cruises to
infected areas.

\emph{Susan Beachy contributed research.}

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

\emph{\textbf{Follow}}
\textbf{\href{https://twitter.com/nytimestravel}{\emph{NY Times Travel
on Twitter}}\emph{,}}
\textbf{\href{https://www.instagram.com/nytimestravel/}{\emph{Instagram}}}
\emph{\textbf{and}}
\textbf{\href{https://www.facebookcorewwwi.onion/nytimestravel/}{\emph{Facebook}}\emph{.}}
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/traveldispatch}{\emph{Get
weekly updates from our Travel Dispatch newsletter, with tips on
traveling smarter, destination coverage and photos from all over the
world.}}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
