Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus}{The
Coronavirus Outbreak}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  live\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/04/world/coronavirus-cases.html}{Latest
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html}{Maps
  and Cases}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html}{Vaccine
  Tracker}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/02/us/covid-college-reopening.html}{College
  Reopening}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/04/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus}{Economy}
\end{itemize}

LiveUpdated~

Aug. 4, 2020, 3:27 p.m. ET

Aug. 4, 2020, 3:27 p.m. ET

\hypertarget{black-owned-businesses-hit-harder-by-virus-crisis-live-updates}{%
\section{Black-Owned Businesses Hit Harder by Virus Crisis: Live
Updates}\label{black-owned-businesses-hit-harder-by-virus-crisis-live-updates}}

RIGHT NOW

\protect\hyperlink{the-ad-giant-publicis-has-parted-ways-with-an-executive-over-his-virus-tweets}{The
ad giant Publicis has `parted ways' with an executive over his virus
tweets.}

\hypertarget{heres-what-you-need-to-know}{%
\subsubsection{Here's what you need to
know:}\label{heres-what-you-need-to-know}}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{nbcuniversal-to-cut-about-10-percent-of-its-work-force}{}

  NBCUniversal to cut about 10 percent of its work force.
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{black-owned-businesses-face-a-double-blow-as-the-pandemic-strikes-minority-communities}{}

  Black-owned businesses face a double blow as the pandemic strikes
  minority communities.
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{fords-chief-jim-hackett-to-retire-as-company-tries-to-regain-momentum}{}

  Ford's chief Jim Hackett to retire as company tries to regain
  momentum.
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{loans-are-harder-to-get-even-as-interest-rates-are-low}{}

  Loans are harder to get, even as interest rates are low.
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{stocks-waver-as-us-lawmakers-continue-talks-over-coronavirus-relief}{}

  Stocks waver as U.S. lawmakers continue talks over coronavirus relief.
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{nbcuniversal-to-cut-about-10-percent-of-its-work-force}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{nbcuniversal-to-cut-about-10-percent-of-its-work-force}{NBCUniversal
to cut about 10 percent of its work
force.}}{NBCUniversal to cut about 10 percent of its work force.}}\label{nbcuniversal-to-cut-about-10-percent-of-its-work-force}}

Copied to clipboard.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/04/business/04-markets-brf-nbc/merlin_171541782_e88614f8-e41a-4ba6-b436-5ba2b74f6824-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\textbf{NBCUniversal}, the media giant that includes Universal Pictures,
the NBC broadcast network and several cable channels, started layoffs
this week because of the affects of the coronavirus pandemic, according
to two people familiar with the matter.

The company plans to eliminate about 10 percent of its full time work
force of 35,000.

The pandemic has cut into sports broadcasts, closed movie theaters and
shut down theme parks. A large portion of the staff cuts will happen at
NBCUniversal's theme parks group, which took a \$399 million loss in the
second quarter, the only unit to lose money in the period.

The company recently reopened its locations in Florida and Japan after
closing for several months. Its California location remains closed.

Total sales for NBCUniversal, owned by \textbf{Comcast}, fell 25 percent
to \$6.1 billion in the second quarter, as the virus continued to wipe
out spending. Sales at the Universal Studios division declined nearly a
fifth to \$1.2 billion as the country waited for theaters to more fully
open.

--- \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/edmund-lee}{Edmund Lee}

\hypertarget{black-owned-businesses-face-a-double-blow-as-the-pandemic-strikes-minority-communities}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{black-owned-businesses-face-a-double-blow-as-the-pandemic-strikes-minority-communities}{Black-owned
businesses face a double blow as the pandemic strikes minority
communities.}}{Black-owned businesses face a double blow as the pandemic strikes minority communities.}}\label{black-owned-businesses-face-a-double-blow-as-the-pandemic-strikes-minority-communities}}

Copied to clipboard.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/04/business/04-markets-brf-fedsurvey/04-markets-brf-fedsurvey-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Black-owned businesses have been hit particularly hard by the pandemic
and the resulting economic crisis, a new
\href{https://www.newyorkfed.org/smallbusiness/small-business-credit-survey-2020}{study
by the Federal Reserve} found, underlining how minority communities have
borne a disproportionate cost of the virus.

The analysis, from the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, shows that
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/06/18/us/coronavirus-black-owned-small-business.html}{Black-owned
businesses} are heavily concentrated in areas that were hard-hit by the
outbreak. And those businesses were already vulnerable before the crisis
began, according to the briefing, written by Claire Kramer Mills and
Jessica Battisto.

``Counties with the highest concentration of COVID-19 are also the areas
with the highest concentration of Black businesses and networks,'' the
authors wrote, noting that ``weaker cash positions, weaker bank
relationships, and pre-existing funding gaps left Black firms with
little cushion entering the crisis.''

Black-owned businesses now appear to be closing at a faster rate than
those owned by other minority groups.

While the overall number of active business owners fell 22 percent
between February and April, the number of active Black business owners
dropped by 41 percent. Other minority groups also saw a major cost: The
number of Latino business owners fell by 32 percent, and Asian business
owners dropped by 26 percent. Those figures are based on a University of
California Santa Cruz analysis of census data.

Even as minority communities shouldered heavier burdens amid the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/07/us/coronavirus-race.html}{coronavirus
crisis}, they have sometimes failed to access federal help amid what the
authors call ``stark'' coverage gaps.

In counties with the densest Black-owned business activity, Paycheck
Protection Program loan coverage rates were typically lower than 20
percent, the report found. That was ``not too different'' from the
national coverage rate of 17.7 percent, according to the authors, but
there was big variation across counties.

For instance, only 7 percent of businesses in the Bronx, 11.3 percent in
Queens, and 11.6 percent in the Michigan county that is home to Detroit
received the forgivable loans.

Probably at play: Black communities often lack access to banks in the
best of times. Black-owned businesses are far less likely than
white-owned businesses to have stable banking relationships.

Lack of credit access in communities of color raises ``questions that
have heightened significance when banks are relied on to administer
federal, taxpayer-supported relief programs, as is the case with PPP,''
the brief said.

--- \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/jeanna-smialek}{Jeanna
Smialek}

\hypertarget{advertisement}{%
\subsubsection{Advertisement}\label{advertisement}}

\protect\hyperlink{after-dfp-ad-mid1}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{the-ad-giant-publicis-has-parted-ways-with-an-executive-over-his-virus-tweets}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{the-ad-giant-publicis-has-parted-ways-with-an-executive-over-his-virus-tweets}{The
ad giant Publicis has `parted ways' with an executive over his virus
tweets.}}{The ad giant Publicis has `parted ways' with an executive over his virus tweets.}}\label{the-ad-giant-publicis-has-parted-ways-with-an-executive-over-his-virus-tweets}}

Copied to clipboard.

The ad giant \textbf{Publicis Groupe} cut ties on Tuesday with an
executive over his Twitter posts about the coronavirus pandemic.

Tom Goodwin, who became the company's head of futures and insight in
January,
\href{https://twitter.com/tomfgoodwin/status/1289981216335073280?s=20}{posted}
over the weekend that he found ``the total obsession with Covid deaths
over all other deaths entirely gruesome. 7,500 Americans die every day
but only the ones with this precise new Virus matter.''

The post, like
\href{https://twitter.com/tomfgoodwin/status/1251848439035502592?s=20}{several
others} about
\href{https://twitter.com/tomfgoodwin/status/1236483014277894144?s=20}{the
crisis} in recent months, incited outrage from many in the advertising
industry. On Sunday, Tom Morton, the U.S. chief strategy officer of
R/GA, urged Mr. Goodwin
\href{https://twitter.com/tommorton/status/1289992807038332928?s=20}{to
stop posting}: ``Please no more clickbait contrarianism. You're better
than this.'' Mr. Goodwin hit back with a
\href{https://twitter.com/tomfgoodwin/status/1289995369313497090?s=20}{expletive-laced
response}, telling Mr. Morton to
``\href{https://twitter.com/tomfgoodwin/status/1289994688275988481?s=20}{get
off your lofty perch}'' and mocking his ``sourdough baking
home-schooling.''

Publicis ``parted ways'' with Mr. Goodwin because his actions on social
media ``do not meet the standard of conduct we expect of our company's
employees and were not aligned with our values,'' the advertising firm
said in a statement first reported by the trade publication
\href{https://www.adweek.com/agencies/after-coronavirus-tweets-tom-goodwin-is-out-at-publicis-groupe/}{AdWeek}.

Mr. Goodwin did not immediately respond to a request for comment, but
seemed to address the uproar by
\href{https://twitter.com/tomfgoodwin/status/1290340999672332291}{posting
on Monday} that ``in the free thinking world of 2020 we are only
`allowed' to have perfectly aligned ``genuine concerns,'' while adding
that it was ``time to repeat that I'm
\href{https://twitter.com/tomfgoodwin/status/1290325449529274370?s=20}{not
a voice of Publicis}.''

--- \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/tiffany-hsu}{Tiffany
Hsu}

\hypertarget{fords-chief-jim-hackett-to-retire-as-company-tries-to-regain-momentum}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{fords-chief-jim-hackett-to-retire-as-company-tries-to-regain-momentum}{Ford's
chief Jim Hackett to retire as company tries to regain
momentum.}}{Ford's chief Jim Hackett to retire as company tries to regain momentum.}}\label{fords-chief-jim-hackett-to-retire-as-company-tries-to-regain-momentum}}

Copied to clipboard.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/04/business/04-markets-brf-ford/04-markets-brf-ford-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\textbf{Ford Motor} said its chief executive, Jim Hackett, will retire
on Oct. 1, ending a three-year run in which the automaker has worked
with mixed results to streamline its operations and focus its business
on electric cars, trucks and sport-utility vehicles.

Mr. Hackett, 65, will be succeeded by James D. Farley Jr., who had been
named chief operating officer in February.

``I am very grateful to Jim Hackett for all he has done to modernize
Ford and prepare us to compete and win in the future,'' said William
Clay Ford Jr., Ford's executive chairman. The company, he added, is
becoming ``much more nimble.''

Mr. Hackett, a former chief executive of \textbf{Steelcase}, an office
furniture manufacturer that is much smaller and less complex, was named
to
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2017/05/22/business/jim-hackett-ford.html}{the
top job at Ford} in May 2017, as the company's business was slumping. He
promised to revitalize Ford's operations and steer the company toward
vehicles that would generate profits and invest in emerging technologies
like electric and self-driving vehicles.

The company is starting to introduce some of the models developed under
Mr. Hackett, including a redesigned F-150 pickup truck and the Mustang
Mach E, an electric S.U.V. styled to resemble the storied sports car.

But so far the turnaround has had little effect on the company's bottom
line and stock price. Ford shares were trading at about \$11 when he
arrived. The stock was trading at about \$6.88 Tuesday morning, up more
than 2 percent after news of the Mr. Hackett's retirement.

Investors value Ford at about \$27 billion, just one-tenth the market
capitalization of \textbf{Tesla}, the electric automaker that makes far
fewer cars and has been around only since 2003.

Mr. Farley, 58, joined Ford in 2007 from \textbf{Toyota Motor}, and has
held a variety of jobs, including running the company's marketing, its
European operations and a new business strategy group.

--- \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/neal-e-boudette}{Neal E.
Boudette}

\hypertarget{loans-are-harder-to-get-even-as-interest-rates-are-low}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{loans-are-harder-to-get-even-as-interest-rates-are-low}{Loans
are harder to get, even as interest rates are
low.}}{Loans are harder to get, even as interest rates are low.}}\label{loans-are-harder-to-get-even-as-interest-rates-are-low}}

Copied to clipboard.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/04/business/04borrow1/04borrow1-articleLarge-v2.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

The economic crisis caused by the pandemic has driven
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/16/business/mortgage-rates-below-3-percent.html}{interest
rates to rock-bottom levels}, meaning there has hardly been a better
time to borrow. But with tens of million of people out of work and
coronavirus infections surging in many parts of the country,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/04/your-money/mortgage-loans-credit-cards-coronavirus.html}{qualifying
for a loan} --- from mortgages to auto loans --- has become more trying,
even for well-positioned borrowers.

Lenders that have
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/14/business/big-banks-quarterly-results.html}{set
aside billion of dollars} for future defaults have also tightened their
standards, often requiring higher credit scores, heftier down payments
and more documentation. Some, such as \textbf{Wells Fargo} and
\textbf{Chase}, have temporarily eliminated home equity lines of credit,
while Wells Fargo also stopped cash-out refinancing.

It's not unusual for lenders to tighten the credit reins during a
downturn, but the current situation has made it especially challenging
for them to get an accurate read on consumers' financial health.
Borrowers have been able to pause mortgages, halt student loan payments
and delay paying their tax bills, while millions of households have
received an extra \$600 weekly in unemployment benefits. Those forms of
government support could be masking an underlying condition.

``It makes it hard for a lender to understand what the consumer's true
state of credit quality is and their ability to pay back a loan,'' said
Peter Maynard, senior vice president of global data and analytics at the
\textbf{Equifax} credit bureau.

---
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/tara-siegel-bernard}{Tara
Siegel Bernard}

\hypertarget{advertisement-1}{%
\subsubsection{Advertisement}\label{advertisement-1}}

\protect\hyperlink{after-dfp-ad-mid2}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{stocks-waver-as-us-lawmakers-continue-talks-over-coronavirus-relief}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{stocks-waver-as-us-lawmakers-continue-talks-over-coronavirus-relief}{Stocks
waver as U.S. lawmakers continue talks over coronavirus
relief.}}{Stocks waver as U.S. lawmakers continue talks over coronavirus relief.}}\label{stocks-waver-as-us-lawmakers-continue-talks-over-coronavirus-relief}}

Copied to clipboard.

Stocks on Wall Street drifted between gains and losses on Tuesday,
easing off a rally that had lifted technology shares to new highs as
lawmakers in Washington continued to try to pin down a coronavirus
relief package.

Investors have one eye on corporate earnings reports, and the other on
lawmakers who are discussing the latest aid bill to help people and
businesses hit by the economic crisis. Negotiators are set to reconvene
on Tuesday, with top Trump administration officials scheduled to return
for
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/02/us/politics/coronavirus-jobless-aid.html}{another
meeting with congressional Democrats}.

Tens of millions of Americans lost crucial
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/30/business/unemployment-payments-change.html}{unemployment
benefits} at the end of July and a
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/23/business/evictions-moratorium-cares-act.html}{federal
moratorium on evictions} has ended. Economists warn that permanent
damage could be wrought on the economy without action.

On the earnings front,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/04/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus/bp-to-step-up-renewable-investment-as-it-reports-a-huge-loss}{London-based
oil
giant}\textbf{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/04/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus/bp-to-step-up-renewable-investment-as-it-reports-a-huge-loss}{BP}}
reported a \$16.8 billion quarterly loss, and cut its dividend in half
for the first time in a decade. The company also said it would increase
its investments in low-carbon energy, like solar and wind power, by
tenfold in a decade, while cutting its oil and gas production by 40
percent. Its shares rose in response, despite the huge loss.

Tuesday's pullback comes after a steady climb for stocks that has lifted
the S\&P 500 to within 3 percent of its record. That's been fueled by
government spending, the efforts of the Federal Reserve to backstop the
economy, and a surge in shares of technology stocks like \textbf{Apple},
\textbf{Amazon} and \textbf{Microsoft} --- which have reported surging
profits as more people work and shop from home.

--- Mohammed Hadi

\hypertarget{google-faces-an-eu-investigation-into-its-fitbit-acquisition}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{google-faces-an-eu-investigation-into-its-fitbit-acquisition}{Google
faces an E.U. investigation into its Fitbit
acquisition.}}{Google faces an E.U. investigation into its Fitbit acquisition.}}\label{google-faces-an-eu-investigation-into-its-fitbit-acquisition}}

Copied to clipboard.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2019/11/01/us/01FitBit/merlin_151320936_350a749c-24be-4a05-8737-137d747262b2-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

European Union authorities on Tuesday announced an investigation of
\textbf{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/11/01/technology/google-fitbit.html}{Google's}}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/11/01/technology/google-fitbit.html}{\$2.1
billion purchase of the fitness-tracking
company}\textbf{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/11/01/technology/google-fitbit.html}{Fitbit}},
raising alarms about the health data the internet giant would be
acquiring as part of the deal.

The inquiry shows the increased scrutiny Google and other large
technology companies are facing from regulators in Europe and the United
States about their growing dominance over the digital economy. Officials
have raised concerns that the biggest tech platforms buy up smaller
companies to solidify their dominance and limit competition.

\href{https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/ip_20_1446}{Margrethe
Vestager,}the European Commission's top antitrust regulator, said a
preliminary investigation of the Fitbit deal had raised concerns about
how Google would use data collected from Fitbit for its online
advertising services, a market where Google is already dominant. The
health and fitness data could be used to more narrowly target ads, she
said.

``By increasing the data advantage of Google in the personalization of
the ads it serves via its search engine and displays on other internet
pages, it would be more difficult for rivals to match Google's online
advertising services,'' the commission said in a statement announcing
the investigation.

Google defended the acquisition, saying it competes with companies like
\textbf{Apple}, \textbf{Samsung} and \textbf{Garmin} that offer fitness
tracking devices. ``This deal is about devices, not data,'' Rick
Osterloh, Google's senior vice president for devices and services,
\href{https://blog.google/around-the-globe/google-europe/update-fitbit/}{said
in a blog post}. The company said it would not use Fitbit health and
wellness data for advertising services and offered to make a legally
binding commitment to the commission to limit its use of the data.

--- \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/adam-satariano}{Adam
Satariano}

\hypertarget{argentina-secures-a-deal-to-restructure-65-billion-in-debt}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{argentina-secures-a-deal-to-restructure-65-billion-in-debt}{Argentina
secures a deal to restructure \$65 billion in
debt.}}{Argentina secures a deal to restructure \$65 billion in debt.}}\label{argentina-secures-a-deal-to-restructure-65-billion-in-debt}}

Copied to clipboard.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/04/business/04markets-brf-argentina/04markets-brf-argentina-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

After months of negotiations, Argentina has reached a deal with its
creditors, including the asset managers \textbf{BlackRock} and
\textbf{Greylock Capital Management}, to restructure about \$65 billion
in foreign debt,
\href{https://www.economia.gob.ar/en/argentina-and-three-creditor-groups-reach-a-deal-on-debt-restructuring/}{the
economy ministry said} on Tuesday.

The deal between Argentina and its largest creditors would grant
``significant'' debt relief to the country, the ministry said. In May,
Argentina missed a bond payment and entered into its ninth default since
the country's independence and third in the last 20 years.

Under the agreement, creditors will be paid 54.8 cents on the dollar,
according to an Argentine government official who has taken part in the
negotiations who spoke on condition of anonymity to discuss private
negotiations.

Argentina would offer creditors new bonds in exchange for defaulted debt
and unpaid interest. Investors who hold euro-denominated and Swiss
franc-denominated bonds would also be able to swap these for new U.S.
dollar-denominated bonds. The agreement also includes changes to payment
dates.

A range of prominent people, including Pope Francis, Senator Elizabeth
Warren and the Nobel-winning economist Joseph E. Stiglitz,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/22/world/americas/argentina-default.html}{called
on Argentina's bondholders} to come to a favorable agreement quickly
with the cash-strapped nation.

The International Monetary Fund has forecast that Argentina's economy
will fall nearly 10 percent this year, deepening a yearslong economic
crisis which has been compounded by the coronavirus pandemic and
extremely high levels of inflation.

BlackRock, the world's largest asset manger, had
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/31/business/argentina-debt.html}{rejected
an earlier proposal} from Argentina and pushed other creditors to also
hold out for a better deal. The government and its creditors --- the Ad
Hoc Group of Argentine Bondholders, the Argentina Creditor Committee and
the Exchange Bondholder Group and other investors --- were only three
pennies on the dollar apart on their proposed terms.

The country has also been in talks with the I.M.F.,
after\href{https://qz.com/1274875/how-argentina-went-from-selling-100-year-bonds-to-an-imf-rescue-in-a-matter-of-months/}{restoring
ties to the institution with a 2018 bailout}. The fund said Argentina's
debt pile was unsustainable as its currency plummeted and economic
output kept falling. Martín Guzmán, Argentina's economy minister, had
told local media that he
would\href{https://www.pagina12.com.ar/282488-deuda-la-ultima-oferta-y-el-mensaje-de-martin-guzman}{look
to the I.M.F}. for an alternative way out of its debt crisis if the
talks with private creditors failed.

--- \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/eshe-nelson}{Eshe
Nelson} and Daniel Politi

\hypertarget{advertisement-2}{%
\subsubsection{Advertisement}\label{advertisement-2}}

\protect\hyperlink{after-dfp-ad-mid3}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{some-caterers-are-finding-creative-ways-to-keep-their-businesses-afloat}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{some-caterers-are-finding-creative-ways-to-keep-their-businesses-afloat}{Some
caterers are finding creative ways to keep their businesses
afloat.}}{Some caterers are finding creative ways to keep their businesses afloat.}}\label{some-caterers-are-finding-creative-ways-to-keep-their-businesses-afloat}}

Copied to clipboard.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/07/28/business/28virus-caterers-sub2/merlin_174904686_160b6250-78ce-45e6-9cad-db292707f676-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Caterers say they are taking a financial beating, with some expecting
their business to be down between 80 and 90 percent this year. But many
feel better situated than those in the restaurant business. Instead of
paying often expensive rent in desirable locations like most
restaurants, caterers typically pay less for large kitchens that can be
off the beaten track.

Moreover, caterers tend to be a nimble group of entrepreneurs, adept at
providing finicky brides with their every heart's whim and overcoming
the oddest of logistical challenges. Those traits have helped them
during the pandemic.

``We have huge logistical expertise,'' said Peter Callahan of Peter
Callahan Catering, whose clients include some of New York's wealthiest
financiers and whose specialty is mini food like one-bite cheeseburgers
and tiny grilled cheese sandwiches. ``When you're an off-premise
caterer, you might be doing an event that requires barges to get to a
private island with no vehicles.

``We're creative thinkers, and right now people are thinking about how
to shape their businesses for the need at hand,'' he added.

Holly Sheppard started her Brooklyn catering business, Fig \& Pig, in
2011. She was in the middle of preparing a meal for 600 people in
mid-March when the client called, canceling the event. After that, the
cancellations and postponements rolled in.

With her calendar now largely empty through the fall, Ms. Sheppard gave
up the lease on her apartment in Brooklyn, worked out a deal with the
landlord for her kitchen to pay what she can now and make it up next
year, and moved to her house in Tillson, N.Y.

There, she bought a smoker and is honing her skills, planning to add
barbecue to her catering options.

``I'm going to be a female pitmaster on the roadside in upstate New York
until the weddings come back,'' Ms. Sheppard said. ``I'm going to make
it through all of this. Closing isn't even an option. I'm a scrapper.''

--- \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/julie-creswell}{Julie
Creswell}

\hypertarget{what-else-is-happening-bookingcom-to-lay-off-up-to-25-percent-of-work-force}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{what-else-is-happening-bookingcom-to-lay-off-up-to-25-percent-of-work-force}{What
else is happening: Booking.com to lay off up to 25 percent of work
force.}}{What else is happening: Booking.com to lay off up to 25 percent of work force.}}\label{what-else-is-happening-bookingcom-to-lay-off-up-to-25-percent-of-work-force}}

Copied to clipboard.

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \textbf{\href{http://booking.com/}{Booking.com}} plans to reduce its
  global work force of more than 17,500 employees by up to 25 percent as
  the coronavirus pandemic continues to take a devastating toll on the
  travel industry. \textbf{Booking Holdings}, the parent company of
  \href{http://booking.com/}{Booking.com}, will make announcements to
  employees beginning in September on a country by country basis,
  \href{https://www.sec.gov/ix?doc=/Archives/edgar/data/1075531/000107553120000042/bkng-20200804.htm}{according
  to a securities filing}. Booking Holdings, which owns other travel
  websites including \textbf{Kayak} and
  \textbf{\href{http://priceline.com/}{Priceline.com},} reported a 51
  percent drop in gross travel bookings in the first quarter of 2020
  compared to the same period last year.
\item
  \textbf{J.C. Penney}, the cornerstone of American malls, was the
  latest retailer to announce it would not open Thanksgiving Day this
  year. Other major chains, including \textbf{Walmart} and
  \textbf{Target}, have said they would push the start of holiday
  shopping back to Black Friday, often casting the change as in honor of
  the work of their front-line employees. J.C. Penney, which filed for
  bankruptcy in May,
  \href{https://companyblog.jcpnewsroom.com/2020/08/03/jcpenney-to-close-stores-on-thanksgiving-day-2020/}{said
  in a statement} that the move was intended to allow both associates
  and customers ``to stay safe, relax, and enjoy the day.''
\item
  The Federal Aviation Administration
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/03/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus/faa-says-boeing-has-effectively-mitigated-defects-in-the-737-max}{proposed
  changes
  that}\textbf{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/03/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus/faa-says-boeing-has-effectively-mitigated-defects-in-the-737-max}{Boeing}}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/03/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus/faa-says-boeing-has-effectively-mitigated-defects-in-the-737-max}{must
  make} to the 737 Max, potentially clearing the way for the plane to
  start flying again by the end of the year. The company's
  recommendations had sufficiently addressed the problems that
  contributed to two fatal crashes, resulting in the worldwide grounding
  of the jet, the agency concluded in a related report published Monday.
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
