Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}Trump Proposes a Record
\$4.75 Trillion Budget

\url{https://nyti.ms/2HycXPd}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/09/us/trump-vs-biden?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Election
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/09/08/us/elections/results-new-hampshire-primary-elections.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{New
  Hampshire Results}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/election-states-biden-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Paths
  to 270}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/31/us/politics/vote-by-mail-deadlines.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Voting
  by Mail}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/us/elections/2020-presidential-election-calendar.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Key
  Dates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Politics
  Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{trump-proposes-a-record-475-trillion-budget}{%
\section{Trump Proposes a Record \$4.75 Trillion
Budget}\label{trump-proposes-a-record-475-trillion-budget}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2019/03/11/us/politics/11dc-budget/merlin_151909917_89caa6b6-9be0-46b9-abaa-c5adb3bedb62-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/jim-tankersley}{Jim
Tankersley} and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/michael-tackett}{Michael
Tackett}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  March 11, 2019
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

WASHINGTON ---
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/02/10/business/economy/trump-budget.html}{President
Trump} sent Congress on Monday a record \$4.75 trillion
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/02/10/business/economy/trump-budget.html}{budget
plan} that calls for increased military spending and sharp cuts to
domestic programs like education and environmental protection for the
2020 fiscal year.

Mr. Trump's budget, the largest in federal history, includes a nearly 5
percent increase in military spending --- which is
\href{https://foreignpolicy.com/2019/03/10/pentagon-eyes-windfall-as-trump-seeks-750-billion-defense-budget-military/}{more
than the Pentagon had asked for} --- and an additional
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/03/10/business/economy/trump-budget-wall.html}{\$8.6
billion for construction of a wall} along the border with Mexico. It
also contains what White House officials called a total of \$1.9
trillion in cost savings from mandatory safety-net programs, like
Medicaid and Medicare, the federal health care programs for the elderly
and the poor.

The budget is unlikely to have much effect on actual spending levels,
which are controlled by Congress. Democratic leaders in both the House
and the Senate pronounced the budget dead on arrival on Sunday, and Mr.
Trump's budgets largely failed to gain traction in previous years, when
fellow Republicans controlled both chambers.

But the blueprint is a declaration of Mr. Trump's re-election campaign
priorities and the starting skirmish in the race for 2020, as both
Republicans and Democrats try to carve out their messages to appeal to
voters.

The president's budget quickly antagonized Democrats while making clear
the contours of how he plans to run for re-election. It is replete with
aggressively optimistic economic assumptions and appeals to his core
constituents, and it envisions deep cuts to programs that Democrats hold
dear. Yet it projects trillion-dollar deficits for the next four years
and does not balance the budget for 15 years.

Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, the Democratic leader, called the
proposal ``a gut punch to the American middle class.'' He said Mr.
Trump's requested cuts to Medicare, Medicaid and Social Security, ``as
well as numerous other middle-class programs, are devastating, but not
surprising.''

The budget would curb the growth of Medicare and Medicaid, two programs
Mr. Trump had previously pledged to leave intact. And it proposes
shaving \$818 billion from projected spending on Medicare over 10 years
and cutting nearly \$1.5 trillion from projected spending on Medicaid.

In place of the open-ended federal contribution to Medicaid, Mr. Trump
would give states ``market-based health care grants'' --- lump sums of
federal money or per capita allotments --- totaling \$1.2 trillion over
10 years. Congress rejected this idea in 2017 when Republicans proposed
it because it would essentially cap Medicaid payments at a fixed level
and would not keep pace with rising health care costs.

Mr. Trump also proposed new work requirements for working-age adult
recipients of food stamps, federal housing support and Medicaid, a move
the administration said would reduce spending on those programs by \$327
billion over a decade because it would disqualify many who currently
receive assistance.

Payments to a variety of health care providers would also be cut.
Medicare payments to hospitals for unpaid bills and uncompensated care
would be reduced by \$136 billion over 10 years. Mr. Trump would cut
projected Medicare payments to hospital outpatient departments by \$131
billion over 10 years.

In addition, the budget squeezes more than \$100 billion over 10 years
from Medicare payments to nursing homes and home health agencies that
care for Medicare patients who have left the hospital.

The president offers a suite of proposals to lower prescription drug
prices, with federal savings estimated at \$69 billion over 10 years.
The changes to the drug program may have the effect of increasing
premiums for Americans who rely on Medicare, but they would also, for
the first time, limit the amount that seniors with very expensive drugs
could be asked to pay each year. Some of the plans resemble proposals
unsuccessfully offered by President Barack Obama.

And Mr. Trump proposed spending \$26 billion less on Social Security
programs, the federal retirement program, including a \$10 billion cut
to the Social Security Disability Insurance program, which provides
benefits to disabled workers. Those cuts would be achieved in various
ways, including more aggressively
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/03/10/us/politics/social-security-disability-trump-facebook.html}{policing
fraud in the program}.

The largest reductions would come from spending on discretionary
domestic programs, outside of the military, which would be cut by \$1.1
trillion over the course of a decade.

Those cuts would not be across the board but would come from federal
agencies like the Environmental Protection Agency, which Mr. Trump once
promised he would reduce to
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2016/03/19/us/politics/epa-faces-bigger-tasks-smaller-budgets-and-louder-critics.html}{``little
tidbits.''} The budget proposes cutting the E.P.A.'s funding by 31
percent.

Significant reductions are also requested at other agencies responsible
for the United States' energy and environmental policies, including a 70
percent cut in renewable energy research and the elimination of climate
science programs across an array of agencies.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/01/05/us/border-wall.html}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2019/01/04/us/border-wall-promo-1546641650052/border-wall-promo-1546641650052-articleLarge-v3.png}

\hypertarget{the-border-wall-what-has-trump-built-so-far}{%
\subsection{The Border Wall: What Has Trump Built So
Far?}\label{the-border-wall-what-has-trump-built-so-far}}

Here's how much the proposed border deal would add to existing barriers.

The administration requested \$31.7 billion for the Energy Department,
an 11 percent drop from current funding. That includes about \$696
million for the Office of Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy, which
provides hundreds of millions of dollars in grants each year for
research into electric vehicles, battery storage and building
efficiency.

It targeted the Interior Department for a 14 percent decrease, dropping
its overall budget to \$12.5 billion.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/2020-election}{Election
2020 â€º}

\hypertarget{live-updates}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/09/us/trump-vs-biden}{Live
Updates}}{Live Updates}}\label{live-updates}}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/09/us/trump-vs-biden\#trumps-decision-to-go-maskless-at-a-north-carolina-rally-concerns-dr-fauci}{}

Sept. 9, 2020, 11:40 a.m. ET

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/09/us/trump-vs-biden\#trumps-decision-to-go-maskless-at-a-north-carolina-rally-concerns-dr-fauci}{Trump's
decision to go maskless at a North Carolina rally concerns Dr.
Fauci.}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/09/us/trump-vs-biden\#the-go-to-republican-election-lawyer-called-trumps-claims-of-voting-fraud-unsustainable}{}

Sept. 9, 2020, 11:33 a.m. ET

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/09/us/trump-vs-biden\#the-go-to-republican-election-lawyer-called-trumps-claims-of-voting-fraud-unsustainable}{The
go-to Republican election lawyer called Trump's claims of voting fraud
`unsustainable.'}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/09/us/trump-vs-biden\#a-marist-poll-shows-biden-widening-his-lead-in-pennsylvania}{}

Sept. 9, 2020, 10:37 a.m. ET

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/09/us/trump-vs-biden\#a-marist-poll-shows-biden-widening-his-lead-in-pennsylvania}{A
Marist poll shows Biden widening his lead in Pennsylvania.}

While Congress is unlikely to accept most of the changes, they
underscore the Trump administration's commitment to unraveling Obama-era
environmental regulations --- particularly those addressing climate
change --- and to prioritizing the development of fossil fuel resources.

At the E.P.A., the administration aims to cut a \$66 million collection
of voluntary climate-change-related partnerships known as the
Atmospheric Protection Program that, among other things, helps
businesses and local governments track planet-warming greenhouse gas
emissions. It also zeros out \$19 million that had been devoted to
\href{https://www.epa.gov/sites/production/files/2019-03/documents/fy-2020-epa-bib.pdf}{scientific
research on climate change}. Under a line item called ``prioritize
robust science,'' the agency proposes a cut to \$263 million from \$481
million.

For the third year in a row, Mr. Trump's budget would also cut funding
for the Education Department, this time by 10 percent. Congress has
repeatedly rejected efforts to reduce the department's spending ---
lawmakers instead increased funding for the department last year --- but
an Education Department official said this year's request reflected the
``desire to have some fiscal discipline and address some higher priority
needs.''

The budget seeks to cut more than two dozen programs, including a
popular after-school program for many low-income students. It would
eliminate higher-education programs, like the Public Service Loan
Forgiveness program and subsidized federal Stafford loans, and reduce
work-study funding as officials tweak the program to offer more
career-oriented jobs for low-income students.

The budget also requests \$700 million for school safety initiatives
being coordinated by several agencies, including \$200 million for the
Education Department. The funding would help schools finance emergency
operation plans, counseling and behavioral health programs. There are no
requirements for firearms, the department said. A
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/08/23/us/politics/devos-guns-in-schools.html}{\$1
billion federal grant program} that school districts looked to tap last
year for firearms would be eliminated.

A few domestic spending programs would see increases, if Mr. Trump's
budget were to become law. Those include efforts to reduce opioid
addiction, as well as a 10 percent increase in health care spending for
veterans. Mr. Trump will also propose a new voucher program for
education, \$200 billion in infrastructure spending and efforts to
reduce the cost of prescription drugs.

The budget would not balance for 15 years, breaking Mr. Trump's 2016
campaign promise to pay off the entire national debt within eight years.
Mr. Trump's first budget proposed balancing revenue and spending in 10
years. The budget released on Monday forecasts trillion-dollar deficits
for four straight years, starting in 2019. Those are largely the result
of Mr. Trump's tax cut, which has been financed through increased
government borrowing.

Budget details released by White House officials highlight several areas
of conflict between Democrats and Mr. Trump, starting with immigration
enforcement. Along with renewing the wall funding fight that led to a
record government shutdown late last year, Mr. Trump is asking for more
personnel at Customs and Border Protection and Immigration and Customs
Enforcement and for a policy change meant to end so-called sanctuary
cities, which do not hand over undocumented immigrants to federal
officials when they are arrested in local crimes.

``This budget is a recipe for American decline,'' said Representative
John Yarmuth, Democrat of Kentucky and the chairman of the House Budget
Committee. ``It's laughable that this budget is subtitled `Promises
Kept,' because in fact there are a lot of promises that have been
violated in this budget.''

``This is a budget that we will not take seriously when we are working
on our budget and spending priorities for 2020,'' he said.

Disapproval from Democratic presidential candidates was just as blunt.
``This is a budget for the military industrial complex, for corporate
C.E.O.s, for Wall Street and for the billionaire class,'' Senator Bernie
Sanders, independent of Vermont, said in a statement. ``It is dead on
arrival.''

Even some prominent Republicans greeted the president's request somewhat
coolly because it did not go far enough to reduce the growing national
debt.

Representative Steve Womack, Republican of Arkansas and the ranking
member on the Budget Committee, noted that only by cutting mandatory
spending could the federal government seriously reduce deficits and
debt.

``President Trump's budget takes steps in the right direction, but there
is still much work to do,'' Mr. Womack said in a statement.

Administration officials fanned out to defend the budget. Russ Vought,
the acting director of the Office of Management and Budget, blamed
Democrats and Congress for the ballooning deficit, even though Democrats
have not controlled Congress for years.

``We do have large deficits. That's why we're here transparently saying
that we have a problem as a country,'' he said. ``It takes a long time
to get out of that mess.''

\hypertarget{our-2020-election-guide}{%
\section{Our 2020 Election Guide}\label{our-2020-election-guide}}

Updated ~Sept. 9, 2020

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

\begin{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{the-latest}{%
  \subsection{The Latest}\label{the-latest}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Joe Biden heads today to Michigan, a battleground state where
    President Trump has resumed advertising ahead of a visit there on
    Thursday.
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/09/us/trump-vs-biden?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Read
    live updates}.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{how-to-win-270}{%
  \subsection{How to Win 270}\label{how-to-win-270}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Joe Biden and Donald Trump need 270 electoral votes to reach the
    White House. Try building
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/election-states-biden-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{your
    own coalition of battleground states}~to see potential outcomes.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{voting-by-mail}{%
  \subsection{Voting by Mail}\label{voting-by-mail}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Will you have enough time to vote by mail in your state? Yes, but
    it's risky to procrastinate.
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/31/us/politics/vote-by-mail-deadlines.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Check
    your state's deadline.}
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/joe-biden.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{}

    \hypertarget{joe-biden}{%
    \section{Joe Biden}\label{joe-biden}}

    \hypertarget{democrat}{%
    \subsection{Democrat}\label{democrat}}

    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/donald-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{}

    \hypertarget{donald-trump}{%
    \section{Donald Trump}\label{donald-trump}}

    \hypertarget{republican}{%
    \subsection{Republican}\label{republican}}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \hypertarget{keep-up-with-our-coverage}{%
  \subsection{Keep Up With Our
  Coverage}\label{keep-up-with-our-coverage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Get an
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{email}~recapping
    the day's news
  \item
    Download our mobile app on
    \href{https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nytimes/id284862083?ls=1\&mat_click_id=5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\&referrer=mat_click_id\%3D5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\%26link_click_id\%3D722930677036718082}{iOS}~and
    \href{http://a.localytics.com/android?id=com.nytimes.android\&referrer=utm_source\%3Dother_nyt_mobile_web\%26utm_medium\%3DWeb\%2520page\%26utm_term\%3DGeneral\%2520Mobile\%2520Page\%26utm_campaign\%3DNYT\%2520Mobile\%2520General\%2520Page}{Android}~and
    turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{Â©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
