Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}Donald Trump Is Sworn In as
President, Capping His Swift Ascent

\url{https://nyti.ms/2jGIcvn}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{donald-trump-is-sworn-in-as-president-capping-his-swift-ascent}{%
\section{Donald Trump Is Sworn In as President, Capping His Swift
Ascent}\label{donald-trump-is-sworn-in-as-president-capping-his-swift-ascent}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2017/01/21/us/21MEDIA-01p/21inauguration-trump-highlights-videoSixteenByNineJumbo1600-v2.jpg}

By \href{http://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/peter-baker}{Peter Baker}
and \href{http://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/michael-d-shear}{Michael
D. Shear}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Jan. 20, 2017
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

WASHINGTON --- Donald John Trump was inaugurated as the 45th president
of the United States on Friday, ushering in a new era that he vowed
would shatter the established order and reverse a national decline that
he called ``this American carnage.''

In a ceremony that capped a remarkable rise to power, Mr. Trump
presented himself as the leader of a populist uprising to restore lost
greatness. He outlined a dark vision of an America afflicted by ``the
ravages'' of economic dislocation and foreign exploitation, requiring
his can-do approach to turn around.

``I will fight for you with every breath in my body, and I will never,
ever let you down,'' Mr. Trump told hundreds of thousands of rain-soaked
admirers and onlookers in a forceful 16-minute Inaugural Address from
the West Front of the Capitol. ``America will start winning again,
winning like never before. We will bring back our jobs. We will bring
back our borders. We will bring back our wealth. And we will bring back
our dreams.''

Mr. Trump's ascension amounted to a hostile takeover of a capital facing
its most significant disruption in generations. While officially a
Republican, he has taken on leaders of both parties and, with no prior
political career of his own, made clear that he saw himself as the
ultimate outsider not beholden to the current system.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/slideshow/2017/01/20/us/trump-inauguration-photos.html}{}

\hypertarget{president-trump-photos-from-the-inauguration}{%
\subsection{President Trump: Photos From the
Inauguration}\label{president-trump-photos-from-the-inauguration}}

29 Photos

View Slide Show â€º

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2017/01/21/us/21inaugurationphotos31/21inaugurationphotos31-articleLarge-v2.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Doug Mills/The New York Times

``We will no longer accept politicians who are all talk and no action,
constantly complaining but never doing anything about it,'' he said.
``The time for empty talk is over. Now arrives the hour of action. Do
not allow anyone to tell you that it cannot be done.''

Mr. Trump's view of the United States was strikingly grim for an
Inaugural Address --- a country where mothers and children are ``trapped
in poverty in our inner cities,'' where ``rusted-out factories'' are
``scattered like tombstones across the landscape'' and where drugs and
crime ``have stolen too many lives.''

``This American carnage,'' he declared, ``stops right here and stops
right now.''

He got started right away with rolling back the policies of his
predecessor, former President Barack Obama, by issuing orders freezing
new regulations from recent weeks and ordering agencies to ``ease the
burden'' of the Affordable Care Act during the transition from repealing
to replacing the law. More orders are planned for next week.

Wearing a dark suit and red tie and accompanied by his wife, Melania, in
a powder-blue suit and matching gloves, Mr. Trump took the 35-word oath
administered by Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr. precisely at noon.
Michael Richard Pence, a former governor and congressman from Indiana,
was sworn in minutes before as vice president by Justice Clarence
Thomas.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2017/01/20/us/politics/trump-inauguration-photo-zoomer.html}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2017/01/20/us/politics/trump-inauguration-photo-zoomer-1484950544134/trump-inauguration-photo-zoomer-1484950544134-square640.jpg}

\hypertarget{the-58th-presidential-inaugural-seating-chart}{%
\subsection{The 58th Presidential Inaugural Seating
Chart}\label{the-58th-presidential-inaugural-seating-chart}}

A who's who of President Donald J. Trump's Washington.

Mr. Trump assumed the presidency of a country still unsettled after a
polarizing election and entered office with less support in polls than
any other president in recent history. It was clear from the day that
there would be no grace period either for or by the new president. The
Senate
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2017/01/20/us/politics/trump-cabinet-confirmation-mattis-kelly}{confirmed
two cabinet nominations} --- James N. Mattis as defense secretary and
John F. Kelly as secretary of homeland security --- but Democrats
temporarily held up Mike Pompeo's confirmation as C.I.A. director.

Throughout the day, there were mostly peaceful
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2017/01/20/us/politics/inauguration-protests.html}{protests
against the new president}. Sporadic violence broke out as demonstrators
smashed shop windows and burned a limousine, while police officers in
riot helmets responded with tear gas. More than 200 people were
arrested. Liberal groups prepared for a women's march on Saturday that
they said could draw hundreds of thousands.

Mr. Trump made only passing efforts to reach out to Democrats beyond
thanking Mr. Obama and his wife, Michelle, for their handling of the
transition. ``They have been magnificent,'' he said in his speech.

He later praised his defeated opponent, Hillary Clinton, at a
lobster-and-beef luncheon with congressional leaders, asking her and
former President Bill Clinton to stand for applause. ``I have a lot of
respect for these two people,'' he said.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2017/01/20/us/politics/trump-inauguration-crowd.html}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2017/01/20/us/politics/trump-inauguration-crowd-1484943564224/trump-inauguration-crowd-1484943564224-square640.jpg}

\hypertarget{trumps-inauguration-vs-obamas-comparing-the-crowds}{%
\subsection{Trump's Inauguration vs. Obama's: Comparing the
Crowds}\label{trumps-inauguration-vs-obamas-comparing-the-crowds}}

Estimates put the crowd gathered for President Donald J. Trump's
inauguration at far less than President Obama's in 2009.

Democrats were not impressed. ``I was pretty shocked by how dark it
was,'' Senator Sherrod Brown, Democrat of Ohio, said of Mr. Trump's
Inaugural Address. ``I love this country, and I don't understand how a
president of the United States that loves his country could paint a
picture of its failures.''

He added, ``It was interesting sitting up onstage with a bunch of
billionaires hearing him say how bad the country was.''

The National Mall was filled with supporters, many wearing ``Make
America Great Again'' hats and chanting ``Trump! Trump! Trump!'' But the
lingering animosity from the presidential campaign was on display, too.
When Mrs. Clinton arrived, some in the crowd chanted, ``Lock her up,''
mimicking Mr. Trump's campaign rallies. As he took the oath, a cluster
of people blew whistles and screamed, ``Not my president,'' before being
escorted out.

While large, the crowds on a soggy day did not rival the energetic
throngs at Mr. Obama's first inauguration eight years ago, according to
aerial photographs. The Washington Metrorail system recorded fewer than
half as many rides on Friday morning as in 2009, and knots of bystanders
along the inaugural parade route were not as thick. In a city that gave
just 4 percent of its vote to Mr. Trump, many residents left town and
about 60 House Democrats boycotted the event.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2017/01/20/us/politics/donald-trump-inauguration-speech-transcript.html}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2017/01/20/us/politics/donald-trump-inauguration-speech-transcript-1484930410968/donald-trump-inauguration-speech-transcript-1484930410968-square640-v3.jpg}

\hypertarget{donald-trumps-inaugural-speech-annotated}{%
\subsection{Donald Trump's Inaugural Speech,
Annotated}\label{donald-trumps-inaugural-speech-annotated}}

New York Times reporters analyze the 45th president's comments.

Mr. Obama made his exit after the ceremony, flying by helicopter to
Joint Base Andrews in the Maryland suburbs, where he thanked former
aides and members of his administration before boarding the presidential
jet, no longer designated Air Force One, to fly to Palm Springs, Calif.,
for vacation. He will return to Washington to a rental house while his
daughter Sasha finishes high school, the first president to stay in the
capital since Woodrow Wilson.

Hours before his departure, Mr. Obama
\href{https://twitter.com/POTUS44/status/822446040729157632}{posted on
Twitter} to thank followers and hint that he would not fade away. ``I
won't stop,'' he said. ``I'll be right there with you as a citizen,
inspired by your voices of truth and justice, good humor, and love.''

Former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. and his wife, Jill, rode an
Amtrak train to Delaware and the home they have there. But they, too,
planned to return, at least part time, to Washington, where Mrs. Biden
teaches at a community college in the Virginia suburbs.

The United States has never seen a president quite like Mr. Trump, the
son and grandson of immigrants who grew up to become a real estate
magnate, casino owner, beauty pageant operator and reality television
star whose tumultuous love life played out in the tabloids.

Never has the oath been administered to a president who had never served
either in public office or as a general in the military. At age 70, Mr.
Trump became the oldest president sworn in for the first time and the
first born in New York since Franklin D. Roosevelt.

He was also one of the wealthiest presidents ever to enter the White
House, with far-reaching business connections that have already raised
questions about where his interests end and the country's begin. He
arrived in the Oval Office dogged by reports about Russian interference
in the election on his behalf.

But Mr. Trump overcame skeptics when he embarked on what seemed like a
quixotic bid for the presidency. An Ivy League-educated mogul who lives
in a New York tower named after himself with an 80-foot-long living
room, he transformed himself into the unlikely leader of a working-class
movement anchored in rural areas far removed from the coasts.

His bracing candor, disregard for convention and willingness to offend
whole sections of the population to make a point came across as
refreshing truth-telling to many Americans disenchanted with Washington
elites.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2017/01/17/us/inauguration-protests.html}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2017/01/17/us/trump-inauguration-protests-1484347704033/trump-inauguration-protests-1484347704033-thumbLarge.png}

\hypertarget{where-protests-are-happening-on-inauguration-day}{%
\subsection{Where Protests Are Happening on Inauguration
Day}\label{where-protests-are-happening-on-inauguration-day}}

President-elect Donald J. Trump's inauguration is expected to draw
thousands of protesters to Washington.

For the nation's 58th inauguration, though, the untraditional president
opted to follow tradition. He and Mrs. Trump, a
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2016/07/19/us/politics/melania-trump-slovenia.html}{former
model from Slovenia} who became the first foreign-born first lady since
John Quincy Adams's wife, Louisa, started the day with a service at St.
John's Episcopal Church adjacent to Lafayette Square, then joined the
Obamas, Bidens and Pences for coffee at the White House.

From there, the two presidents shared a limousine to the Capitol, where
three other presidents waited: Mr. Clinton, Jimmy Carter and George W.
Bush, all of whom opposed Mr. Trump's election. Former President
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2017/01/18/us/politics/george-barbara-bush-hospitalized.html}{George
Bush remained hospitalized} in Houston, recovering from pneumonia, but a
spokesman said he watched the ceremony on television.

Mr. Pence, 57, was sworn in at 11:54 a.m., placing his hand on Ronald
Reagan's Bible, which was held by his wife, Karen, as their three adult
children, Michael, Charlotte and Audrey, watched.

For his oath, Mr. Trump placed his hand on two Bibles held by his wife,
one given him by his mother in 1955 just before his ninth birthday and
another used by Abraham Lincoln in 1861 and again by Mr. Obama in 2009
and 2013.

Standing nearby were his adult children from two previous marriages,
Donald Jr., Eric, Ivanka and Tiffany. Also there was Barron, his
10-year-old son with the first lady. Joining them was Ivanka's husband,
Jared Kushner, who will serve as an unpaid senior adviser.

As Mr. Trump approached the podium, rain began to fall. It was not a
conventionally Republican speech, with nothing about tax cuts or
restraining government. Instead, he laid out a protectionist agenda,
saying his rule will be ``buy American and hire American.'' He did
pledge to ``eradicate from the face of the Earth'' Islamic terrorism.
Responding to charges that he demonized Mexicans and Muslims, Mr. Trump
said, ``There is no room for prejudice.''

Mr. Trump said the inauguration was not merely the transfer of power
from one president to another. ``We are transferring power from
Washington, D.C., and giving it back to you, the people,'' he said.

``For too long,'' he continued, ``a small group in our nation's capital
has reaped the rewards of government while the people have borne the
cost. Washington flourished but the people did not share in the
wealth.'' He added, ``That all changes starting right here and right
now.''

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{Â©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
