Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/us}{U.S.}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/us}{U.S.}\textbar{}Here's What You Need to Know About
Breonna Taylor's Death

\url{https://nyti.ms/3ez7ODt}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{race-and-america}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/george-floyd-protests-minneapolis-new-york-los-angeles?name=styln-george-floyd\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=cec905f0-f1ca-11ea-a749-0d336e81192f\&variant=undefined}{Race
and America}}{Race and America}}\label{race-and-america}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/04/nyregion/rochester-police-daniel-prude.html?name=styln-george-floyd\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=cec92d00-f1ca-11ea-a749-0d336e81192f\&variant=undefined}{How
  Police Handled Death of Daniel Prude}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/01/us/politics/trump-fact-check-protests.html?name=styln-george-floyd\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=cec92d01-f1ca-11ea-a749-0d336e81192f\&variant=undefined}{Trump
  Fact Check}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/30/us/portland-shooting-explained.html?name=styln-george-floyd\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=cec92d02-f1ca-11ea-a749-0d336e81192f\&variant=undefined}{Portland
  Shooting}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/30/us/breonna-taylor-police-killing.html?name=styln-george-floyd\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=cec92d03-f1ca-11ea-a749-0d336e81192f\&variant=undefined}{Breonna
  Taylor's Life and Death}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{heres-what-you-need-to-know-about-breonna-taylors-death}{%
\section{Here's What You Need to Know About Breonna Taylor's
Death}\label{heres-what-you-need-to-know-about-breonna-taylors-death}}

Fury over the killing of Ms. Taylor by the police fueled tense
demonstrations in Louisville, Ky., and elsewhere.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/05/30/us/30taylor-explainer-4/merlin_172977372_7e31b4e4-9c60-4aed-ae79-73ee1a068f6f-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/richard-a-oppel-jr}{Richard
A. Oppel Jr.} and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/derrick-bryson-taylor}{Derrick
Bryson Taylor}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Sept. 5, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

While the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/29/us/minneapolis-police-george-floyd.html}{death
of George Floyd} in Minneapolis in late May unleashed a
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/george-floyd-protests-minneapolis-new-york-los-angeles}{wave
of protests} across the country, fury over the March 13 killing of
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/30/us/breonna-taylor-police-killing.html}{Breonna
Taylor,} an African-American medical worker in Louisville, Ky., by the
police also drove tense demonstrations in that city and beyond.

Since the national demonstrations over police brutality and systemic
racism began in late May, Louisville officials have banned the use of
no-knock warrants, which allow the police to forcibly enter people's
homes to search them without warning, and, in late June,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/23/us/breonna-taylor-brett-hankison-fired.html}{fired
one of the officers} involved in the shooting.

Over the last several months, Ms. Taylor's family has pleaded for
justice, pushing for criminal charges against the officers. Her case has
drawn national attention from celebrities and athletes, who have
participated in social media hashtag campaigns and dedicated their
seasons to keeping a spotlight on her case even as other instances of
police brutality spark protests.

Still, critics say progress in the case has been slow, especially when
compared with the Floyd case, where officers were swiftly fired and
charged.

Daniel Cameron, the Kentucky attorney general, said on Aug. 30 that he
had received a
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/30/us/breonna-taylor-shooting-ballistics.html}{ballistics
report}, calling it a ``critical piece'' of the investigation but
declining to share its findings.

The Federal Bureau of Investigations and Kentucky state authorities are
both investigating the shooting. Still, the ballistics report, though an
important step forward, does not signal that the investigation is close
to being over, Mr. Cameron said.

``At this point it's bigger than Breonna, it's bigger than just Black
Lives,'' Ms. Taylor's mother, Tamika Palmer, said this summer in
beseeching the authorities for criminal charges. ``We've got to figure
out how to fix the city, how to heal from here.''

\hypertarget{what-happened-in-louisville}{%
\subsection{What happened in
Louisville?}\label{what-happened-in-louisville}}

Shortly after midnight on March 13, Louisville police officers executing
a search warrant used a battering ram to enter the apartment of
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/12/us/breonna-taylor-law-passed.html}{Ms.
Taylor}, a 26-year-old emergency room technician.

The police had been investigating two men who they believed were selling
drugs out of a house that was far from Ms. Taylor's home. But a judge
had also signed a warrant allowing the police to search Ms. Taylor's
residence because the police said they believed that one of the men
\href{https://www.courier-journal.com/story/news/2020/05/12/breonna-taylor-louisville-emt-not-main-target-drug-investigation/3115928001/}{had
used her apartment} to receive packages. Ms. Taylor had been dating that
man on and off for several years but had recently severed ties with him,
according to her family's lawyer.

Ms. Taylor and her boyfriend, Kenneth Walker, had been in bed, but got
up when they heard a loud banging at the door. Mr. Walker said he and
Ms. Taylor both called out, asking who was at the door. Mr. Walker later
told the police he feared it was Ms. Taylor's ex-boyfriend trying to
break in.

After the police broke the door off its hinges, Mr. Walker fired his gun
once, striking Sgt. Jonathan Mattingly in a thigh. The police responded
by firing several shots,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/14/us/breonna-taylor-louisville-shooting.html}{striking
Ms. Taylor} five times. One of the three officers on the scene,
Detective Brett Hankison, who has since been fired, shot 10 rounds
blindly into the apartment.

Mr. Walker told investigators that Ms. Taylor coughed and struggled to
breathe for at least five minutes after she was shot,
\href{https://www.courier-journal.com/story/news/crime/2020/07/17/breonna-taylor-lay-untouched-20-minutes-after-being-shot-records/5389881002/}{according
to The Louisville Courier Journal}. An ambulance on standby outside the
apartment had been told to leave about an hour before the raid, counter
to standard practice. As officers called an ambulance back to the scene
and struggled to render aid to their colleague, Ms. Taylor was not given
any medical attention.

It wasn't until 12:47 a.m., around five minutes after the shooting, that
emergency personnel realized that she was seriously wounded, after her
boyfriend called 911.

``I don't know what's happening. Someone kicked in the door and shot my
girlfriend,'' Mr. Walker said on a
\href{https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=G0EnRabtRhg}{recorded call} to
911.

Ms. Taylor received no medical attention for more than 20 minutes after
she was struck, The Courier Journal reported, citing dispatch logs.

The Jefferson County coroner told The Courier Journal that Ms. Taylor
most likely died less than a minute after she was shot and could not
have been saved.

While the department had gotten court approval for a ``no-knock'' entry,
the orders were changed before the raid to ``knock and announce,''
meaning that the police had to identify themselves.

The officers have said they did announce themselves, but Mr. Walker said
he did not hear anything.

No drugs were found in the apartment, a lawyer for Mr. Walker said.

Jamarcus Glover, Ms. Taylor's ex-boyfriend whose alleged packages led
the police to her door that night, was arrested on Aug. 27 in possession
of drugs, according to a charging document. He told
\href{https://www.courier-journal.com/story/news/local/breonna-taylor/2020/08/27/breonna-taylor-had-no-ties-drugs-ex-boyfriend-says/5641151002/}{The
Courier Journal} that Ms. Taylor had no involvement in the drug trade.
``The police are trying to make it out to be my fault and turning the
whole community out here, making it look like I brought this to
Breonna's door,'' he said.

Ms. Taylor's mother, Tamika Palmer, said her daughter had had big dreams
and planned a lifelong career in health care after serving as an E.M.T.

``She was a better version of me,'' said Ms. Palmer, a dialysis
technician. ``Full of life. Easy to love.''

``Breonna was a woman who was figuring everything out in her life, who
had turned a corner,'' said Sam Aguiar, a lawyer representing Ms.
Taylor's family. ``Breonna was starting to live her best life.''

\hypertarget{why-did-the-police-fire-their-weapons}{%
\subsection{Why did the police fire their
weapons?}\label{why-did-the-police-fire-their-weapons}}

Image

Breonna Taylor, 26, was killed on March 13 by officers executing a
so-called no-knock warrant.Credit...Family of Breonna Taylor, via Agence
France-Presse --- Getty Images

The Louisville police say that they fired inside Ms. Taylor's home only
after they were first fired upon by Mr. Walker, Ms. Taylor's boyfriend.
They said that Mr. Walker wounded one of the officers,
\href{https://www.facebookcorewwwi.onion/LMPD.ky/videos/206839417221050/}{who
was hit in the leg but was expected to make a full recovery}. Mr. Walker
was
\href{https://www.facebookcorewwwi.onion/LMPD.ky/videos/206839417221050/}{subsequently
charged} with attempted murder of a police officer, though the charge
was dismissed in May.

The police also assert that
\href{https://www.facebookcorewwwi.onion/LMPD.ky/videos/206839417221050/}{they
knocked several times and identified themselves as police officers with
a warrant} before entering the apartment. Mr. Walker has said he and Ms.
Taylor heard aggressive banging at the door and asked who it was, but
they did not hear an announcement that it was the police.

The police said that the officers
\href{https://www.facebookcorewwwi.onion/LMPD.ky/videos/206839417221050/}{``forced
entry into the exterior door and were immediately met with gunfire.''}
The officers returned fire, the police said.

One of the officers, Mr. Hankison, was fired. The other officers
involved in the case --- Mr. Mattingly and Myles Cosgrove --- have been
placed on administrative reassignment. None of the officers face
criminal charges.

The Kentucky attorney general, Mr. Cameron, is now leading the
investigation. The F.B.I.
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/21/us/fbi-louisville-shooting.html}{is
also investigating}.

Mr. Hankison appealed his firing, but a hearing for the case
\href{https://www.wdrb.com/news/appeal-delayed-for-fired-lmpd-officer-involved-in-breonna-taylor-raid/article_bf3e5ea8-c602-11ea-9ce8-db2edd607e3a.html}{has
been delayed} pending the completion of a criminal investigation.

\hypertarget{is-the-police-account-disputed}{%
\subsection{Is the police account
disputed?}\label{is-the-police-account-disputed}}

Yes, hotly. Ms. Taylor's relatives and their lawyers say that the police
never identified themselves before entering --- despite their claims.
They also say that Mr. Walker
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/14/us/breonna-taylor-louisville-shooting.html}{was
licensed} to carry a gun.

And Mr. Walker, 27, has said that
\href{https://www.courier-journal.com/story/news/crime/2020/05/13/breonna-taylor-lawyer-says-louisville-police-need-to-get-story-straight/5183137002/}{he
feared for his life and fired in self-defense}, believing that someone
was trying to break into the home.

``He didn't know these were police officers, and they found no drugs in
the apartment --- none,'' said
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/22/us/Breonna-Taylor-Kenneth-Walker.html}{Rob
Eggert}, Mr. Walker's lawyer. ``He was scared for his life, and her
life.''

In a
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/29/us/louisville-protest-shooting-breonna-taylor.html}{911
call} just after the shots were fired, Mr. Walker told a dispatcher that
``somebody kicked in the door and shot my girlfriend.''

The police's
\href{https://www.scribd.com/document/465105285/Breonna-Taylor-Incident-Report\#from_embed?campaign=SkimbitLtd\&ad_group=1025X1162200X37e14a5d9156059be0d5da4023a17e62\&keyword=660149026\&source=hp_affiliate\&medium=affiliate}{incident
report} contained multiple errors. It listed Ms. Taylor's injuries as
``none,'' even though she had been shot several times, and indicated
that officers had not forced their way into the apartment --- though
they used a battering ram to break the door open.

Ms. Taylor's family also said it was outrageous that the police felt it
necessary to conduct the raid in the middle of the night. Their lawyers
say the police
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/14/us/breonna-taylor-louisville-shooting.html}{had
already located the main suspect} in the investigation by the time they
burst into the apartment. But they ``then proceeded to spray gunfire
into the residence with a total disregard for the value of human life,''
according to a wrongful-death lawsuit filed by Ms. Taylor's mother.

There was
\href{https://www.facebookcorewwwi.onion/LMPD.ky/videos/206839417221050/}{no
body camera footage} from the raid. And, for now,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/22/us/Breonna-Taylor-Kenneth-Walker.html}{prosecutors
have said they had dismissed the charges} against Mr. Walker, adding
that they would let investigations into the killing run their course
before making any final decisions. Some legal experts said the fact that
prosecutors dropped charges after a grand jury indictment suggested that
they
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/22/us/Breonna-Taylor-Kenneth-Walker.html}{may
have doubts about} the version of events told by the police.

\hypertarget{why-did-this-take-so-long-to-receive-national-attention}{%
\subsection{Why did this take so long to receive national
attention?}\label{why-did-this-take-so-long-to-receive-national-attention}}

Lawyers for Ms. Taylor's family have suggested that the intense focus on
the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus}{coronavirus
pandemic} most likely
\href{https://www.courier-journal.com/story/news/crime/2020/05/12/mother-breonna-taylor-louisville-emt-shot-police-speaks-out/3116777001/}{dampened
the initial response} from people in the community and in the news
media.

\hypertarget{has-there-been-other-fallout}{%
\subsection{Has there been other
fallout?}\label{has-there-been-other-fallout}}

Some --- even aside from the continuing protests.

On June 23, the Louisville Metro Police Department released a letter of
termination that it sent to Mr. Hankison, the former officer who
``blindly fired'' 10 rounds into a covered patio door and a window,
according to the termination letter.

Chief Robert Schroeder accused Mr. Hankison of violating the Police
Department's policy on use of deadly force, saying his actions were ``a
shock to the conscience'' that discredited the Police Department.

Also, city officials
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/12/us/breonna-taylor-law-passed.html}{banned
the use} of no-knock warrants on June 11.

Mayor Fischer has
\href{https://www.wlky.com/article/following-protests-louisville-mayor-puts-end-to-no-knock-warrants-for-now/32711443}{announced
other changes} to ensure ``more scrutiny, transparency and
accountability,'' including the naming of a new police chief; a new
requirement that body cameras always be worn during the execution of
search warrants; and the establishment of a civilian review board for
police disciplinary matters.

\hypertarget{how-has-social-media-reacted}{%
\subsection{How has social media
reacted?}\label{how-has-social-media-reacted}}

On June 5, what would have been Ms. Taylor's 27th birthday, many people
used the hashtag \#SayHerName to remember her and raise awareness about
her case.

``Her life was tragically taken by police and we will not stop marching
for justice until it's served for her and her family. \#SayHerName,''
Senator Cory Booker, Democrat of New Jersey,
\href{https://twitter.com/CoryBooker/status/1268961372836188163}{tweeted
on June 5}.

Senator Kamala Harris, Democrat of California,
\href{https://twitter.com/KamalaHarris/status/1268905322837692428}{said
on Twitter} that Ms. Taylor's life was ``horrifically'' taken by
officers who had not been charged 84 days after her killing. ``Keep up
the calls for justice. \#SayHerName,'' Ms. Harris wrote.

The ``Say Her Name'' movement also brings awareness to other Black women
whose similar stories may not have garnered as much national attention,
including
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2015/05/25/us/71-arrested-in-cleveland-protests-over-officers-acquittal-police-say.html}{Tanisha
Anderson} and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/10/15/us/aaron-dean-atatiana-jefferson.html}{Atatiana
Jefferson}.

```Say Her Name' attempts to make the death of Black women an active
part of this conversation by saying their names,'' Kimberlé Crenshaw, an
activist and creator of the hashtag,
\href{https://twitter.com/GMA/status/1268881611011039234?ref_src=twsrc\%5Etfw\%7Ctwcamp\%5Etweetembed\%7Ctwterm\%5E1268881611011039234\&ref_url=https\%3A\%2F\%2Fpeople.com\%2Fcrime\%2Fbreonna-taylors-mom-mourns-daughter-on-what-wouldve-been-her-27th-birthday\%2F}{told
ABC}. ``If Black lives really do matter, all Black lives have to matter.
That means Black lives across gender have to be lifted up.''

On July 30, for the first time in 20 years, Oprah Winfrey did not appear
on the cover of O: The Oprah Magazine, which instead
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/30/business/media/oprah-magazine-breonna-taylor-cover.html}{featured
Ms. Taylor} with a digital portrait drawn by the young artist Alexis
Franklin.

In an
\href{https://www.oprahmag.com/life/a33449982/oprah-breonna-taylor/}{essay
about her decision} to shine a spotlight on Ms. Taylor's case, Ms.
Winfrey said she thought about her often.

``What I know for sure: We can't be silent,'' she said. ``We have to use
whatever megaphone we have to cry for justice.''

W.N.B.A players have also used their platform to bring attention to Ms.
Taylor's case. This season is dedicated to her, and players have been
wearing jerseys bearing her name.

``Having Breonna Taylor on the back of my jersey means so much more,''
said Kristine Anigwe, a Los Angeles Sparks player, in an
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/28/sports/basketball/kristine-anigwe-wnba-sparks.html}{interview}
with The New York Times. ``I can't take anything for granted. I have to
go there and play like it's my last game because she did not know that
would be the last day she would live. She thought she was safe in her
own home.''

Will Wright, Sarah Mervosh, Lucy Tompkins,Giulia McDonnell Nieto del
Rio, Rukmini Callimachi and Nicholas Bogel-Burroughs contributed
reporting.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
