Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/health}{Health}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/health}{Health}\textbar{}Surfaces? Sneezes? Sex? How the
Coronavirus Can and Cannot Spread

\url{https://nyti.ms/2y13VqV}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{the-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=450a5010-f1e5-11ea-852f-a350b3d288e2\&variant=undefined}{The
Coronavirus
Outbreak}}{The Coronavirus Outbreak}}\label{the-coronavirus-outbreak}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  live\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/08/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=450a5011-f1e5-11ea-852f-a350b3d288e2\&variant=undefined}{Latest
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=450a5012-f1e5-11ea-852f-a350b3d288e2\&variant=undefined}{Maps
  and Cases}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=450a5013-f1e5-11ea-852f-a350b3d288e2\&variant=undefined}{Vaccine
  Tracker}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/02/your-money/eviction-moratorium-covid.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=450a5014-f1e5-11ea-852f-a350b3d288e2\&variant=undefined}{Eviction
  Moratorium}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/09/02/magazine/food-insecurity-hunger-us.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=450a5015-f1e5-11ea-852f-a350b3d288e2\&variant=undefined}{American
  Hunger}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{surfaces-sneezes-sex-how-the-coronavirus-can-and-cannot-spread}{%
\section{Surfaces? Sneezes? Sex? How the Coronavirus Can and Cannot
Spread}\label{surfaces-sneezes-sex-how-the-coronavirus-can-and-cannot-spread}}

What you need to know about how the virus is transmitted.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/02/27/world/27xp-spread-pix3/27xp-spread-pix3-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/heather-murphy}{Heather
Murphy}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  May 26, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://cn.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/health/20200303/coronavirus-how-it-spreads/}{阅读简体中文版}\href{https://cn.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/health/20200303/coronavirus-how-it-spreads/zh-hant/}{閱讀繁體中文版}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/es/2020/03/03/espanol/ciencia-y-tecnologia/coronavirus-como-se-transmite.html}{Leer
en español}

\emph{{[}This article is part of the developing coronavirus coverage,
and may be outdated.}
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus}{\emph{Go
here for the latest on the coronavirus}}\emph{.{]}}

A delicate but highly contagious virus, roughly one-900th the width of a
human hair, is spreading from person to person around the world. The
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/03/world/coronavirus-news.html}{coronavirus},
as it's known, has already
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/world/coronavirus-maps.html}{infected
more than 200,000 people in 140 countries}.

Because this virus is so new, experts' understanding of how it spreads
is limited. They can, however, offer some guidance about how it does ---
and does not --- seem to be transmitted.

\hypertarget{if-i-cross-paths-with-a-sick-person-will-i-get-sick-too}{%
\subsection{If I cross paths with a sick person, will I get sick,
too?}\label{if-i-cross-paths-with-a-sick-person-will-i-get-sick-too}}

You walk into a crowded grocery store. A shopper has the coronavirus.
What puts you most at risk of getting infected by that person?

Experts agree they have a great deal to learn, but four factors are
likely to play some role: how close you get; how long you are near the
person; whether that person projects viral droplets on you; and how much
you touch your face. (Of course,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/02/20/health/coronavirus-men-women.html}{your
age and health} are also major factors.)

Also, the larger the number of people in the store --- or in any other
situation --- the greater the chance that you'll cross paths with an
infected person, which is why so many health officials are now urging
people to avoid crowds and to
\href{https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/community/large-events/mass-gatherings-ready-for-covid-19.html}{cancel
gatherings} large and small.

\hypertarget{whats-a-viral-droplet}{%
\subsection{What's a viral droplet?}\label{whats-a-viral-droplet}}

It is a droplet containing viral particles. A virus is a tiny
codependent microbe that attaches to a cell, takes over, makes more of
itself and moves on to its next host. This is its ``lifestyle,'' said
Gary Whittaker, a professor of virology at the Cornell University
College of Veterinary Medicine.

A ``naked'' virus can't go anywhere unless it's hitching a ride with a
droplet of mucus or saliva, said Kin-on Kwok, a professor at the Jockey
Club School of Public Health and Primary Care at the Chinese University
of Hong Kong.

These mucus and saliva droplets are ejected from the mouth or the nose
as we cough, sneeze, laugh, sing, breathe and talk. If they don't hit
something along the way, they typically land on the floor or the ground.
When the virus becomes suspended in droplets smaller than five
micrometers --- known as aerosols --- it can stay suspended for about a
half-hour,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/17/health/coronavirus-surfaces-aerosols.html}{research
suggests}.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-the-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/08/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: The Coronavirus
Outbreak}}{Latest Updates: The Coronavirus Outbreak}}\label{latest-updates-the-coronavirus-outbreak}}

Updated 2020-09-08T15:08:09.504Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/08/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-547feae1}{Senate
  Republicans plan to move forward with a scaled-back stimulus package.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/08/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-679303d7}{Nine
  drugmakers pledge to thoroughly vet any coronavirus vaccine.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/08/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-1c973131}{`The
  lockdown killed my father': Farmer suicides add to India's virus
  misery.}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/08/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

More live coverage:
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/08/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Markets}

To gain access to your cells, the viral droplets must enter through the
eyes, the nose or the mouth. Some experts believe that sneezing and
coughing are most likely the primary forms of transmission. Professor
Kwok said talking face-to-face or sharing a meal with someone could pose
a risk.

Julian Tang, a virologist and a professor at the University of Leicester
in England who is researching the coronavirus with Professor Kwok,
agreed.

``If you can smell what someone had for lunch --- garlic, curry, etc.
--- you are inhaling what they are breathing out, including any virus in
their breath,'' he said.

The virus does not linger in the air at high enough levels to be a risk
to most people. But the techniques health care workers use to care for
sick people can generate high levels of aerosols. This is part of why
it's so important that they have
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/03/11/us/virus-health-workers.html}{proper
protective equipment.}

\hypertarget{how-close-is-too-close}{%
\subsection{How close is too close?}\label{how-close-is-too-close}}

The
\href{https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/hcp/clinical-criteria.html}{Centers
for Disease Control and Prevention} recommends keeping a distance of six
feet from other people to minimize the possibility of infection. (A
useful way to think about six feet is that it's roughly twice the length
of the average person's extended arm.)

Three feet is the distance the W.H.O. emphasizes as particularly risky
when standing near a person who is coughing or sneezing.

Still, other public health experts say that at this crucial moment, when
the world still has an opportunity to
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/03/19/world/coronavirus-flatten-the-curve-countries.html}{slow
the transmission} of the coronavirus, any number of feet is too close.
By cutting out all but essential in-person interactions, we can help
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/11/science/coronavirus-curve-mitigation-infection.html}{flatten
the curve}, they say, keeping the number of sick people to levels that
medical providers can manage.

\hypertarget{how-long-is-too-long-to-be-near-an-infected-person}{%
\subsection{How long is too long to be near an infected
person?}\label{how-long-is-too-long-to-be-near-an-infected-person}}

It's not yet clear, but most experts agree that more time equals more
risk.

\hypertarget{will-you-know-a-person-is-sick}{%
\subsection{Will you know a person is
sick?}\label{will-you-know-a-person-is-sick}}

Not necessarily.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/coronavirus-body-symptoms.html}{Fever,
coughing, chest pain and shortness of breath} may signal that someone
has been infected with the coronavirus. (Covid-19 is the name for the
disease caused by the virus.)

But it has become increasingly clear that
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/02/26/health/coronavirus-asymptomatic.html}{people
without symptoms can also infect others}. In some cases, these people
may later feel terrible enough to
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/18/nyregion/coronavirus-testing-positive.html}{try
to get tested}, isolate themselves,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/17/science/coronavirus-treatment.html}{seek
treatment} and notify friends and colleagues about potential risk. In
still other cases, people with the virus may never experience the
physical discomfort that would tip them off to the fact that they have
been a danger to others.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/03/02/multimedia/02xp-spread3/merlin_169500543_c7f77cb5-99dd-4495-8aed-dbb65fc11be4-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\hypertarget{can-the-virus-last-on-a-bus-pole-a-touch-screen-or-other-surface}{%
\subsection{Can the virus last on a bus pole, a touch screen or other
surface?}\label{can-the-virus-last-on-a-bus-pole-a-touch-screen-or-other-surface}}

Yes. After numerous people who attended a Buddhist temple in Hong Kong
fell ill, the city's Center for Health Protection collected samples from
the site. Restroom faucets and the cloth covers over Buddhist texts
tested positive for the coronavirus, the agency said.

This coronavirus is just the latest of many similarly shaped viruses.
(Coronaviruses are
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/what-is-coronavirus.html}{named
for the spikes} that protrude from their surfaces, which resemble a
crown or the sun's corona.)

A
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/17/health/coronavirus-surfaces-aerosols.html}{recent
study} of the novel coronavirus found that it could live for three days
on plastic and steel. If you are ordering lots of supplies online, you
may be relieved to know that the virus did poorly on cardboard --- it
disintegrated over the course of a day. It survived for about four hours
on copper.

Whether a surface looks dirty or clean is irrelevant. If an infected
person sneezed and a droplet landed on a surface, a person who then
touched that surface could pick it up. How much is required to infect a
person is unclear.

But as long as you
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2016/04/21/health/washing-hands.html}{wash
your hands} before
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/02/well/live/coronavirus-spread-transmission-face-touching-hands.html}{touching
your face,} you should be OK, because viral droplets don't pass through
skin.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{}

\hypertarget{the-coronavirus-outbreak-}{%
\subsubsection{The Coronavirus Outbreak
›}\label{the-coronavirus-outbreak-}}

\hypertarget{frequently-asked-questions}{%
\paragraph{Frequently Asked
Questions}\label{frequently-asked-questions}}

Updated September 4, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{what-are-the-symptoms-of-coronavirus}{%
  \paragraph{What are the symptoms of
  coronavirus?}\label{what-are-the-symptoms-of-coronavirus}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    In the beginning, the coronavirus
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/coronavirus-facts-history.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq\#link-6817bab5}{seemed
    like it was primarily a respiratory illness}~--- many patients had
    fever and chills, were weak and tired, and coughed a lot, though
    some people don't show many symptoms at all. Those who seemed
    sickest had pneumonia or acute respiratory distress syndrome and
    received supplemental oxygen. By now, doctors have identified many
    more symptoms and syndromes. In April,
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/27/health/coronavirus-symptoms-cdc.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{the
    C.D.C. added to the list of early signs}~sore throat, fever, chills
    and muscle aches. Gastrointestinal upset, such as diarrhea and
    nausea, has also been observed. Another telltale sign of infection
    may be a sudden, profound diminution of one's
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/22/health/coronavirus-symptoms-smell-taste.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{sense
    of smell and taste.}~Teenagers and young adults in some cases have
    developed painful red and purple lesions on their fingers and toes
    --- nicknamed ``Covid toe'' --- but few other serious symptoms.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{why-is-it-safer-to-spend-time-together-outside}{%
  \paragraph{Why is it safer to spend time together
  outside?}\label{why-is-it-safer-to-spend-time-together-outside}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/15/us/coronavirus-what-to-do-outside.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{Outdoor
    gatherings}~lower risk because wind disperses viral droplets, and
    sunlight can kill some of the virus. Open spaces prevent the virus
    from building up in concentrated amounts and being inhaled, which
    can happen when infected people exhale in a confined space for long
    stretches of time, said Dr. Julian W. Tang, a virologist at the
    University of Leicester.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{why-does-standing-six-feet-away-from-others-help}{%
  \paragraph{Why does standing six feet away from others
  help?}\label{why-does-standing-six-feet-away-from-others-help}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    The coronavirus spreads primarily through droplets from your mouth
    and nose, especially when you cough or sneeze. The C.D.C., one of
    the organizations using that measure,
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/14/health/coronavirus-six-feet.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{bases
    its recommendation of six feet}~on the idea that most large droplets
    that people expel when they cough or sneeze will fall to the ground
    within six feet. But six feet has never been a magic number that
    guarantees complete protection. Sneezes, for instance, can launch
    droplets a lot farther than six feet,
    \href{https://jamanetwork.com/journals/jama/fullarticle/2763852}{according
    to a recent study}. It's a rule of thumb: You should be safest
    standing six feet apart outside, especially when it's windy. But
    keep a mask on at all times, even when you think you're far enough
    apart.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{i-have-antibodies-am-i-now-immune}{%
  \paragraph{I have antibodies. Am I now
  immune?}\label{i-have-antibodies-am-i-now-immune}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    As of right
    now,\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/22/health/covid-antibodies-herd-immunity.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{~that
    seems likely, for at least several months.}~There have been
    frightening accounts of people suffering what seems to be a second
    bout of Covid-19. But experts say these patients may have a
    drawn-out course of infection, with the virus taking a slow toll
    weeks to months after initial exposure.~People infected with the
    coronavirus typically
    \href{https://www.nature.com/articles/s41586-020-2456-9}{produce}~immune
    molecules called antibodies, which are
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/07/health/coronavirus-antibody-prevalence.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{protective
    proteins made in response to an
    infection}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/07/health/coronavirus-antibody-prevalence.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{.
    These antibodies may}~last in the body
    \href{https://www.nature.com/articles/s41591-020-0965-6}{only two to
    three months}, which may seem worrisome, but that's~perfectly normal
    after an acute infection subsides, said Dr. Michael Mina, an
    immunologist at Harvard University. It may be possible to get the
    coronavirus again, but it's highly unlikely that it would be
    possible in a short window of time from initial infection or make
    people sicker the second time.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{what-are-my-rights-if-i-am-worried-about-going-back-to-work}{%
  \paragraph{What are my rights if I am worried about going back to
  work?}\label{what-are-my-rights-if-i-am-worried-about-going-back-to-work}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Employers have to provide
    \href{https://www.osha.gov/SLTC/covid-19/standards.html}{a safe
    workplace}~with policies that protect everyone equally.
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/coronavirus-money-unemployment.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{And
    if one of your co-workers tests positive for the coronavirus, the
    C.D.C.}~has said that
    \href{https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/community/guidance-business-response.html}{employers
    should tell their employees}~-\/- without giving you the sick
    employee's name -\/- that they may have been exposed to the virus.
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Also, coronaviruses are relatively easy to destroy. Using a simple
disinfectant on a surface is nearly guaranteed to break the delicate
envelope that surrounds the tiny microbe, rendering it harmless,
Professor Whittaker said.

Image

Passengers on a bus in Seoul, South Korea. If an infected person sneezed
and a droplet landed on a surface, a person who then touched that
surface could pick it up, experts said.Credit...Kim Hong-Ji/Reuters

\hypertarget{does-the-brand-or-type-of-soap-you-use-matter}{%
\subsection{Does the brand or type of soap you use
matter?}\label{does-the-brand-or-type-of-soap-you-use-matter}}

No, several experts said.

\hypertarget{my-neighbor-is-coughing-should-i-be-worried}{%
\subsection{My neighbor is coughing. Should I be
worried?}\label{my-neighbor-is-coughing-should-i-be-worried}}

There is no evidence that viral particles can go through walls or glass,
said Dr. Ashish K. Jha, director of the Harvard Global Health Institute.

He said he was more concerned about the dangers posed by common spaces
than those posed by vents, provided there is good air circulation in a
room.

An infected neighbor might sneeze on a railing and if you touched it,
``that would be a more natural way to get it from your neighbor,'' he
said.

\hypertarget{can-i-get-it-from-making-out-with-someone}{%
\subsection{Can I get it from making out with
someone?}\label{can-i-get-it-from-making-out-with-someone}}

Kissing could definitely spread it, several experts said.

Though coronaviruses are not typically sexually transmitted, it's too
soon to know, the W.H.O. said.

\hypertarget{is-it-safe-to-eat-where-people-are-sick-with-the-coronavirus}{%
\subsection{Is it safe to eat where people are sick with the
coronavirus?}\label{is-it-safe-to-eat-where-people-are-sick-with-the-coronavirus}}

If a sick person handles the food or it's a high-traffic buffet, then
risks cannot be ruled out --- but heating or reheating food should kill
the virus, Professor Whittaker said.

Dr. Jha concurred.

``As a general rule, we haven't seen that food is a mechanism for
spreading,'' he said.

Image

Waiters in February at a restaurant in St. Mark's Square in Venice,
which would usually be full of tourists.Credit...Manuel
Silvestri/Reuters

\hypertarget{can-my-dog-or-cat-safely-join-me-in-quarantine}{%
\subsection{Can my dog or cat safely join me in
quarantine?}\label{can-my-dog-or-cat-safely-join-me-in-quarantine}}

Thousands of people have already begun various types of quarantines.
Some have been mandated by health officials, while others are voluntary
and primarily involve staying home.

Can a cat or dog join someone to make quarantine less lonely?

Professor Whittaker, who has studied the spread of coronaviruses in
animals and humans, said that he had seen no evidence that people who
have the virus could be a danger to their pets.

Apoorva Mandavilli contributed reporting.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
