Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/us}{U.S.}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/us}{U.S.}\textbar{}What We Know About the Shooting of
Jacob Blake

\url{https://nyti.ms/33h8pWl}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{race-and-america}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/george-floyd-protests-minneapolis-new-york-los-angeles?name=styln-george-floyd\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=a9270080-f4cd-11ea-9ea3-1351fae58b7b\&variant=undefined}{Race
and America}}{Race and America}}\label{race-and-america}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/11/us/black-police-chiefs-reform.html?name=styln-george-floyd\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=a9270081-f4cd-11ea-9ea3-1351fae58b7b\&variant=undefined}{Black
  Police Chiefs}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/04/nyregion/rochester-police-daniel-prude.html?name=styln-george-floyd\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=a9272790-f4cd-11ea-9ea3-1351fae58b7b\&variant=undefined}{What
  Happened in Rochester, N.Y.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/30/us/portland-shooting-explained.html?name=styln-george-floyd\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=a9272791-f4cd-11ea-9ea3-1351fae58b7b\&variant=undefined}{Portland
  Shooting}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/30/us/breonna-taylor-police-killing.html?name=styln-george-floyd\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=a9272792-f4cd-11ea-9ea3-1351fae58b7b\&variant=undefined}{Breonna
  Taylor's Life and Death}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{what-we-know-about-the-shooting-of-jacob-blake}{%
\section{What We Know About the Shooting of Jacob
Blake}\label{what-we-know-about-the-shooting-of-jacob-blake}}

The police shooting of Mr. Blake ignited protests in Kenosha, Wis.,
including one in which the authorities said a teenager fatally shot two
demonstrators.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/09/01/us/04xp-jacob-blake-explainer-pix1/merlin_176451321_fdad6d8c-72c7-45ae-b723-ba66e68eae97-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/christina-morales}{Christina
Morales}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Sept. 10, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Jacob Blake, a 29-year-old Black man, was left partly paralyzed after a
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/23/us/kenosha-police-shooting.html}{white
police officer shot him seven times in the back} outside an apartment
complex in Kenosha, Wis., on Aug. 23.

The shooting, which happened in front of three of Mr. Blake's children,
was captured by a neighbor in a video that circulated widely and rapidly
on social media. Outrage spread quickly, rekindling the nationwide
protests for racial justice that had followed the deaths of
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/27/us/george-floyd-minneapolis-death.html}{George
Floyd},
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/who-was-elijah-mcclain.html}{Elijah
McClain},
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/breonna-taylor-police.html}{Breonna
Taylor} and other Black Americans after encounters with the police.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/24/us/kenosha-police-shooting.html}{Protesters
poured into Kenosha} in the days after the shooting --- as did
counterprotesters.
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/27/us/kyle-rittenhouse-kenosha.html}{An
Illinois teenager was charged with homicide} in connection with the
shooting deaths of two demonstrators. Professional athletes in several
leagues, led by the Milwaukee Bucks of the N.B.A., joined the protests
by refusing to play games.

Here's what we know about Mr. Blake's shooting and its aftermath.

\hypertarget{who-is-jacob-blake}{%
\subsection{Who is Jacob Blake?}\label{who-is-jacob-blake}}

Mr. Blake, 29, a father of six, grew up in Evanston, Ill., and moved to
Kenosha a few years ago to find work and to raise his family, an uncle
told
\href{https://www.chicagotribune.com/suburbs/evanston/ct-evr-jacob-blake-kenosha-police-shooting-evanston-tl-0827-20200824-h63o7uquo5esnf7lnv23njzrx4-story.html}{The
Chicago Tribune}.

``It was a safer location,'' the uncle, Justin Blake, said. ``He could
work and try to save and build a better life.''

Mr. Blake's family said he was
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/28/us/jacob-blake-shackles-assault.html}{working
and training to become a mechanic} at the time of the shooting.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/10/08/multimedia/08xp-jacob-blake-explainer-fam/merlin_176172273_f2c23ea0-0272-4920-8e9c-936d9a99838b-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

His grandfather, also named Jacob Blake, was a pastor at an A.M.E.
church and a civil-rights leader in Evanston, The Tribune reported.

\hypertarget{heres-what-happened}{%
\subsection{Here's what happened.}\label{heres-what-happened}}

In July, a warrant was issued for Mr. Blake's arrest on charges of
third-degree sexual assault, criminal trespass and disorderly conduct.
On Aug. 23, the woman who had filed the complaint that led to those
charges
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/28/us/jacob-blake-shackles-assault.html}{called
911 to report that Mr. Blake was at her home}, according to interviews
and records.

State officials have said that
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/26/us/kenosha-shooting-protests-jacob-blake.html}{police
officers responded to what they described as a domestic complaint} and
tried to arrest Mr. Blake.

Before the police shot Mr. Blake,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/28/us/jacob-blake-shackles-assault.html}{officers
twice tried to use a Taser} on him, state officials said. They also said
that Mr. Blake had
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/26/us/kenosha-shooting-protests-jacob-blake.html}{admitted
that he had a knife}, which was later found on the driver's side
floorboard of Mr. Blake's car. There were no other weapons in the
vehicle.

In a statement, the union representing Kenosha police officers suggested
that Mr. Blake had forcefully resisted arrest, fought with officers, put
one officer in a headlock and ignored orders to drop a knife he held in
his left hand.

Ben Crump, a lawyer for Mr. Blake's family, denied that Mr. Blake had
been carrying a knife and said Mr. Blake had been trying to break up a
disturbance involving two women when the police arrived.

A neighbor recorded the shooting with a cellphone. The video shows Mr.
Blake being shot seven times in the back in front of his children as he
tried to get into his car.

Mr. Blake's family has said he is paralyzed from the waist down. In a
\href{https://twitter.com/GHOGM/status/1302314554278412288?s=20}{video
posted on Twitter on Sept. 5}, Mr. Blake said he had staples along his
back and abdomen. ``Every 24 hours, it's pain --- it's nothing but
pain,'' Mr. Blake said in the video. ``It hurts to breathe. It hurts to
sleep. It hurts to move from side to side. It hurts to eat.''

On Aug. 26, the Justice Department announced a civil rights
investigation into the shooting.

\hypertarget{three-officers-were-put-on-leave}{%
\subsection{Three officers were put on
leave.}\label{three-officers-were-put-on-leave}}

The police officer who shot Mr. Blake is
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/27/us/kenosha-police-officer-rusten-sheskey.html}{Rusten
Sheskey}, 31, who has been with the Kenosha Police Department for seven
years.

Officer Sheskey and two other officers were placed on
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/28/us/jacob-blake-shackles-assault.html}{administrative
leave} while the Wisconsin Division of Criminal Investigation
investigates the shooting.

\hypertarget{protests-spread-widely}{%
\subsection{Protests spread widely.}\label{protests-spread-widely}}

Protests over Mr. Blake's shooting played out in the streets of Kenosha,
in cities across the country and in the spotlight of professional
sports. Athletes from the N.B.A., the W.N.B.A., Major League Baseball
and Major League Soccer and at the Western \& Southern Open tennis
tournament
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/26/sports/basketball/nba-boycott-bucks-magic-blake-shooting.html}{refused
to play}, seizing on the shooting to take a stand against systemic
racism and police brutality.

In Kenosha, anger was palpable during
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/25/us/jacob-blake-kenosha-fires.html}{the
first nights of the protests}, as some demonstrators burned buildings
and cars and threw fireworks, water bottles and bricks at police
officers in riot gear. Officers responded with tear gas and rubber
bullets.

Image

Protesters and police officers clashed in Kenosha on Aug. 24, the day
after Mr. Blake was shot.Credit...Carlos Ortiz for The New York Times

Protests spread across the country, to cities including Madison, Wis.;
Portland, Ore.; Minneapolis; and New York.

\hypertarget{two-people-were-shot-dead}{%
\subsection{Two people were shot
dead.}\label{two-people-were-shot-dead}}

In Kenosha on Aug. 25, two people were fatally shot, and a third was
wounded, as protesters clashed with counterprotesters, including a group
of armed men who said they were protecting the area from looters. The
two people killed were Joseph Rosenbaum, 36, and Anthony Huber, 26. Mr.
Huber's friends said he was protesting against the shooting of Mr.
Blake.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/27/us/kyle-rittenhouse-kenosha.html}{Kyle
Rittenhouse}, 17, who is white, was arrested at his home in Illinois and
charged with six criminal counts, including first-degree reckless
homicide, first-degree intentional homicide and attempted first-degree
intentional homicide, in connection with the shooting deaths of Mr.
Rosenbaum and Mr. Huber and the wounding of the third demonstrator.

Mr. Blake's shooting and the protests that followed it were still fresh
when demonstrators
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/28/us/kenosha-shooting-protests.html\#link-6676ec97}{gathered
at the Lincoln Memorial} on Aug. 28, the 57th anniversary of the March
on Washington and the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.'s ``I Have a
Dream'' speech. Mr. Blake's father, Jacob Blake Sr., was among those who
addressed the crowd.

``There are two systems of justice in the United States,'' he said.
``There's a white system, and there's a Black system.'' He added:
``We're not taking it anymore.''

\hypertarget{the-presidential-candidates-weighed-in}{%
\subsection{The presidential candidates weighed
in.}\label{the-presidential-candidates-weighed-in}}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/01/us/trump-vs-biden}{President
Trump visited Kenosha on Sept. 1}, touring buildings that had been
damaged during the protests, meeting with law enforcement officials and
calling for a crackdown on violent demonstrations. He did not meet with
Mr. Blake's family, and he described police violence as the work of
``bad apples.''

Visiting Kenosha two days later,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/03/us/politics/joe-biden-kenosha.html}{former
Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr.} showed sympathy toward protesters
and Black voters. Mr. Biden met with Mr. Blake's family and their legal
team for about an hour and spoke with Mr. Blake by phone.

Image

Former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. spent much of his appearance
at a church in Kenosha expressing empathy for Black
Americans.Credit...Kriston Jae Bethel for The New York Times

Mr. Biden also hosted a listening session with activists, elected
officials, clergy members, businesspeople and a few law enforcement
officers.

Reporting was contributed by Nicholas Bogel-Burroughs, Julie Bosman,
Michael Cooper, John Eligon, Katie Glueck, Neil MacFarquhar, Sarah
Mervosh, Richard A. Oppel Jr. and Marc Stein.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
