Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}Trump Is Pushing a False
Argument on Vote-by-Mail Fraud. Here Are the Facts.

\url{https://nyti.ms/3aTwyF3}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/09/08/us/elections/results-new-hampshire-primary-elections.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{New
  Hampshire Results}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/08/us/trump-vs-biden?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Election
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/election-states-biden-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Paths
  to 270}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/31/us/politics/vote-by-mail-deadlines.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Voting
  by Mail}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/us/elections/2020-presidential-election-calendar.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Key
  Dates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Politics
  Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{trump-is-pushing-a-false-argument-on-vote-by-mail-fraud-here-are-the-facts}{%
\section{Trump Is Pushing a False Argument on Vote-by-Mail Fraud. Here
Are the
Facts.}\label{trump-is-pushing-a-false-argument-on-vote-by-mail-fraud-here-are-the-facts}}

As the coronavirus pandemic accelerates a national trend toward voting
by mail, experts say it can be conducted safely, despite Republican
claims of corruption.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/04/08/us/politics/08mailvoting/merlin_170308578_012075d1-6e70-4cdd-a493-c37cd6636bd9-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/stephanie-saul}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/02/06/reader-center/author-stephanie-saul/author-stephanie-saul-thumbLarge.png}}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/reid-j-epstein}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2019/06/25/reader-center/author-reid-epstein/9e877853d8234217b58e5762253aa771-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/stephanie-saul}{Stephanie
Saul} and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/reid-j-epstein}{Reid J.
Epstein}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Aug. 31, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

With concerns mounting over how the country can conduct elections during
a pandemic and Democrats pressing for alternatives to in-person voting,
President Trump has begun pushing a false argument that has circulated
among conservatives for years --- that
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/08/us/politics/georgia-double-voting.html}{voting
by mail} is a recipe for fraud.

``Mail ballots, they cheat,'' Mr. Trump said at the White House on
Tuesday afternoon. ``Mail ballots are very dangerous for this country
because of cheaters. They go collect them. They are fraudulent in many
cases. They have to vote. They should have voter ID, by the way.''

The president spoke as Wisconsin voters, many wearing protective masks,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/07/us/politics/wisconsin-election-coronavirus.html}{were
going to the polls on a fraught Election Day}, after the Republican-led
legislature refused Democratic demands to delay the election and allow
for expanded
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/10/us/politics/vote-by-mail.html}{mail-in
voting}. On Wednesday, Mr. Trump claimed again that there was
``tremendous potential for voter fraud.''

Here's a look at the facts on the matter.

\hypertarget{all-voter-fraud-is-extremely-rare}{%
\subsection{All voter fraud is extremely
rare.}\label{all-voter-fraud-is-extremely-rare}}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2016/12/18/us/voter-fraud.html}{Studies
have shown} that all forms of voting fraud are extremely rare in the
United States. A national study in 2016 found few credible allegations
of fraudulent voting. A panel that Mr. Trump charged with investigating
election corruption
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/01/03/us/politics/trump-voter-fraud-commission.html}{found
no real evidence of fraud} before he disbanded it in 2018.

Even so, experts say that the mail voting system is more vulnerable to
fraud than voting in person.

``What we know can be boiled down to this: Voting fraud in the United
States is rare, less rare is fraud using mail ballots,'' said Charles
Stewart III of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.

\emph{{[}Read more about}
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/mail-in-vote-fraud-ballot.html}{\emph{fake
ballots, mail-in voting and voter fraud}}\emph{.{]}}

Mr. Stewart pointed to several documented voting fraud cases of recent
decades involving mail or absentee ballots, most recently the race in
North Carolina's Ninth Congressional District in 2018, when an operative
who rounded up absentee ballots for the Republican candidate, Mark
Harris, was
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/07/30/us/mccrae-dowless-indictment.html}{charged
with election fraud}. The practice is known as ballot harvesting.

``They're stories, they're dramatic, they are rare,'' said Mr. Stewart,
a professor of political science who studies the machinations of voting.

The North Carolina case also illustrates the fact that frauds big enough
to sway the outcome of an election --- those involving campaigns rather
than individual voters --- will likely be detected, said Michael
McDonald, a University of Florida political scientist and elections
scholar.

Richard L. Hasen, an elections expert at the University of California,
Irvine, School of Law, said such cases were few and far between.

``Election fraud in the United States is very rare, but the most common
type of such fraud in the United States involves absentee ballots,'' Mr.
Hasen said. ``Sensible rules for handling of absentee ballots make
sense, not only to minimize the risk of ballot tampering but to ensure
that voters cast valid ballots.''

\hypertarget{states-that-vote-entirely-by-mail-see-little-fraud}{%
\subsection{States that vote entirely by mail see little
fraud.}\label{states-that-vote-entirely-by-mail-see-little-fraud}}

\href{https://www.ncsl.org/research/elections-and-campaigns/all-mail-elections.aspx}{Five
states, including the Republican bastion of Utah,} now conduct all
elections almost entirely by mail. They report very little fraud. The
state is among the six states with the highest percentage of mail-in
votes in the last election in 2018, all of which had Republican state
election supervisors at the time, according to David J. Becker, the
director of the Center for Election Innovation and Research.

Colorado, which has 3.5 million registered voters, has been a
vote-by-mail state since 2014.

``There's just very little evidence that there is more than a handful of
fraudulent (vote-by-mail) cases across the country in a given election
cycle,'' said Judd Choate, the director of elections in the Colorado
Department of State.

\hypertarget{republicans-say-voting-by-mail-gives-democrats-an-advantage}{%
\subsection{Republicans say voting by mail gives Democrats an
advantage.}\label{republicans-say-voting-by-mail-gives-democrats-an-advantage}}

Since the coronavirus outbreak and calls for more widespread mail voting
to protect voters, some Republican officials, including Mr. Trump, have
advanced another argument against the practice: that it will
disadvantage Republican candidates.

The president on Wednesday
\href{https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/1247861952736526336}{tweeted}
that mail-in voting ``for whatever reason, doesn't work out well for
Republicans.'' In Georgia, where the secretary of state is mailing all
voters absentee ballot requests for the May primary, the State House
speaker, David Ralston, a Republican,
\href{https://www.ajc.com/news/state--regional-govt--politics/pressure-mounts-for-further-delay-georgia-may-primary-election/K1wboFdcY1z7xYt7pa11MO/}{told
a local news site}, ``This will be extremely devastating to Republicans
and conservatives in Georgia,'' adding, ``This will certainly drive up
turnout.''

Even before the coronavirus emerged as a global threat, Democrats had
generally favored ways to expand access to voting by mail. Some
Republicans have long argued against voting by mail and in favor of
tightening voter identification and registration requirements, asserting
that easing restrictions invites voter fraud.

\hypertarget{some-democrats-have-also-raised-concerns-about-security}{%
\subsection{Some Democrats have also raised concerns about
security.}\label{some-democrats-have-also-raised-concerns-about-security}}

While Democrats have generally favored mail voting --- which works in a
very similar way to absentee voting --- some have balked at its
widespread use because of the reduced level of security when voters are
not required to appear at the polls.

Douglas A. Kellner, a co-chair of the New York State Board of Elections,
is among the Democrats who have raised flags about voting by mail.

``If you analyze all the steps involved in a mail election you start to
see where the weak points are for fraud,'' Mr. Kellner said, pointing
out vulnerabilities in the process, among them the chance that ballots
may be intercepted in the mail and forged.

Mr. Kellner recalls an absentee ballot harvesting scheme at New York
nursing homes during the 1980s that led to changes in the law limiting
who may help a nursing home resident fill out a ballot. It was among
rules that Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo suspended last month for the coronavirus
pandemic.

\hypertarget{the-president-vice-president-and-cabinet-members-have-voted-by-mail-recently}{%
\subsection{The president, vice president and cabinet members have voted
by mail
recently.}\label{the-president-vice-president-and-cabinet-members-have-voted-by-mail-recently}}

Mr. Trump, while criticizing mail voting, recently
\href{https://twitter.com/MSNBC/status/1247658663617138691?s=20}{acknowledged}that
in March he voted absentee by mail in his adopted home state of Florida.
In the 2018 midterm elections, Mr. Trump voted absentee by mail from New
York.

Mr. Trump is hardly the only administration official to vote by mail.
Vice President Mike Pence voted absentee by mail for both the primary
and general election in 2018. Alex Azar, the Health and Human Services
secretary, also voted absentee in 2018 and Wilbur Ross, the commerce
secretary, has voted absentee 15 times in the last 15 years, according
to Florida's voter file. Mr. Ross, like Mr. Trump, voted absentee for
Florida's primary last month.

Senator Bernie Sanders last week called upon the nation to prepare to
mail vote in the November 3 general election.

``God forbid that this pandemic extends month after month after month
after month and that people are unable to vote in the fall,'' Mr.
Sanders said, urging that paper ballots be readied for everyone.

Trip Gabriel and Michael Wines contributed reporting.

\hypertarget{our-2020-election-guide}{%
\section{Our 2020 Election Guide}\label{our-2020-election-guide}}

Updated ~Sept. 8, 2020

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

\begin{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{the-latest}{%
  \subsection{The Latest}\label{the-latest}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    President Trump and his party are using a playbook that aims to
    alarm people about crime in their backyards. It didn't work in 2018,
    but
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/08/us/politics/trump-republicans-fear-strategy.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{both
    parties think it could resonate more this year}.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{how-to-win-270}{%
  \subsection{How to Win 270}\label{how-to-win-270}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Joe Biden and Donald Trump need 270 electoral votes to reach the
    White House. Try building
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/election-states-biden-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{your
    own coalition of battleground states}~to see potential outcomes.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{voting-by-mail}{%
  \subsection{Voting by Mail}\label{voting-by-mail}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Will you have enough time to vote by mail in your state? Yes, but
    it's risky to procrastinate.
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/31/us/politics/vote-by-mail-deadlines.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Check
    your state's deadline.}
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/joe-biden.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{}

    \hypertarget{joe-biden}{%
    \section{Joe Biden}\label{joe-biden}}

    \hypertarget{democrat}{%
    \subsection{Democrat}\label{democrat}}

    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/donald-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{}

    \hypertarget{donald-trump}{%
    \section{Donald Trump}\label{donald-trump}}

    \hypertarget{republican}{%
    \subsection{Republican}\label{republican}}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \hypertarget{keep-up-with-our-coverage}{%
  \subsection{Keep Up With Our
  Coverage}\label{keep-up-with-our-coverage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Get an
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{email}~recapping
    the day's news
  \item
    Download our mobile app on
    \href{https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nytimes/id284862083?ls=1\&mat_click_id=5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\&referrer=mat_click_id\%3D5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\%26link_click_id\%3D722930677036718082}{iOS}~and
    \href{http://a.localytics.com/android?id=com.nytimes.android\&referrer=utm_source\%3Dother_nyt_mobile_web\%26utm_medium\%3DWeb\%2520page\%26utm_term\%3DGeneral\%2520Mobile\%2520Page\%26utm_campaign\%3DNYT\%2520Mobile\%2520General\%2520Page}{Android}~and
    turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
