Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/us}{U.S.}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/us}{U.S.}\textbar{}The Facts About Mail-In Voting and
Voter Fraud

\url{https://nyti.ms/37PYA3E}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/11/us/trump-vs-biden?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Election
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/election-states-biden-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Paths
  to 270}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/us/elections/2020-presidential-election-calendar.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Key
  Dates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/31/us/politics/vote-by-mail-deadlines.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Voting
  by Mail}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Politics
  Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{the-facts-about-mail-in-voting-and-voter-fraud}{%
\section{The Facts About Mail-In Voting and Voter
Fraud}\label{the-facts-about-mail-in-voting-and-voter-fraud}}

President Trump has been baselessly warning that mail voting will lead
to a ``rigged election.'' Here's how states running mail elections track
misconduct.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/06/22/us/22voterfraud/merlin_171962700_4b8bdc94-0931-4c54-ae8c-87efe6727829-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/mike-baker}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/05/19/reader-center/author-mike-baker/author-mike-baker-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/mike-baker}{Mike Baker}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Aug. 26, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

SEATTLE --- As states grapple with how to safely carry out elections
during
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus}{a
pandemic}, President Trump has made an escalating series of fantastical
--- and false --- accusations about the risks of embracing
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/26/us/politics/mail-in-voting-foreign-intervention.html}{mail
voting}.

Without evidence, the president has warned that mail elections would
involve robbed mailboxes, forged signatures and illegally printed
ballots. In
\href{https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/1275024974579982336}{a
tweet} on Monday, this one in all-caps, Mr. Trump warned of a ``rigged
2020 election'' and claimed: ``Ballots will be printed by foreign
countries, and others. It will be the scandal of our times!''

That claim about foreign-made ballots was the latest misleading
statement from Mr. Trump: He offered no evidence, and the tampering of
ballots is widely seen as a nearly impossible scenario because they are
printed on very specific stock and often have specific tracking systems
like bar codes.

Mr. Trump himself has voted by mail, yet at the same time he has claimed
in the past that mail-in voting could mean ``thousands of people sitting
in somebody's living room, signing ballots all over the place.''

``Kids go and they raid the mailboxes and they hand them to people
signing the ballots down at the end of the street,'' Mr. Trump said in
May.

Officials in 11 of the 16 states that limit who can vote absentee have
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/21/us/vote-by-mail-trump.html}{eased
their election rules} this spring to let anyone cast an absentee ballot
in primary elections --- and in some cases, in November as well.

In another state, Texas, Republicans won a temporary legal victory and
successfully blocked an effort to expand vote-by-mail rules, but
Democrats have
\href{https://www.texastribune.org/2020/06/16/texas-vote-by-mail/}{appealed
to the U.S. Supreme Court}.

In states that have long embraced mail voting --- such as Washington
State, which has been mainly using mail balloting since 2005 --- those
running elections see no evidence of widespread fraud.

There have been concerning ballots filed, with dozens of potential cases
flagged for deeper investigation in major election years. The officials
running the elections know what attempted voter fraud looks like. And it
does not look anything like the ominous scenes of mass and coordinated
criminality the president describes.

Kim Wyman, Washington's secretary of state, said that all methods of
voting had the potential for fraud, but that her experience in
Washington was that mail ballot fraud was low.

``How do you respond to someone that makes an allegation that there's
rampant fraud?'' said Ms. Wyman, a Republican. ``You show them all the
security measures that are in place to prevent it and detect it if it
does happen.''

Here is how Washington's system works and the types of fraud officials
have encountered:

\hypertarget{registration}{%
\subsection{Registration}\label{registration}}

As with all types of balloting, registration vetting is one of the most
important steps to ensure that the people who are getting ballots in the
mail are qualified to vote them. Washington State checks to make sure
the person is not already registered elsewhere in the state and also
verifies personal information, such as date of birth and Social Security
number, to confirm it is a real person.

In 2007, a woman in Washington State successfully registered her dog to
vote and received ballots in order to make a point about the system's
risks. But in 2016, officials in King County said, another person tried
to register a dog to vote. The registration was not fully approved
because the information did not match records in state and federal
databases.

King County prosecutors sent a message to that person warning that
providing false information was a crime and saying that if the intent
was to expose a flaw in the system, it was unsuccessful.

``Instead, your actions demonstrated that the state laws designed to
prevent voter fraud work,'' prosecutors wrote.

\hypertarget{mailings}{%
\subsection{Mailings}\label{mailings}}

Mr. Trump has speculated that fraudsters can rob mailboxes --- a federal
crime --- to collect ballots in order to commit election fraud, another
crime. But Julie Wise, the director of King County elections, said that
in her experience, when someone steals a ballot from the mail, it is
usually in the hope of finding something else.

Ballots in Washington State are tied to specific individuals, with
unique bar codes that record the path of the ballot --- a protection
that would also, incidentally, make it difficult for a foreign country
to print counterfeit ballots. Voters can actually track to see when
their ballots have been mailed, when the election office has received
them back and whether they have been counted.

If someone did try to acquire ballots through mail theft, Ms. Wise said,
a voter could monitor his or her ballot and call for a replacement, a
process that would render invalid the original ballot that was sent. As
Mr. Trump said, voters can print replacement ballots --- hundreds of
them if they wanted to. But since the ballots are linked to them
individually, only one vote is going to be accepted and repeated
submissions might be grounds for investigation.

\hypertarget{fraudulent-signatures}{%
\subsection{Fraudulent signatures}\label{fraudulent-signatures}}

Ms. Wise said officials had not heard of voters reporting that ballots
were cast on their behalf unexpectedly, so thus far there is no evidence
that people are stealing and submitting ballots.

Even if a ballot were to get stolen and submitted, it would run into
another obstacle. Voters must sign the ballot return envelope. Workers
at the election office are trained to examine signatures, checking to
make sure the signature that comes in matches the one on file for the
voter before sending the ballot along the line to be counted.

A voter with a problematic signature will be contacted by the election
office, sometimes by phone, and asked to fill out an additional form to
verify his or her identity. Ms. Wise said her signature had been
rejected on two occasions because it had changed over the years, and she
was able to resolve the discrepancy to get her vote counted.

``It's a good system,'' Ms. Wise said.

\hypertarget{cameras-on}{%
\subsection{Cameras on}\label{cameras-on}}

Unlike states that depend on volunteers in polling places to manage
ballots, Washington State uses professionals to distribute ballots and
then collect, analyze and count them in a central location.

In the King County elections office, cameras keep an eye on everything,
and the public can tune in to watch. Political parties and campaigns
also monitor the process.

Ms. Wise has helped lead both traditional polling-place elections and
those done entirely through the mail. She said it was clear that the
mail-ballot process increases accessibility for people, allowing them to
vote on their own time without having to stand in line. She said the
all-mail option also allowed for better vetting and checks that give her
more confidence in such elections overall.

``I guarantee you that vote-by-mail is more secure and more accurate
than polling place elections,'' Ms. Wise said.

\hypertarget{cases-of-fraud}{%
\subsection{Cases of fraud}\label{cases-of-fraud}}

After elections, Washington has partnered with other states in a joint
data analysis that looked at whether any voter cast a ballot in multiple
states or whether a ballot was cast in the name of someone who was dead
at the time of the election.

After the 2016 election, that system flagged 74 questionable votes in
Washington State: 59 people who may have voted in multiple states, 14
people who may have voted multiple times within the state and one
deceased voter. Those ballots were sent to county elections managers and
prosecutors for further scrutiny.

King County had the most cases. Officials there said that in some cases,
they found data errors, and the votes were legitimate. In cases of votes
by dead people, Ms. Wyman said that officials had sometimes found that a
spouse had just died and the survivor wanted to cast one last ballot for
her or him. For others, she said, people who own properties in two
states may convince themselves, erroneously, that it is proper to vote
in both places.

After scrutinizing cases, investigators in King County did not see any
significant fraud in 2016, but they sent letters to 10 people who
appeared to have voted twice. The message was clear: We saw your two
votes --- even if they were in separate states --- and that is a crime.

``Though we decline to pursue this matter further, it will not foreclose
us from pursuing charges in the future should you engage in additional
acts in violation of state election law,'' a criminal prosecutor wrote.

Mike Baker reported from Seattle. Michael Wines contributed reporting
from Washington, and Manny Fernandez from Houston.

\hypertarget{our-2020-election-guide}{%
\section{Our 2020 Election Guide}\label{our-2020-election-guide}}

Updated ~Sept. 11, 2020

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

\begin{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{the-latest}{%
  \subsection{The Latest}\label{the-latest}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Joe Biden and President Trump put
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/11/us/politics/shanksville-trump-biden.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{hostilities
    on hold today to travel to ground zero and then to Shanksville, Pa.,
    where they separately honored 9/11 victims}.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{how-to-win-270}{%
  \subsection{How to Win 270}\label{how-to-win-270}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Joe Biden and Donald Trump need 270 electoral votes to reach the
    White House. Try building
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/election-states-biden-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{your
    own coalition of battleground states}~to see potential outcomes.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{voting-by-mail}{%
  \subsection{Voting by Mail}\label{voting-by-mail}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Will you have enough time to vote by mail in your state? Yes, but
    it's risky to procrastinate.
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/31/us/politics/vote-by-mail-deadlines.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Check
    your state's deadline.}
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/joe-biden.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{}

    \hypertarget{joe-biden}{%
    \section{Joe Biden}\label{joe-biden}}

    \hypertarget{democrat}{%
    \subsection{Democrat}\label{democrat}}

    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/donald-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{}

    \hypertarget{donald-trump}{%
    \section{Donald Trump}\label{donald-trump}}

    \hypertarget{republican}{%
    \subsection{Republican}\label{republican}}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \hypertarget{keep-up-with-our-coverage}{%
  \subsection{Keep Up With Our
  Coverage}\label{keep-up-with-our-coverage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Get an
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{email}~recapping
    the day's news
  \item
    Download our mobile app on
    \href{https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nytimes/id284862083?ls=1\&mat_click_id=5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\&referrer=mat_click_id\%3D5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\%26link_click_id\%3D722930677036718082}{iOS}~and
    \href{http://a.localytics.com/android?id=com.nytimes.android\&referrer=utm_source\%3Dother_nyt_mobile_web\%26utm_medium\%3DWeb\%2520page\%26utm_term\%3DGeneral\%2520Mobile\%2520Page\%26utm_campaign\%3DNYT\%2520Mobile\%2520General\%2520Page}{Android}~and
    turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
