Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/arts/television}{Television}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/arts/television}{Television}\textbar{}The Best Movies and
TV Shows Coming to Netflix, Amazon and More in September

\url{https://nyti.ms/2YVcKNU}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/spotlight/at-home?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=at_home_menu}{At
Home}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/07/travel/route-66.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=at_home_menu}{Cruise
  Along: Route 66}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/04/dining/sheet-pan-chicken.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=at_home_menu}{Roast:
  Chicken With Plums}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/04/arts/television/dark-shadows-stream.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=at_home_menu}{Watch:
  Dark Shadows}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/at-home/even-more-reporters-editors-diaries-lists-recommendations.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=at_home_menu}{Explore:
  Reporters' Google Docs}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{the-best-movies-and-tv-shows-coming-to-netflix-amazon-and-more-in-september}{%
\section{The Best Movies and TV Shows Coming to Netflix, Amazon and More
in
September}\label{the-best-movies-and-tv-shows-coming-to-netflix-amazon-and-more-in-september}}

Every month, subscription streaming services add a new batch of titles
to their libraries. Here are our picks for September.

By Noel Murray

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Sept. 1, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

\emph{For more recommendations on what to stream, sign up for our}
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/watching}{\emph{twice-weekly
Watching newsletter here}}\emph{.}

September traditionally marks the start of the new television season,
and the return of some of our favorite shows. But like nearly everything
else in this highly unusual year, fall's TV slate will look a lot
different because many series that shut down production in the spring
have yet to resume.

There are exceptions, though --- a few of which are on the list below.
For everyone who's been waiting patiently for the next seasons of
``Fargo,'' ``The Boys'' or ``Pen15,'' you have a lot to look forward to
in September. This month also sees the arrival of new shows and movies
created by some of the industry's top talent, including Luca Guadagnino,
Ridley Scott, Gillian Flynn and Antonio Campos.

Here are our picks for the best new films and TV series premiering this
month, plus a roundup of some of the other notable titles that will be
available to stream. (Note: Streaming services occasionally change
schedules without giving notice.)

\hypertarget{new-to-netflix}{%
\subsection{New to Netflix}\label{new-to-netflix}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/09/01/multimedia/01septstream2/merlin_176285217_b9a477ee-7e52-4141-b88b-9467026430d8-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\textbf{`Away'}

\textbf{Starts streaming:} Sept. 4

Science fiction meets family drama --- with a heavier emphasis on the
drama --- in the slick and involving ``Away,'' an outer-space adventure
about people whose feet are firmly planted on Earth. Hilary Swank plays
Emma Green, the commander of an international mission to Mars who is
dealing with a skeptical crew and her anxiety over leaving her husband,
Matt (Josh Charles), and their teenage daughter, Alexis (Talitha Eliana
Bateman), back home for three years. The series' creator, Andrew
Hinderaker, works some realistic concerns and crises that might befall
astronauts into the plot, but the show is primarily about the
conflicting personalities of the characters and how their ordinary human
weaknesses might jeopardize a potentially grand achievement for all
humankind.

\textbf{`The Social Dilemma'}

\textbf{Starts streaming:} Sept. 9

The cautionary documentary ``The Social Dilemma,'' **** about our loss
of privacy in the internet age, may not change the behavior of anyone
who watches it, but the movie should at least unsettle the parts of the
brain that worry about nefarious forces secretly controlling the planet.
The director Jeff Orlowski divides the film fairly equally between
interviews and dramatizations. In the talking head scenes, Silicon
Valley veterans describe in alarming and granular detail how the likes
of Google and Facebook are constantly tracking users' preferences and
steering their interactions. The staged scenes illustrate how this plays
out in reality, as actors portray a typical American family addicted to
their phones. This unusual and engaging approach to a tricky subject
helps explain the simple and mostly automated ways that big tech has
changed our lives.

\textbf{`The Devil All the Time'}

\textbf{Starts streaming:} Sept. 16

There's a full season's worth of story packed into the two-hour movie
``The Devil All the Time,'' a star-studded southern gothic drama based
on Donald Ray Pollock's decades-spanning 2011 novel. The director
Antonio Campos (who also wrote the script with Paulo Campos, his
brother) streamlines some of Pollock's book but keeps its primary cast
of hard-bitten Ohio coal country characters: a deeply religious,
battle-scarred World War II vet (played by Bill Skarsgard); his
rough-hewed crusader son (Tom Holland); a corrupt sheriff (Sebastian
Stan); a sleazy preacher (Robert Pattinson); and a pair of
thrill-killers (Jason Clarke and Riley Keough). Over the course of the
1950s and '60s, a series of violent confrontations and gruesome murders
tests the characters' convictions and exposes how these multiple
generations of churchgoing folk are bound together as much by their grim
secrets as by their faith.

\textbf{`Enola Holmes'}

\textbf{Starts streaming:} Sept. 23

The ``Stranger Things'' phenom Millie Bobby Brown is both the star and
one of the producers of ``Enola Holmes,'' an adaptation of Nancy
Springer's series of young adult novels about Sherlock Holmes's kid
sister. Taking great liberties with the Holmes mythology, the movie's
director, Harry Bradbeer, and the screenwriter Jack Thorne have Brown
playing the clever teenage sleuth-in-training Enola, who runs away from
home to track down her missing mother, Eudoria (Helena Bonham Carter),
over the objections of her officious brother, Mycroft (Sam Claflin), and
her more kindly brother, Sherlock (Henry Cavill). Bradbeer and Thorne
keep the tone light, but they don't skimp on the nifty mystery-solving.
And when in doubt, they turn the camera on the remarkably likable Brown,
whose Enola shows wit and pluck while exploring London's demimonde.

\textbf{Also arriving:}

\textbf{Sept. 1}

``Felipe Esparza: Bad Decisions (Felipe Esparza: Malas Decisiones)''

\textbf{Sept. 2}

``Chef's Table: BBQ''

\textbf{Sept. 3}

``Love, Guaranteed''

``Young Wallander''

\textbf{Sept. 4}

``I'm Thinking of Ending Things''

\textbf{Sept. 9}

``Cuties (Mignonnes)''

``Get Organized with The Home Edit''

``La LÃ­nea: Shadow of Narco''

\textbf{Sept. 10}

``The Babysitter: Killer Queen''

``Julie and the Phantoms''

\textbf{Sept. 11}

``The Duchess''

\textbf{Sept. 16}

``Baby'' Season 3

``Criminal: UK'' Season 2

``Sing On!''

\textbf{Sept. 18}

``Ratched''

\textbf{Sept. 25}

``Country-ish''

``A Perfect Crime''

\textbf{Sept. 29}

``Michelle Buteau: Welcome to Buteaupia''

\textbf{Sept. 30}

``The Boys in the Band''

\hypertarget{new-to-hulu}{%
\subsection{New to Hulu}\label{new-to-hulu}}

Image

Maya Erskine, left, and Anna Konkle embodying their adolescent selves in
the comedy ``Pen15.''Credit...Erica Parise/Hulu

\textbf{`Pen15' Season 2}

\textbf{Starts streaming:} Sept. 18

The extreme emotional swings and the tawdry romantic crises of junior
high school provided for some charmingly awkward comedy in Season 1 of
``Pen15.'' The co-stars Maya Erskine and Anna Konkle (who also created
the show with Sam Zvibleman) put themselves back into their 13-year-old
selves, circa the year 2000, remembering what it was like to obsess over
every casual interaction with the opposite sex. The second season picks
up where the first left off, with the girls struggling to act more
mature than they actually are, in the aftermath of a big party that
stirred up a lot of gossip among their classmates. The series is as
funny, bittersweet and keenly observed as ever --- and highly
recommended for anyone who doesn't mind cringing at their own icky
memories of adolescence.

\textbf{`Fargo' Season 4}

\textbf{Starts streaming:} Sept. 28

It's been more than three years since the Season 3 finale of the offbeat
crime anthology ``Fargo'' aired. In the interim, the creator Noah Hawley
stayed busy with his other TV series, ``Legion,'' while waiting for
inspiration to strike for Season 4. Production was derailed by the
pandemic just before the last few episodes were completed; but Hawley
recently reconvened the cast and crew, to finish telling one of the
show's most ambitious stories yet, set in Kansas City, Mo., in 1950.
Chris Rock plays a crime boss butting heads with the white establishment
and the remnants of the city's Jewish, Irish and Italian gangs. As
always, Hawley takes some half-forgotten pieces of American history ---
from the invention of the credit card to the battles over racial
segregation in the Midwest --- mixes them with a little bit of pulp
fantasy and presents them with the kind of stylistic and dialogue
flourishes designed to appeal to fans of the original Coen brothers
movie.

\textbf{Also arriving:}

\textbf{Sept. 7}

``Madagascar: A Little Wild''

\textbf{Sept. 9}

``Woke''

\textbf{Sept. 16}

``Archer'' Season 11

\textbf{Sept. 26}

``A Wilderness of Error''

\hypertarget{new-to-amazon}{%
\subsection{New to Amazon}\label{new-to-amazon}}

Image

Dominique McElligott as Queen Maeve, one of the troubled superheroes in
``The Boys.''Credit...Jasper Savage/Amazon Studios

\textbf{`The Boys' Season 2}

\textbf{Starts streaming:} Sept. 4

The writer-producer Eric Kripke's satirical action series, ``The Boys,''
is an adults-only takedown of the superhero genre, adapting the
gleefully vulgar comic book, by the writer Garth Ennis and the artist
Darick Robertson, into a surprisingly pointed critique of goody-goody
caped crusaders. As Season 1 of ``The Boys'' made clear, this is a
nuanced and all-too-relevant examination of the many faces of
authoritarianism: from the telegenic heroes worshiped by the masses to
the sketchy vigilantes who defy the law to achieve what they believe is
a righteous outcome. Season 2 doubles down on the social commentary,
making this not just an incredibly entertaining superpowered fantasy,
but also one with something to say about how charismatic people can
sometimes warp the public perception of right and wrong.

\textbf{`Utopia'}

\textbf{Starts streaming:} Sept. 25

The stylish, frenetic and at times ultraviolent British drama ``Utopia''
aired two six-episode seasons in 2013 and 2014, telling a tangled and
ultimately incomplete story about obsessive comic book fans who think
they've discovered clues to a dark, apocalyptic conspiracy. Back when
the show was drawing international buzz, the director-producer David
Fincher was going to adapt it for the United States alongside the writer
Gillian Flynn for HBO. Fincher and HBO both left the project, but Flynn
remains on board for the American version, with a talented young cast
that includes Sasha Lane and Dan Byrd, playing well-meaning nerds whose
preoccupations with deep states and secret pandemics may be incredibly
prescient --- or it may be distracting them from what's really going in
the world.

\textbf{Also arriving:}

\textbf{Sept. 4}

``Dino Dana: The Movie''

\textbf{Sept. 8}

``First One In''

\textbf{Sept. 18}

``All In: The Fight for Democracy''

\textbf{Sept. 25}

``Judy''

\hypertarget{new-to-hbo-max}{%
\subsection{New to HBO Max}\label{new-to-hbo-max}}

Image

Jordan Loughran, left, as Tempest and Amanda Collin as Mother in
``Raised by Wolves.''Credit...Coco Van Oppens/HBO Max

\textbf{`Raised by Wolves'}

\textbf{Starts streaming:} Sept. 3

Though the science fiction series ``Raised by Wolves'' was created by
the writer Aaron Guzikowski, the vision for the show is recognizable as
the work of its executive producer, Ridley Scott, who directed the first
two episodes. The stark appearance and the at times gory narrative
recall Scott's ``Alien'' movies, depicting a perilous future for
humanity. An android named Mother (Amanda Collin) tends to a small group
of children in hopes of starting a new civilization on a distant planet.
But the mission runs into trouble; much of the story that follows is
about the difficulties a high-functioning mechanical being has in
understanding and controlling the fragile bodies, unpredictable emotions
and wild superstitions of humans.

\textbf{`We Are Who We Are'}

\textbf{Starts streaming:} Sept. 14

Created by the ``Call Me by Your Name'' director Luca Guadagnino, the
drama series ``We Are Who We Are'' should look and feel familiar to fans
of that sensuous romance. Jack Dylan Grazer plays Fraser, a socially
awkward New York teen who in 2016 moves to a United States Army base in
Italy with his two moms (played by Alice Braga and ChloÃ« Sevigny) and
spends his days ogling hunky soldiers while trying to fit in with his
fellow military brats, across the ocean from a country enduring a
contentious presidential election. Typical of Guadagnino's work, ``We
Are Who We Are'' is light on plot but strong when it comes to capturing
indelible moments from the recent past. The director has a marvelous
location to work with: an American outpost in Europe that is like a
Midwestern small town, yet abuts a decadent seaside resort.

\textbf{Also arriving:}

\textbf{Sept. 10}

``Unpregnant''

\textbf{Sept. 12}

``Coastal Elites''

\textbf{Sept. 14}

``The Third Day''

\textbf{Sept. 23}

``Agents of Chaos''

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{Â©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
