Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/style}{Style}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/style}{Style}\textbar{}Who Can Say `No' to Cuomo? His Top
Aide, Melissa DeRosa

\url{https://nyti.ms/3fViLB0}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{the-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=1ba06ea0-f1f2-11ea-bdf2-59589793bb43\&variant=undefined}{The
Coronavirus
Outbreak}}{The Coronavirus Outbreak}}\label{the-coronavirus-outbreak}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  live\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/08/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=1ba095b0-f1f2-11ea-bdf2-59589793bb43\&variant=undefined}{Latest
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=1ba095b1-f1f2-11ea-bdf2-59589793bb43\&variant=undefined}{Maps
  and Cases}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=1ba095b2-f1f2-11ea-bdf2-59589793bb43\&variant=undefined}{Vaccine
  Tracker}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/02/your-money/eviction-moratorium-covid.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=1ba095b3-f1f2-11ea-bdf2-59589793bb43\&variant=undefined}{Eviction
  Moratorium}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/09/02/magazine/food-insecurity-hunger-us.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=1ba0bcc0-f1f2-11ea-bdf2-59589793bb43\&variant=undefined}{American
  Hunger}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{who-can-say-no-to-cuomo-his-top-aide-melissa-derosa}{%
\section{Who Can Say `No' to Cuomo? His Top Aide, Melissa
DeRosa}\label{who-can-say-no-to-cuomo-his-top-aide-melissa-derosa}}

Many unfamiliar with state politics have wondered about the steady,
steely presence six feet from the governor's elbow during his popular
daily briefings. Here's an introduction.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/05/14/fashion/13MELISSADEROSA-1-SUB/13MELISSADEROSA-1-SUB-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/ruth-la-ferla}{Ruth La
Ferla}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  May 14, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Competence is captivating. No need to tell viewers tuning in to Gov.
Andrew M. Cuomo's daily media briefings.
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/30/us/politics/andrew-cuomo.html}{Many
have been riveted} by his plain talk in the face of a global pandemic.

Others are increasingly focused on the woman usually seated at his left:
the one who on a recent Thursday countered a reporter's suggestion that
New York had dragged its heels in response to the spread of the
coronavirus by assuring him in a tone like flint that once it was clear
that New York, and not just the West Coast, was an entry point for the
virus, ``we shut down fully, with literally zero guidance from the
federal government.''

She is Melissa DeRosa, the trusted aide and strategist to whom Mr. Cuomo
routinely turns for a reliable litany of figures and facts: often seen
taking notes, checking her cellphone and sliding relevant documents
under the nose of her boss. A steady presence on the dais, Ms. DeRosa,
37, is having an extended breakout moment.

As secretary to the governor, she is the most powerful appointed
official in the state, the first woman to hold that position, and one of
the youngest, her robust command of facts and arcana only hinting at her
sway.

``If you're an Albany lawmaker and you get a call from Melissa DeRosa,
you're essentially getting a call from the governor,'' said Lis Smith,
the former spokeswoman for Mr. Cuomo's re-election campaign and the
senior communications adviser to Pete Buttigieg during his presidential
run.

``In the midst of this crisis, she's managed to carve out her own
role,'' Ms. Smith said. A tactician to the bone, ``she brings to these
briefings her own authoritative voice.''

Ms. DeRosa was certainly tactical in a telephone interview in late
April, rarely veering off topic as she cataloged the details of her job.
She prepares each day to address a welter of issues.

``Some days it's, `Are we closing schools?''' she said. ``Some days
it's, `Do we do an executive order to allow people to get married
online?' Some days it's working with the Bloomberg team to come up with
a contact tracing program.''

Armed with charts and documents, she has managed state decisions about
voting by mail and restaurant closures, and each day sets the agenda
behind Mr. Cuomo's public messaging.

``It's not easy to match his confidence, his sense of control during
those briefings, but she does,'' Ms. Smith said. ``She is by no means a
`yes' woman. And, as you may imagine, he does not relish hearing no. But
he trusts her and values the fact that she's a straight shooter.''

\hypertarget{latest-updates-the-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/08/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: The Coronavirus
Outbreak}}{Latest Updates: The Coronavirus Outbreak}}\label{latest-updates-the-coronavirus-outbreak}}

Updated 2020-09-08T16:13:48.390Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/08/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-679303d7}{Nine
  drugmakers pledge to thoroughly vet any coronavirus vaccine.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/08/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-547feae1}{Senate
  Republicans plan to move forward with a scaled-back stimulus package.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/08/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-1c973131}{`The
  lockdown killed my father': Farmer suicides add to India's virus
  misery.}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/08/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

More live coverage:
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/08/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Markets}

Mr. Cuomo was quick to echo that appraisal. ``This crisis bore down on
New York with a force unlike anything we've ever seen,'' he wrote in an
email. ``Our response requires an equal and opposite force and that is
exactly what Melissa delivers.''

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/05/14/fashion/13MELISSADEROSA-1/merlin_172007541_788ff31b-494d-4f0b-9f7c-3e9d63316079-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\hypertarget{early-riser}{%
\subsection{Early Riser}\label{early-riser}}

Disciplined as a drill sergeant, Ms. DeRosa is generally up between 3:45
and 4:30 a.m., often in the office by 6, her days sometimes running
until midnight. ``The governor, when he walks through the door, expects
us to be ready with ideas for what we need to be saying to the public
for a day, a full briefing,'' she said.

``He interrogates us,'' she said. ``When we tell him something, he
doesn't take it at face value. He'll ask us a question seven different
ways and you'd better be prepared to answer it.''

Afterward, ``you spend the rest of the day on the unknown. You can wake
up and think that your day is going to go one way, and that plan is out
the window by 7:30 a.m. depending on whatever unforeseen crisis happens,
whatever the president says, whatever hospital shortage is happening.''

She leaves few details unattended and almost nothing to chance, blitzing
her team of 79 state commissioners and all senior staff members each
morning with questions. ``I ask, `Where in the law does it say that you
can't just do voting by mail and you have to do absentee? I want you to
recite to me the section of the state constitution. I want to see where
it's written.'''

``I want to make sure that what we're saying is correct and holds up to
public scrutiny,'' Ms. DeRosa said.

The task requires agility, and an adamantine core. Ms. DeRosa is known
to be unyielding in her support of the governor. ``She and I had one
disagreement, as much my fault as hers,'' recalled Karen Hinton, a
communications consultant, who, as press secretary to New York Mayor
Bill de Blasio in 2015 and 2016, dealt with Ms. DeRosa.

``Melissa is incredibly smart, very knowledgeable and articulate, and
sometimes people can be intimidated by that,'' Ms. Hinton said.

``Politics can be tough,'' she added. ``You have to lay out your views
and your positions. Melissa is good at doing that.''

Some qualities, friends suggest, are in her DNA.

``Melissa was always pretty competitive, she always commanded the
room,'' said Rachel Berman, a dietitian and close friend of Ms. DeRosa's
since the two attended Camp Wah-Nee in Connecticut when they were 12.
``From a young age she knew what she wanted to do with her life. She
wanted to be in public service. She was very driven, in a professional
way.''

Her agenda has been advanced, and impeded, at times, by her family
connections. Her father, Giorgio DeRosa, is a partner at Bolton-St.
Johns, a highly influential lobbying firm. Her sister Jessica and
brother Joseph also work at the firm.

Her husband, Matt Wing, was a Cuomo press secretary in 2013 and 2014,
and went on to become the communications director for the governor's
re-election campaign. The couple met in 2013 when Ms. DeRosa was
Governor Cuomo's communications director. In 2015, Mr. Wing became a
senior communications officer at Uber as the company sought expansion in
New York.

Ms. DeRosa's appointment in 2017 to the top post in Mr. Cuomo's office
has raised questions about potential conflicts arising from her father's
lobbying. Common Cause, an advocacy group for good government, released
a statement at the time, advising that Ms. DeRosa recuse herself from
any issue involving her father or family.

No conflicts have been made public since her appointment. But Susan
Lerner, the executive director of Common Cause/NY, wrote in an email:
``As the governor further consolidates power in this crisis, Common
Cause/NY's concerns about staff conflicts of interest have only
intensified. Who is meeting with whom? Who's getting contracts and who's
not?''

Ms. DeRosa dismissed such unease.

``I don't get to decide for family what their jobs are, and they don't
get to decide for me what my job is,'' she said, adding tersely, ``I do
my best to live up to the highest ethical standards and be transparent
as possible, and I think that is all you can ask.''

Image

A seat at the table: Ms. DeRosa under one of Mr. Cuomo's now-famous
PowerPoint presentations, sliding over a document.~Credit...Mike
Groll/Office of Governor Andrew M. Cuomo

\hypertarget{he-looks-to-her}{%
\subsection{`He Looks to Her'}\label{he-looks-to-her}}

At 16, Ms. DeRosa began working as an intern for the political director
of the New York State A.F.L.-C.I.O., which was preparing to endorse
Hillary Clinton ahead of her bid for the Senate.

``I remember thinking while I was doing the envelope stuffing and
answering the phone,''
\href{https://www.poughkeepsiejournal.com/story/news/local/new-york/2019/06/03/cuomos-right-hand-melissa-derosa-unapologetically-fierce/1302725001/}{she
told The Poughkeepsie Journal}, ``that someday I want to be the person
who's sitting in that room and driving those conversations and mapping
out strategies, and being a part of it in a meaningful way.''

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{}

\hypertarget{the-coronavirus-outbreak-}{%
\subsubsection{The Coronavirus Outbreak
›}\label{the-coronavirus-outbreak-}}

\hypertarget{frequently-asked-questions}{%
\paragraph{Frequently Asked
Questions}\label{frequently-asked-questions}}

Updated September 4, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{what-are-the-symptoms-of-coronavirus}{%
  \paragraph{What are the symptoms of
  coronavirus?}\label{what-are-the-symptoms-of-coronavirus}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    In the beginning, the coronavirus
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/coronavirus-facts-history.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq\#link-6817bab5}{seemed
    like it was primarily a respiratory illness}~--- many patients had
    fever and chills, were weak and tired, and coughed a lot, though
    some people don't show many symptoms at all. Those who seemed
    sickest had pneumonia or acute respiratory distress syndrome and
    received supplemental oxygen. By now, doctors have identified many
    more symptoms and syndromes. In April,
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/27/health/coronavirus-symptoms-cdc.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{the
    C.D.C. added to the list of early signs}~sore throat, fever, chills
    and muscle aches. Gastrointestinal upset, such as diarrhea and
    nausea, has also been observed. Another telltale sign of infection
    may be a sudden, profound diminution of one's
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/22/health/coronavirus-symptoms-smell-taste.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{sense
    of smell and taste.}~Teenagers and young adults in some cases have
    developed painful red and purple lesions on their fingers and toes
    --- nicknamed ``Covid toe'' --- but few other serious symptoms.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{why-is-it-safer-to-spend-time-together-outside}{%
  \paragraph{Why is it safer to spend time together
  outside?}\label{why-is-it-safer-to-spend-time-together-outside}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/15/us/coronavirus-what-to-do-outside.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{Outdoor
    gatherings}~lower risk because wind disperses viral droplets, and
    sunlight can kill some of the virus. Open spaces prevent the virus
    from building up in concentrated amounts and being inhaled, which
    can happen when infected people exhale in a confined space for long
    stretches of time, said Dr. Julian W. Tang, a virologist at the
    University of Leicester.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{why-does-standing-six-feet-away-from-others-help}{%
  \paragraph{Why does standing six feet away from others
  help?}\label{why-does-standing-six-feet-away-from-others-help}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    The coronavirus spreads primarily through droplets from your mouth
    and nose, especially when you cough or sneeze. The C.D.C., one of
    the organizations using that measure,
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/14/health/coronavirus-six-feet.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{bases
    its recommendation of six feet}~on the idea that most large droplets
    that people expel when they cough or sneeze will fall to the ground
    within six feet. But six feet has never been a magic number that
    guarantees complete protection. Sneezes, for instance, can launch
    droplets a lot farther than six feet,
    \href{https://jamanetwork.com/journals/jama/fullarticle/2763852}{according
    to a recent study}. It's a rule of thumb: You should be safest
    standing six feet apart outside, especially when it's windy. But
    keep a mask on at all times, even when you think you're far enough
    apart.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{i-have-antibodies-am-i-now-immune}{%
  \paragraph{I have antibodies. Am I now
  immune?}\label{i-have-antibodies-am-i-now-immune}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    As of right
    now,\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/22/health/covid-antibodies-herd-immunity.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{~that
    seems likely, for at least several months.}~There have been
    frightening accounts of people suffering what seems to be a second
    bout of Covid-19. But experts say these patients may have a
    drawn-out course of infection, with the virus taking a slow toll
    weeks to months after initial exposure.~People infected with the
    coronavirus typically
    \href{https://www.nature.com/articles/s41586-020-2456-9}{produce}~immune
    molecules called antibodies, which are
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/07/health/coronavirus-antibody-prevalence.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{protective
    proteins made in response to an
    infection}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/07/health/coronavirus-antibody-prevalence.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{.
    These antibodies may}~last in the body
    \href{https://www.nature.com/articles/s41591-020-0965-6}{only two to
    three months}, which may seem worrisome, but that's~perfectly normal
    after an acute infection subsides, said Dr. Michael Mina, an
    immunologist at Harvard University. It may be possible to get the
    coronavirus again, but it's highly unlikely that it would be
    possible in a short window of time from initial infection or make
    people sicker the second time.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{what-are-my-rights-if-i-am-worried-about-going-back-to-work}{%
  \paragraph{What are my rights if I am worried about going back to
  work?}\label{what-are-my-rights-if-i-am-worried-about-going-back-to-work}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Employers have to provide
    \href{https://www.osha.gov/SLTC/covid-19/standards.html}{a safe
    workplace}~with policies that protect everyone equally.
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/coronavirus-money-unemployment.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{And
    if one of your co-workers tests positive for the coronavirus, the
    C.D.C.}~has said that
    \href{https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/community/guidance-business-response.html}{employers
    should tell their employees}~-\/- without giving you the sick
    employee's name -\/- that they may have been exposed to the virus.
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

There were a few detours. After graduating from the School of Industrial
and Labor Relations at Cornell University, Ms. DeRosa became a publicist
for Theory, a fashion house in New York, for a year, a stint she now
characterizes as a brief rebellious phase.

``I think every 22-year-old tries to keep their father on their toes,''
she said with a laugh. ``That's what I was doing at the time.''

She joined Bolton-St. Johns as a lobbyist, pursued a master's degree
from Cornell in public administration and went on to lead former
President Barack Obama's national political action organization for New
York. She spent another two years as the deputy chief of staff to the
state attorney general Eric Schneiderman, but knew nothing at the time,
she said, of the allegations of sexual misconduct that would force him
out of office.

Ms. DeRosa is herself no stranger to sexism. She told The Poughkeepsie
Journal that as far back as a decade ago, when she was working as a
lobbyist, she overheard her boss tell a client, whom she described as a
national figure in progressive politics, that she would take the lead on
a project. ``Why doesn't she take the lead right up to my hotel room,''
came his reply.

The memory still rankles. ``All that I have ever wanted is to be seen
for and judged on my own accomplishments and competence and merits,''
she said.

She joined the New York state administration in 2013 as communications
director, and was promoted two years later to chief of staff. She has
long had the governor's ear, Ms. Smith said: ``When they're in a room
together, he looks to her to see how she reacts.''

Ms. DeRosa has, with Governor Cuomo's blessing, helped steer statewide
policies including the \$15 minimum wage, paid family leave and expanded
insurance coverage for in vitro fertilization and egg freezing.

Image

In the before times: Melissa DeRosa at the New York Athletic Club in
2019.Credit...Kholood Eid for The New York Times

As chair of the New York State Council on Women and newly appointed head
of the Covid-19 maternity task force, she was instrumental in pushing
through a bill to admit support people to the delivery room, expand
birthing options and extend the period of time a healthy partner could
remain with a mother after delivery.

Women's reproductive issues are close to her heart. After six months in
her current job, one she knew would consume her waking hours, Ms. DeRosa
talked with her doctor about freezing her eggs. ``Being a woman in her
mid-30s who's dealing with decisions around having children, when to
have children and the limitations in the insurance law and health care,
that was something I was very, very involved in,'' she said.

Intent on taking charge of her own reproductive future, she underwent
the procedure, ``through many cycles,'' she said. ``I've done lots of
months of hormone shots.''

She is more lax about routine self-care, her days fueled by an
old-fashioned elixir. ``It's incredible,'' she said, ``what the
combination of adrenaline and caffeine can do to push you through
anything.''

A wearying schedule hasn't dampened her longstanding interest in the
realm of style. She was a determinedly girly girl, her friend Ms. Berman
recalled. ``Growing up, everything in the closet was a shade of pink,
with pearls,'' she said.

Two years ago, Ms. DeRosa appeared on a billboard in Times Square
wearing a \$228 Rebecca Minkoff dress, part of Ms. Minkoff's advertising
campaign. Jezebel, the feminist website, was swift to weigh in with an
article carrying the headline
``\href{https://theslot.jezebel.com/when-a-public-official-sells-feminism-who-is-being-emp-1824125092}{When
Public Official Sells Feminism, Who Is Being Empowered}?'' The article
chided Ms. DeRosa for her role in commercializing women's activism and
questioned the ethics of that choice.

Ms. DeRosa has since grown more worldly, if not necessarily more
circumspect. She drew feminist ire when, during Cynthia Nixon's run for
New York governor in 2018, she called Ms. Nixon ``unhinged,'' on her
Twitter account.

Viewers often remark on her trademark sleeveless dresses. Is she aiming
to bring a dose of glamour to the job? Not a chance, Ms. DeRosa said:
``I am in Albany with the clothes that I showed up with. I didn't set
out in this thinking that we were going to be on nationally televised
press conferences every single day.''

She has put personal vanity on hold, she said. ``I would love to tell
you that I do get to go for long runs and have me time and have some
semblance of work-life balance, but, I don't,'' she said. ``And I think
right now that's the way it's supposed to be.''

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
