Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/books}{Books}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/books}{Books}\textbar{}The Celebrity Bookshelf Detective
Is Back

\url{https://nyti.ms/2WYAZJX}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/spotlight/at-home?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=at_home_menu}{At
Home}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/03/well/family/the-benefits-of-talking-to-strangers.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=at_home_menu}{Talk:
  To Strangers}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/01/at-home/coronavirus-make-pizza-on-a-grill.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=at_home_menu}{Make:
  Grilled Pizza}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/arts/television/goldbergs-abc-stream.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=at_home_menu}{Watch:
  'The Goldbergs'}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/at-home/even-more-reporters-editors-diaries-lists-recommendations.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=at_home_menu}{Explore:
  Reporters' Google Docs}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{the-celebrity-bookshelf-detective-is-back}{%
\section{The Celebrity Bookshelf Detective Is
Back}\label{the-celebrity-bookshelf-detective-is-back}}

We peer over the shoulders of Gwyneth Paltrow, Regina King, Charlamagne
tha God, Yo-Yo Ma and others for a glimpse at their reading habits.

By Gal Beckerman

With Noor Qasim

\begin{itemize}
\item
  July 27, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Zoom happy hours are far less exciting now than they were in March. So
is sourdough starter. A lot of the early preoccupations of our lockdown
life don't quite have the same charm anymore. (Remember
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/04/27/dining/samin-nosrat-lasagna.html}{the
night} we all made lasagna together?) But the chance to speculate about
the minds and proclivities of the famous by gawking at their bookshelves
never gets old. So after a
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/04/30/books/celebrity-bookshelves-tv-coronavirus.html}{first
foray} into bookshelf sleuthing, we're back for more.

\hypertarget{tom-hanks}{%
\subsection{Tom Hanks}\label{tom-hanks}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/08/16/books/00CelebBookshelves-PartTwo-Hanks/00CelebBookshelves-PartTwo-Hanks-articleLarge.png?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\hypertarget{on-the-today-show-july-7}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{On ``The Today Show,''
\href{https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bzGYqX81Wu8}{July
7}}{On ``The Today Show,'' July 7}}\label{on-the-today-show-july-7}}

\textbf{1. The Presidential Recordings of Lyndon B. Johnson, Volumes
1-3:} Transcripts of 700 hours of telephone conversations that Johnson
secretly recorded that include his dealings with the Kennedys, cursing
about Vietnam and his push to help the cause of civil rights.

\textbf{2.
``\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2015/12/06/books/review/st-marks-is-dead-by-ada-calhoun.html}{St.
Marks Is Dead},}'' \textbf{by Ada Calhoun}: This close-up look at the
history of an idiosyncratic New York City street where both Emma Goldman
and the Beastie Boys partied is also a meditation on all that changes in
urban spaces and all that stays the same.

\textbf{3. ``The History of Manned Space Flight,'' by David Baker:} A
\emph{very} complete history of the early space missions --- Mercury,
Gemini, Apollo and onward --- for the NASA geek.

\hypertarget{regina-king}{%
\subsection{Regina King}\label{regina-king}}

Image

\hypertarget{on-late-night-with-seth-myers-june-12}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{On ``Late Night With Seth Myers,''
\href{https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2tSejiYx5_g}{June
12}}{On ``Late Night With Seth Myers,'' June 12}}\label{on-late-night-with-seth-myers-june-12}}

\textbf{1. ``Waiting to Exhale,'' by} \textbf{Terry McMillan:} The 1992
hit about the friendship of four women in their 30s supporting each
other through the frustrations of looking for love.

\textbf{2. ``Tupac Shakur Legacy},'' \textbf{by Jamal Joseph}: Curated
by a family friend, this ``interactive biography'' of the rapper
includes photos of Shakur's home life and reproductions of handwritten
lyrics.

\textbf{3. ``Barack Like Me,'' by David Alan Grier:} A memoir by the
comedian best known for his work on ``In Living Color'' that muses on
politics and race in the age of Obama.

\hypertarget{gwyneth-paltrow}{%
\subsection{Gwyneth Paltrow}\label{gwyneth-paltrow}}

Image

Credit...Instagram

\hypertarget{on-instagram-june-11}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{On Instagram,
\href{https://www.instagram.com/p/CBT8cIZD-Jp/}{June
11}}{On Instagram, June 11}}\label{on-instagram-june-11}}

\textbf{1. ``French Riviera: Living Well Was the Best Revenge,'' by
Xavier Girard:} Glamorous photos of the creative rich and famous ---
like Picasso and Coco Chanel --- who lived on the Mediterranean coast in
the 1920s and '30s.

\textbf{2. ``Louis Vuitton: Art, Fashion and Architecture'':} A look at
the luxury brand's most high-end collaborations, from Zaha Hadid to
David LaChapelle to Annie Leibovitz.

\textbf{3. ``Defining Decadence: The Legacy of Gustav Klimt'':} The
complete catalog of Klimt's paintings, including the extravaganzas in
gold leaf like ``Portrait of Adele Bloch-Bauer I,'' also known as ``The
Lady in Gold.''

\hypertarget{sean-penn}{%
\subsection{Sean Penn}\label{sean-penn}}

Image

\hypertarget{on-msnbcs-weekends-with-alex-witt-may-14}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{On MSNBC's ``Weekends With Alex Witt,''
\href{https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XGe2cuOlkNA}{May
14}}{On MSNBC's ``Weekends With Alex Witt,'' May 14}}\label{on-msnbcs-weekends-with-alex-witt-may-14}}

\textbf{1. ``Can Art Change the World?,'' by} \textbf{JR:} A
retrospective of the French street artist famous for clandestinely
pasting large black-and-white photographs of people's faces in public
places.

\textbf{2. ``Julian Schnabel,'' by Julian Schnabel:} The complete work
of the swaggering neo-expressionist painter whose star burned brightest
in the 1980s.

\textbf{3. ``My Life,'' by Bill Clinton:} The post-presidential memoir
that told the story of the leader whose hardscrabble life began in a
place called Hope.

\textbf{4. ``Mexico Illustrated 1920-1950,'' by Salvador Albi√±ana:}
Mexican illustration and poster work from the first half of the 20th
century, including all the great artists of the era who made beautiful
propaganda.

\hypertarget{charlamagne-tha-god}{%
\subsection{Charlamagne tha God}\label{charlamagne-tha-god}}

Image

\hypertarget{on-the-late-show-with-stephen-colbert-june-3}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{On ``The Late Show With Stephen
Colbert,'' \href{https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cKUgF5EcZPI}{June
3}}{On ``The Late Show With Stephen Colbert,'' June 3}}\label{on-the-late-show-with-stephen-colbert-june-3}}

\textbf{1. ``Sweat the Technique: Revelations on Creativity From the
Lyrical Genius,'' by} \textbf{Rakim:} This writing guide from the
legendary rapper offers tips on how to get the lyrics flowing.

\textbf{2. ``Raw},'' \textbf{by Lamont ``U-God'' Hawkins}: One of the
founding members of the Wu-Tang Clan tells the story of his rise from
the streets of Brownsville in New York City to the world's biggest
stages.

\textbf{3. ``The Autobiography of Malcolm X,'' by Malcolm X and Alex
Haley:} The classic about the radicalization of Malcolm Little and how
he turned himself into one of the most powerful thinkers on Black
identity in the 20th century.

\textbf{4. ``Civil War Battlefields,'' by David T. Gilbert:} Maps and
archival photos of more than 30 Civil War battlefields, from Antietam to
Gettysburg to Shiloh.

\hypertarget{yo-yo-ma}{%
\subsection{Yo-Yo Ma}\label{yo-yo-ma}}

Image

\hypertarget{on-instagram-may-23}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{On Instagram,
\href{https://www.instagram.com/tv/CAiTOS-FQaA/?utm_source=ig_web_copy_link}{May
23}}{On Instagram, May 23}}\label{on-instagram-may-23}}

\textbf{1. ``The Black Count,'' by} \textbf{Tom Reiss:} The true story
of General Alex Dumas, the son of a Black slave who inspired ``The Count
of Monte Cristo'' and other swashbuckling tales written by his son,
Alexander Dumas.

\textbf{2. ``With Your Own Two Hands,'' by Seymour Bernstein}: A
best-selling guide from the early 1980s that advertises itself on the
cover as a way to ``overcome stage fright and nervousness'' and
``realize your full potential.''

\textbf{3. ``Play It Again,'' by Alan Rusbridger:} How Rusbridger, who
was the editor of the Guardian, decided to solve his midlife crisis by
attempting to master, within the span of a year, Chopin's Ballade No. 1
in G minor, a notoriously challenging piano composition.

\hypertarget{patti-lupone}{%
\subsection{Patti LuPone}\label{patti-lupone}}

Image

\hypertarget{on-take-me-to-the-world-a-sondheim-90th-birthday-celebration-april-26}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{On ``Take Me to the World: A Sondheim
90th Birthday Celebration,''
\href{https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A92wZIvEUAw\&t=7694s}{April
26}}{On ``Take Me to the World: A Sondheim 90th Birthday Celebration,'' April 26}}\label{on-take-me-to-the-world-a-sondheim-90th-birthday-celebration-april-26}}

\textbf{1.
``\href{https://timesmachine.nytimes.com/timesmachine/1967/08/06/94111427.html?pageNumber=230}{All
the Little Live Things}'' and ``Wolf Willow'' by Wallace Stegner:} Two
of
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/01/books/review/wallace-stegner-west-angle-of-repose-big-rock-candy-mountain-crossing-to-safety.html}{Stegner's
sweeping novels} about the joys and quirks of life out West.

\textbf{2. ``Unity Mitford},'' \textbf{by David Pryce-Jones}: Unity was
the Mitford sister who became an unabashed fascist and even went to Nazi
Germany. The
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/1977/05/08/archives/swastikas-in-retaliation-unity-mitford-swastikas.html}{review
of Pryce-Jones's 1977 biography} in The Times noted that her ``rabid
anti‚ÄêSemitism, no less than her striking Nordic appearance,'' allowed
her to charm Hitler.

\textbf{3. ``My Life in Art'' by Konstantin Stanislavsky:} The 1924
autobiography of the great Russian actor and theater director whose
``method'' came to define acting as an art for many generations.

\textbf{4.
``\href{https://www.nytimes.com/1974/03/10/archives/stage-left-when-the-message-was-the-message-in-the-american-theater.html}{Stage
Left},'' by Jay Williams:} A history of the radical theater movement of
the 1930s when the Depression brought left-wing ideas to the stage, by a
man who lived through the era as an actor and stage manager.

\hypertarget{colin-powell}{%
\subsection{Colin Powell}\label{colin-powell}}

Image

\hypertarget{on-montgomery-colleges-youtube-account-may-22}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{On Montgomery College's YouTube account,
\href{https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Z5ZSRmj_Jmc\&list=PL32wEiPova8LmwOHqJRXSlY0gqyqfB2EK\&index=4\&t=0s}{May
22}}{On Montgomery College's YouTube account, May 22}}\label{on-montgomery-colleges-youtube-account-may-22}}

\textbf{1. ``Slave Nation,'' by} \textbf{Alfred W. Blumrosen and Ruth G.
Blumrosen:} On the role of slavery in the drafting of the United States
Constitution, and especially the concessions made to the South to keep
them part of the new nation.

\textbf{2.
``\href{https://www.nytimes.com/1984/08/27/books/books-of-the-times-160149.html}{Bloods},}''
\textbf{by Wallace Terry:} An oral history of 20 Black men who were
drafted to fight in Vietnam that covers their experience of war and
return to America.

\textbf{3. ``Black Spark White Fire,'' by Richard Poe:} Poe drew on new
research in linguistics, archaeology and anthropology to propose that it
was Black Egyptian explorers who planted the rudiments of Western
civilization in Europe 3,000 years ago.

\textbf{4. ``Warriors of Color,'' by Harold Ray Sayre:} Not much is
known about Black soldiers who served in the military just after the
Civil War, but this book gathers the available military records of 63
members of Troop H of the Tenth Cavalry, stationed at Ft. Davis, Texas,
in the spring of l884.

\emph{Follow New York Times Books on}
\href{https://www.facebook.com/nytbooks/}{\emph{Facebook}}\emph{,}
\href{https://twitter.com/nytimesbooks}{\emph{Twitter}} \emph{and}
\href{https://www.instagram.com/nytbooks/}{\emph{Instagram}}\emph{, sign
up for}
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/books-review}{\emph{our
newsletter}} \emph{or}
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2017/books/books-calendar.html}{\emph{our
literary calendar}}\emph{. And listen to us on the}
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/column/book-review-podcast}{\emph{Book
Review podcast}}\emph{.}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{¬©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
