We use cookies and similar methods to recognize visitors and remember
their preferences. We also use them to measure ad campaign
effectiveness, target ads and analyze site traffic. To learn more about
these methods, including how to disable them,
\href{https://nytimes.com/cookie-policy}{view our Cookie Policy.}

By clicking "accept", you consent to the processing of your data by us
and third parties using the above methods. You can always change your
tracker preferences by visiting our Cookie Policy.

ACCEPT

\href{https://nytimes.com/cookie-policy}{MANAGE TRACKERS}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/}{\includegraphics{https://mwcm.nyt.com/.resources/mkt-wcm/dist/libs/assets/img/logo-nyt-header.svg}}

Limited time offer. Ends today.

International readers enjoy unlimited access to all the journalism we
offer on any device.

\subsection{}

\sout{€2} €0.50/week

Billed as \sout{€8} €2 every 4 weeks for one year.

You can cancel anytime.

Billing information: you will be automatically charged €2.00 every 4
weeks for one year, then €8.00 every 4 weeks thereafter. You may cancel
at any time. By subscribing, you are accepting the
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/content/help/rights/terms/terms-of-service.html}{Terms
of Service},
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/content/help/rights/privacy/policy/privacy-policy.html}{Privacy
Policy}, and
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/content/help/rights/sale/terms-of-sale.html}{Terms
of Sale}.

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/get-started?OC=20000215740\&campaignId=37WXW}{}

Subscribe Now

\url{https://myaccount.nytimes.com}

Buy with

\href{/subscription/education?campaignId=6JQ7F}{Student? Get a special
rate } • \href{https://subscribe.inyt.com/?campaignId=6JQ7J}{Interested
in digital + print? }

\textbf{No commitment required. Cancel anytime.}

Limited time offer. Your payment method will automatically be charged in
advance every 4 weeks. You will be charged the introductory rate for the
introductory period of one year, and thereafter will be charged the
standard rate until you cancel. All subscriptions renew automatically.
\textbf{\href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale\#cancel}{You
can cancel anytime.}} These offers are not available for current
subscribers. Other restrictions and taxes may apply. Offers and pricing
are subject to change without notice.

~

\hypertarget{the-new-york-times}{%
\subparagraph{\texorpdfstring{\protect\includegraphics{https://mwcm.nyt.com/.resources/mkt-wcm/dist/libs/assets/img/logo_nyt_white.svg}}{The New York Times}}\label{the-new-york-times}}

We believe that great journalism has the power to make each reader's
life richer and more fulfilling, and all of society stronger and more
just.

Not ready to subscribe?

\href{http://nyt.qualtrics.com/jfe/form/SV_6xph8FSrgDdOgap?}{Tell us
why.}

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

©2020 The New York Times Company

About

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{The New York Times Company}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy Policy}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/content/help/rights/sale/terms-of-sale.html}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://nytimesgroupsubscriptions.com/?Pardot_Campaign_Code_Form_Input=74KRY}{Group
  Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}

Help

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/content/help/account/purchases/subscriptions-and-purchases.html}{Frequently
  Asked Questions}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/membercenter/feedback.html}{Feedback}
\item
  Do Not Sell My Personal Information We No Longer Sell Your Personal
  Information
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/california-notice}{California
  Notices}
\end{itemize}
