Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/arts}{Arts}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/arts}{Arts}\textbar{}7 Things to Do on Labor Day Weekend

\url{https://nyti.ms/3hWitKH}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/spotlight/at-home?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=at_home_menu}{At
Home}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/07/travel/route-66.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=at_home_menu}{Cruise
  Along: Route 66}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/04/dining/sheet-pan-chicken.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=at_home_menu}{Roast:
  Chicken With Plums}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/04/arts/television/dark-shadows-stream.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=at_home_menu}{Watch:
  Dark Shadows}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/at-home/even-more-reporters-editors-diaries-lists-recommendations.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=at_home_menu}{Explore:
  Reporters' Google Docs}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

Weekend Roundup

\hypertarget{7-things-to-do-on-labor-day-weekend}{%
\section{7 Things to Do on Labor Day
Weekend}\label{7-things-to-do-on-labor-day-weekend}}

How can you get your cultural fix when many arts institutions remain
closed? Our writers offer suggestions for what to listen to and watch.

Published Sept. 3, 2020Updated Sept. 6, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Comedy

\hypertarget{about-a-love-letter-to-the-apollo}{%
\subsection{About a Love Letter to the
Apollo}\label{about-a-love-letter-to-the-apollo}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/09/04/arts/03wkd-arts-roundup-tv/merlin_176258631_51b2e68e-61d9-4347-96b4-b419967bd396-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=L17urNKitwk}{In the recently
released video} ``A Marvelous Night at the Apollo,'' members of the team
behind the Season 3 finale of
\href{https://www.amazon.com/Marvelous-Mrs-Maisel-Season/dp/B06VYH1GF7}{``The
Marvelous Mrs. Maisel''} discuss the making of the episode, ``A Jewish
Girl Walks Into the Apollo \ldots{}'' The show's creator, Amy
Sherman-Palladino, describes it as a love letter to
\href{https://www.apollotheater.org/}{the Apollo Theater} and reveals a
personal connection: Her father, the comedian Don Sherman, opened for
Dinah Washington at the storied Harlem institution. Washington advised
Sherman to drop his act and just joke with the crowd about working with
her.

``It was an interesting story that always stuck with me, because I
thought, `Well, geez, that's sort of the power of stand-up,'''
Sherman-Palladino says.

The ``Apollo'' episode is nominated for four Emmy Awards, including a
guest actress nod for \href{https://www.wandasykes.com/}{Wanda Sykes},
who portrayed the comedy legend Moms Mabley. A fan of Mabley, Sykes
recalls in the video her own debut at the Apollo. ``I remember not even
hearing myself do the jokes because it was, like, I'm looking at the
audience, but I kept my eye on Sandman. `Where's Sandman?''' Sykes says,
referring to Howard Sims, who steered performers who displeased the
crowd offstage.

Catch ``A Marvelous Night at the Apollo'' on Apollo's
\href{https://www.apollotheater.org/digitalstage/}{Digital Stage} before
its fall season starts with a performance by Wyclef Jean on Wednesday.\\
\emph{SEAN L. McCARTHY}

Pop \& Rock

\hypertarget{supporting-the-bands-on-bandcamp}{%
\subsection{Supporting the Bands on
Bandcamp}\label{supporting-the-bands-on-bandcamp}}

Image

Hannah Georgas is releasing a new album, ``All That Emotion,'' just in
time for Bandcamp Friday.Credit...Daniela Vorndran

It's no secret that for all but a rarefied few musicians, record sales
alone can no longer pay the bills. Back in March, when tour
cancellations wiped out many performers' livelihoods overnight, Bandcamp
took action. This week, the music platform will continue its new custom
of waiving its revenue share on purchases made the first Friday of every
month, so fans can put more money directly into artists' pockets.

Have a few dollars to spend this
\href{https://daily.bandcamp.com/features/update-on-bandcamp-fridays}{Bandcamp
Friday} but unsure what to spring for? Among this week's new releases
are several worthy candidates.
\href{https://lomelda.bandcamp.com/album/hannah}{``Hannah,''} the third
full-length album by the Texan singer-songwriter Lomelda, continues her
project of condensing sprawling musical ideas into bite-size bits. On
one standout track, she name-drops herself alongside Frank Ocean and
Frankie Cosmos, two artists with whom she shares a knack for poignant
introspection.

Consider, also, a second Hannah: Hannah Georgas, whose new album,
\href{https://hannahgeorgas.bandcamp.com/album/all-that-emotion}{``All
That Emotion,''} was produced by Aaron Dessner. Like his recent
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/26/arts/music/taylor-swift-folklore-review.html}{collaboration
with Taylor Swift}, ``All That Emotion'' boasts sweeping orchestration
and cozy melodies. For those seeking something with a bit more edge,
\href{https://coreyflood.bandcamp.com/album/hanging-garden}{``Hanging
Garden,''} the debut LP from the punky Philadelphia trio Corey Flood,
should satisfy. Its energetic guitar work makes it somewhat peppier than
the group's first EP, ``Wish You Hadn't.''\\
\emph{OLIVIA HORN}

Theater

\hypertarget{the-nightclub-is-just-a-click-away}{%
\subsection{The Nightclub Is Just a Click
Away}\label{the-nightclub-is-just-a-click-away}}

Image

A scene from ``Kiki \& Herb: Live at the Knitting Factory,'' which is
available on the streaming platform Stage.~Credit...via The Stage
Network

What good is it Zooming alone in your room?

Remember nightclubs? Remember tiny tables, low lights, spilled cocktails
and the promise that \href{http://www.bridgeteverett.net/}{Bridget
Everett} might fall into your lap? Cabaret collapsed when theaters and
restaurants shut down, as did the alternative cabaret scene, its
rounder-heeled, wilder, boozier cousin. Unless someone suddenly
discovers that chardonnay has anti-Covid properties, it may be a while
until we can again watch Cole Escola play Everett's fetus or
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2015/02/15/theater/for-molly-pope-adventures-in-cabaret-and-horseplay.html}{Molly
Pope} act out artificially inseminating herself to Kesha's ``Your Love
Is My Drug.''

But screens provide some comfort. The Stage streaming platform, an
eclectic mix of movies, original series and performance documentation,
has
\href{https://www.watchstage.com/programs/kiki-herb-live-at-the-knitting-factory}{``Kiki
\& Herb: Live at the Knitting Factory.''} A double act courtesy of
Justin Vivian Bond and Kenny Mellman,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2016/04/17/arts/music/kiki-and-herb-kitsch-with-a-whisky-chaser.html}{Kiki
and Herb} began as fright drag comedy and then evolved almost
immediately into something weirder, lovelier and defiantly moving. In
this video, which celebrates, as Kiki says, ``The Year of Magical
Drinking,'' the duo, in trashy old-age makeup, play originals and covers
--- ``Boulder to Birmingham,'' ``The Rhythm Divine.''

Elsewhere, Murray Hill offers
laughs\href{https://www.instagram.com/p/CEIoksMFDbc/}{via Instagram},
\href{https://clubcummingnyc.com/}{Club Cumming} presents the occasional
variety show through its website, and on days when the world doesn't
have your back, you can enter ``Bridget Everett'' and ``videos'' into a
search engine and bounce your troubles away.\\
\emph{ALEXIS SOLOSKI}

Classical Music

\hypertarget{a-festival-of-interventions}{%
\subsection{A Festival of
Interventions}\label{a-festival-of-interventions}}

Image

Leon Botstein and the Orchestra Now will perform on Saturday in the
first program of the Bard Music Festival, which has moved online this
year.Credit...David DeNee

For fans of obscure operas --- and lesser-heard symphonies and chamber
pieces --- the Bard Music Festival is one of the best reasons to stick
close to New York in late summer. That's because the conductor and Bard
College president Leon Botstein's annual event is your best shot to
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/07/29/arts/music/korngold-bard-music-festival.html}{catch
rare works by Erich Wolfgang Korngold} or Franz Schreker (in North
America, anyway). The atypical offerings represent an intervention in
American classical programming.

Bard continues this advocacy despite the pandemic: For four weekends in
September, it will be streaming live concerts (sans audiences) through
its \href{https://fishercenter.bard.edu/bmf/}{website}. And you have to
plan to attend on time, too, since festival organizers currently have no
plans to archive these gigs. They'll be free to see in the moment,
however. (All you need to do is register online ahead of time.)

First up, on Saturday at 5:30 p.m. Eastern time, is a program featuring
music by Mendelssohn and George Walker, as well as two pieces by William
Grant Still, often called the ``dean'' of Black composers. Botstein and
James Bagwell will conduct the players in the Orchestra Now, Bard's
pre-professional ensemble that last year
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/05/25/arts/music/classical-music-youtube.html}{delivered
stirring performances of Webern and Morton Feldman} at the Metropolitan
Museum of Art. On the orchestra's YouTube channel, you can hear its take
on Still's ``Afro-American Symphony''
\href{https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9S-g-qYnqQQ}{from a 2018
concert}.\\
\emph{SETH COLTER WALLS}

KIDS

\hypertarget{focusing-on-their-world}{%
\subsection{Focusing on Their World}\label{focusing-on-their-world}}

Image

``Leap of Faith'' (2020) by Delany Diaz-Tapia is among the works
featured in the Studio Museum in Harlem's virtual show, ``Hearts in
Isolation: Expanding the Walls 2020.''Credit...Delany Diaz-Tapia

Nine weeks after 15 teenagers enrolled in the Studio Museum in Harlem's
eight-month program
\href{https://studiomuseum.org/expanding-walls-2020}{Expanding the
Walls: Making Connections Between Photography, History, and Community},
lockdown began, and the walls (at least figuratively) contracted. The 10
adolescents in the
\href{https://www.bethelwoodscenter.org/programs/teens}{Project:
Identity Photography} 12-week intensive course at the Bethel Woods
Center for the Arts in Bethel, N.Y., faced a similar challenge: They had
met only briefly when quarantine started.

These free annual programs equip accepted students with digital cameras
and offer them training, mentorship and a final group exhibition of
their work. Despite the pandemic, the institutions fulfilled their
commitments.

The Studio Museum's virtual show,
\href{https://www.expandingthewalls.studiomuseum.org/exhibition/hearts-in-isolation}{``Hearts
in Isolation: Expanding the Walls 2020,''} which is online through July
2021, features 30 images: desolate streets and shadowy interiors; still
lifes of objects, food and clothes; intense portraits of urban solitude.
On Sept. 23, the museum will begin Teen TALKS,
\href{https://www.instagram.com/studiomuseum/}{Instagram Live}
interviews with some of the participants.

The 49 photographs in Bethel Woods's
\href{https://www.bethelwoodscenter.org/project-identity-photography-virtual-gallery}{``Captured
at a Distance''} virtual gallery depict a more rural seclusion, with
sunsets, forests and flowers. Online through December, the show also has
\href{https://www.bethelwoodscenter.org/project-identity-photography-documenting-health-crisis}{starker
images}, like those of empty store shelves and parents in scrubs, ready
to work hospital shifts.

Accompanied by the students' statements, the exhibitions reveal
expansive creativity even during a time of limits.\\
\emph{LAUREL GRAEBER}

Jazz

\hypertarget{motor-city-is-livestreaming}{%
\subsection{Motor City Is
Livestreaming}\label{motor-city-is-livestreaming}}

Image

Pharoah Sanders will play on Friday at the Detroit Jazz Festival, which
will stream on its Facebook and Instagram pages and its YouTube
channel.Credit...Rune Hellestad/Corbis, via Getty Images

In a normal year, the \href{https://www.detroitjazzfest.org/}{Detroit
Jazz Festival} would be the world's largest unticketed jazz event,
drawing hundreds of thousands to a free four-day celebration across four
stages in downtown Motor City. The performers would range from
international stars to local stalwarts for whom this represents the
grandest stage there is.

This year, unable to convene a crowd, organizers are presenting a
livestreamed version of the festival while still leaning in to its
typical blend of local identity and large scale. From Friday through
Monday, the festival will offer concerts on three separate indoor stages
at the Detroit Marriott. They'll be shot by a professional crew,
broadcast on local TV and radio stations and streamed all weekend on the
festival's
\href{http://r20.rs6.net/tn.jsp?f=001gQjjBgizUUhG4Wr15618rGOp-Dh3QL_WgahwePQ8VGFHtSrDirzSmIKWftLLO83Z1ExB5BuvxSjPmIm29W9wtOMZ8P7anOCaCT8IIjHP0I1jEumYgbSPJtYESaia6xx4zM-hIVHcfYiDCvI9TMP2xB52z-oPlBQxrRCl9dw4Ho0=\&c=FvY9qmiFaG2nWlp4d5pQwbgHTBLqoXI9XJcxFXwysV14x2xtAdtPFA==\&ch=UXQGp_16ETqtAMhdNIFDb-jwKAhFrG7ONOSyox0_jOncSiKxfDxLwQ==}{Facebook}
and
\href{http://r20.rs6.net/tn.jsp?f=001gQjjBgizUUhG4Wr15618rGOp-Dh3QL_WgahwePQ8VGFHtSrDirzSmMVv3xrV1RCHgyzc3vrKwYkH6H2rLDzWVUNETNr2XbHjRF_IYWT3H2vtmLUT9yYHfUrBWB63EDqdXaBfBFD4oGiX8h98a54cnfxLFhNl4mGp_3cq2mRtxZN3nuFm3t755w==\&c=FvY9qmiFaG2nWlp4d5pQwbgHTBLqoXI9XJcxFXwysV14x2xtAdtPFA==\&ch=UXQGp_16ETqtAMhdNIFDb-jwKAhFrG7ONOSyox0_jOncSiKxfDxLwQ==}{Instagram}
pages and
\href{https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCvB6Ds9N_nac9mlr_JW3s5w/featured}{YouTube}
channel.

Opening night will feature the saxophonist and spiritual-jazz doyen
Pharoah Sanders, who turns 80 next month; the fusion innovator Robert
Glasper will close out the festival on Monday night. In between, a
parade of the city's finest will perform (Rodney Whitaker, Robert Hurst,
Joan Belgrave), as well as more stars, like the pianist Joey Alexander
and the vocalist René Marie.\\
\emph{GIOVANNI RUSSONELLO}

Dance

\hypertarget{dig-deep-into-bams-archive}{%
\subsection{Dig Deep Into BAM's
Archive}\label{dig-deep-into-bams-archive}}

Image

Dancers with the Ballet Folklórico Cutumba performing in DanceAfrica
2011, which is available to stream at the Leon Levy digital archives on
the Brooklyn Academy of Music's website.Credit...Andrea Mohin/The New
York Times

Over the past six months, as so much performance has migrated online,
it's been hard at times to keep up with the sheer volume of digital
dance from around the world. A short break is not a bad thing. Labor Day
weekend brings a lull in new virtual dance offerings and a moment to
explore what's already out there.

While some institutions have commissioned new works for the screen,
others have reached into their archives to release rarely seen
recordings of past events. One rich collection is on the Brooklyn
Academy of Music's website:
\href{http://levyarchive.bam.org/Front/Index/featured_set_id/3304}{Love
From the BAM Hamm Archives}, which currently includes more than two
dozen talks and performances from the past 12 years.

Two videos in the multigenre collection will be of particular interest
to dance lovers: John Jasperse's enigmatic
\href{http://levyarchive.bam.org/Detail/objects/84168}{``Remains,''}
presented at the 2016 Next Wave Festival; and the luminous 2011 edition
of DanceAfrica (an annual spring celebration), titled
\href{http://levyarchive.bam.org/Detail/objects/92549}{``Expressions and
Encounters: African, Cuban, and American Rhythms,''} with appearances by
multiple dance and drum ensembles. Click on the credits for each video,
and you'll find troves of related archival materials: posters,
photographs, program notes, audio recordings, more performance footage.
It's easy to get lost here, in the best way, and end up far from where
you started.\\
\emph{SIOBHAN BURKE}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
