Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/opinion}{Opinion}\textbar{}Disenchanted Seniors for Biden

\url{https://nyti.ms/3i3yQVj}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

\href{/section/opinion}{Opinion}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{disenchanted-seniors-for-biden}{%
\section{Disenchanted Seniors for
Biden}\label{disenchanted-seniors-for-biden}}

The pandemic is particularly dangerous for older Americans, and Trump is
losing their support.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/michelle-cottle}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2019/06/25/opinion/michelle-cottle-circular/michelle-cottle-circular-thumbLarge-v2.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/michelle-cottle}{Michelle
Cottle}

Ms. Cottle is a member of the editorial board.

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Aug. 3, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/03/opinion/03cottleWeb/03cottleWeb-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

The
\href{https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FxT0IFdaaQc\&feature=youtu.be}{ad
opens} with amateur footage of an older, white-haired woman, smiling and
chatting with the toddler snuggled in her lap. In a voice-over, a
younger woman reminisces about how her grandmother's home had always
been ``the safe place.''

Then came the coronavirus.

``It was difficult to comprehend how quickly everything kind of spiraled
downwards,'' says the woman, Jessica, from Greenfield, Wis., now shown
on camera. Almost as soon as the family realized that her grandmother,
Susana Martinez, was sick with Covid-19, she was gone.

``The president made a huge mistake in downplaying this virus,'' says
Jessica, lamenting his lack of leadership and his unwillingness to take
responsibility and devote appropriate resources to address the crisis.

``It felt like our elderly have not been a priority for this
administration --- that they don't matter,'' she says. ``And I feel like
my grandmother didn't matter.''

Ouch. This 60-second TV spot was rolled out last week by Joe Biden's
presidential campaign ``to highlight the pandemic's impact on older
Americans and their families,'' per the announcement. Part of a \$14.5
million media buy for the final week of July, the ad was scheduled to
receive prominent play on ``shows on daytime television that have high
viewership among older Americans.'' In the Latino-rich states of Florida
and Arizona, a Spanish-language version also ran.

The campaign released shorter digital ads as well, stressing to seniors
that Mr. Biden cares about their health, independence and
``\href{https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8ex_yXPnXJU\&feature=youtu.be}{dignity}.''
One six-second Facebook ad --- featuring a dancing grandma --- cites Mr.
Biden's efforts to
\href{https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fPisAy6jSXo\&feature=youtu.be}{reduce
prescription drug costs}, while another touts his support for
\href{https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=GafRKUdo1xI\&feature=youtu.be}{lowering
the eligibility age} for Medicare to 60. The videos include much arm
squeezing, hugging and multiple shots of Mr. Biden listening intently to
voters of a mature vintage, presumably all recorded prepandemic.

With fewer than 100 days until the election, the battle for America's
most reliable voting block is heating up. Beset by crises, President
Trump is at risk of losing older voters, perhaps badly. Team Biden is
eager to present these voters with a more comforting alternative.

Older Americans vote. In large numbers. Consistently. Regardless of
whether the specific contenders make their hearts go pitter-patter.
Seniors are a
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/27/us/politics/biden-trump-seniors.html}{political
force} who candidates neglect --- or, worse, alienate --- at their
peril.

In recent decades, older voters have tilted conservative. ``No Democrat
has won or broken even with seniors in two decades, since Al Gore in
2000 devoted much of his general-election campaign to warning that
Republicans would cut popular programs like Social Security and
Medicare,'' The Times
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/28/us/politics/trump-approval-older-voters-coronavirus.html}{recently
noted}.

This was certainly the case in 2016, when Mr. Trump beat Hillary Clinton
by 13 percentage points among voters 65 and up,
\href{https://fivethirtyeight.com/features/are-older-voters-turning-away-from-trump/}{according
to data} from the Cooperative Congressional Election Study. Along with
his xenophobic scaremongering and culture-war revanchism, the Donald
Trump of 2016 explicitly promised older voters that he would protect
Social Security and Medicare. He assured them that he had their backs.

Four years on, many seniors aren't feeling all that reassured and are
wondering if maybe the president has turned his back on them. A growing
pile of polls show this crucial cohort slipping from his grasp.

A
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/24/us/politics/trump-biden-poll-nyt-upshot-siena-college.html}{June
survey} by The Times and Siena College found Mr. Biden running basically
even with Mr. Trump nationally among voters 65 and older. That same
month, surveys by The Times and Siena of voters in
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/25/upshot/poll-2020-biden-battlegrounds.html}{six
key battleground states} --- Michigan, Wisconsin, North Carolina,
Arizona, Florida and Pennsylvania --- showed Mr. Biden with a six-point
advantage among seniors. Last month,
\href{https://www.nbcnews.com/politics/2020-election/who-s-behind-trump-s-big-polling-deficit-two-key-n1234605}{NBC
News noted} that an average of current polls showed the 65-and-older
crowd favoring Mr. Biden by 15 points.

This shift in affection is being driven by many factors, from Mr.
Trump's crassness to his heavy-handed response to the protests against
racial injustice. But there's no question that his
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/18/us/politics/trump-coronavirus-response-failure-leadership.html}{epic}
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/11/us/politics/coronavirus-trump-response.html}{mishandling}
of the coronavirus has
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/09/us/politics/trump-older-voters-2020.html?action=click\&module=RelatedLinks\&pgtype=Article}{cost
him with seniors}, who face an elevated risk of dying from Covid-19.

In the midst of all the turmoil, Mr. Biden's team believes that he has
what it takes to win over older voters. While Mr. Trump throws Twitter
tantrums and wallows in self-pity, Mr. Biden is painting himself as the
candidate of steadiness and reassurance. He speaks the language of loss
and grief with an authenticity born of too much personal experience. He
oozes empathy.

This may not impress fiery young voters all that much. But older
Americans seem increasingly open to Mr. Biden's low-key charms and
ability to feel their pain.

``The last time I saw my grandmother, we weren't going to be allowed in
the hospital,'' Jessica recounts toward the end of the new Biden ad.
Voice cracking, she says the family gathered via video to say a prayer
and say goodbye. ``But the fact that she was alone --- it just breaks my
heart.''

\emph{The Times is committed to publishing}
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/01/31/opinion/letters/letters-to-editor-new-york-times-women.html}{\emph{a
diversity of letters}} \emph{to the editor. We'd like to hear what you
think about this or any of our articles. Here are some}
\href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014925288-How-to-submit-a-letter-to-the-editor}{\emph{tips}}\emph{.
And here's our email:}
\href{mailto:letters@NYTimes.com}{\emph{letters@NYTimes.com}}\emph{.}

\emph{Follow The New York Times Opinion section on}
\href{https://www.facebookcorewwwi.onion/nytopinion}{\emph{Facebook}}\emph{,}
\href{http://twitter.com/NYTOpinion}{\emph{Twitter (@NYTopinion)}}
\emph{and}
\href{https://www.instagram.com/nytopinion/}{\emph{Instagram}}\emph{.}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{Â©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
