Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}Anxious About the Virus,
Older Voters Grow More Wary of Trump

\url{https://nyti.ms/2WgYk9J}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/09/08/us/elections/results-new-hampshire-primary-elections.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{New
  Hampshire Results}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/09/us/trump-vs-biden?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Election
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/election-states-biden-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Paths
  to 270}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/31/us/politics/vote-by-mail-deadlines.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Voting
  by Mail}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/us/elections/2020-presidential-election-calendar.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Key
  Dates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Politics
  Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{anxious-about-the-virus-older-voters-grow-more-wary-of-trump}{%
\section{Anxious About the Virus, Older Voters Grow More Wary of
Trump}\label{anxious-about-the-virus-older-voters-grow-more-wary-of-trump}}

Surveys show the president's standing with seniors, the group most
vulnerable to the coronavirus, has fallen as he pushes to reopen the
country.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/06/07/us/politics/07-Trump-oldervoters-1/merlin_171764802_72f36172-3af8-4a4d-ad2c-f5fbd8f7c556-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/annie-karni}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2019/02/05/multimedia/author-annie-karni/author-annie-karni-thumbLarge.png}}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/maggie-haberman}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/07/12/multimedia/author-maggie-haberman/author-maggie-haberman-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/annie-karni}{Annie Karni}
and \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/maggie-haberman}{Maggie
Haberman}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Published May 9, 2020Updated May 19, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

WASHINGTON --- The coronavirus crisis and the administration's halting
response to it have cost President Trump support from one of his most
crucial constituencies: America's seniors.

For years, Republicans and Mr. Trump have relied on older Americans, the
country's largest voting bloc, to offset a huge advantage Democrats
enjoy with younger voters. In critical states like Michigan, Wisconsin,
Pennsylvania and Florida, all of which have large older populations, Mr.
Trump's advantage with older voters has been essential to his political
success; in 2016, he won voters over the age of 65 by seven percentage
points, according to national exit poll data.

But seniors are also the most vulnerable to the global pandemic, and the
campaign's internal polls, people familiar with the numbers said, show
Mr. Trump's support among voters over the age of 65 softening to a
concerning degree, as he pushes to reopen the country's economy at the
expense of stopping a virus that puts them at the greatest risk.

A\href{https://morningconsult.com/form/coronavirus-outbreak-tracker/}{recent
Morning Consult poll}found that Mr. Trump's approval rating on the
handling of the coronavirus was lower with seniors than with any other
group other than young voters. And Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr.,
the presumptive Democratic nominee, in recent polls held a 10-point
advantage over Mr. Trump among voters who are 65 and older. A poll
commissioned by the campaign showed a similar double-digit gap.

The falloff in support comes as Mr. Trump has grown increasingly anxious
about his re-election prospects, with a series of national surveys, as
well as internal polling, showing him trailing in key states. The
president has all but moved on from a focus on controlling the pandemic
and is now pushing his agenda to restore the country, and the economy,
to a place that will lift his campaign.

``Trump has suffered a double whammy with seniors from the coronavirus
crisis, both in terms of a dislike for his personal demeanor and
disapproval of his policy priorities,'' said Geoff Garin, a Democratic
strategist. ``If there's a durable change with older voters, it could
well cost Trump the election.''

The demographic shift is fairly new, and officials said they attributed
it at least in part to Mr. Trump's coronavirus briefings, at which he
often dispensed conflicting, misleading and sometimes dangerous
information that caused alarm among a vulnerable population. At the same
point in the race four years ago, Hillary Clinton, the Democratic
nominee, trailed Mr. Trump by five points with the same group.

Among the aides who have warned the president of a softening with older
voters is Kellyanne Conway, his 2016 campaign manager and a senior
adviser, people familiar with the discussions said. White House
officials aware of the problem have started to stage events and
initiatives designed to highlight work the administration has done that
will appeal to seniors.

Standing in the ornate East Room at the White House earlier this month,
for instance, Mr. Trump surrounded himself with health officials as he
signed a proclamation declaring May to be ``Older Americans Month.''

``The virus poses the greatest risk to older Americans,'' Mr. Trump
said, while crediting his administration for protecting seniors by
halting unnecessary visits to nursing homes nationwide and expanding
access to telehealth for Medicare beneficiaries.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/06/07/us/politics/07-Trump-oldervoters2/merlin_170175255_36ce91ea-c0f0-40e3-93b0-c673e1139545-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

In recent weeks, aides have also discussed investigations into nursing
homes where there have been large numbers of coronavirus-related deaths,
and Vice President Mike Pence has taken cameras along as he personally
delivered protective equipment to a nursing home.

But the administration has also hampered some of its own efforts to
appeal to older voters. Mr. Trump recently rejected an expanded
enrollment period for the newly uninsured, for instance.

Ms. Conway declined to discuss her conversations with Mr. Trump about
seniors, but she noted that he had promised not to touch safety-net
programs that affect them. ``In five years since he announced his
candidacy, President Trump has been unwavering in his commitment to not
touch Social Security,'' Ms. Conway said.

Mr. Trump, however, at various times has said he would be open to
cutting safety-net programs, only to have aides walk back those comments
after the fact.
\href{https://slate.com/business/2020/01/trump-entitlements-social-security-medicare-davos.html}{``At
the right time, we will take a look at that},'' Mr. Trump said in
January of cuts to Medicare, Medicaid and Social Security --- a stance
that Biden campaign officials said they planned to highlight in the
coming months.

The Biden team also noted that a second Morning Consult poll released
this past week showed that 46 percent of voters said they trusted Mr.
Biden to protect Medicare and Social Security, compared with 41 percent
for Mr. Trump.

Trump campaign officials downplayed any long-term electoral concerns.
Older voters, they said, have long bristled at Mr. Trump's acerbic
personal demeanor, which was on display for hours every day during
briefings that the president believed were beneficial to him, but that
aides and Republican allies eventually persuaded him to phase out.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/2020-election}{Election
2020 â€º}

\hypertarget{live-updates}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/09/us/trump-vs-biden}{Live
Updates}}{Live Updates}}\label{live-updates}}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/09/us/trump-vs-biden\#the-nras-new-candidate-grades-show-a-continuing-decline}{}

Sept. 9, 2020, 8:19 a.m. ET

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/09/us/trump-vs-biden\#the-nras-new-candidate-grades-show-a-continuing-decline}{The
N.R.A.'s new candidate grades show a continuing
decline.}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/09/us/trump-vs-biden\#biden-announces-a-plan-to-push-companies-to-keep-jobs-in-the-us}{}

Sept. 9, 2020, 8:15 a.m. ET

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/09/us/trump-vs-biden\#biden-announces-a-plan-to-push-companies-to-keep-jobs-in-the-us}{Biden
announces a plan to push companies to keep jobs in the
U.S.}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/09/us/trump-vs-biden\#michigan-seemed-to-be-slipping-from-trump-now-hes-putting-up-a-fight-there}{}

Sept. 9, 2020, 8:15 a.m. ET

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/09/us/trump-vs-biden\#michigan-seemed-to-be-slipping-from-trump-now-hes-putting-up-a-fight-there}{Michigan
seemed to be slipping from Trump. Now he's putting up a fight there.}

In the past, however, support from older voters would return when they
were reminded of Mr. Trump's hard-line stance on immigration and his vow
to protect Social Security and other safety-net programs, policy
positions they often agreed with, officials said.

Their hope, they said, is that support from older voters will return now
that Mr. Trump has phased out his self-congratulatory version of a
fireside chat, where he excoriated reporters and Democrats and at one
point suggested that disinfectants could potentially be used to treat
coronavirus patients.

In Mr. Biden, however, Mr. Trump is also competing against a candidate
whom many older voters view as an appealing alternative to Mr. Trump in
a way that they never viewed Mrs. Clinton in 2016, strategists in both
parties said. Mr. Biden's campaign officials credit his appeal with
older voters to their view of him as a moderate, politically, and as a
compassionate person who has suffered his own string of personal
tragedies.

Biden officials said that positive sense among seniors is combined with
a real fear that there will be a second wave of Covid-19 outbreak and
that the coronavirus pandemic threatened their lives.

Keeping Mr. Biden and Mr. Trump polling even among older voters --- in
other words, simply cutting into Mr. Trump's margin --- could
potentially be enough to make a critical difference in what is expected
to be a tight race, Biden officials said.

``It's up to the Trump campaign whether this is a temporary trend line
with these voters, or not,'' said Kevin Madden, who was an adviser to
Mitt Romney's presidential campaign. ``They have to go out there and
restore confidence with these voters.''

Brad Parscale, Mr. Trump's campaign manager, dismissed any problem with
older voters as a ``false narrative being pushed by the left.''

Mr. Parscale contended that the campaign's polls show strong support for
Mr. Trump from seniors because they ``care about who can restore the
economy, who will stand up to China, who will put America first in every
decision. They care about looking after veterans and protecting Social
Security and Medicare.''

Image

In 2016, Mr. Trump won voters over the age of 65 by seven percentage
points.Credit...Anna Moneymaker/The New York Times

Trump campaign officials said they were planning to begin attacks on Mr.
Biden on television very soon. But the kind of ads that the campaign
sometimes favors --- quick, flashy cuts with newspaper headlines mixed
in --- have turned off older voters in past focus groups by Democrats.
Voters in those sessions wanted more context to explain the images they
were seeing, they said.

Strategists aligned with Mr. Trump's campaign are also trying to signal
that some form of by-mail voting is acceptable to them, despite the
reservations the president has expressed about the practice --- an
acknowledgment that mail voting makes it easier for seniors to
participate.

Some Republican state party chairs, meanwhile, said they had ramped up
the number of phone calls to voters over the past month, while most of
the country has remained locked down in their homes, in part to reassure
older voters about Mr. Trump's leadership.

``The message to them is we want to continue to build a positive and
bright future to America, that the hopeful optimism they grew up with is
what we should leave for future generations,'' said James Dickey,
chairman of the Texas Republican Party, who said the party had completed
over 130,000 voter-contact phone calls in April.

Mr. Dickey said he was not worried about any slippage with older voters,
because there has yet to be a head-to-head comparison between Mr. Biden
and Mr. Trump. ``When the president has a chance to debate him, I'm
confident the contrast will be stark,'' Mr. Dickey said.

\hypertarget{our-2020-election-guide}{%
\section{Our 2020 Election Guide}\label{our-2020-election-guide}}

Updated ~Sept. 9, 2020

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

\begin{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{the-latest}{%
  \subsection{The Latest}\label{the-latest}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Joe Biden heads today to Michigan, a battleground state where
    President Trump has resumed advertising ahead of a visit there on
    Thursday.
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/09/us/trump-vs-biden?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Read
    live updates}.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{how-to-win-270}{%
  \subsection{How to Win 270}\label{how-to-win-270}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Joe Biden and Donald Trump need 270 electoral votes to reach the
    White House. Try building
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/election-states-biden-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{your
    own coalition of battleground states}~to see potential outcomes.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{voting-by-mail}{%
  \subsection{Voting by Mail}\label{voting-by-mail}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Will you have enough time to vote by mail in your state? Yes, but
    it's risky to procrastinate.
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/31/us/politics/vote-by-mail-deadlines.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Check
    your state's deadline.}
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/joe-biden.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{}

    \hypertarget{joe-biden}{%
    \section{Joe Biden}\label{joe-biden}}

    \hypertarget{democrat}{%
    \subsection{Democrat}\label{democrat}}

    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/donald-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{}

    \hypertarget{donald-trump}{%
    \section{Donald Trump}\label{donald-trump}}

    \hypertarget{republican}{%
    \subsection{Republican}\label{republican}}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \hypertarget{keep-up-with-our-coverage}{%
  \subsection{Keep Up With Our
  Coverage}\label{keep-up-with-our-coverage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Get an
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{email}~recapping
    the day's news
  \item
    Download our mobile app on
    \href{https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nytimes/id284862083?ls=1\&mat_click_id=5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\&referrer=mat_click_id\%3D5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\%26link_click_id\%3D722930677036718082}{iOS}~and
    \href{http://a.localytics.com/android?id=com.nytimes.android\&referrer=utm_source\%3Dother_nyt_mobile_web\%26utm_medium\%3DWeb\%2520page\%26utm_term\%3DGeneral\%2520Mobile\%2520Page\%26utm_campaign\%3DNYT\%2520Mobile\%2520General\%2520Page}{Android}~and
    turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{Â©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
