Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\hypertarget{the-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus?name=styln-coronavirus-markets\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=LegacyCollection\&impression_id=29cc8ad0-f28e-11ea-b341-dfaa8a5b1616\&variant=undefined}{The
Coronavirus
Outbreak}}{The Coronavirus Outbreak}}\label{the-coronavirus-outbreak}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  live\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/09/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?name=styln-coronavirus-markets\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=LegacyCollection\&impression_id=29ccb1e0-f28e-11ea-b341-dfaa8a5b1616\&variant=undefined}{Latest
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html?name=styln-coronavirus-markets\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=LegacyCollection\&impression_id=29cd4e20-f28e-11ea-b341-dfaa8a5b1616\&variant=undefined}{Maps
  and Cases}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html?name=styln-coronavirus-markets\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=LegacyCollection\&impression_id=29cd4e21-f28e-11ea-b341-dfaa8a5b1616\&variant=undefined}{Vaccine
  Tracker}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/02/your-money/eviction-moratorium-covid.html?name=styln-coronavirus-markets\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=LegacyCollection\&impression_id=29cd4e22-f28e-11ea-b341-dfaa8a5b1616\&variant=undefined}{Eviction
  Moratorium}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/09/02/magazine/food-insecurity-hunger-us.html?name=styln-coronavirus-markets\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=LegacyCollection\&impression_id=29cd4e23-f28e-11ea-b341-dfaa8a5b1616\&variant=undefined}{American
  Hunger}
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{tech-stock-selloff-wipes-out-a-week-of-gains}{%
\section{Tech Stock Selloff Wipes Out a Week of
Gains}\label{tech-stock-selloff-wipes-out-a-week-of-gains}}

Last Updated

Sept. 4, 2020, 4:08 a.m. ET

Sept. 4, 2020, 4:08 a.m. ET

The latest economic and business news during the coronavirus pandemic.

This briefing is no longer being updated.

\hypertarget{heres-what-you-need-to-know}{%
\subsubsection{Here's what you need to
know:}\label{heres-what-you-need-to-know}}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{stocks-tumble-led-by-tech-a-day-after-record-highs}{}

  Stocks tumble, led by tech, a day after record highs.
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{wall-street-has-been-on-an-extraordinary-rally-since-the-depths-of-march}{}

  Wall Street has been on an extraordinary rally since the depths of
  March.
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{a-hedge-fund-manager-is-accused-of-securities-fraud-related-to-the-neiman-marcus-bankruptcy}{}

  A hedge fund manager is accused of securities fraud related to the
  Neiman Marcus bankruptcy.
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{the-justice-dept-plans-to-file-antitrust-charges-against-google-in-the-coming-weeks}{}

  The Justice Dept. plans to file antitrust charges against Google in
  the coming weeks.
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{new-state-unemployment-claims-remained-high-in-the-latest-weekly-tally}{}

  New state unemployment claims remained high in the latest weekly
  tally.
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{stocks-tumble-led-by-tech-a-day-after-record-highs}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{stocks-tumble-led-by-tech-a-day-after-record-highs}{Stocks
tumble, led by tech, a day after record
highs.}}{Stocks tumble, led by tech, a day after record highs.}}\label{stocks-tumble-led-by-tech-a-day-after-record-highs}}

High-flying tech stocks stumbled sharply on Thursday, causing the S\&P
500 to close with its worst drop since June.

The S\&P 500 dropped 3.5 percent, wiping out more than a week of gains,
while the tech-heavy Nasdaq composite was down nearly 5 percent. The Dow
Jones industrial average briefly lost 1,000 points and ended the day
down more than 800 points. \textbf{Apple} was down 8 percent.
\textbf{Amazon} was down more than 4.5 percent, and \textbf{Microsoft}
was down more than 6 percent.

As investors have bet that the coronavirus crisis would amplify the
dominance of the tech companies' business models, share prices of large
cap technology companies have surged, generating the lion's share of the
stock market's gains.

The
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/18/business/stock-market-record.html}{rip-roaring
race for tech shares} has increasingly pulled in armchair investors, who
have taken up speculating on stocks amid the work-from-home environment.
Many of those traders have opted not to buy actual shares, but instead
to speculate in options trades, which are essentially leveraged bets on
where share prices will go.

Such traders make these bets --- mostly they have been ``calls'' or bets
that the tech share prices would rise --- with options dealers, who then
have to hedge their risks. Dealers hedge their risks by buying ``puts,''
or leveraged bets that shares will fall.

Analysts say dealers have rushed to boost their bets on falling shares
in recent days in an attempt to hedge their risks, amplifying the
sell-off in technology shares.

``I think today for tech stocks, you're seeing that dynamic play out ---
you have a sell-off that is being chased by dealers,'' said Yousef
Abbasi, director of U.S. institutional equities at StoneX, a brokerage
firm.

--- \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/matt-phillips}{Matt
Phillips}

\hypertarget{wall-street-has-been-on-an-extraordinary-rally-since-the-depths-of-march}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{wall-street-has-been-on-an-extraordinary-rally-since-the-depths-of-march}{Wall
Street has been on an extraordinary rally since the depths of
March.}}{Wall Street has been on an extraordinary rally since the depths of March.}}\label{wall-street-has-been-on-an-extraordinary-rally-since-the-depths-of-march}}

Stocks had been on a significant tear in recent days. Prior to Thursday,
the S\&P 500 had been up in nine of the last 10 sessions, a run that
some observers said suggested that investors appeared to have adopted a
Pollyannish outlook.

``Stocks were extended, complacency and optimism, widespread,'' William
Delwiche, an investment strategist at \textbf{Baird}, a financial firm
based in Milwaukee, wrote in an email. ``Given the speed of the move and
imbalanced positioning, the cart doesn't need to go over much of a bump
to send apples flying everywhere.''

Thursday's tumble was one of the worst jolts to the market since a new
bull market began in late March. Since March 23, when the Federal
Reserve signaled its willingness to provide unlimited support to key
financial markets, stocks have notched remarkable gains.

As of the close of trading on Wednesday, they were up 60 percent over
that period, helping pull the market to new record-highs.

The performance of the market --- the S\&P 500 was up more than 10
percent for the year as of Wednesday's close --- has been a conundrum
for some who have wondered whether such gains were sustainable in the
face of a deep economic decline set off by the pandemic.

On Thursday, a fresh update on
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/03/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus/new-state-unemployment-claims-remained-high-in-the-latest-weekly-tally}{new
claims for unemployment insurance} showed that the virus was still
battering the labor market, with more than 800,000 people filing claims
for new benefits last week. About 29 million were receiving some form of
unemployment assistance as of mid-August, a sign of deep distress in the
``real'' economy.

--- \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/matt-phillips}{Matt
Phillips}

\hypertarget{advertisement}{%
\subsubsection{Advertisement}\label{advertisement}}

\protect\hyperlink{after-dfp-ad-mid1}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{fedex-to-hire-27-percent-more-workers-than-last-year-for-holiday-season}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{fedex-to-hire-27-percent-more-workers-than-last-year-for-holiday-season}{FedEx
to hire 27 percent more workers than last year for holiday
season.}}{FedEx to hire 27 percent more workers than last year for holiday season.}}\label{fedex-to-hire-27-percent-more-workers-than-last-year-for-holiday-season}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/09/03/business/03markets-brf-fedex/merlin_170835717_c5767990-b7b5-4cc0-9874-693e1ccc85ef-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\textbf{FedEx} said Thursday that it plans to hire 70,000 U.S. workers
to prepare for the upcoming holiday season. That's a 27 percent increase
from last year, when the company brought on 55,000 workers to prepare
for the holidays.

The announcement comes in anticipation of
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/02/business/retailers-holiday-shopping.html}{a
holiday season in which many consumers will be housebound} and reliant
on online shopping --- and package delivery --- to buy gifts. Major
retailers have already started shifting their plans to focus on
e-commerce rather than in-store holiday sales events. \textbf{Walmart}
and \textbf{Target} have recently
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/07/27/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus\#target-thanksgiving}{announced}
that they will reduce crowds by closing their doors on Thanksgiving Day
and putting their best deals online earlier than usual.

FedEx also
\href{https://newsroom.fedex.com/newsroom/fedex-enhancements-position-company-ahead-of-a-record-setting-peak-season/}{announced}plans
to expand year-round Sunday residential coverage for its FedEx Ground
service to nearly 95 percent of the U.S. population, effective September
13.

``These strategic investments will help better support what is expected
to be an unprecedented holiday shipping season,'' Raj Subramaniam,
FedEx's president and chief operating officer, said in a statement.

While hiring in the U.S. is still far below normal levels, job search
sites
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/03/business/economy/unemployment-claims.html}{have
seen the number of listings creep up}. Construction, driving and
warehouse jobs are the most available, according to Indeed.

--- \href{http://nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/gillian-friedman}{Gillian
Friedman}

\hypertarget{a-hedge-fund-manager-is-accused-of-securities-fraud-related-to-the-neiman-marcus-bankruptcy}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{a-hedge-fund-manager-is-accused-of-securities-fraud-related-to-the-neiman-marcus-bankruptcy}{A
hedge fund manager is accused of securities fraud related to the Neiman
Marcus
bankruptcy.}}{A hedge fund manager is accused of securities fraud related to the Neiman Marcus bankruptcy.}}\label{a-hedge-fund-manager-is-accused-of-securities-fraud-related-to-the-neiman-marcus-bankruptcy}}

A hedge fund manager is accused of pressuring an investment bank to
abandon its bid to buy shares of the bankrupt retailer \textbf{Neiman
Marcus}, according to a criminal complaint filed in federal court in
Manhattan.

Daniel Kamensky, founder of the hedge fund Marble Ridge Capital, was
arrested Thursday on charges that include securities fraud and
obstruction of justice. Federal authorities contend that Mr. Kamensky
tried to persuade the investment bank not to report his actions.

Mr. Kamensky is accused of trying to manipulate the bankruptcy process
to his advantage using his power as a member of the committee of
unsecured creditors of Neiman Marcus.

The Securities and Exchange Commission, in a related civil fraud
complaint, accuses Mr. Kamensky of threatening to stop doing business
with the investment bank Jefferies if it did not withdraw its bid for
shares of Neiman Marcus, which was higher than the one submitted by Mr.
Kamensky's hedge fund. Securities regulators said Mr. Kamensky told
Jefferies that if it did not withdraw the bid, he would get other
creditors to reject its bid.

A lawyer for Mr. Kamensky, whose hedge fund managed about \$1 billion,
was not immediately available for comment.

Jefferies withdrew its bid but told the other creditors of Neiman Marcus
why. Mr. Kamensky then tried to get Jefferies to change its story, the
S.E.C. complaint said, and in the process ``admitted to Jefferies that
he could go to jail.''

---
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/matthew-goldstein}{Matthew
Goldstein}

\hypertarget{the-justice-dept-plans-to-file-antitrust-charges-against-google-in-the-coming-weeks}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{the-justice-dept-plans-to-file-antitrust-charges-against-google-in-the-coming-weeks}{The
Justice Dept. plans to file antitrust charges against Google in the
coming
weeks.}}{The Justice Dept. plans to file antitrust charges against Google in the coming weeks.}}\label{the-justice-dept-plans-to-file-antitrust-charges-against-google-in-the-coming-weeks}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/09/03/us/politics/03dc-google-markets-brf/merlin_176466816_cd02d45e-7715-408f-86f4-2d5565d7834f-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

The Justice Department plans to bring an antitrust case against
\textbf{Google} as soon as this month, after Attorney General William P.
Barr overruled career lawyers who said they needed more time to build a
strong case against one of the world's wealthiest, most formidable
technology companies, according to five people briefed on internal
department conversations.

Justice Department officials told lawyers involved in the antitrust
inquiry into Alphabet, the parent company of Google and YouTube, to wrap
up their work by the end of September, according to three of the people.
Most of the 40-odd lawyers who had been working on the investigation
opposed the deadline. Some said they would not sign the complaint, and
several of them left the case this summer.

Some argued this summer in a memo that ran hundreds of pages that they
could bring a strong case but needed more time, according to people who
described the document. Disagreement persisted among the team over how
broad the complaint should be and what Google could do to resolve the
problems the government uncovered. The lawyers viewed the deadline as
arbitrary.

Beyond the disagreements about tactics, career lawyers also expressed
concerns that Mr. Barr wanted to announce the case in September to take
credit for action against a powerful tech company under the Trump
administration.

But Mr. Barr felt that the department had moved too slowly and that the
deadline was not unreasonable, according to a senior Justice Department
official.

Mr. Barr, a former telecom industry executive who argued an antitrust
matter before the Supreme Court, has shown a
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/25/technology/barr-google-investigation.html}{deep
interest in the Google investigation}. He has requested regular
briefings on the department's case, taking thick binders of information
about it on trips and vacations and returning with ideas and notes.

--- \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/katie-benner}{Katie
Benner} and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/cecilia-kang}{Cecilia Kang}

\hypertarget{advertisement-1}{%
\subsubsection{Advertisement}\label{advertisement-1}}

\protect\hyperlink{after-dfp-ad-mid2}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{new-state-unemployment-claims-remained-high-in-the-latest-weekly-tally}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{new-state-unemployment-claims-remained-high-in-the-latest-weekly-tally}{New
state unemployment claims remained high in the latest weekly
tally.}}{New state unemployment claims remained high in the latest weekly tally.}}\label{new-state-unemployment-claims-remained-high-in-the-latest-weekly-tally}}

\hypertarget{initial-weekly-unemployment-claims-both-regular-claims-and-those-under-the-pandemic-unemployment-assistance-program}{%
\subsubsection{Initial weekly unemployment claims, both regular claims
and those under the Pandemic Unemployment Assistance
program}\label{initial-weekly-unemployment-claims-both-regular-claims-and-those-under-the-pandemic-unemployment-assistance-program}}

By Ella Koeze·Pandemic Unemployment Assistance extends eligibility to
some workers who would not otherwise be able to apply for unemployment
benefits, such as part-time and self-employed workers. Neither regular
claims nor P.U.A. claims are seasonally adjusted.·Source: Labor
Department

The \href{https://www.dol.gov/ui/data.pdf}{government reported} on
Thursday that **** 833,000 workers filed new claims for state
unemployment benefits last week, the latest evidence that the
coronavirus pandemic is still battering the labor market.

The figure, not seasonally adjusted, represents an increase from 826,000
the previous week. The seasonally adjusted number of new state claims
last week was 881,000.

An additional **** 759,000 new claims were filed last week by unemployed
freelancers, part-time workers and others who are receiving federal
relief under a separate emergency relief program, up from 608,000 the
week before.

There has been
\href{https://fred.stlouisfed.org/series/ICNSA}{progress}from the early
weeks of the pandemic, when tallies surged past six million. But recent
improvements have been more laborious.

``I'm really concerned that the pandemic assistance claims are rising,''
said Gregory Daco, chief U.S. economist at the forecasting firm Oxford
Economics. ``Altogether you're looking at 1.6 million filing. It's
pretty bad at this stage in the crisis.''

``I feel like this is a very fragile labor market at a critical
juncture,'' he added.

More than five months into the pandemic, the claims numbers continue to
dwarf previous records.

``It could reflect a weakening economy in some of the states worst
impacted by the health crisis,'' he said, ``or it could be that some of
the workers that had returned are finding that it's not possible or
sustainable to return to their primary economic activity in the current
environment.''

More than nine million laid-off workers have been rehired. And most
analysts expect that the monthly \href{https://www.bls.gov/}{jobs
report}, scheduled for release on Friday, will show a dip in August from
double-digit unemployment rates.

There were modest reductions in new weekly claims through most of
August, an encouraging trend. But this week, comparisons to previous
announcements from the Labor Department need a flashing ``WARNING''
signal.

That's because the department has
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/01/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus\#the-labor-department-will-start-counting-unemployment-claims-in-a-new-way}{changed
the way it adjusts}state jobless claims figures for predictable seasonal
patterns, like school staff returning in the fall or temporary holiday
workers who are laid off in January.

With the pandemic, claims have been anything but predictable. So the
department tweaked its calculations to improve accuracy, but the change
means that the seasonally adjusted numbers released on Thursday are not
comparable with those from previous weeks.

As a result, The Times is emphasizing unadjusted figures.

--- \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/patricia-cohen}{Patricia
Cohen} and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/ben-casselman}{Ben
Casselman}

\hypertarget{around-the-world-public-opinion-on-the-economy-has-turned-bleak-pew-says}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{around-the-world-public-opinion-on-the-economy-has-turned-bleak-pew-says}{Around
the world, public opinion on the economy has turned `bleak,' Pew
says.}}{Around the world, public opinion on the economy has turned `bleak,' Pew says.}}\label{around-the-world-public-opinion-on-the-economy-has-turned-bleak-pew-says}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/09/03/business/03markets-brf-pew/merlin_175306299_bd91a376-7a7a-49c2-9265-75f6d65d78e0-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

What do the populations of Canada, the United States, Spain, Germany and
Australia have in common? More people in these countries say economic
conditions will improve in the next 12 months than those who say they
will worsen, according to
\href{https://www.pewresearch.org/fact-tank/2020/09/03/views-of-the-economy-have-turned-sharply-negative-in-many-countries-amid-covid-19/}{an
international survey} by the \textbf{Pew Research Center}.

But this optimistic outlook isn't widely shared. In three other
countries --- the Netherlands, Belgium and South Korea --- the majority
of the population said the situation would worsen. In the remaining six
countries surveyed, which include the U.K., Sweden, and Japan, a
plurality of respondents said the economy was more likely to get worse.
Pew said it conducted a representative survey of more than 14,000 adults
between June and early August by phone.

Reflecting the impact of
\href{https://www.oecd.org/sdd/na/gdp-growth-second-quarter-2020-oecd.htm\#:~:text=Unprecedented\%20fall\%20in\%20OECD\%20GDP\%20by\%209.8\%25\%20in\%20Q2\%202020\&text=Among\%20the\%20Major\%20Seven\%20economies,\%25\%2C\%20in\%20the\%20United\%20Kingdom.\&text=Year\%2Don\%2Dyear\%20GDP\%20growth,0.9\%25\%20in\%20the\%20previous\%20quarter.}{large
(and often unprecedented) drops in economic output} in the second
quarter, when many countries shut down businesses and ordered people to
stay at home, far more people said their national economy was currently
bad.

``Public attitudes about the economy have turned bleak in much of the
world,'' Shannon Schumacher and Mara Mordecai, researchers at Pew, wrote
in the report published with the survey results on Thursday.

People who viewed their country's response to the coronavirus pandemic
as bad were more likely to also say the economic situation was bad, the
researchers wrote, adding that this was particularly noticeable in the
United States.

``Among Americans who say their country has responded poorly to
Covid-19, 87 percent say the economy is bad, compared with half among
those who say the response went well --- a 37 percentage point
difference,'' they wrote.

--- \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/eshe-nelson}{Eshe
Nelson}

\hypertarget{france-will-spend-100-billion-euros-the-aim-is-to-restore-its-economy-to-pre-crisis-levels-by-2022}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{france-economy-stimulus}{France
will spend 100 billion euros. The aim is to restore its economy to
pre-crisis levels by
2022.}}{France will spend 100 billion euros. The aim is to restore its economy to pre-crisis levels by 2022.}}\label{france-will-spend-100-billion-euros-the-aim-is-to-restore-its-economy-to-pre-crisis-levels-by-2022}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/09/03/business/03markets-brf-france-sub/03markets-brf-france-sub-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Moving to combat its worst recession in decades, France unveiled a 100
billion euro (\$118 billion)
\href{https://www.economie.gouv.fr/plan-de-relance/lancement-plan-relance-3-septembre-2020}{stimulus
plan} Thursday aimed at restoring the battered economy to pre-crisis
levels by 2022, handing companies large tax cuts and hiring subsidies in
the hope of stimulating investment and creating jobs.

``We have to learn to live with the virus, and to survive it,'' Prime
Minister Jean Castex said at a press briefing. ``The economy has clearly
been weakened,'' he added, ``and we need to relaunch it and prepare for
the future.''

The package, the biggest spending effort in Europe, comes on top of
nearly €400 billion that President Emmanuel Macron made available to
help keep thousands of business from going bankrupt and millions of
people employed since a nationwide quarantine caused the economy to
crater. Growth is expected to contract by 11 percent this year because
of the pandemic.

But a new wave of infections is rolling across France, and the prospect
of a protracted downturn has prompted the government to try to shield
the economy from further damage.

The effort focuses on supply-side stimulus and a transition to so-called
green technology across the economy, mainly by shoring up manufacturing
and infrastructure spending. Industrial companies will get €35 billion
in production tax breaks to stimulate investment and job creation, and
the state will subsidize industrial development in hard-hit regions.

Around a third of the money will go toward making the nation's
infrastructure more environmentally sound, by upgrading major freight
and transportation train lines and renovating schools, apartment
buildings and other structures with more ecological technology. All
told, the government said it hopes to create at least 160,000 new jobs
through the stimulus measures next year.

That may not be nearly enough to ease the nation's swelling jobless
rolls. Around 30 percent of France's active population was
\href{https://think.ing.com/articles/french-unemployment-reaches-historical-highs}{out
of work} in the second quarter, and economists and the government itself
have warned of
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/24/business/europe-economy-layoffs.html}{a
tsunami of job losses in the fall}as \textbf{Airbus}, \textbf{Renault}
and other large companies downsize to make up for slumping demand.

To help combat the problem, France is throwing another €6.5 billion in
subsidies at companies to encourage them to hire younger workers who are
finding it nearly impossible to get a job in a down market, and
increasing spending on job furlough and retraining programs.

--- \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/liz-alderman}{Liz
Alderman}

\hypertarget{advertisement-2}{%
\subsubsection{Advertisement}\label{advertisement-2}}

\protect\hyperlink{after-dfp-ad-mid3}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{most-states-are-on-board-for-an-extra-jobless-benefit-few-are-paying-yet}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{most-states-are-on-board-for-an-extra-jobless-benefit-few-are-paying-yet}{Most
states are on board for an extra jobless benefit. Few are paying
yet.}}{Most states are on board for an extra jobless benefit. Few are paying yet.}}\label{most-states-are-on-board-for-an-extra-jobless-benefit-few-are-paying-yet}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/09/03/business/03markets-brf-supplement/03markets-brf-supplement-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

The
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/29/business/economy/unemployment-benefits-coronavirus.html?action=click\&module=RelatedLinks\&pgtype=Article}{\$600-a-week
federal supplement} to unemployment benefits ended in July, but most
states are moving ahead with a temporary replacement: a
weekly\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/stimulus-unemployment-payment-benefit.html}{\$300
supplement} paid out of federal disaster relief funds.

As of Wednesday,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/stimulus-unemployment-payment-benefit.html}{45
states had been approved} for a grant from the Federal Emergency
Management Agency for the program. Six of those --- Arizona, Louisiana,
Missouri, Montana, Tennessee and Texas --- have started paying out
benefits, according to the Labor Department.

Most other states will probably not start payments until mid-September
or later. The supplement is expected to last four or five weeks.

South Dakota is the only state that has said it is not taking part.
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/16/us/elections/south-dakota-governor-turns-down-extra-unemployment-funding-saying-the-state-doesnt-need-it.html}{Gov.
Kristi Noem} says her state doesn't need the money.

A handful of states, including Kentucky, Montana and West Virginia, plan
to add \$100 to the supplement.

Economists say the weekly booster is crucial to the economy's recovery.
``The data are showing us that the expiration of the supplemental
benefits is having a clear impact on consumption,'' said Carl
Tannenbaum, chief economist at Northern Trust. ``As a result, the
momentum of the economic recovery seems to be slowing as we move to the
end of the third quarter.''

The big question, Mr. Tannenbaum said, is
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/01/business/economy/mnuchin-coronavirus.html}{how
Congress will react} to the latest evidence from the labor market and
whether it will prompt Republicans and Democrats to agree on another
relief package.

``Are we going to build a bridge of sufficient length to get to the
post-Covid environment without permanent economic damage?'' he asked.

--- \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/patricia-cohen}{Patricia
Cohen}

\hypertarget{heres-what-you-need-to-know-about-the-eviction-moratorium}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{heres-what-you-need-to-know-about-the-eviction-moratorium}{Here's
what you need to know about the eviction
moratorium.}}{Here's what you need to know about the eviction moratorium.}}\label{heres-what-you-need-to-know-about-the-eviction-moratorium}}

The Trump administration has announced an
\href{https://s3.amazonaws.com/public-inspection.federalregister.gov/2020-19654.pdf}{order}
to suspend the possibility of eviction for millions of renters who have
suffered financially because of the coronavirus pandemic. The
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/01/business/eviction-moratorium-order.html}{Centers
for Disease Control and Prevention} said the order was an emergency
action, which it is entitled to take under the law.

We have answers to questions that renters may have about the order.
Please email your questions to
\href{mailto:hubforhelp@NYTimes.com}{\nolinkurl{hubforhelp@NYTimes.com}}.

\textbf{Who is eligible?}

You must meet a five-pronged test.

\begin{itemize}
\item
  You need to have used your ``best efforts'' to obtain any and all
  forms of government rental assistance.
\item
  You can't ``expect'' to earn more than \$99,000 in 2020, or \$198,000
  if you're married and filing a joint tax return. If you don't qualify
  that way, you could still be eligible if you did not need to report
  any income at all to the federal government in 2019 or if you received
  a stimulus check this year.
\item
  You must be experiencing a ``substantial'' loss of household income, a
  layoff or ``extraordinary'' out-of-pocket medical expenses (which the
  order defines as any unreimbursed expense likely to exceed 7.5 percent
  of your adjusted gross income this year).
\item
  You have to be making your best efforts to make ``timely'' partial
  payments that are as close to the full amount due as ``circumstances
  may permit,'' taking into account other nondiscretionary expenses.
\item
  Eviction would ``likely'' lead to either homelessness or your having
  to move to a place that was more expensive or where you could get sick
  from being close to others.
\end{itemize}

\textbf{A lot of that is pretty subjective. If it's a close call, who
decides?}

Landlords who disagree with renters' self-assessments could try to evict
nonpaying tenants by arguing that they are not a ``covered person''
within the order's scope and dare them to fight back legally. Then it
could be up to a housing court judge to decide if a renter is eligible
or if the landlord can, in fact, evict.

\textbf{How do I prove to my landlord that I'm eligible?}

The C.D.C. order makes reference to a declaration that renters should
draft and then provides an example of one near the end of
\href{https://s3.amazonaws.com/public-inspection.federalregister.gov/2020-19654.pdf}{the
document} online.

--- \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/ron-lieber}{Ron Lieber}

\hypertarget{the-latest-amazon-will-add-thousands-of-jobs-in-the-uk}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{the-latest-amazon-will-add-thousands-of-jobs-in-the-uk}{The
latest: Amazon will add thousands of jobs in the
U.K.}}{The latest: Amazon will add thousands of jobs in the U.K.}}\label{the-latest-amazon-will-add-thousands-of-jobs-in-the-uk}}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \textbf{Amazon}
  \href{https://amazonuk.gcs-web.com/news-releases/news-release-details/amazon-create-10000-new-permanent-jobs-across-uk-2020}{said}
  Thursday that it planned to add 7,000 new permanent jobs across the
  United Kingdom this year as online shopping continues to surge. The
  new roles are in addition to the 3,000 roles already added in the U.K.
  in 2020. Amazon also said it would create more than 20,000 seasonal
  jobs across the England, Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland for the
  holiday season.
\item
  The amount of U.S. government debt will nearly outpace the size of the
  nation's economy in the 2020 fiscal year,
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/02/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus/the-federal-debt-is-on-track-to-outpace-us-economy-in-2021-budget-office-says}{the
  Congressional Budget Office said on Wednesday}. Total debt held by the
  public is expected to reach an estimated 98 percent of the size of the
  economy for the fiscal year, which ends on Sept. 30, the budget office
  said. The budget office now expects the debt to exceed the size of the
  economy in fiscal year 2021. By 2023, it said on Wednesday, it expects
  the debt as a share of the economy to reach its highest level in
  American history, surpassing the World War II era.
\item
  \textbf{United Airlines} said Wednesday that it
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/02/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus/united-airlines-is-set-to-furlough-16000-workers-in-the-fall}{expects
  to furlough 16,370 employees} starting Oct. 1, when federal
  restrictions on job cuts that were a condition of government aid end.
  The announcement, which comes a week after a similar one from
  \textbf{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/25/business/american-airline-furlough-19000.html}{American
  Airlines}}, could put further pressure on Congress and the Trump
  administration to renew stimulus funding. The Oct. 1 cut would affect
  nearly 7,000 flight attendants, nearly 3,000 pilots and thousands of
  others who work in maintenance, airport operations and other roles.
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
