Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}Father of Slain Marine Finds
Heartbreak Anew in Possible Russian Bounty

\url{https://nyti.ms/2VxDhPm}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{father-of-slain-marine-finds-heartbreak-anew-in-possible-russian-bounty}{%
\section{Father of Slain Marine Finds Heartbreak Anew in Possible
Russian
Bounty}\label{father-of-slain-marine-finds-heartbreak-anew-in-possible-russian-bounty}}

``If it does come out as true, obviously the heartache would be
terrible,'' said Erik Hendriks, whose son was killed while on patrol in
Afghanistan.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/06/30/us/politics/30dc-military/merlin_153328389_96a3f715-0ed7-46d4-b645-0d8930769d01-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/jennifer-steinhauer}{Jennifer
Steinhauer}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Published June 30, 2020Updated July 1, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

WASHINGTON --- Erik Hendriks has largely avoided news reports since his
son, Cpl. Robert A. Hendriks,
\href{https://www.marinecorpstimes.com/news/your-marine-corps/2019/04/12/remains-of-3-marines-killed-in-afghanistan-returned-to-us/}{was
killed by a car bomb} in
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/01/world/asia/afghan-russia-bounty-middleman.html}{Afghanistan}
in April 2019.

But the news that several American officials
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/29/us/politics/russian-bounty-trump.html}{believe
that a Russian military intelligence unit paid bounties} to
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/01/world/asia/afghan-russia-bounty-middleman.html}{Taliban}-linked
militants to kill American and coalition troops in Afghanistan has been
impossible to ignore, especially as he has learned that the attack in
which his son and two other Marines died may have been related to that
effort.

``If it does come out as true, obviously the heartache would be
terrible,'' Mr. Hendriks said.

He is not a political person, Mr. Hendriks insists. While he does not
usually vote, he described himself as a
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/01/upshot/poll-trump-defectors-2020-election.html}{supporter
of President Trump}.

``I am a Republican and I am a Trump supporter,'' he said. ``But there
would be no way he didn't know about it if Russians were paying off
these cowards like mafia pay off hit men. I would expect the government
to have 1,000 percent support behind these warriors.''

Despite the heartbreak of losing a son in combat, Mr. Hendriks said he
never had doubts about the mission in Afghanistan.

``I agreed with Mattis on this,'' he said, referring to Jim Mattis, the
retired Marine general who served as Mr. Trump's first defense secretary
and
\href{https://www.nwaonline.com/news/2019/dec/14/mattis-gives-views-on-afghanistan-20191/}{repeatedly
defended} the United States' role in Afghanistan.

``Thank God these warriors were there,'' Mr. Hendriks said. ``I really
do believe if they were not there, the enemy would be here. I know my
son supported it.''

In a telephone interview from his home in Glen Cove, N.Y., Mr. Hendriks
said that ``you would think they would have had the best intelligence
and the best backing over there.''

``If I find out this information was given to this administration or a
previous administration, because let's face it, who knows how long this
could have gone on, the little faith I have in government would go down
the drain,'' he said.

Felicia Arculeo, Cpl. Hendriks's mother, and Erik Hendriks's former
wife, did not immediately respond to a request for comment, but Mr.
Hendriks described her as ``living a nightmare.'' She
\href{https://www.cnbc.com/2020/06/29/mom-of-marine-killed-in-afghanistan-wants-russia-bounty-claim-investigated.html}{told
CNBC on Monday} ``that the parties who are responsible should be held
accountable, if that's even possible.''

The developments underscore the violent reality that remains for the
dwindling number of troops in Iraq and Afghanistan, even as the nation's
attention has turned away from conflicts that have stretched nearly two
decades. Less than 1 percent of Americans now serve in the military, and
their encounters in perilous terrain go largely unnoticed except after
major missions and brief moments after tragedy.

``The reality is it doesn't matter if your child is killed in combat or
anywhere else, you are devastated,'' said Freeman Robbins, whose son,
Elliott J. Robbins, an Army sergeant first class, died in Afghanistan a
year ago. ``The only difference between us and others is that we are in
the spotlight. Sometimes you want to grieve alone.''

Sergeant Robbins was a medic for the 10th Special Forces Group based at
Fort Carson, Colo. His father said the unit suffered significant
casualties. Sergeant Robbins's
\href{https://www.armytimes.com/news/your-army/2019/07/01/10th-group-green-beret-dies-from-non-combat-incident-in-helmand/\#:~:text=over\%20the\%20weekend.-,Sgt.,is\%20ongoing\%2C\%20Pentagon\%20officials\%20said.}{death}
--- one year ago Tuesday --- was not combat-related, and his father says
it remains under investigation.

``The facts that I see do not prove 100 percent one way or another,'' he
said of reports on bounties. ``We don't know that this happened. I don't
put it past the intelligence agencies of other countries to do things
like this.''

But, he said, he believed liberal groups were needlessly leveraging
tragedy for political reasons.

Lawmakers from both parties in the House and Senate have called for
Congress to be briefed on the matter. On Monday, the White House
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/29/us/politics/russian-bounty-trump.html}{brought
in eight House Republicans} to be briefed, while some high-ranking
Democrats went separately to the White House on Tuesday morning.

``The president called this a hoax publicly,'' Representative Steny H.
Hoyer of Maryland, the House majority leader, said after the session.
``Nothing in the briefing that we have just received led me to believe
it is a hoax.''

Corporal Hendriks, 25, and two other Marines --- Staff Sgt. Christopher
K.A. Slutman, 43, a New York City firefighter, and Sgt. Benjamin S.
Hines, 31, of York, Pa. --- were killed when their armored vehicle was
hit by a vehicle laden with explosives near Bagram Air Base, about 20
miles north of Kabul.

Corporal Hendriks had signed with the Second Battalion, 25th Marines, a
reserve infantry battalion based in Garden City, N.Y., right after high
school.

It was his first deployment to Afghanistan, where he was serving with
his brother, Joseph Hendriks, who
\href{https://www.newsday.com/long-island/nassau/robert-hendriks-marine-locust-valley-roadside-bomb-1.30154053}{escorted
his body} back to the United States.

During his 2016 campaign, Mr. Trump repeatedly promised to end the
foreign entanglements that had engulfed previous administrations over
nearly two decades.

Indeed, his criticism of the war in Iraq during the campaign and his
desire to greatly reduce the United States' role abroad
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/11/01/us/politics/veterans-trump-iraq-afghanistan.html}{attracted
many veterans}. Mr. Trump has moved to reduce the number of troops in
Afghanistan. While still popular with veterans and members of the
military, he
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/12/us/politics/trump-polls-military-approval.html}{has
lost some support} in recent months over his threat to
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/04/us/politics/trump-military-protests.html}{use
active-duty troops} against largely peaceful protesters around the
nation.

VoteVets, a liberal group, has teamed with Concerned Veterans for
America, a conservative group aligned with Mr. Trump on many policy
issues, to oppose overseas interventions and
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/03/16/us/politics/vote-vets-concerned-veterans-america.html}{lobby
members on Capitol Hill against a ``forever war.''}

``Regardless of whether or not these reports are corroborated, the loss
of any American service member is tragic,'' said Nate Anderson, the
executive director of Concerned Veterans for America, who deployed twice
to Afghanistan as an Army Green Beret.

``The larger issue here is keeping our troops deployed in places like
Iraq and Afghanistan to fight wars that no longer serve our national
interest,'' he added.

The accusations against Russia and questions around what the president
knew about them drew immediate fury from some groups that represent
military families.

The Secure Families Initiative, which advocates on behalf of military
families on foreign policy matters, said in a statement: ``These
revelations should appall anyone. But as military families, we are
particularly panicked and grief-stricken. Those are our loved ones
living with a target on their back. Outrage does not even begin to cover
it.''

This week, VoteVets created a
\href{https://twitter.com/votevets/status/1277295496105807873}{video for
social media} targeting Mr. Trump on the Russia issue, which was watched
over three million times on Twitter.

The revelations of intelligence pointing toward a Russian bounty program
have added to the disappointment and frustration of some veterans.

``This is pretty outrageous, quite frankly,'' said Kyle W. Bibby, who
was a Marine infantry officer in Helmand Province, Afghanistan, in 2010
and 2011, and retired last year as a captain. He is an organizer with
the group Common Defense, a far-left group of veterans. ****** ``This
consistent theme of the Trump administration of overlooking things
Russia has done has become ridiculous.''

Mr. Bibby said that during his time in Afghanistan, Marines were often
told that other countries --- notably Iran --- were backing activities
by insurgents.

``The general rule of thumb is when something like this takes place, you
call it out for the obvious reason that continuing this hurts people who
are serving there,'' he said. ``At this point, we know that's a basic
expectation of a commander in chief. Donald Trump is not meeting that.''

But for Mr. Hendriks, a retired New York City police detective, the
issue is not a political debate but a deep emotional scar, something he
said only others who had lost a family member to war could comprehend.

``I can talk to 1,000 people a day and they have no idea what it is like
to lay down at night and to lose a son like they do,'' he said.

Mr. Hendriks notes that he had no proof of what Mr. Trump knew.
``Because who knows the truth anymore?'' he said.

Helene Cooper contributed reporting. Kitty Bennett contributed research.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
