Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}Joe Biden, in Video, Says He
Will Be `More Mindful' of Personal Space

\url{https://nyti.ms/2OK9nD4}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/12/us/politics/biden-trump-poll-wisconsin-minnesota.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{New
  York Times Poll}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/election-states-biden-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Paths
  to 270}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/us/elections/2020-presidential-election-calendar.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Voting
  Deadlines}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/31/us/politics/vote-by-mail-deadlines.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Voting
  by Mail}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Politics
  Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{joe-biden-in-video-says-he-will-be-more-mindful-of-personal-space}{%
\section{Joe Biden, in Video, Says He Will Be `More Mindful' of Personal
Space}\label{joe-biden-in-video-says-he-will-be-more-mindful-of-personal-space}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2019/04/03/us/politics/03biden/03biden-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/sydney-ember}{Sydney
Ember} and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/jonathan-martin}{Jonathan
Martin}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  April 3, 2019
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

For five days, Joseph R. Biden Jr. remained in the background as four
women came forward saying they had been uncomfortable with the ways he
had touched them. He put out three statements through a spokesman, but
none of them was his own account or an acknowledgment of the discomfort
he had caused.

On Wednesday, Mr. Biden decided he needed to address the matter --- and
his future as a possible presidential candidate --- personally. Yet his
approach was unusual: He released a seemingly homemade video, laying out
his views on connecting with voters emotionally and even physically, and
vowing to ``be more mindful and respectful of people's personal space.''

``In my career, I've always tried to make a human connection --- that's
my responsibility, I think,'' said Mr. Biden, sitting on a sofa, his
legs crossed. ``I shake hands, I hug people, I grab men and women by the
shoulders and say, `You can do this.'''

But he added: ``Social norms have begun to change, they've shifted, and
the boundaries of protecting personal space have been reset and I get
it. I get it. I hear what they're saying.''

The two-minute video amounted to a tacit admission by Mr. Biden, 76, and
his aides that they needed to take more action than they had since
Friday, when a former Nevada assemblywoman, Lucy Flores,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/03/30/us/politics/joe-biden-lucy-flores-news.html}{published
an essay} in which she described Mr. Biden touching her inappropriately
and kissing her on the head in 2014. On Tuesday,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/04/02/us/politics/joe-biden-women-me-too.html}{two
more women told The New York Times} that the former vice president's
touches made them uncomfortable.

{[}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?smid=rd\%3Faction\%3Dclick\&module=inline\&pgtype=Article}{\emph{Sign
up for our politics newsletter}} \emph{and join the conversation around
the 2020 presidential race.}{]}

And his new explanation immediately became part of a lengthening queue
of remarks that have prolonged the speculation about whether he will run
for president. Though he has not yet announced he would seek the 2020
Democratic nomination, Mr. Biden is widely expected to join the race
soon. He began his video in a manner that suggested his entry is just a
matter of time: ``Folks,'' he said, ``in the coming month I expect to be
talking to you about a whole lot of issues, and I'll always be direct
with you.''

Mr. Biden's aides said on Wednesday that he wanted to address the
accusations about his physical contact directly after listening to the
women who have criticized him, as well as many other female friends,
family members and advisers. They said he was particularly affected by
the comments of Speaker Nancy Pelosi, a longtime friend of his who is
similarly rooted in an earlier political era, when she said Tuesday that
``people's space is important to them, and what's important is how they
receive it and not necessarily how you intended it.''

Mr. Biden's campaign-in-waiting has not ruled out the possibility of a
televised interview, but advisers indicated that he was more likely to
address reporters when he delivers a speech to a union conference Friday
in Washington. The aides spoke on condition of anonymity to discuss
private conversations.

Wearing a blue suit jacket over a white shirt with no tie, Mr. Biden
stared directly into the camera as he issued his statement, which lacked
a direct apology to the women who have come forward. The hastily made
video, which appeared to be filmed on a phone, was recorded at Mr.
Biden's Northern Virginia home.

Mr. Biden tried to frame the issue around changing social norms. But
some women say it is fundamentally about the invasion of personal space,
and the change is that they now feel empowered to speak out. In
Washington, Mr. Biden has been known throughout his political career for
his tactile style of politics, with shoulder rubs, hugs and kisses that
some women now say were troubling to them at the time.

Mr. Biden also stressed the role that personal connection had played in
his political career.

``Over the years, knowing what I've been through, the things that I've
faced, I found that scores, if not hundreds, of people have come up to
me and reached out for solace and comfort --- something, anything that
may help them get through the tragedy they're going through,'' he said.
``It's just who I am. I've never thought of politics as cold and
antiseptic.''

Reaction to the complaints about Mr. Biden's behavior has been divided,
and that carried over to his video address on Wednesday.

The writer Andi Zeisler, co-founder of Bitch Media,
\href{https://twitter.com/andizeisler/status/1113535002287804417}{cited
the lack of an apology as a problem}. ``Imagine all the time he could
have saved,'' she wrote, ``by typing `I'm sorry. I will do better.'''

Alicia Garza, a prominent progressive activist,
\href{https://twitter.com/aliciagarza/status/1113556567347974144}{said
on Twitter} that she was ``disappointed'' with Mr. Biden's statement and
called it ``mealy-mouthed at best.''

``Try this,'' she added, ``I'm so sorry that my actions had this impact
on you. I will do the work to be better and do better.''

Others, across a range of the political spectrum, praised the video.

Several female Democratic lawmakers said they were happy to see him
addressing the matter more fully.

``I think he needs to listen, and he's committed to doing that,'' said
Senator Tammy Baldwin of Wisconsin.

Senator Tammy Duckworth of Illinois said, ``One thing I know about Joe
Biden: He's a man of his word. If he says he'll do better then he'll do
better.'' She added, ``And I do believe that if the women felt that he
was inappropriate we have to respect how they felt about it.''

Amy McGrath, the Democratic former Marine fighter pilot who narrowly
lost a House race in Kentucky last year,
\href{https://twitter.com/AmyMcGrathKY/status/1113540816281198595}{said
in a tweet} that Mr. Biden was ``honest, humble, and cares deeply about
our country.''

Jennifer Palmieri, a former senior aide to President Barack Obama and
Hillary Clinton, wrote in a tweet: ``In his own words and clearly
heartfelt. Best thing he could do to help himself in this moment.''

By having Mr. Biden issue a video statement, his aides were able to get
his message out directly and in more personal terms, without him sitting
for a televised interview, where there would be a risk of misspeaking.

The former vice president is virtually certain to speak more about his
behavior with women before he announces his candidacy because his staff
does not want the first days of his campaign to be consumed with
questions about the matter. It is unclear, however, whether he can
defuse the issue if more women come forward to express their unease
about previous encounters with him.

``I'll always believe governing --- quite frankly life for that matter
--- is about connecting with people. That won't change,'' he said in the
video. ``But I will be more mindful and respectful of people's personal
space.''

``The idea that I can't adjust to the fact that personal space is
important --- more important than it's ever been --- is just not
thinkable.''

``I will,'' he said, his voice softening. ``I will.''

\hypertarget{our-2020-election-guide}{%
\section{Our 2020 Election Guide}\label{our-2020-election-guide}}

Updated ~Sept. 12, 2020

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

\begin{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{the-latest}{%
  \subsection{The Latest}\label{the-latest}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    President Trump has failed to erase Joseph R. Biden Jr.'s lead
    across a set of key swing states,
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/12/us/politics/biden-trump-poll-wisconsin-minnesota.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{according
    to a poll}~conducted by The Times and Siena College.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{paths-to-270}{%
  \subsection{Paths to 270}\label{paths-to-270}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Joe Biden and Donald Trump need 270 electoral votes to reach the
    White House. Try building
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/election-states-biden-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{your
    own coalition of battleground states}~to see potential outcomes.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{voting-deadlines}{%
  \subsection{Voting Deadlines}\label{voting-deadlines}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Early voting for the presidential election starts in September~in
    some states. Take a look at
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/us/elections/2020-presidential-election-calendar.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{key
    dates}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/us/elections/2020-presidential-election-calendar.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{where
    you
    liv}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/us/elections/2020-presidential-election-calendar.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{e}.
    If you're voting by
    mail,~\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/31/us/politics/vote-by-mail-deadlines.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{it's
    risky to procrastinate}.
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/joe-biden.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{}

    \hypertarget{joe-biden}{%
    \section{Joe Biden}\label{joe-biden}}

    \hypertarget{democrat}{%
    \subsection{Democrat}\label{democrat}}

    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/donald-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{}

    \hypertarget{donald-trump}{%
    \section{Donald Trump}\label{donald-trump}}

    \hypertarget{republican}{%
    \subsection{Republican}\label{republican}}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \hypertarget{keep-up-with-our-coverage}{%
  \subsection{Keep Up With Our
  Coverage}\label{keep-up-with-our-coverage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Get an
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{email}~recapping
    the day's news
  \item
    Download our mobile app on
    \href{https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nytimes/id284862083?ls=1\&mat_click_id=5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\&referrer=mat_click_id\%3D5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\%26link_click_id\%3D722930677036718082}{iOS}~and
    \href{http://a.localytics.com/android?id=com.nytimes.android\&referrer=utm_source\%3Dother_nyt_mobile_web\%26utm_medium\%3DWeb\%2520page\%26utm_term\%3DGeneral\%2520Mobile\%2520Page\%26utm_campaign\%3DNYT\%2520Mobile\%2520General\%2520Page}{Android}~and
    turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
