Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/pages/business/media/index.html}{Media}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/pages/business/media/index.html}{Media}\textbar{}Gretchen Carlson
of Fox News Files Harassment Suit Against Roger Ailes

\url{https://nyti.ms/29y4z2u}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{gretchen-carlson-of-fox-news-files-harassment-suit-against-roger-ailes}{%
\section{Gretchen Carlson of Fox News Files Harassment Suit Against
Roger
Ailes}\label{gretchen-carlson-of-fox-news-files-harassment-suit-against-roger-ailes}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2016/07/07/business/07CARLSON/07CARLSON-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By
\href{http://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/michael-m-grynbaum}{Michael
M. Grynbaum} and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/john-koblin}{John Koblin}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  July 6, 2016
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Roger Ailes, the chairman of Fox News, was accused on Wednesday of
forcing out a prominent female anchor after she refused his sexual
advances and complained to him about persistent harassment in the
newsroom, a startling accusation against perhaps the most powerful man
in television news.

In a lawsuit, the anchor,
\href{http://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2016/07/07/business/media/gretchen-carlson-files-sex-harassment-suit-against-roger-ailes-of-fox-news.html}{Gretchen
Carlson}, a longtime Fox employee who left the network last month,
portrays Mr. Ailes as a loutish and serial sexual harasser, accusing him
of ogling her in his office, calling her ``sexy,'' and describes a boys'
club environment at the network.

\href{http://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2016/07/06/business/media/document-Carlson-Complaint-Filed.html}{Her
charges} --- including the accusation that Mr. Ailes explicitly asked
Ms. Carlson for a sexual relationship during a meeting in his office ---
amounted to an almost unprecedented public attack on Mr. Ailes, a
towering figure in media and Republican politics who typically enjoys
absolute loyalty from his employees.

Late Wednesday, the parent company of Fox News, 21st Century Fox, issued
a measured statement, saying it had ``full confidence'' in Mr. Ailes,
but had initiated an internal review of Ms. Carlson's charges. ``We take
these matters seriously,'' the company said.

Mr. Ailes, in a separate statement, was far less temperate. ``Gretchen
Carlson's allegations are false,'' he wrote. ``This is a retaliatory
suit for the network's decision not to renew her contract,'' which he
attributed to ratings he called ``disappointingly low.''

He added: ``This defamatory lawsuit is not only offensive, it is wholly
without merit and will be defended vigorously.''

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2016/07/08/business/07CARLSON2/07CARLSON2-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

The suit arrives at a complex moment for Mr. Ailes, who is facing new
challenges to the television empire that he has overseen, with
near-total control and huge success, for two decades.

While he retains the support of his corporate boss, Rupert Murdoch, Mr.
Ailes, 76, has sometimes clashed with Mr. Murdoch's sons, James and
Lachlan, who have
\href{http://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2015/06/26/business/media/roger-ailes-signs-new-contract-to-head-fox-news-and-stations.html}{ascended
to the most senior leadership roles}at the company.

And Fox News, while still enjoying high ratings, is facing renewed
competition from CNN, which has been closing what was long an enormous
gap in ratings between the networks. (In one important demographic, CNN
has narrowed its deficit with Fox News to its slimmest figure in eight
years.)

The network has also been less of a dominant political force in this
year's presidential election, with the Republican nominee, Donald J.
Trump,
\href{http://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2016/01/28/us/politics/with-no-detente-donald-trumps-feud-with-fox-takes-center-stage.html}{publicly
clashing}with the network and some of its anchors, a sharp contrast from
previous election cycles.

\href{https://www.documentcloud.org/documents/2941030-Carlson-Complaint-Filed.html}{Ms.
Carlson, 50, filed her lawsuit} in Superior Court in New Jersey, where
Mr. Ailes maintains a residence. She contends that during a meeting last
fall to discuss her concerns that she was being treated unfairly, Mr.
Ailes told her: ``I think you and I should have had a sexual
relationship a long time ago and then you'd be good and better and I'd
be good and better.''

When she rebuffed him, the lawsuit claims, Mr. Ailes retaliated by
reducing Ms. Carlson's salary, curtailing her on-air appearances and, to
her surprise, declining to renew her contract last month.

Ms. Carlson's suit, filed by the law firm Smith Mullin of Montclair,
N.J., names Mr. Ailes as the sole defendant and seeks a variety of
compensatory damages. Her lead lawyer, Nancy Erika Smith, said in an
interview that Ms. Carlson's grievance was with Mr. Ailes personally,
not the Fox network.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2016/07/06/business/media/document-Carlson-Complaint-Filed.html}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2016/07/06/business/media/image-Carlson-Complaint-Filed/image-Carlson-Complaint-Filed-videoLarge.gif}

\hypertarget{gretchen-carlsons-lawsuit-against-roger-ailes}{%
\subsection{Gretchen Carlson's Lawsuit Against Roger
Ailes}\label{gretchen-carlsons-lawsuit-against-roger-ailes}}

Ms. Carlson, the Fox anchor, says that Roger Ailes, the chairman of Fox
News, fired her from the network after she refused his sexual advances.

``We were considering taking action before she was terminated,'' Ms.
Smith said. ``The firing sort of pulled the trigger for us.''

Mr. Ailes is known as a fierce public relations warrior who can be
ruthless with enemies. Ms. Carlson can be self-deprecating on air, but
she is working with a formidable team: Ms. Smith once brought a sexual
harassment suit against
\href{http://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2007/10/25/nyregion/25donald.html}{a
former acting governor of New Jersey}, and Ms. Carlson's husband, Casey
Close, is a powerful sports agent known for tenacious negotiating on
behalf of clients like Derek Jeter.

Ms. Smith, the lawyer, said that several women had contacted her saying
they had similar experiences with Mr. Ailes, although she declined to
name them. A 2014 biography of Mr. Ailes, by the journalist Gabriel
Sherman, ``The Loudest Voice in the Room,'' recounted an episode in the
1980s, when Mr. Ailes was at NBC, involving a woman named Randi Harrison
who said he offered her
\href{http://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2014/01/08/business/media/biography-casts-critical-light-on-fox-news-chief.html}{an
extra \$100 a week in salary} in exchange for having sex with him
``whenever I want.'' (Fox News denied the claim at the time; Ms.
Harrison corroborated the account in a phone interview on Wednesday.)

Ms. Carlson joined Fox News in 2005. In her suit, Ms. Carlson, who
\href{http://www.businessinsider.com/gretchen-carlson-walk-off-fox-and-friends-2012-6}{once
walked off a Fox set} as her co-anchors made jokes about women, portrays
a culture at the network where casual sexism is tolerated, part of a
broader Ailes news aesthetic of bombastic coverage and physically
attractive talent.

In 2009, Ms. Carlson contends, she complained to the network about her
co-host on the popular ``Fox \& Friends'' morning show, Steve Doocy,
saying he belittled her on the set, openly mocked her among colleagues
and once tried to shush her during a live broadcast by pulling down her
arm.

Mr. Ailes, the lawsuit states, responded by calling Ms. Carlson a ``man
hater'' and saying ``she needed to learn to `get along with the boys.'
'' Ms. Carlson claims that because of her complaints, Mr. Ailes
eventually reassigned her from ``Fox \& Friends,'' in 2013, to a less
prestigious slot.

Until last month, Ms. Carlson was still hosting that program, ``The Real
Story With Gretchen Carlson,'' which is broadcast at 2 p.m. on the
network. The show had consistently won its time slot, averaging 1.1
million viewers in recent months. But it was the network's lowest-rated
daytime program among a crucial advertising demographic, raising
concerns at Fox News that it was losing ground to competition from CNN.

Mr. Ailes has minted stars like Bill O'Reilly and Megyn Kelly, who now
host the two top-rated shows in cable news. And he established Fox News
as a powerful force in Republican politics and a major profit center for
Mr. Murdoch's media empire.

Even Ms. Carlson has had kind words for Mr. Ailes. In a book published
last year, ``Getting Real,'' Ms. Carlson described Mr. Ailes as ``the
most accessible boss I've ever worked for,'' and thanked him for
encouraging her career.

Shelley Ross, a longtime TV news executive, has been quoted as saying
Mr. Ailes used inappropriate comments with her during a job interview.
In an email on Wednesday, she played down that incident and praised Mr.
Ailes.

``I have had many bosses throughout my career; Roger turned out to be
one of my favorites,'' she wrote, adding, ``If you want to expose
disgusting immoral behavior in network and cable news, I have much
better candidates about whom you could write.''

Ms. Carlson's announcement of her lawsuit on Wednesday was carefully
coordinated. A public relations firm distributed copies of the complaint
to reporters across a variety of disciplines. Shortly afterward, on
Twitter, Ms. Carlson offered thanks for an ``outpouring of support'' and
introduced a hashtag: \#StandWithGretchen. By the afternoon, a link to
her lawsuit was prominently posted on her personal website.

The public nature of the suit was unusual, some legal experts said,
since typically such suits are settled privately.

``The fact that it isn't proceeding along that trajectory suggests that
Carlson had an interest in seeing these allegations brought forward in
the public forum,'' said Debra Katz, a lawyer who specializes in sexual
harassment cases.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
