Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/sports/football}{Pro
Football}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/sports/football}{Pro Football}\textbar{}Just How Bad Are
the Miami Dolphins?

\url{https://nyti.ms/2q6agxf}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{just-how-bad-are-the-miami-dolphins}{%
\section{Just How Bad Are the Miami
Dolphins?}\label{just-how-bad-are-the-miami-dolphins}}

Monday night's loss to the Pittsburgh Steelers looked bad, as did the
six before it. But are the winless Dolphins the N.F.L.'s worst team?

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2019/10/29/sports/29dolphinsWEB1/merlin_163504275_1c8166c2-8746-4f04-8900-c8796f7da9b0-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/victor-mather}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/02/20/multimedia/author-victor-mather/author-victor-mather-thumbLarge.jpg}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/victor-mather}{Victor
Mather}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Published Oct. 29, 2019Updated June 25, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

The Miami Dolphins lost on Monday night. Again. That makes them 0-7 on
the season.

It says something about the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/25/science/dolphins-shells-learning.html}{Dolphins'}
performances this year that even when they took a surprise 14-0 lead on
the Steelers in the first quarter ---
\href{https://www.espn.com/nfl/recap?gameId=401128074}{Pittsburgh fans
booed} the home team, an act quarterback Mason Rudolph said was
justified given the early going --- few thought Miami would actually
hang on and win. Sure enough, the Dolphins did not score again and lost,
27-14.

The Dolphins seemed to have given up on the season long before Monday
night, but the exact timing of that decision remains in dispute.
Tuesday's
\href{https://twitter.com/MiamiDolphins/status/1189248844359438336}{trade
for cornerback Aqib Talib}, who is on the injured reserve list,
reportedly involved swapping a sixth-round pick for a fifth-rounder, a
move that seems to lay bare the team's strategy of collecting assets.

But some would say the team forfeited way earlier, when it traded away
left tackle Laremy Tunsil and wide receiver Kenny Stills to the Houston
Texans for picks before the first regular season game. Safety Minkah
Fitzpatrick was sent to the Steelers in September (he had two
interceptions on Monday) and running back Kenyan Drake got traded to the
Arizona Cardinals for a conditional draft pick this week.

All that talent leaving has caused plenty of speculation that the
Dolphins are losing now to set up their franchise's future.
\href{https://www.miamiherald.com/sports/spt-columns-blogs/barry-jackson/article234548232.html}{The
Miami Herald reported last month} that owner Stephen Ross said last
January that the team's goal was to position itself to take a top
quarterback in 2020.

Who knows what the team's moves will yield? Anyone watching the Dolphins
play this season is confronted with a more answerable question: Are they
the league's worst? The Cincinnati Bengals (0-8) haven't won yet either,
and there are some other pretty poor teams. And if the Dolphins are the
worst of the 2019 season, could we go further and say they are the worst
N.F.L. team of all time?

\hypertarget{wins-and-losses-or-in-this-case-just-losses}{%
\subsection{Wins and Losses. (Or in This Case, Just
Losses)}\label{wins-and-losses-or-in-this-case-just-losses}}

The Dolphins' dodgy off-season moves seemed to indicate a coming fall.
Despite being a respectable 7-9 last season, they were the longest shot
to win the Super Bowl before any games were played this season, at
500-1. If you still want to bet them to win the Super Bowl, you can get
2,500-1 or more. (Frankly you might want a lot more than that.)

With eight weeks of the season played, the Dolphins are without a win,
joining the Bengals. In the past 10 years, 11 teams have gone winless to
this point, including the Dolphins themselves in 2011. (The Browns in
2016 and 2017 are the other team to do it twice in that span).

An 0-7 record means a team is bad, but it doesn't tell us how bad.

\hypertarget{how-bad-are-the-losses}{%
\subsection{How Bad Are the Losses?}\label{how-bad-are-the-losses}}

One way to determine the quality of a team without a win is strength of
schedule. The Dolphins' schedule so far comes out a bit tougher than
average: 21st in the league,
\href{https://www.pro-football-reference.com/years/2019/}{according to
Pro-Football-Reference}. It includes the mighty Patriots (a 43-0 loss)
as well as the Cowboys (31-6 loss) and the Ravens (59-10 loss). But it
also includes
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/10/13/sports/football/redskins-dolphins.html}{the
woeful Redskins} (the Dolphins lost, 17-16, at home).

Another method to sort the abysmal teams is margin of victory (or in
this case, margin of loss). The Dolphins have thus far lost by a
startling average of 23 points. The next worst figure is the Jets (1-6),
at -15.3, while having the easiest schedule in the league. The winless
Bengals are a comparatively decent -10.8 thanks to losses of 1, 3, 4 and
6 points. Aside from that 1-point loss to the Redskins, the Dolphins'
best effort was a 10-point loss.

Last year, the worst margin of victory figure was the -12.5 average
posted by the 3-13 Arizona Cardinals. The 1-15 Rams of 2009 were
averaged -16.3 --- yes, even the 1-15 and 0-16 Browns of 2016 and 2017
were a little better.

Other legendarily poor teams like the 1981 Colts (2-14, -17.1) and the
1976 Buccaneers expansion team (0-14, -20.5) also fall short of the
Dolphins. Miami has time to turn that around some, perhaps.

\textbf{Answer:} The 23-point average margin of defeat is probably the
biggest marker that the Dolphins are the worst team of the year, and
even a historically bad team.

\hypertarget{offense-defense}{%
\subsection{Offense, Defense}\label{offense-defense}}

Good news: The Dolphins are not the worst team on offense or defense.
Bad news: They are the second worst in both. Offensively, the Dolphins
are averaging 4.3
\href{https://www.pro-football-reference.com/years/2019/\#team_stats::15}{yards
a play} and 4.8
\href{https://www.pro-football-reference.com/years/2019/\#team_stats::15}{net
yards per pass}, both second worst in the league to the Jets.
Defensively, they surrender 6.5 yards per play and 8.3 yards per pass, a
little better than the Bengals.

How about the pass rush? Their
\href{https://www.pro-football-reference.com/years/2019/opp.htm\#advanced_defense::12}{hurry
percentage} of 6 percent and
\href{https://www.pro-football-reference.com/years/2019/opp.htm\#advanced_defense::17}{pressure
percentage} of 14.8 percent are both second worst to the Oakland
Raiders. Their turnover percentage (21 percent of drives) is second
worst to Giants. At forcing turnovers (3.9 percent of drives) they are
second worst to the Atlanta Falcons.

The trouble with being second worst at almost everything is that the
teams in last tend to be at least decent at some things. The Jets
defense is about average, and the Bengals offense, while not good, is at
least ahead of a few teams. The Dolphins are the one team that seems to
always be at or near the bottom.

\textbf{Answer:} The Jets, Bengals, Raiders, Giants and Falcons are
worse than the Dolphins in particular categories. But looking at
everything, no team is as bad all around.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2019/10/29/sports/29dolphinsWEB2/merlin_163505310_a06e765d-e6e1-4d0f-83be-579710457ecd-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\hypertarget{more-evidence}{%
\subsection{More Evidence}\label{more-evidence}}

No position is more important to an N.F.L. team's success than
quarterback, and the Dolphins have tried two. Among passers with at
least 100 attempts,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/10/21/sports/football/backup-quarterback-teddy-bridgewater-mahomes.html}{their
current starter,} Ryan Fitzpatrick, is the third worst in adjusted yards
per pass, ahead of Sam Darnold of the Jets. In last place is the other
Dolphins quarterback, Josh Rosen.

It's not surprising that the handful of categories in which Dolphins are
among the leaders are negative ones, like interceptions and
interceptions returned for touchdowns. One tiny bright spot is Jakeem
Grant, who seems to be good at returning kicks. He certainly gets a lot
of practice.

Computer rankings almost all have the Dolphins at the bottom. Jeff
Sagarin ranks them last,
\href{https://www.usatoday.com/sports/nfl/sagarin/}{4 points worse than
the Redskins}, and the
\href{https://www.masseyratings.com/nfl/ratings}{Massey ratings} also
have them at the bottom. The
\href{https://projects.fivethirtyeight.com/2019-nfl-predictions/}{Elo
system at FiveThirtyEight} is the contrarian, projecting them to
actually win three games and placing them above the Bengals.

\textbf{Answer:} There is a pretty solid consensus among computers, as
among people, that the Dolphins are very, very bad.

\hypertarget{is-there-hope}{%
\subsection{Is There Hope?}\label{is-there-hope}}

The good news is that there are some easier games on the schedule for
the Dolphins, including two against the Jets and a Week 16 matchup
against the Bengals at home. But based on current form, they should be
underdogs in every game,
\href{http://stats.inpredictable.com/rankings/nfl.php}{according to
Inpredictable}, which tracks lines. The best bets for a win are the Jets
and Bengals home games, in which Miami could be 4-point underdogs.

The preponderance of the evidence certainly points to the Dolphins being
the year's worst team and perhaps the worst in a decade or more. If that
becomes the case, it might provide a glimmer of hope as the franchise
looks at how college football's
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/10/24/sports/ncaafootball/heisman-trophy-race-odds.html}{Heisman
race is shaping up}.

\textbf{Answer:} Sure. The
\href{http://www.nfl.com/news/story/0ap3000001071017/article/2020-nfl-draft-order-dolphins-no-1-at-midseason-giants-no-6}{2020
N.F.L. draft}starts on April 23.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
