Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/world/asia}{Asia Pacific}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/world/asia}{Asia Pacific}\textbar{}Its Coronavirus
Caseload Soaring, India Is Reopening Anyway

\url{https://nyti.ms/2XGVNFq}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/news-event/coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{The
Coronavirus Outbreak}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  live\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/02/world/coronavirus-updates.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Latest
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Maps
  and Cases}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Vaccine
  Tracker}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/07/29/us/schools-reopening-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{What
  School May Look Like}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/live/2020/07/31/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Economy}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{its-coronavirus-caseload-soaring-india-is-reopening-anyway}{%
\section{Its Coronavirus Caseload Soaring, India Is Reopening
Anyway}\label{its-coronavirus-caseload-soaring-india-is-reopening-anyway}}

Worried for its economy, India loosened tough restrictions and may lift
them entirely this weekend. But infection numbers are climbing fast.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/05/30/world/29virus-india-lockdown-3/merlin_172924788_75697ace-0f59-4e5d-b122-4cac5ee8bc17-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/kai-schultz}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2019/11/22/reader-center/author-kai-schultz/author-kai-schultz-thumbLarge.png}}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/sameer-yasir}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2019/11/22/reader-center/author-sameer-yasir/author-sameer-yasir-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/kai-schultz}{Kai Schultz} and
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/sameer-yasir}{Sameer Yasir}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Published May 29, 2020Updated July 12, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

NEW DELHI --- Its
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/05/06/world/asia/india-coronavirus-lockdown-infections.html}{coronavirus
cases are skyrocketing}, putting it among the world's most worrisome
pandemic zones in recent weeks. Nonetheless,
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/02/world/asia/india-coronavirus-wedding-groom.html}{India}
is reopening, lifting its lockdown at what experts fear may be the worst
time.

Migrant workers are becoming infected at an alarmingly high rate,
leading to
\href{https://indianexpress.com/article/coronavirus/up-migrants-coronavirus-6423381/}{fresh
outbreaks} in villages across northern India. Public hospitals in Mumbai
are so overwhelmed that patients have taken to
\href{https://twitter.com/BDUTT/status/1264942589448384512}{sleeping on
cardboard} in the hallways.

Doctors fear that the lockdown, which started over two months ago, has
been eased too soon, after slowing the virus but failing to flatten the
new-case curve as effectively as other nations have. If India does not
find a way to curb the virus in high-risk states, epidemiologists
project that its total caseload
\href{https://www.reuters.com/article/us-health-coronavirus-india-medics-insig/more-patients-than-beds-in-mumbai-as-india-faces-surge-in-virus-cases-idUSKBN23103F}{could
approach a million within several weeks}.

``India is not out of the woods,'' said Dr. Ashish Jha, the director of
the Harvard Global Health Institute.

``From a public health point of view, I do think the lockdown has
brought the disease under control,'' he said. ``But of course, as
restrictions have lifted in the last week or 10 days, the number of
cases has started to rise quickly.''

At first, India moved aggressively to contain the coronavirus. In late
March, Prime Minister
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/17/world/asia/india-china-border-clashes.html}{Narendra
Modi} implemented one of the most severe lockdowns anywhere, ordering
all Indians to stay inside, halting transportation and closing most
businesses.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/05/29/world/29virus-india-lockdown-2/merlin_172236996_2dd328f8-cfc0-41e0-ae71-ce15ea6ae698-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

But the lockdown was brutally hard on the poorest Indians and those who
rely on day labor to survive. And the country's economy, which had
already been ailing, was sustaining deep wounds. Government officials
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/05/06/world/asia/india-coronavirus-lockdown-infections.html}{began
lifting some restrictions last month}, hoping to ease the suffering, and
the lockdown may end entirely as soon as Sunday, if Mr. Modi does not
decide to extend it.

Infections are rising quickly now, however, with outbreaks in some
states that had reported few cases. This month, India's doubling rate
for new infections averaged about 12 days, putting it on par with
countries of high concern like Brazil.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-global-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/01/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: Global Coronavirus
Outbreak}}{Latest Updates: Global Coronavirus Outbreak}}\label{latest-updates-global-coronavirus-outbreak}}

Updated 2020-08-02T17:52:35.962Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/01/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-34047410}{The
  U.S. reels as July cases more than double the total of any other
  month.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/01/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-780ec966}{Top
  U.S. officials work to break an impasse over the federal jobless
  benefit.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/01/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-2bc8948}{Its
  outbreak untamed, Melbourne goes into even greater lockdown.}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/01/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

More live coverage:
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/live/2020/07/31/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Markets}

That number compares poorly to those of other nations where stay-at-home
orders were imposed. In the United States, the doubling rate improved
from around 26 days at the start of May to about 50 days on Monday.
Italy crossed the 100-day mark early this month.

But in India, a nation of 1.3 billion people, locking down has posed
different challenges than in many Western societies. Its metro areas are
among the world's densest, with millions living in packed slums,
sometimes sleeping eight to a room.

Almost half of India's cases have been traced to just four cities: New
Delhi, Mumbai, Chennai and Ahmedabad.

AFGHAN.

CHINA

New

Delhi

PAKISTAN

NEPAL

UTTAR

PRADESH

BIHAR

INDIA

Ahmedabad

MAHARASHTRA

Mumbai

Bay of

Bengal

Arabian

Sea

Chennai

500 Miles

By The New York Times

``Social distancing is inherently very difficult in India,'' Dr. Jha
said. ``I don't know if India could realistically get to 26 days, or 50
days.''

Image

Migrant workers at a train station in Dadri, in the Indian state of
Uttar Pradesh. Many migrants apparently brought the virus home to their
villages after work dried up in the cities.Credit...Rebecca Conway for
The New York Times

Testing has also been severely restricted, making it tough to gauge the
scope of the outbreak. India has administered only two tests for every
1,000 people, one of the lowest ratios among the world's worst-afflicted
countries.

It is conducting many more tests than it had been --- roughly 90,000 a
day through May, up from around 4,200 daily tests in late March. But
officials have sounded alarms about
\href{https://indianexpress.com/article/india/last-10-days-positivity-curve-begins-to-steepen-6425753/}{an
increasing proportion of positive results in recent samples.}

Dr. G.C. Khilnani, a public health expert and pulmonologist, said
\href{https://www.ndtv.com/india-news/indias-covid-curve-likely-to-flatten-reach-peak-by-july-end-who-envoy-2225754}{a
peak in infections might not be reached until the end of July}. He said
India's relatively low number of total cases per capita (about 160,000
infections and 4,706 deaths) should not be taken as a sign that the
country had necessarily escaped the worst.

``Nobody can predict to what extent the numbers will go up,'' Dr.
Khilnani said.

As many parts of India continue to see days with record-high infections,
a political consensus on how to fight the virus has deteriorated, giving
way to acrimony and finger-pointing.

``We are the only country in the world where the virus is exponentially
rising,'' Rahul Gandhi, a leader of the opposition Indian National
Congress party, \href{https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HUgfhdafnIg}{said
in a video statement}. ``What India is facing now, in front of us, is
the result of a failed lockdown.''

Image

Demonstrating contact-free Covid-19 testing at a Mumbai~hospital last
month.Credit...Atul Loke for The New York Times

Amit Malviya, a spokesman for Mr. Modi's Bharatiya Janata Party,
\href{https://twitter.com/TimesNow/status/1265194712270430209}{fired
back in a television interview}. He accused Mr. Gandhi of not taking
stronger action to contain infections in Maharashtra, India's
hardest-hit state, which is governed by a coalition that includes the
Indian National Congress.

``Maharashtra is completely over the top, it's bleeding, people are
dying, the health infrastructure's crumbled,'' Mr. Malviya said. Health
officials have traced nearly 40 percent of India's cases to the state.

Questions have also been raised about whether the lockdown played a role
in spreading the virus to remote areas of India.

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/news-event/coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{}

\hypertarget{the-coronavirus-outbreak-}{%
\subsubsection{The Coronavirus Outbreak
›}\label{the-coronavirus-outbreak-}}

\hypertarget{frequently-asked-questions}{%
\paragraph{Frequently Asked
Questions}\label{frequently-asked-questions}}

Updated July 27, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{should-i-refinance-my-mortgage}{%
  \paragraph{Should I refinance my
  mortgage?}\label{should-i-refinance-my-mortgage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/coronavirus-money-unemployment.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{It
    could be a good idea,} because mortgage rates have
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/16/business/mortgage-rates-below-3-percent.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{never
    been lower.} Refinancing requests have pushed mortgage applications
    to some of the highest levels since 2008, so be prepared to get in
    line. But defaults are also up, so if you're thinking about buying a
    home, be aware that some lenders have tightened their standards.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{what-is-school-going-to-look-like-in-september}{%
  \paragraph{What is school going to look like in
  September?}\label{what-is-school-going-to-look-like-in-september}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    It is unlikely that many schools will return to a normal schedule
    this fall, requiring the grind of
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/05/us/coronavirus-education-lost-learning.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{online
    learning},
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/05/29/us/coronavirus-child-care-centers.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{makeshift
    child care} and
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/03/business/economy/coronavirus-working-women.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{stunted
    workdays} to continue. California's two largest public school
    districts --- Los Angeles and San Diego --- said on July 13, that
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/13/us/lausd-san-diego-school-reopening.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{instruction
    will be remote-only in the fall}, citing concerns that surging
    coronavirus infections in their areas pose too dire a risk for
    students and teachers. Together, the two districts enroll some
    825,000 students. They are the largest in the country so far to
    abandon plans for even a partial physical return to classrooms when
    they reopen in August. For other districts, the solution won't be an
    all-or-nothing approach.
    \href{https://bioethics.jhu.edu/research-and-outreach/projects/eschool-initiative/school-policy-tracker/}{Many
    systems}, including the nation's largest, New York City, are
    devising
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/26/us/coronavirus-schools-reopen-fall.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{hybrid
    plans} that involve spending some days in classrooms and other days
    online. There's no national policy on this yet, so check with your
    municipal school system regularly to see what is happening in your
    community.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{is-the-coronavirus-airborne}{%
  \paragraph{Is the coronavirus
  airborne?}\label{is-the-coronavirus-airborne}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    The coronavirus
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/04/health/239-experts-with-one-big-claim-the-coronavirus-is-airborne.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{can
    stay aloft for hours in tiny droplets in stagnant air}, infecting
    people as they inhale, mounting scientific evidence suggests. This
    risk is highest in crowded indoor spaces with poor ventilation, and
    may help explain super-spreading events reported in meatpacking
    plants, churches and restaurants.
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/06/health/coronavirus-airborne-aerosols.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{It's
    unclear how often the virus is spread} via these tiny droplets, or
    aerosols, compared with larger droplets that are expelled when a
    sick person coughs or sneezes, or transmitted through contact with
    contaminated surfaces, said Linsey Marr, an aerosol expert at
    Virginia Tech. Aerosols are released even when a person without
    symptoms exhales, talks or sings, according to Dr. Marr and more
    than 200 other experts, who
    \href{https://academic.oup.com/cid/article/doi/10.1093/cid/ciaa939/5867798}{have
    outlined the evidence in an open letter to the World Health
    Organization}.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{what-are-the-symptoms-of-coronavirus}{%
  \paragraph{What are the symptoms of
  coronavirus?}\label{what-are-the-symptoms-of-coronavirus}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Common symptoms
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/symptoms-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{include
    fever, a dry cough, fatigue and difficulty breathing or shortness of
    breath.} Some of these symptoms overlap with those of the flu,
    making detection difficult, but runny noses and stuffy sinuses are
    less common.
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/04/27/health/coronavirus-symptoms-cdc.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{The
    C.D.C. has also} added chills, muscle pain, sore throat, headache
    and a new loss of the sense of taste or smell as symptoms to look
    out for. Most people fall ill five to seven days after exposure, but
    symptoms may appear in as few as two days or as many as 14 days.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{does-asymptomatic-transmission-of-covid-19-happen}{%
  \paragraph{Does asymptomatic transmission of Covid-19
  happen?}\label{does-asymptomatic-transmission-of-covid-19-happen}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    So far, the evidence seems to show it does. A widely cited
    \href{https://www.nature.com/articles/s41591-020-0869-5}{paper}
    published in April suggests that people are most infectious about
    two days before the onset of coronavirus symptoms and estimated that
    44 percent of new infections were a result of transmission from
    people who were not yet showing symptoms. Recently, a top expert at
    the World Health Organization stated that transmission of the
    coronavirus by people who did not have symptoms was ``very rare,''
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/09/world/coronavirus-updates.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq\#link-1f302e21}{but
    she later walked back that statement.}
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

When Mr. Modi announced the restrictions, he gave Indians just four
hours to prepare before they went into effect. Millions of migrant
workers were stranded in cities. With bus and train services suspended,
some walked hundreds of miles to reach their villages, using dirty
pieces of cloth to cover their faces.
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/05/08/world/asia/india-leak-train-reopen.html}{The
human suffering has been staggering}.

Shiv Dutt Gupta, a member of a government task force crafting the
lockdown exit plan, partially attributed the surge in new cases to
laborers bringing the coronavirus into rural India.

\href{https://indianexpress.com/article/india/coronavirus-migrants-back-in-bihar-show-high-positivity-1-in-4-tested-from-delhi-6416531/}{Test
results} for several hundred migrant workers who traveled from New Delhi
to the state of Bihar this month found that one in four had contracted
Covid-19. Bihar now has
\href{https://indianexpress.com/article/explained/coronavirus-numbers-explained-bihar/}{one
of the steepest infection curves in India}, and troubling clusters have
also been tracked to laborers traveling to their homes in Uttar Pradesh,
the country's most populous state.

Image

Handing out food this week in Dharavi, Mumbai's largest
slum.Credit...Atul Loke for The New York Times

``The rate of positive cases among the migrant workers is very high,''
Mr. Gupta said. ``That is alarming.''

But he said the lockdown could not go on forever. Around 122 million
Indians lost their jobs in April,
\href{https://www.thehindu.com/data/data-over-12-crore-indians-lost-their-jobs-during-the-coronavirus-lockdown-in-april/article31520715.ece}{according
to the Center for Monitoring Indian Economy}, a leading business
analytics company. Some industries have teetered on the edge of
bankruptcy.

If the lockdown continues, Mr. Gupta said, ``We will be devastated
economically.''

Officials have justified loosening rules by pointing out that not all of
India has been hit equally, with hopeful improvements in states like
Kerala. And doctors note that the lockdown did buy the government time
to ramp up infrastructure in the country's already overburdened health
facilities.

India's
\href{https://www.business-standard.com/article/current-affairs/india-worse-than-bhutan-bangladesh-in-healthcare-ranks-145th-globally-118052400135_1.html}{public
health sector has long been overstretched}, with around 0.5 hospital
beds for every 1,000 people,
\href{https://data.oecd.org/healtheqt/hospital-beds.htm}{according to
data} from the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development. By
comparison, Germany has 8 and Japan has 13.1.

``Two months of lockdown has helped us fine-tune our treatment
protocols, our isolation protocols, our quarantine protocols,'' said
Naresh Trehan, a prominent Indian surgeon.

Now, the resumption of cross-country transportation and industry has
raised the prospect that previously spared states may find themselves
confronted with imported outbreaks.

But many Indians seem ready to venture out, despite the numbers.

After weeks of self-isolating at home, Mujtaba Rizvi, an artist living
in Chennai, said he went for a walk last weekend and was stunned by what
he saw. Streets were clogged with cars. Shoppers spilled out of crowded
shops without wearing masks or observing social distancing.

At this point, Mr. Rizvi said, it appeared there was no turning back.

``Freedom comes at a price, and people seem to be ready to pay,'' he
said. ``Even if more people die now, it would be difficult to send us
back into isolation.''

Image

Dharavi at night. Almost half of India's infections have been traced to
four cities, including Mumbai.Credit...Atul Loke for The New York Times

Suhasini Raj contributed reporting.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
