Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/world/europe}{Europe}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/world/europe}{Europe}\textbar{}Southern Europe Opens Its
Doors to Tourists. Not Many Are Coming.

\url{https://nyti.ms/3eCNhxy}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{the-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=4a3791a0-e386-11ea-87bd-65e9529ada0e}{The
Coronavirus
Outbreak}}{The Coronavirus Outbreak}}\label{the-coronavirus-outbreak}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  live\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/20/world/coronavirus-covid.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=4a3791a1-e386-11ea-87bd-65e9529ada0e}{Latest
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=4a3791a2-e386-11ea-87bd-65e9529ada0e}{Maps
  and Cases}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=4a37b8b0-e386-11ea-87bd-65e9529ada0e}{Vaccine
  Tracker}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/19/us/colleges-closing-covid.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=4a37b8b1-e386-11ea-87bd-65e9529ada0e}{Colleges
  Closing}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/20/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=4a37b8b2-e386-11ea-87bd-65e9529ada0e}{Economy}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{southern-europe-opens-its-doors-to-tourists-not-many-are-coming}{%
\section{Southern Europe Opens Its Doors to Tourists. Not Many Are
Coming.}\label{southern-europe-opens-its-doors-to-tourists-not-many-are-coming}}

Most tourist beds are empty in Spain's Canary Islands. Bookings are down
in Italy despite government incentives. And ferries to the Greek islands
are carrying less than half the load they once did.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/14/world/spain01sub/merlin_172822875_c19de18f-f7e2-47b4-b9e0-12384e658004-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/raphael-minder}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/10/15/multimedia/author-raphael-minder/author-raphael-minder-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/raphael-minder}{Raphael
Minder}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  July 19, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

ADEJE, Spain --- Music blared from a beachfront cafe along the normally
bustling southwestern coast of Tenerife, the largest of Spain's Canary
Islands. But several tables sat empty, a month after a Covid-19 lockdown
had ended, and the doors to many resorts remained shut.

Though tourism is returning to southern Europe --- stretching from
Portugal to Greece --- its restart has been sluggish amid new outbreaks
in some countries. Bookings are down 80 percent in Italy despite
government incentives. Ferries to the Greek islands are carrying well
under half the load they once did.

While Europeans are starting to travel more within their own countries,
far fewer are venturing beyond their borders, particularly the holiday
makers from Britain, Germany and other northern countries who typically
\href{https://www.statista.com/topics/3848/travel-and-tourism-in-europe/}{journey
south} each year, spending billions of euros.

And visitors from outside the continent are few and far between: Just
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/reuters/2020/07/14/world/14reuters-health-coronavirus-eu-travel.html}{13
countries} are on the list of those considered safe by the European
Union, a list that so far excludes the United States.

The drag is felt acutely in tourist destinations dependent on air
travel, like the Canary Islands, hundreds of miles from mainland Spain.
Airlines carried
\href{https://www.canarias7.es/economia/canarias-mantuvo-el-liston-de-los-15-millones-de-turistas-en-2019-GN8609091\#:~:text=Canarias\%20cerr\%C3\%B3\%20el\%20a\%C3\%B1o\%202019,Nacional\%20de\%20Estad\%C3\%ADstica\%20(INE).}{15
million} visitors to the archipelago last year, but the flight capacity
this month is just 30 percent of what it was a year ago.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/07/15/world/spain02/merlin_173833182_7ce5e416-13a8-4d5d-8283-3eb93a62f85b-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

As a result, property owners in the Canary Islands have opened only
about 20 percent of the tourism beds in the archipelago, according to
Jorge Marichal, a Tenerife hotelier who is president of
\href{https://cehat.com/frontend/cehat/base.php}{Cehat}, the Spanish
hotel confederation.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-the-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/20/world/coronavirus-covid.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: The Coronavirus
Outbreak}}{Latest Updates: The Coronavirus Outbreak}}\label{latest-updates-the-coronavirus-outbreak}}

Updated 2020-08-21T07:46:15.883Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/20/world/coronavirus-covid.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-68774d88}{Shutdowns,
  warnings and scoldings follow alarming incidents on college campuses.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/20/world/coronavirus-covid.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-26b58724}{Biden
  knocks Trump's pandemic response, and outlines a national strategy.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/20/world/coronavirus-covid.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-4e542da3}{U.S.
  health agencies announce moves to confront the flu season and
  plummeting child vaccination rates.}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/20/world/coronavirus-covid.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

More live coverage:
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/20/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Markets}

``We are doing our best to highlight the fact that we now have almost no
virus problem --- but of course we cannot transport the tourists here
ourselves,'' Mr. Marichal said.

Italy has tried to promote national tourism by issuing a so-called
\href{https://www.beniculturali.it/mibac/export/MiBAC/sito-MiBAC/Contenuti/visualizza_asset.html_589930674.html}{holiday
bonus}, a 150-euro voucher per Italian for lodging, up to €500 per
family. Dario Franceschini, the minister of culture and tourism, told
Parliament this month that about 400,000 vouchers had been issued, worth
€183 million in total.

The Italian news media painted a less enthusiastic picture. The
newspaper Corriere della Sera
\href{https://www.corriere.it/politica/20_luglio_01/oggi-parte-bonus-vacanze-ma-accettano-solo-4-hotel-100-5b37220a-bb5d-11ea-8b38-f3e0b4a46805.shtml?intcmp=emailNLcor_ore12_01072020}{reported
that only a small fraction} of Italian hotels accept the vouchers.

Greece, though suffering less from the pandemic than either Italy or
Spain, has still seen scant evidence of a rebound in tourism. In the
first 12 days of July, passenger traffic at the Athens airport was down
75 percent from a year ago, and 84 percent at the country's 14 regional
airports.

Though all of the countries of southern Europe have emerged from
lockdown, new outbreaks there and quarantine orders elsewhere have added
hurdles. This month, Britain said that people coming from Portugal,
among other countries, would be forced to quarantine on arrival, a move
that essentially choked off British tourism there.

Image

Tourist guides waiting for customers in Lisbon last week.Credit...Rafael
Marchante/Reuters

And Britons have traditionally been the top visitors to the Algarve, the
southern region of Portugal. Britain's move drew fire from Augusto
Santos Silva, Portugal's foreign minister, who called it
\href{https://www.bbc.com/news/uk-53288080}{``absurd}.'' Still, Portugal
has faced a strong uptick in coronavirus cases, including in
municipalities surrounding its capital, Lisbon.

Outbreaks have also occurred around major tourism hubs like Barcelona,
where about three million residents were told on Friday to stay indoors
to help contain the coronavirus.

Carlos García Pastor, the marketing director of Logitravel Group, a
Spanish travel operator that had revenue of about €800 million last
year, said that his company expected earnings to drop at least 50
percent this year.

The final result, he said, ``will really depend on how many new
outbreaks there are.''

This month, hundreds of thousands of Spaniards were placed back under
temporary lockdown by the regional authorities in Catalonia and Galicia
after new outbreaks. Mr. García Pastor said some clients canceled their
bookings as soon as they heard about the new restrictions.

``Tourism is extremely reactive, for better or worse,'' he said.

Image

Reopening a shop in the old town of Corfu, in the Greek islands. Ferries
are carrying far fewer people this summer.Credit...Angelos
Tzortzinis/Agence France-Presse --- Getty Images

In the Canary Islands, home to more than two million full-time
residents, officials have trumpeted their strict safety measures and
their low coronavirus caseload, less than 1 percent of the nation's
total. The archipelago's hotels require guests to wear a face mask in
the lobby and other indoor areas, and they limit the number of people
who can lounge around their swimming pools.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{}

\hypertarget{the-coronavirus-outbreak-}{%
\subsubsection{The Coronavirus Outbreak
›}\label{the-coronavirus-outbreak-}}

\hypertarget{frequently-asked-questions}{%
\paragraph{Frequently Asked
Questions}\label{frequently-asked-questions}}

Updated August 17, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{why-does-standing-six-feet-away-from-others-help}{%
  \paragraph{Why does standing six feet away from others
  help?}\label{why-does-standing-six-feet-away-from-others-help}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    The coronavirus spreads primarily through droplets from your mouth
    and nose, especially when you cough or sneeze. The C.D.C., one of
    the organizations using that measure,
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/14/health/coronavirus-six-feet.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{bases
    its recommendation of six feet} on the idea that most large droplets
    that people expel when they cough or sneeze will fall to the ground
    within six feet. But six feet has never been a magic number that
    guarantees complete protection. Sneezes, for instance, can launch
    droplets a lot farther than six feet,
    \href{https://jamanetwork.com/journals/jama/fullarticle/2763852}{according
    to a recent study}. It's a rule of thumb: You should be safest
    standing six feet apart outside, especially when it's windy. But
    keep a mask on at all times, even when you think you're far enough
    apart.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{i-have-antibodies-am-i-now-immune}{%
  \paragraph{I have antibodies. Am I now
  immune?}\label{i-have-antibodies-am-i-now-immune}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    As of right
    now,\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/22/health/covid-antibodies-herd-immunity.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{that
    seems likely, for at least several months.} There have been
    frightening accounts of people suffering what seems to be a second
    bout of Covid-19. But experts say these patients may have a
    drawn-out course of infection, with the virus taking a slow toll
    weeks to months after initial exposure. People infected with the
    coronavirus typically
    \href{https://www.nature.com/articles/s41586-020-2456-9}{produce}
    immune molecules called antibodies, which are
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/07/health/coronavirus-antibody-prevalence.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{protective
    proteins made in response to an
    infection}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/07/health/coronavirus-antibody-prevalence.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{.
    These antibodies may} last in the body
    \href{https://www.nature.com/articles/s41591-020-0965-6}{only two to
    three months}, which may seem worrisome, but that's perfectly normal
    after an acute infection subsides, said Dr. Michael Mina, an
    immunologist at Harvard University. It may be possible to get the
    coronavirus again, but it's highly unlikely that it would be
    possible in a short window of time from initial infection or make
    people sicker the second time.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{im-a-small-business-owner-can-i-get-relief}{%
  \paragraph{I'm a small-business owner. Can I get
  relief?}\label{im-a-small-business-owner-can-i-get-relief}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    The
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/small-business-loans-stimulus-grants-freelancers-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{stimulus
    bills enacted in March} offer help for the millions of American
    small businesses. Those eligible for aid are businesses and
    nonprofit organizations with fewer than 500 workers, including sole
    proprietorships, independent contractors and freelancers. Some
    larger companies in some industries are also eligible. The help
    being offered, which is being managed by the Small Business
    Administration, includes the Paycheck Protection Program and the
    Economic Injury Disaster Loan program. But lots of folks have
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/05/07/business/small-business-loans-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{not
    yet seen payouts.} Even those who have received help are confused:
    The rules are draconian, and some are stuck sitting on
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/02/business/economy/loans-coronavirus-small-business.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{money
    they don't know how to use.} Many small-business owners are getting
    less than they expected or
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/10/business/Small-business-loans-ppp.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{not
    hearing anything at all.}
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{what-are-my-rights-if-i-am-worried-about-going-back-to-work}{%
  \paragraph{What are my rights if I am worried about going back to
  work?}\label{what-are-my-rights-if-i-am-worried-about-going-back-to-work}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Employers have to provide
    \href{https://www.osha.gov/SLTC/covid-19/standards.html}{a safe
    workplace} with policies that protect everyone equally.
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/coronavirus-money-unemployment.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{And
    if one of your co-workers tests positive for the coronavirus, the
    C.D.C.} has said that
    \href{https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/community/guidance-business-response.html}{employers
    should tell their employees} -\/- without giving you the sick
    employee's name -\/- that they may have been exposed to the virus.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{what-is-school-going-to-look-like-in-september}{%
  \paragraph{What is school going to look like in
  September?}\label{what-is-school-going-to-look-like-in-september}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    It is unlikely that many schools will return to a normal schedule
    this fall, requiring the grind of
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/05/us/coronavirus-education-lost-learning.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{online
    learning},
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/29/us/coronavirus-child-care-centers.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{makeshift
    child care} and
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/03/business/economy/coronavirus-working-women.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{stunted
    workdays} to continue. California's two largest public school
    districts --- Los Angeles and San Diego --- said on July 13, that
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/13/us/lausd-san-diego-school-reopening.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{instruction
    will be remote-only in the fall}, citing concerns that surging
    coronavirus infections in their areas pose too dire a risk for
    students and teachers. Together, the two districts enroll some
    825,000 students. They are the largest in the country so far to
    abandon plans for even a partial physical return to classrooms when
    they reopen in August. For other districts, the solution won't be an
    all-or-nothing approach.
    \href{https://bioethics.jhu.edu/research-and-outreach/projects/eschool-initiative/school-policy-tracker/}{Many
    systems}, including the nation's largest, New York City, are
    devising
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/26/us/coronavirus-schools-reopen-fall.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{hybrid
    plans} that involve spending some days in classrooms and other days
    online. There's no national policy on this yet, so check with your
    municipal school system regularly to see what is happening in your
    community.
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

The protocols drew praise from Zurab Pololikashvili, the secretary
general of the World Tourism Organization, an agency of the United
Nations, after his visit to tourism destinations in Italy and Spain this
month.

That portrait of safety contrasts sharply with the picture that emerged
from the Canary Islands in late January, when the archipelago recorded
Spain's first coronavirus case, a German tourist who tested positive on
the island of La Gomera.

Weeks later, one of the large establishments on Tenerife, the H10 Costa
Adeje Palace, became the first European resort to
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/02/26/world/europe/spain-coronavirus.html}{lock
down} after the virus was detected among Italian guests.

But as the virus rampaged across mainland Spain, the islands quickly
brought their own outbreaks under control. The archipelago has reported
162 deaths, according to the latest official Spanish data, out of 28,420
victims nationwide.

Travel within the Canary archipelago has continued, perhaps even
encouraged a bit by the travel hurdles. Smaller islands like El Hierro
that do not have an international airport have reported an influx of
Canarians this summer.

Image

A ferry in La Graciosa. Canarians are traveling within the
archipelago.~Credit...Javier Fuentes/EPA, via Shutterstock

But across the islands the doors remain shut to many of the large
resorts normally filled by international package tours. At the recently
reopened Adeje Palace, some guests said they had been relocated there at
the last minute by their travel agents because the hotels they had
booked were still closed.

``A week before leaving Germany, I wasn't sure that this vacation could
actually go ahead, but I had reached the point where I desperately
needed time away from my hospital work and no longer really cared about
which hotel I would stay in,'' said Svetlana Arsenijevic, an anesthetist
from the German city of Halle.

A Swiss tourist, Anaïs Zufferey, said that she and her sister not only
had to switch hotels at the last minute, they also had to set off from
Zurich a day later than planned because their initial flight was
canceled.

``It's a holiday that has required us to be very flexible,'' Ms.
Zufferey said.

But their journey from Tenerife's airport to their hotel was more than
comfortable --- they were the only passengers on a 50-seat shuttle bus.

Elisabetta Povoledo contributed reporting from Rome, and Niki
Kitsantonis from Athens.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
