Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/food}{Food}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/food}{Food}\textbar{}Daily Provisions Opens Next to Union
Square Cafe

\url{https://nyti.ms/2kKdz9n}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\href{/column/off-the-menu}{Off the Menu}

\hypertarget{daily-provisions-opens-next-to-union-square-cafe}{%
\section{Daily Provisions Opens Next to Union Square
Cafe}\label{daily-provisions-opens-next-to-union-square-cafe}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2017/02/08/dining/08OFF/08OFF-articleInline.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By
\href{http://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/florence-fabricant}{Florence
Fabricant}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Feb. 7, 2017
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{headliner}{%
\subsection{Headliner}\label{headliner}}

\textbf{DAILY PROVISIONS} Coffee and food to eat in or take out are sold
next to Union Square Cafe from what may be about the smallest restaurant
David Rockwell ever designed --- some people have more spacious kitchens
in their apartments. But Daily Provisions is extremely well tailored,
done in marine blue wainscoting with marble counters and tables, a few
seats and shelves full of freshly baked breads, glazed and sugared
crullers, cookies and croissants flecked with ``everything'' spices and
filled with cream cheese. The chef, Carmen Quagliata, is baking big,
well-burnished gougères stuffed with eggs or spinach, eggs and ham, and
bronzing chickens on the rotisserie. Sandwiches are also sold, and the
beverages include wine, beer and cider, though it's open only until 6
p.m.: \emph{103 East 19th Street, 212-488-1505,}
\href{http://www.dailyprovisionsnyc.com/}{\emph{dailyprovisionsnyc.com}}\emph{.}

\hypertarget{opening}{%
\subsection{Opening}\label{opening}}

\textbf{ANTIQUE BAR \& BAKERY} Bakeries equipped with coal-fueled bread
and pizza ovens were common 100 years ago. And one, in Hoboken, N.J., is
being reopened as a bar and restaurant. The bakery it once housed, a
favorite of Frank Sinatra's called Antique Bakery, has moved to Jersey
City, where there's another coal oven. The new restaurant sells
Italian-style breads from Antique Bakery and features dishes including
lasagna baked in the coal oven: \emph{122 Willow Avenue, Hoboken, N.J.,
201-683-7029,}
\href{http://antiquebarbakery.com/}{\emph{antiquebarbakery.com}}\emph{.}

\textbf{AVENA} Roberto Deiaco, who was an executive chef at Armani
Ristorante and owned the well-regarded East 12th Osteria, is opening
Avena, a two-story restaurant focused on fresh organic Italian cuisine.
His menu combines classics like vitello tonnato, lasagna and tiramisù,
done with a lighter approach, and he places considerable emphasis on
seafood, especially raw. The upstairs lounge has a fireplace. In the
meantime, East 12th Osteria has closed, and Mr. Deiaco and his wife,
Giselle, will open a new restaurant in the West Village this summer.
(Opens Friday): \emph{141 East 57th Street, 212-752-5323,}
\href{http://www.avenarestaurant.com/}{\emph{avenarestaurant.com}}\emph{.}

\textbf{DE MARIA} The once sleek and sultry space on the eastern end of
Kenmare Street that was Travertine has evolved. It was Ken \& Cook, and
now, in the hands of the music entrepreneur Grace Lee and her partners,
it has become lighter and brighter, with references to fine art (it's
named for Walter De Maria, a midcentury minimalist). The mostly white
tile room with light wood and butterscotch leather furnishings has
arresting blocks of colorful tiles over the bar that suggest the work of
Donald Judd. Camille Becerra, always wearing a hat, is the chef and for
now, still lacking gas in her kitchen, is limited to fresh, simple
breakfast and lunch fare with an emphasis on bowls. Dinner? Not before
March: \emph{19 Kenmare Street (Elizabeth Street), 212-966-3058,}
\href{https://www.demarianyc.com/}{\emph{demarianyc.com}}\emph{.}

\textbf{MOKBAR BROOKLYN} Esther Choi, who runs the successful Mokbar
stand in Chelsea Market where Korean ramen is the focus, is opening a
subdued restaurant with traditional touches steps from Barclays Center
in Brooklyn. Here, there will be more emphasis on Korean home cooking.
The menu will feature small plates like brown butter rice cakes with
pork, and fried chicken nuggets, as well as mandu dumplings, ramen and
jip bap, a type of bibimbap (Wednesday): \emph{212 Flatbush Avenue
(Bergen Street), 347-987-3042,}
\href{http://mokbar.com/}{\emph{mokbar.com}}\emph{.}

\hypertarget{looking-ahead}{%
\subsection{Looking Ahead}\label{looking-ahead}}

\textbf{SUGARCANE RAW BAR GRILL} This eclectic restaurant based in
Miami, with a branch in Las Vegas and the chef Timon Balloo in charge,
will open a substantial indoor-outdoor space this summer in the Empire
Stores warehouse complex: \emph{55 Water Street (Main Street), Dumbo,
Brooklyn.}

\hypertarget{chefs-on-the-move}{%
\subsection{Chefs on the Move}\label{chefs-on-the-move}}

\textbf{JIM BOTSACOS}, a former executive chef at Molyvos, now holds
that position at the Rainbow Room complex in Rockefeller Center,
replacing the English chef Robert Aikens, who left after a year.

\textbf{JESUS CERVANTES}, known as Chuy, is now the chef at Torst, the
beer-centric restaurant in Greenpoint, Brooklyn. He worked for Daniel
Burns at Luksus, now closed, and was also at Cosme. He oversees an
expanded menu with dishes like beef tartare with salted plums and
pickled green walnuts, and a country ham and seaweed roll with pimento
cheese. Michael Goessman, who worked at Luksus, and a new bread baker,
Max Blachman-Gentile will join him in the kitchen.

\textbf{GRAY KUNZ} will be the consulting chef for a cafe from one of
his main backers, Moshe Lax, at \href{https://code800fifth.com/}{CoDE},
a new fashion design studio and store opening Wednesday at 800 Fifth
Avenue (61st Street). Called the Living Room at CoDE, it will be open to
resident designers, people in the fashion industry and their clients,
for small plates and beverages in a lounge setting.

\textbf{EZRA LEWIS}, the new chef at Wallflower in the West Village, is
bringing something of a sweet tooth to the menu, with a foie gras and
banana bread terrine with blueberry gel, and brussels sprouts with
bourbon-bacon jam.

\hypertarget{closing}{%
\subsection{Closing}\label{closing}}

\textbf{CÓMODO} The chef, Felipe Donnelly, and his wife and partner,
Tamy Rofe, will close their home-style Latino restaurant after brunch on
March 19. Mr. Donnelly said that a rent increase for the five-year-old
restaurant had made it impossible to continue. The couple also owns
Colonia Verde in Fort Greene, Brooklyn, and in April, will open a
tasting room and private event space for their catering company,
Comparti, at 102 East Seventh Street (First Avenue) in the East Village:
\emph{58 Macdougal Street (King Street), 646-580-3866,}
\href{http://comodonyc.com/}{\emph{comodonyc.com}}\emph{.}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
