Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/11/us/trump-vs-biden?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Election
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/election-states-biden-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Paths
  to 270}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/us/elections/2020-presidential-election-calendar.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Key
  Dates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/31/us/politics/vote-by-mail-deadlines.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Voting
  by Mail}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Politics
  Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{trump-attacks-biden-as-he-accepts-republican-nomination}{%
\section{Trump Attacks Biden as He Accepts Republican
Nomination}\label{trump-attacks-biden-as-he-accepts-republican-nomination}}

Last Updated

Sept. 1, 2020, 10:45 a.m. ET

Sept. 1, 2020, 10:45 a.m. ET

The president framed the 2020 election as a crossroads for America as he
spoke amid unrest in Kenosha, Wis., and a hurricane in Louisiana and
Texas. Rudy Giuliani, Tom Cotton, Ben Carson and Ivanka Trump also
addressed the convention.

\emph{This briefing has ended. Follow}
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/28/us/trump-vs-biden}{\emph{our
latest coverage of the Biden vs. Trump 2020 election here}}\emph{.}

\hypertarget{heres-what-you-need-to-know}{%
\subsubsection{Here's what you need to
know:}\label{heres-what-you-need-to-know}}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{trump-casts-the-election-in-ominous-terms-lobbing-misleading-attacks-at-biden}{}

  Trump casts the election in ominous terms, lobbing misleading attacks
  at Biden.
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{the-president-turns-the-white-house-into-a-partisan-prop}{}

  The president turns the White House into a partisan prop.
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{trump-made-numerous-false-claims-read-our-fact-check}{}

  Trump made numerous false claims. Read our fact check.
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{trump-brags-about-his-handling-of-the-virus-crisis-and-says-biden-would-surrender-to-it}{}

  Trump brags about his handling of the virus crisis and says Biden
  would `surrender' to it.
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{republican-convention-speakers-quoted-trump-saying-things-that-dont-sound-like-anything-hes-ever-said-in-public}{}

  Republican convention speakers quoted Trump saying things that don't
  sound like anything he's ever said in public.
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{ivanka-trump-introducing-her-father-tries-to-humanize-him}{}

  Ivanka Trump, introducing her father, tries to humanize him.
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{alice-marie-johnson-whose-sentence-was-commuted-by-trump-says-he-saw-her-as-a-person}{}

  Alice Marie Johnson, whose sentence was commuted by Trump, says he saw
  her `as a person.'
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{protesters-gather-in-dc-shortly-before-trumps-speech-to-denounce-the-shooting-of-jacob-blake}{}

  Protesters gather in D.C. shortly before Trump's speech to denounce
  the shooting of Jacob Blake.
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{carl-and-marsha-mueller-whose-daughter-was-killed-by-isis-say-they-wish-trump-had-been-president-at-the-time}{}

  Carl and Marsha Mueller, whose daughter was killed by ISIS, say they
  wish Trump had been president at the time.
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{republicans-mount-an-all-out-assault-against-a-familiar-enemy-new-york-city}{}

  Republicans mount an all-out assault against a familiar enemy: New
  York City.
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{trump-casts-the-election-in-ominous-terms-lobbing-misleading-attacks-at-biden}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{trump-casts-the-election-in-ominous-terms-lobbing-misleading-attacks-at-biden}{Trump
casts the election in ominous terms, lobbing misleading attacks at
Biden.}}{Trump casts the election in ominous terms, lobbing misleading attacks at Biden.}}\label{trump-casts-the-election-in-ominous-terms-lobbing-misleading-attacks-at-biden}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/27/us/politics/27vid-rnc-Donald-Trump/27vid-rnc-Donald-Trump-videoSixteenByNine3000.jpg}

Addressing a maskless crowd of supporters seated close together on the
South Lawn of the White House, President Trump on Thursday night
accepted his party's presidential nomination, telling his supporters
that all of his achievements were ``now in danger'' because of the
looming threat of former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr.

In a long address that sounded in tone and delivery much like his State
of the Union addresses, Mr. Trump ticked back and forth between touting
his own achievements and maligning his opponent, relying on misleading
claims to do both.

``We're here and they're not,'' he said at one point, referencing the
White House behind him, even though he has been widely criticized for
using holding a partisan event on government property.

Mr. Trump began his remarks with an acknowledgment of ``the wonderful
people who have just come through the wrath of Hurricane Laura,'' but
notably made no mention of the 180,000 American lives lost to the
coronavirus pandemic until much later in his address, when he used a
racist term to refer to the virus and called the deaths it had caused
``so unnecessary.''

He quickly diverged from the positive, optimistic vision that the
convention planners had sought to project all week as he launched a
direct attack on Mr. Biden and a defense of his own record.

``Everything we've achieved is now in danger,'' he said. ``This election
will decide whether we will defend the American way of life or allow a
radical movement to completely dismantle and destroy it.''

While Mr. Biden did not mention Mr. Trump by name in his nominating
speech, Mr. Trump spoke directly about Mr. Biden in his, casting his
opponent in dark and misleading terms.

``Joe Biden is not the savior of America's soul,'' he said. ``He is the
destroyer of America's jobs, and if given the chance, he will be the
destroyer of America's greatness.''

Ignoring his own troubled history of
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2016/10/08/us/donald-trump-tape-transcript.html?module=inline}{bragging
about sexual misconduct} and the allegations of sexual assault against
him, Mr. Trump made a dig referring to Mr. Biden's handsy approach to
politicking,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/04/02/us/politics/joe-biden-women-me-too.html}{which
came under scrutiny last year}.

The president claimed that during Mr. Biden's career in public office,
the former vice president ``took the donations of blue-collar workers,
gave them hugs, and even kisses.''

Mr. Trump paused for the audience to chuckle at the reference.

During a speech read from a teleprompter, with little of the
free-wheeling, stream of consciousness style typically associated with
Mr. Trump's public remarks, he made little mention of the distress that
has swept the country in the wake of the police killings of George Floyd
and Breonna Taylor and the more recent shooting of Jacob Blake, focusing
instead on what he called the ``anarchists, agitators, rioters, looters
and flag-burners.''

And he tried to portray himself as the candidate whose policies are
backed by science and designed for the working people of America. The
president's advisers have been trying to frame the potential for another
widespread lockdown as something that only the upper middle class and
coastal elites who can work from home would be able to handle, which Mr.
Trump alluded to as he brought up Mr. Biden's remark that he would be
willing to shut down the country again if necessary.

``The cost of the Biden shutdown would be measured in increased drug
overdoses, depression, alcohol addiction, suicides, heart attacks,
economic devastation, job loss, into much more,'' he said. ``Joe Biden's
plan is not a solution to the virus, but rather it is a surrender to the
virus.''

He claimed that he was basing his response on ``the science, the facts,
and the data,'' even though the number of positive cases has risen where
schools and businesses have reopened.

Mr. Trump also claimed that Mr. Biden, a moderate Democrat, was a pawn
of the left, who would ``demolish the suburbs, confiscate your guns, and
appoint justices who will wipe away your Second Amendment and other
Constitutional freedoms.''

Mr. Trump for the most part stuck to his prepared remarks. He did at one
point ad-lib a line about the baseless theory he has been promoting for
years --- that President Barack Obama had spied on his campaign.
``Remember this,'' He said. ``They spied on my campaign and they got
caught. Let's see now what happens.''

Mr. Trump's address ended with fireworks just before midnight at the
Washington Monument, another use of federal property for political
purposes.

--- \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/annie-karni}{Annie
Karni}

\hypertarget{the-president-turns-the-white-house-into-a-partisan-prop}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{the-president-turns-the-white-house-into-a-partisan-prop}{The
president turns the White House into a partisan
prop.}}{The president turns the White House into a partisan prop.}}\label{the-president-turns-the-white-house-into-a-partisan-prop}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/27/us/politics/27elections-briefing-backdrop/merlin_176261376_01f44b3d-a8c5-46b1-be97-999ac596ff99-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

He called it ``the People's House.''

But on Thursday night, as President Trump accepted his party's
renomination in an overtly political event staged on the South Lawn of
the White House, he turned the majestic building into a partisan prop
like no politician has ever done before.

Capping a week in which Mr. Trump and his Republican allies repeatedly
ignored rules that are supposed to enforce the line between politics and
policy, the president stood grandly in front of the country's most
important landmark to denounce his rival.

``At the Democrat National Convention, Joe Biden and his party
repeatedly assailed America as a land of racial, economic and social
injustice,'' Mr. Trump said to an audience of more than 1,500 as
American flags waved behind him. ``So tonight, I ask you a simple
question: How can the Democratic Party lead our country when it spends
so much time tearing down our country?''

Previous presidents have sought to carefully navigate the propriety of
mixing campaigning with governing, even though the laws that attempt to
minimize their collision do not apply to the occupant of the Oval
Office.

Jimmy Carter announced his re-election bid in the East Room and Ronald
Reagan did so from the Oval Office. But neither had live crowds flanked
by giant Jumbotrons on either side of the White House, serving as
immense campaign billboards.

Mr. Trump appeared to recognize the power of the setting. At the
beginning of his speech, he noted that the White House ``has been the
home of larger than life figures like Teddy Roosevelt and Andrew
Jackson, who rallied Americans to bold visions of a bigger and brighter
future.''

Motioning to the grand building behind him, Mr. Trump said that ``within
these walls lived tenacious generals, like Presidents Grant and
Eisenhower, who led our soldiers in the cause of freedom. From these
grounds, Thomas Jefferson sent Lewis and Clark on a daring expedition.''

But if the president was aware of the building's storied history, he
showed no embarrassment at the prospect of putting it to use as the
backdrop for fierce partisan attacks.

``We have spent the last four years, reversing the damage Joe Biden
inflicted over the last 47 years,'' Mr. Trump said. ``Biden's record is
a shameful roll call of the most catastrophic betrayals and blunders in
our lifetime.''

Mr. Trump's campaign spared no expense in creating that backdrop ---
building an extensive, red-white-and-blue stage where Marine One usually
takes off, installing 1,500 folding chairs, and a lectern with the seal
of the President of the United States.

Mr. Trump milked it for all it was worth, walking down from the home's
south balcony to begin his speech.

``My fellow Americans,'' he said moments later, the White House lit up
brightly behind him, ``tonight with a heart of gratitude and boundless
optimism, I profoundly accept this nomination for president of the
United States.''

Later, as he called for evicting the ``failed political class'' from
Washington, Mr. Trump turned back toward the White House.

``The fact is, I'm here,'' he said, a broad smile across his face.
``What's the name of that building?'' he asked as the crowd cheered.
Turning back to the crowd, he was even more blunt: ``But I'll say it
differently. The fact is we're here, and they're not.''

And he punctuated his use of Washington's public spaces with a
thunderous fireworks display over the Washington Monument and the
Lincoln Memorial --- all in service of his campaign.

Spelled out in the sky: ``TRUMP'' and ``2020.''

--- \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/michael-d-shear}{Michael
D. Shear}

\hypertarget{advertisement}{%
\subsubsection{Advertisement}\label{advertisement}}

\protect\hyperlink{after-dfp-ad-mid1}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{trump-made-numerous-false-claims-read-our-fact-check}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{trump-made-numerous-false-claims-read-our-fact-check}{Trump
made numerous false claims. Read our fact
check.}}{Trump made numerous false claims. Read our fact check.}}\label{trump-made-numerous-false-claims-read-our-fact-check}}

In his address on Thursday, President Trump made a number of false or
misleading claims. Here are a few of them, and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/27/us/rnc-fact-check}{read
our full fact check here}.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/27/us/rnc-fact-check\#we-shipped-hundreds-of-millions-of-masks-gloves-and-gowns-to-our-front-line-health-care-workers}{\emph{``We
shipped hundreds of millions of masks, gloves and gowns to our front
line health care workers.''}}

\textbf{This is misleading.}

A
\href{https://slack-redir.net/link?url=https\%3A\%2F\%2Foig.hhs.gov\%2Foei\%2Freports\%2Foei-06-20-00300.pdf}{report
by the inspector general} of the Department of Health and Human Services
in the early days of the pandemic found serious problems with the
supplies shipped from the strategic national stockpile. **``**Some
hospitals noted that at the time of our interview they had not received
supplies from the Strategic National Stockpile, or that the supplies
that they had received were not sufficient in quantity or quality,'' the
inspector general wrote. One administrator stated that getting supplies
from the stockpile was a major challenge, saying that the supplies the
hospital received ``won't even last a day. We need gloves, we need masks
with fluid shields on --- N95 masks --- and we need gowns.''

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/27/us/rnc-fact-check\#days-after-taking-office-we-ended-the-unfair-and-very-costly-paris-climate-accord-and-secured-for-the-first-time-american-energy}{\emph{``Days
after taking office, we \ldots{} ended the unfair and very costly Paris
climate accord and secured for the first time American energy
independence.''}}

\textbf{False.}

While President Trump did withdraw the United States from the Paris
climate change agreement ---
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/10/23/climate/trump-paris-climate-accord.html}{a
move that was not legally initiated until 2019} --- the pact, which
includes nearly every other nation on earth, remains intact without the
participation of the United States.

It is not accurate to say that the United States is ``energy
independent,'' a phrase that suggests that the United States is
independent of reliance on imported energy sources. In 2019, nearly half
the oil consumed by the United States was imported ---
\href{https://www.eia.gov/tools/faqs/faq.php?id=727\&t=6\#:~:text=In\%202019\%2C\%20the\%20United\%20States,(including\%20ethanol\%20and\%20biodiesel).}{about
9 million barrels per day} were imported of the roughly 20 million
barrels per day that were consumed, according to the Energy Information
Administration, the statistical arm of the Energy Department.

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/27/us/rnc-fact-check\#i-say-very-modestly-that-i-have-done-more-for-the-african-american-community-than-any-president-since-abraham-lincoln-our-first-}{\emph{``I
say very modestly that I have done more for the African-American
community than any president since Abraham Lincoln, our first Republican
president.''}}

\textbf{False.}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/05/us/politics/trump-black-african-americans-fact-check.html}{Not
according to historians}. Among modern presidents, historians agreed
that the most significant legislative achievements belong to President
Lyndon B. Johnson, who shepherded the passage of the Voting Rights Act,
the Civil Rights Act and the Fair Housing Act.

A 2017 study that assessed modern presidents based on the analysis of
editorials published in Black newspapers ranked Mr. Johnson at the top.
Mr. Trump would place in the bottom third, the study's co-author told
the Times.

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/27/us/rnc-fact-check\#we-are-delivering-lifesaving-therapies-and-will-produce-a-vaccine-before-the-end-of-the-year-or-maybe-even-sooner}{\emph{``We
are delivering lifesaving therapies and will produce a vaccine before
the end of the year or maybe even sooner.''}}

\textbf{Exaggerated.}

The race to develop a vaccine is well underway, but it is uncertain
whether it will produce results by the end of the year. Dr. Anthony
Fauci, an infectious disease expert and a member of the coronavirus task
force, has repeatedly said it will likely be the end of 2020 or the
start of 2021 before it is clear whether clinical trials were
successful. Some researchers working on vaccine candidates have said
getting data this year will be a real feat.

Mr. Trump has been pushing hard for a faster timetable. According to two
people with knowledge of the discussion, Treasury Secretary Mark
Mnuchin, who sits on the coronavirus task force, suggested in a July 30
meeting with congressional leaders that the administration would likely
grant emergency authorization for a vaccine before the end of phase
three clinical trials in the United States. Asked about that remark, a
Treasury Department spokesperson said that Mr. Mnuchin believes vaccine
approval is wholly up to the Food and Drug Administration. Nonetheless,
the promotion of overly optimistic scenarios by Mr. Trump and his aides
has fostered deep concern that the White House will try to influence the
vaccine approval process for political reasons.

--- The New York Times

\hypertarget{trump-brags-about-his-handling-of-the-virus-crisis-and-says-biden-would-surrender-to-it}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{trump-brags-about-his-handling-of-the-virus-crisis-and-says-biden-would-surrender-to-it}{Trump
brags about his handling of the virus crisis and says Biden would
`surrender' to
it.}}{Trump brags about his handling of the virus crisis and says Biden would `surrender' to it.}}\label{trump-brags-about-his-handling-of-the-virus-crisis-and-says-biden-would-surrender-to-it}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/27/us/politics/27elections-briefing-trumpcovid-27-18-36/27elections-briefing-trumpcovid-27-18-36-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

President Trump on Thursday bragged about his handling of the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus}{coronavirus
pandemic} that has claimed the lives of
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html}{more
than 180,000 people} in the United States, repeatedly misstating the
truth about his administration's response to the worst health crisis in
a century.

Speaking in front of a large audience --- few of whom were wearing masks
as they sat within inches of one another --- Mr. Trump said that ``to
save as many lives as possible, we are focusing on the science, the
facts and the data.''

In fact, the president's administration failed to prevent the spread of
the virus in the early days of the crisis as Mr. Trump himself
downplayed its threat and mocked recommendations from scientists to
increase testing and wear masks.

In his remarks on the last night of the Republican convention, Mr. Trump
ignored those facts. Instead, he repeated misleading claims about the
steps that his government took to confront the consequences of the
virus.

``\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/27/us/rnc-fact-check?action=click\&module=Spotlight\&pgtype=Homepage\#we-shipped-hundreds-of-millions-of-masks-gloves-and-gowns-to-our-front-line-health-care-workers}{We
shipped hundreds of millions of masks, gloves and gowns to our frontline
health care workers},'' Mr. Trump said. But a
\href{https://slack-redir.net/link?url=https\%3A\%2F\%2Foig.hhs.gov\%2Foei\%2Freports\%2Foei-06-20-00300.pdf}{report
by the inspector general} of the Department of Health and Human Services
in the early days of the coronavirus crisis found serious problems with
the supplies shipped from the strategic national stockpile.

Mr. Trump also claimed that the administration was
``\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/27/us/rnc-fact-check?action=click\&module=Spotlight\&pgtype=Homepage\#we-are-delivering-lifesaving-therapies-and-will-produce-a-vaccine-before-the-end-of-the-year-or-maybe-even-sooner}{delivering
lifesaving therapies and will produce a vaccine before the end of the
year or maybe even sooner.''}

Medical experts have said that it is still uncertain whether the race to
develop a vaccine will lead to one by the end of the year, much less any
sooner. Dr. Anthony Fauci, a member of the coronavirus task force, has
repeatedly said it will most likely be the end of 2020 or the start of
2021 before it is clear whether clinical trials were successful.

Mr. Trump also used his speech to attack former Vice President Joseph R.
Biden Jr. for his plan to confront the virus if he becomes president.

``Joe Biden's plan is not a solution to the virus, but rather a
surrender to the virus,'' he said.

During and after Mr. Trump's speech, protesters in Washington
demonstrated against, among other things, his handling of the pandemic.

\begin{quote}
Trump's DC fireworks display. One woman commented ``it looks like the
end of the world.''
\href{https://twitter.com/hashtag/DCProtests?src=hash\&ref_src=twsrc\%5Etfw}{\#DCProtests}
\href{https://twitter.com/hashtag/RNC2020?src=hash\&ref_src=twsrc\%5Etfw}{\#RNC2020}
\href{https://t.co/xxprCbiZtC}{pic.twitter.com/xxprCbiZtC}

--- Jane Recker (@janerecker)
\href{https://twitter.com/janerecker/status/1299191736741306369?ref_src=twsrc\%5Etfw}{August
28, 2020}
\end{quote}

--- \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/michael-d-shear}{Michael
D. Shear}

\hypertarget{republican-convention-speakers-quoted-trump-saying-things-that-dont-sound-like-anything-hes-ever-said-in-public}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{republican-convention-speakers-quoted-trump-saying-things-that-dont-sound-like-anything-hes-ever-said-in-public}{Republican
convention speakers quoted Trump saying things that don't sound like
anything he's ever said in
public.}}{Republican convention speakers quoted Trump saying things that don't sound like anything he's ever said in public.}}\label{republican-convention-speakers-quoted-trump-saying-things-that-dont-sound-like-anything-hes-ever-said-in-public}}

All week, speakers at the Republican National Convention have
implausibly described President Trump as a caring, empathic leader who
doesn't hesitate to give his time to those in need.

But a handful of Mr. Trump's hagiographers went even further than that
--- ascribing direct quotations to the president that do not track with
any public statements he has made.

While there is ample reporting to suggest Mr. Trump has little patience
for death ---
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/28/us/politics/donald-fred-trump.html}{he
began his father's eulogy by speaking about himself} --- Representative
Jim Jordan of Ohio said Mr. Trump found
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/24/us/rnc-convention-election/jim-jordan-sought-to-paint-trump-as-empathetic-with-a-personal-story}{a
reservoir of empathy} for the parents of Mr. Jordan's nephew, who had
been killed in a car accident.

``The president,'' Mr. Jordan said, ``said, `Yeah, losing a loved one's
always difficult, and it's really tough when they're so young.'''

Kellyanne Conway,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/26/us/rnc-convention-election/kellyanne-conway-is-leaving-the-white-house-but-not-the-spotlight}{the
departing White House} counselor who served as a campaign manager for
Mr. Trump in 2016, recounted a conversation in which Mr. Trump described
drug overdoses as a ``personal'' responsibility.

She recalled: ``When President Trump asked me to coordinate the White
House efforts on combating the drug crisis, he said: `This is personal,
Kellyanne. So many lives have been ruined by addiction and we'll never
even know it because people are ashamed to reach out for help, or
they're not sure who to turn to in their toughest hour.'''

Perhaps no story was as implausible as the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/26/us/rnc-convention-election/richard-grenell-a-former-diplomat-and-intelligence-official-revives-an-unsubstantiated-wiretap-claim}{one
relayed by Richard Grenell}, the former United States ambassador to
Germany, who said, ``I've watched President Trump charm the chancellor
of Germany'' --- an anecdote
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/04/27/us/politics/trump-merkel.html}{hardly
supported} by reporting or photo evidence of their meetings.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/27/us/rnc-convention-election/ben-carson-the-lone-black-person-in-trumps-cabinet-offers-consolation-to-jacob-blakes-family}{Ben
Carson, Mr. Trump's housing secretary}, said that the president, who has
often demeaned Americans who live in cities and states governed by
Democrats, ``wants everyone to succeed and believes in the adage, `a
rising tide lifts all boats.'''

But no convention speaker took as much creative license with quotations
from Mr. Trump as
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/27/us/rnc-convention-election/ivanka-trump-introducing-her-father-tries-to-humanize-him}{his
own daughter, Ivanka Trump}. During her remarks introducing her father,
she recalled watching on television as Alice Johnson was released from
prison after he commuted her sentence.

``After a long silence, he looked at me and said, `Imagine how many
people there are just like Alice,''' Ms. Trump said. ``From that point
on, he became a voice for those who had been unfairly silenced in our
prison system.''

(Later in the evening, Mr. Trump highlighted his executive order
demanding 10-year prison sentences for anyone convicted of tearing down
historical statues and monuments, including those built to glorify
Confederates.)

Ms. Trump also said the president was amused by television advertising
attacking him --- a proposition easily disproved by reading his Twitter
feed.

``When we see attack ads paid for by big pharma, my dad smiles and says,
`To me, you know, we are doing something really right if they are
hitting us so hard,''' she said.

For all of these efforts to soften the president's image and point to
his compassion in private situations, when it came time for Mr. Trump to
speak, he dismissed it as unimportant.

``The laid-off workers in Michigan, Ohio, New Hampshire, Pennsylvania
and many other states didn't want Joe Biden's hollow words of empathy,''
he said. ``They wanted their jobs back.''

--- \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/reid-j-epstein}{Reid J.
Epstein}

\hypertarget{advertisement-1}{%
\subsubsection{Advertisement}\label{advertisement-1}}

\protect\hyperlink{after-dfp-ad-mid2}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{ivanka-trump-introducing-her-father-tries-to-humanize-him}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{ivanka-trump-introducing-her-father-tries-to-humanize-him}{Ivanka
Trump, introducing her father, tries to humanize
him.}}{Ivanka Trump, introducing her father, tries to humanize him.}}\label{ivanka-trump-introducing-her-father-tries-to-humanize-him}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/27/us/politics/27vid-rnc-Ivanka-Trump/27vid-rnc-Ivanka-Trump-videoSixteenByNine3000.jpg}

Ivanka Trump introduced President Trump to accept his nomination,
calling herself ``the proud daughter of the people's president,''
seeking to humanize her father with stories about his grandchildren and
praise for his agenda on behalf of Americans.

More than just Mr. Trump's elder daughter, Ms. Trump is a senior adviser
in the White House, the wife of another top aide, and a powerful --- if
quiet --- voice in the president's tightest circle of confidants.

Describing her father as someone with ``strong convictions,'' Ms. Trump
conceded that ``my dad's communication style is not to everyone's
taste.'' She added that the president's tweets ``can feel a bit
unfiltered.''

``But,'' she said, speaking live from the South Lawn of the White House,
with American flags waving behind her, ``the results speak for
themselves.''

Publicly, Ms. Trump has pushed an agenda that focused on expanding the
child tax credit and increasing paid family leave for workers, though
critics say her efforts have largely benefited well-to-do families
rather than the working poor who struggle with child care.

In her remarks, she stressed what she said was her father's empathy for
workers and others --- an assertion made by many convention speakers
this week that has repeatedly been challenged by the president's public
behavior.

``I've been with my father and seen the pain in his eyes when he
receives updates on the lives that have been stolen by this plague,''
she said, referring to the coronavirus pandemic. ``I have witnessed him
make some of the most difficult decisions of his life.''

Despite the division that Mr. Trump has sown over four years, his
daughter described him as a uniter, noting his efforts to pass a
bipartisan overhaul of the criminal justice system.

``My father did not campaign on this issue. He tackled this injustice
because he has a deep compassion for those who have been treated
unfairly,'' she said. ``More than rhetoric and political prose, the
ability to build consensus and achieve bipartisan success like this will
help heal our country's racial inequities and bring us forward ---
together.''

Ms. Trump received a standing ovation from the crowd of about 2,000
people when she said her father made
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/15/world/middleeast/israel-uae-netanyahu-arabs.html}{a
peace agreement in the Middle East} between Israel and the United Arab
Emirates, calling it ``the biggest breakthrough in a quarter-century.''

Privately, Ms. Trump has sometimes clashed with her father, giving hope
to the president's critics that she might be able to hold back his worst
impulses. On that score, the record is mixed.

Despite urging Mr. Trump not to abandon the Paris climate accord, the
president did just that, accusing the agreement of imposing
\href{https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefings-statements/statement-president-trump-paris-climate-accord/}{``draconian
financial and economic burdens''} on the country. But she succeeded in
helping to persuade Mr. Trump to abandon the policy of separating
migrant families at the border after cries of outrage from around the
globe.

But on Thursday, Ms. Trump did not mention either of those issues.
Instead, she emphasized her support for her father and his priorities.

``Dad, people attack you for being unconventional, but I love you for
being real, and I respect you for being effective,'' she said.

Ms. Trump's profile is even higher abroad than it is at home, a fact
that has sometimes attracted scorn because of her perceived lack of
experience and formal position in the government. At an economic
conference in Davos, Switzerland, in January, Ms. Trump
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/01/22/world/europe/ivanka-trump-davos.html}{participated
in a bilateral meeting} with the prime minister of Pakistan, Imran Khan,
and hosted a breakfast for corporate titans.

Ms. Trump has drawn criticism from ethics experts despite having shut
down her branded line of clothing in the summer of 2018. Recently, she
endorsed Goya beans
\href{https://twitter.com/IvankaTrump/status/1283221019684110337}{in a
picture on Twitter} after the company had became the target of a boycott
following its leader's praise for the president during a visit to the
White House. Experts called it an illegal abuse of her position for the
benefit of a private company.

Earlier, she
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/15/us/politics/coronavirus-ivanka-trump.html}{drew
criticism} for traveling to her family's New Jersey estate for Passover
in April despite travel restrictions that were in place because of the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus}{coronavirus
pandemic}.

--- \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/michael-d-shear}{Michael
D. Shear}

\hypertarget{melania-trump-wore-a-lime-green-dress-photoshoppers-noticed}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{melania-trump-wore-a-lime-green-dress-photoshoppers-noticed}{Melania
Trump wore a lime-green dress. Photoshoppers
noticed.}}{Melania Trump wore a lime-green dress. Photoshoppers noticed.}}\label{melania-trump-wore-a-lime-green-dress-photoshoppers-noticed}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/09/27/us/politics/27elections-briefing-greenscreen/27elections-briefing-greenscreen-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Melania Trump, appearing alongside President Trump on the last night of
the Republican convention, fell victim to one of the classic
photographic blunders.

The most famous is ``never hold up a whiteboard,'' but only slightly
less well-known is this: Never wear lime green.

As TV broadcasters and Photoshop aficionados know, doing so provides a
ready-made green screen on which anyone can overlay, well, anything.
Predictably, the memes started appearing within half an hour of Mrs.
Trump's emergence from the White House in a green dress.

Among the images placed on Mrs. Trump's dress were the numbers of
\href{https://twitter.com/ParkerMolloy/status/1299174942882365441}{coronavirus
infections and deaths} in the United States, footage of Mr. Trump
\href{https://twitter.com/TheDailyShow/status/1299177915028996096}{with
Jeffrey Epstein},
\href{https://twitter.com/z3dster/status/1299173873171271681}{migrant
families crowded behind a fence},
\href{https://twitter.com/_sheateher/status/1299181746315902976}{coronavirus
particles} and a
\href{https://twitter.com/z3dster/status/1299186834375872513}{Joe Biden
campaign logo}. The Lincoln Project
\href{https://twitter.com/ProjectLincoln/status/1299186516300832770}{also
jumped in}.

\begin{quote}
Gorgeous dress
\href{https://t.co/JV0Da0RLrU}{pic.twitter.com/JV0Da0RLrU}

--- Parker Molloy (@ParkerMolloy)
\href{https://twitter.com/ParkerMolloy/status/1299174942882365441?ref_src=twsrc\%5Etfw}{August
28, 2020}
\end{quote}

\begin{quote}
Melania's fashion choices always send a message
\href{https://t.co/FvriwnX0fR}{pic.twitter.com/FvriwnX0fR}

--- The Daily Show (@TheDailyShow)
\href{https://twitter.com/TheDailyShow/status/1299177915028996096?ref_src=twsrc\%5Etfw}{August
28, 2020}
\end{quote}

--- \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/maggie-astor}{Maggie
Astor}

\hypertarget{alice-marie-johnson-whose-sentence-was-commuted-by-trump-says-he-saw-her-as-a-person}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{alice-marie-johnson-whose-sentence-was-commuted-by-trump-says-he-saw-her-as-a-person}{Alice
Marie Johnson, whose sentence was commuted by Trump, says he saw her `as
a
person.'}}{Alice Marie Johnson, whose sentence was commuted by Trump, says he saw her `as a person.'}}\label{alice-marie-johnson-whose-sentence-was-commuted-by-trump-says-he-saw-her-as-a-person}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/27/us/politics/27elections-briefing-AliceJohnson2/merlin_176262645_cdfddcad-24e5-4c9b-91f1-efadacba6878-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Alice Marie Johnson was serving a life sentence in an Alabama prison for
a nonviolent drug conviction when Kim Kardashian West discovered her
story on social media and personally appealed on her behalf to President
Trump.

Mr. Trump liked Ms. West, and he liked Ms. Johnson's story, of someone
who became a playwright, a mentor, a certified hospice volunteer, an
ordained minister behind bars. He
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/06/06/us/politics/trump-alice-johnson-sentence-commuted-kim-kardashian-west.html}{commuted
her sentence in 2018}, after she spent nearly 22 years in prison.

Since then, Ms. Johnson has become the administration's preferred poster
child (or poster grandmother) for criminal justice reform, and her
inclusion at this year's Republican convention was no surprise.

Ms. Johnson's story was featured in the Trump campaign's
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/02/04/us/politics/trump-super-bowl-ad.html}{multimillion-dollar
Super Bowl ad}, designed to appeal to Black voters, or at least make
them feel that there was an option to vote for on the Republican side of
the aisle. She appeared this year as a speaker at the Conservative
Political Action Conference, where she told her inspiring personal story
and credited Mr. Trump for her freedom.

Her voting rights have not been restored and she will not be able to
cast her ballot for Mr. Trump.

But she is valuable to the Trump White House because she is a person of
color telling a heartfelt, personal story about how the president's
policies brought her justice.

On Thursday night, she said that Mr. Trump's decision to sign into law
the First Step Act, which modified federal sentencing laws and took
steps to reduce recidivism, ``brought joy, hope, and freedom to
thousands of well-deserving people. I hollered `hallelujah!' My faith in
justice and mercy was rewarded.''

She said that when Mr. Trump heard her story, ``he saw me as a person.
He had compassion. And he acted.''

Ms. Johnson has tried to use her platform and unique access to the Trump
White House, as well, to fight for justice for women she was close with
when serving in prison. The three African-American women
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/02/18/us/politics/trump-pardons.html}{whose
commutations the White House announced in February} were all people whom
Ms. Johnson served time with, knows intimately and had recommended for
clemency.

--- \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/annie-karni}{Annie
Karni}

\hypertarget{advertisement-2}{%
\subsubsection{Advertisement}\label{advertisement-2}}

\protect\hyperlink{after-dfp-ad-mid3}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{protesters-gather-in-dc-shortly-before-trumps-speech-to-denounce-the-shooting-of-jacob-blake}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{protesters-gather-in-dc-shortly-before-trumps-speech-to-denounce-the-shooting-of-jacob-blake}{Protesters
gather in D.C. shortly before Trump's speech to denounce the shooting of
Jacob
Blake.}}{Protesters gather in D.C. shortly before Trump's speech to denounce the shooting of Jacob Blake.}}\label{protesters-gather-in-dc-shortly-before-trumps-speech-to-denounce-the-shooting-of-jacob-blake}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/27/us/politics/27elections-protest-27-18-312/merlin_176261196_c991526b-ea28-4007-ada5-da8162b18655-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

The shooting of
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/27/us/kenosha-shooting-protests.html?name=styln-george-floyd\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=1_Show\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=7e516e60-e8d7-11ea-93c4-edef82735b0d}{Jacob
Blake}, a Black father in Wisconsin who was partly paralyzed after a
white officer fired at him in front of his children, reignited
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/george-floyd-protests-minneapolis-new-york-los-angeles}{protests
against racism and police violence} in the nation's capital on Thursday,
not long before President Trump was expected to address the Republican
National Convention from the White House, just yards away.

Fred Nelson, 54, a retired police officer, said he was attending the
demonstration for his Black sons. Even as more and more Black people
were killed at the hands of the police this summer, nothing had seemed
to change, he said, a common frustration among the protesters.

``Enough is enough,'' he said. ``Every week is a different incident.
Something has to be done. If not now, when?''

Sydney Williams, 28, had been to similar protests nearly every week
since May. But the news coverage had disappeared, she said, adding that
maybe protesters needed to ``step on Congress's neck'' to get something
done.

Nearby, several Latino advocacy groups projected some of Mr. Trump's
remarks about undocumented immigrants onto the Newseum, including:
``These aren't people. These are animals.''

Later in the evening, the demonstration evolved from what was a standoff
between the police and protesters into a de facto block party along
Black Lives Matter Plaza. Some danced to music played by D.J.s, and a
drumming troupe performed for the crowd.

Protesters in Washington joined others across the country who have
denounced the shooting of Mr. Blake in Kenosha, Wis.

The Justice Department has opened an investigation into the episode.

Thousands are expected to congregate in the nation's capital on Friday
to commemorate the 57th anniversary of the March on Washington and to
protest police brutality. The families of
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/31/us/george-floyd-investigation.html}{George
Floyd} and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/breonna-taylor-police.html}{Breonna
Taylor}, whose deaths at the hands of the police incited protests
earlier this year, are expected to speak.

--- \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/hailey-fuchs}{Hailey
Fuchs}

\hypertarget{carl-and-marsha-mueller-whose-daughter-was-killed-by-isis-say-they-wish-trump-had-been-president-at-the-time}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{carl-and-marsha-mueller-whose-daughter-was-killed-by-isis-say-they-wish-trump-had-been-president-at-the-time}{Carl
and Marsha Mueller, whose daughter was killed by ISIS, say they wish
Trump had been president at the
time.}}{Carl and Marsha Mueller, whose daughter was killed by ISIS, say they wish Trump had been president at the time.}}\label{carl-and-marsha-mueller-whose-daughter-was-killed-by-isis-say-they-wish-trump-had-been-president-at-the-time}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/27/us/politics/27elections-briefing-mueller2/27elections-briefing-mueller2-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Carl and Marsha Mueller, whose daughter was kidnapped and killed by
Islamic State militants, said they believed she would have been rescued
if President Trump had been in office at the time.

Their daughter, Kayla, a 26-year-old humanitarian worker, was kidnapped
shortly after entering Syria in 2013, held hostage and repeatedly raped.

``For 18 months, she endured, and we endured an agonizing back-and-forth
between us, the Obama administration and ISIS,'' Mr. Mueller said. ``We
put all our faith in the government. But the government let us down.
President Obama refused to meet with us until ISIS had already beheaded
other Americans. To this day, we've never heard from Joe Biden.''

He added: ``The military prepared a rescue mission, but the White House
delayed it. By the time it went forward, Kayla had been moved to another
location.''

Kayla Mueller's death
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2015/02/11/world/middleeast/parents-of-kayla-mueller-isis-hostage-confirm-she-is-dead.html}{was
confirmed} in February 2015. The Islamic State
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2015/02/07/world/middleeast/isis-claims-american-hostage-killed-by-jordanian-retaliation-bombings.html}{claimed
at the time} that she had died in a Jordanian airstrike, but more recent
evidence indicates that the group's leader at the time, Abu Bakr
al-Baghdadi,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/11/12/us/politics/kayla-mueller-baghdadi.html}{may
have ordered her killing}.

Mr. al-Baghdadi
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/10/27/world/middleeast/al-baghdadi-dead.html}{died
in October} during a United States Special Operations raid named after
Kayla.

Ms. Mueller read excerpts from a letter that another hostage smuggled
out, in which Kayla wrote, ``Know I am also fighting from my side in the
ways I am able, and I have a lot of fight left inside of me.''

Marsha Mueller added that she and her husband supported Mr. Trump
``because of his commitment to make and keep America great, not with the
power of the government, but with the passion of people like Kayla ---
Americans who, even in the darkest days, always have more fight left
inside of them.''

--- \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/maggie-astor}{Maggie
Astor}

\hypertarget{tom-cotton-exaggerating-facts-about-bidens-record-claims-he-would-be-weak-on-foreign-policy}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{tom-cotton-exaggerating-facts-about-bidens-record-claims-he-would-be-weak-on-foreign-policy}{Tom
Cotton, exaggerating facts about Biden's record, claims he would be weak
on foreign
policy.}}{Tom Cotton, exaggerating facts about Biden's record, claims he would be weak on foreign policy.}}\label{tom-cotton-exaggerating-facts-about-bidens-record-claims-he-would-be-weak-on-foreign-policy}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/27/us/elections/Screen-Shot-2020-08-27-at-10-cotton/Screen-Shot-2020-08-27-at-10-videoSixteenByNineJumbo1600.png}

Senator Tom Cotton of Arkansas on Thursday delivered a searing critique
of former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr.'s foreign policy, warning
in a speech at the Republican National Convention that electing Mr.
Biden as president would ``return us to a weak and dangerous past.''

One of the most conservative Republicans since arriving in the Senate
five years ago, Mr. Cotton has become a Trump whisperer on key subjects,
urging the president to be more aggressive against China, immigrants and
protesters.

In his remarks, Mr. Cotton exaggerated the facts about Mr. Biden's
record, claiming that the former vice president ``let ISIS terrorists
rampage across the Middle East'' and ``treated Israel like a nuisance.''
In fact, the Obama-Biden administration waged a fierce campaign against
the Islamic State and engaged repeatedly with Israel's government.

A former Army infantry officer, Mr. Cotton's hawkish views about the use
of force abroad have sometimes clashed with those of Mr. Trump, who has
said he wants to pull back American troops from what he calls misguided
overseas adventures.

But Mr. Cotton has Mr. Trump's ear when it comes to his desire to cut
legal immigration. In the summer of 2017, Mr. Cotton persuaded the
president to endorse his Raise Act, a Senate bill that would have
reduced the flow of legal immigration into the United States by half.

When the president appeared to be on the brink of a deal in 2018 with
Democrats to legalize young undocumented immigrants known as Dreamers,
it was Mr. Cotton who rushed with other conservative allies to the Oval
Office to talk him out of it.

A fierce critic of China, Mr. Cotton has been relentless in pushing Mr.
Trump to blame that country's Communist leadership for the coronavirus.
Mr. Trump's decision to
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/07/us/politics/coronavirus-trump-who.html}{leave
the World Health Organization} came after intense lobbying from Mr.
Cotton about the agency's deference to the Chinese leadership.

On Thursday, Mr. Cotton lashed out at Mr. Biden for, he said, having
``aided and abetted China's rise for 50 years with terrible trade deals
that closed our factories and laid off our workers.''

He did not offer specifics, but boasted that Mr. Trump ``stands up to
China's cheating and stealing and lying.'' He insisted that Mr. Biden
would be weak in the face of China and other adversaries, while Mr.
Trump has not.

``We need a president who stands up for America --- not one who takes a
knee,'' Mr. Cotton said, a reference to athletes who have protested
against racial injustice.

When pockets of violence broke out in several American cities amid the
largely peaceful protests that took place after the killing of George
Floyd by the Minneapolis police, Mr. Cotton was vocal in urging the
president to take aggressive action to impose order.

In June, The New York Times published an Op-Ed article by Mr. Cotton in
which he described an ``orgy of violence'' after the killing of Mr.
Floyd and called for the president to ``employ the military'' to stop
looting during protests. The
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/03/opinion/tom-cotton-protests-military.html}{essay}
was titled ``Send In the Troops.''

After many of The Times's readers and employees objected, noting that
Mr. Cotton's article contained falsehoods and saying it had put Black
people, including Times staff members, in danger, the newspaper
concluded that ``the essay fell short of our standards and should not
have been published.''

--- \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/michael-d-shear}{Michael
D. Shear}

\hypertarget{advertisement-3}{%
\subsubsection{Advertisement}\label{advertisement-3}}

\protect\hyperlink{after-dfp-ad-mid4}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{i-think-its-pretty-boring-when-you-do-tapes-trump-said-before-his-almost-entirely-pretaped-convention}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{i-think-its-pretty-boring-when-you-do-tapes-trump-said-before-his-almost-entirely-pretaped-convention}{`I
think it's pretty boring when you do tapes,' Trump said, before his
almost entirely pretaped
convention.}}{`I think it's pretty boring when you do tapes,' Trump said, before his almost entirely pretaped convention.}}\label{i-think-its-pretty-boring-when-you-do-tapes-trump-said-before-his-almost-entirely-pretaped-convention}}

After taking in a week's worth of Democratic convention programming,
President Trump saw room for improvement, simply on a production level.

``We're going to have more of it live than what they did,'' Mr. Trump
told Fox News last week. ``I think it's pretty boring when you do
tapes.''

In fact, the vast, vast majority of Mr. Trump's convention --- which
aides promised would be more of a traditional ``live'' event --- has
been taped hours before broadcast. Most of the speeches from Trump
family members, White House officials and elected officials in the
Mellon Auditorium in Washington, D.C., were taped ahead of time.

On Thursday, almost the entire program was on tape, save for appearances
by Ben Carson, the secretary of housing and urban Development, and the
president's daughter Ivanka. Mr. Trump's speech was also set to be
delivered live.

The Trump campaign asked most of its speakers to pretape their remarks
on a patriotic set inside the Mellon Auditorium, lending the illusion of
a live event --- no domestic Zoom backdrops here. But this was almost as
much of a virtual convention as the Democrats'.

The White House press secretary, Kayleigh McEnany, for instance, watched
her own appearance at the convention from her office in the West Wing,
surrounded by her staff. Rudolph W. Giuliani, the former New York City
mayor whose speech played on Thursday, was seated on the South Lawn as
part of the convention audience, ahead of Mr. Trump's own speech.

The reliance on tape was only surprising because Mr. Trump claimed he
was going to do it live. Television producers rely on pretape because it
minimizes risk and makes for a smoother viewing experience without gaps
and hiccups.

--- \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/annie-karni}{Annie
Karni} and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/michael-m-grynbaum}{Michael
M. Grynbaum}

\hypertarget{republicans-mount-an-all-out-assault-against-a-familiar-enemy-new-york-city}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{republicans-mount-an-all-out-assault-against-a-familiar-enemy-new-york-city}{Republicans
mount an all-out assault against a familiar enemy: New York
City.}}{Republicans mount an all-out assault against a familiar enemy: New York City.}}\label{republicans-mount-an-all-out-assault-against-a-familiar-enemy-new-york-city}}

For the first half of the final night of the Republican National
Convention, you could be forgiven for thinking the Democratic
presidential nominee was New York City itself.

Rudolph W. Giuliani, a former New York mayor, attacked the city. Patrick
Lynch, the president of the city's police union, ticked through a list
of local people killed by gun violence. There was a video montage
attacking, for some reason, Mayor Bill de Blasio (who, it should be
noted, did briefly run for president himself last year).

And Senator Mitch McConnell, the majority leader, in his very brief
testimonial, proudly noted that he was the only leader in Washington not
from New York or California.

All this for the city that launched President Trump's career in real
estate, the media and eventually politics.

It's hard to imagine a Democratic convention spending an evening firing
a series of attacks against a heavily Republican state like Oklahoma or
Idaho. But Republicans don't think twice about painting New York or San
Francisco as political boogeymen, places to hold up as examples of what
the rest of the country wants to avoid.

Much of this is simply Republicans engaging in the very identity
politics they claim to abhor. New York City is full of Black and
Hispanic people, and millions of immigrants --- the sort of people
Republicans have long used to scare up votes in white America long
before Mr. Trump's rise.

Now that they have a president eager and willing to tar American cities
because they are governed by Democrats, there is very little subtlety to
their attacks on New York City.

--- \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/reid-j-epstein}{Reid J.
Epstein}

\hypertarget{rudy-giuliani-returns-to-his-law-and-order-roots}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{rudy-giuliani-returns-to-his-law-and-order-roots}{Rudy
Giuliani returns to his law-and-order
roots.}}{Rudy Giuliani returns to his law-and-order roots.}}\label{rudy-giuliani-returns-to-his-law-and-order-roots}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/27/us/elections/Screen-Shot-2020-08-27-at-10/Screen-Shot-2020-08-27-at-10-videoSixteenByNineJumbo1600.png}

Four years ago at the Republican National Convention, Rudolph W.
Giuliani, the former New York City mayor, played the role that Kimberly
Guilfoyle took on this year --- acting as the speaker who delivered a
speech at the highest decibel.

Standing on the stage in Cleveland, fists clenched, arms open, Mr.
Giuliani shouted a fear-stoking message to viewers that the world was
full of threats and terror.

``The vast majority of Americans today do not feel safe,'' he said then.
``They fear for their children and they fear for themselves. They fear
for our police officers who are being targeted.''

On Thursday night, Mr. Giuliani came for a reprise, and a return to his
roots in law and order, rather than speaking as the person who has
recently tried to dig up dirt abroad about former Vice President Joseph
R. Biden, Jr., the Democratic presidential nominee.

He described New York City, the city he once led, as a place ``in
shock," and blamed its Democratic mayor, Bill de Blasio.

``Murders, shootings and violent crime are increasing at percentages
unheard of in the past,'' he said, inaccurately. ``We are seeing the
return of rioting and looting.''

He claimed, falsely, that New York was overwhelmed by crime.

He urged viewers, ``Don't let Democrats do to America what they have
done to New York!''

He credited Mr. Trump for condemning the senseless killing of George
Floyd by the police. But he claimed the left had decided to protest
because it had, in his words, ``a president to beat and a country to
destroy.''

``They hijacked the peaceful protests'' and turned them into ``vicious
riots,'' he said. In reality, violent demonstrators and looters
represented only a small fraction of the protesters who have gathered
across the country this summer.

Mr. Giuliani has, in his most recent iteration, been at the center of
the efforts to dig up dirt and any possible conflicts of interest
involving Hunter Biden, the son of Mr. Biden, specifically in Ukraine,
in order to portray the Democratic nominee as corrupt. The effort by Mr.
Trump and his allies to find damaging information about Mr. Trump's
political rivals formed the basis of the inquiry that led to Mr. Trump's
impeachment.

But Mr. Giuliani notably did not mention Hunter Biden at all during his
speech.

Attaching himself to Mr. Trump
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/27/us/politics/trump-washington-giuliani.html}{gave
Mr. Giuliani a second shot at relevance} four years ago, and that has
not abated in the past four years. Many White House officials would
prefer this weren't the case.

After joining Mr. Trump's legal team as his personal lawyer during the
special counsel's investigation, Mr. Giuliani's television appearances
often appeared to simply ignite new questions about abuse of power by a
president coercing a foreign leader to investigate a political rival.

But Mr. Trump always defended him, even when Mr. Giuliani was
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/10/11/us/politics/rudy-giuliani-investigation.html}{under
investigation} by federal prosecutors for his dealings in Ukraine, as
``a great crime fighter.''

--- \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/annie-karni}{Annie
Karni}

\hypertarget{advertisement-4}{%
\subsubsection{Advertisement}\label{advertisement-4}}

\protect\hyperlink{after-dfp-ad-mid5}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{patrick-lynch-a-police-union-chief-who-fought-reforms-blasts-democrats}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{patrick-lynch-a-police-union-chief-who-fought-reforms-blasts-democrats}{Patrick
Lynch, a police union chief who fought reforms, blasts
Democrats.}}{Patrick Lynch, a police union chief who fought reforms, blasts Democrats.}}\label{patrick-lynch-a-police-union-chief-who-fought-reforms-blasts-democrats}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/27/us/politics/27elections-briefing-thrush-27-16-24/27elections-briefing-thrush-27-16-24-articleLarge.png?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Patrick Lynch, the head of New York City's conservative police union,
who\href{https://www.nbcnews.com/news/us-news/police-union-suggests-work-slowdown-after-nypd-officer-fired-eric-n1044486}{fiercely
defended the officers responsible for the chokehold killing of Eric
Garner in 2014}, offered a blistering defense of law enforcement that
conjured bad-old-days images of his city's past --- and, to hear his
glum forecast, its future.

``Unlike the Democrats, who froze in the face of rioting and looting,
President Trump gives law enforcement the support and the tools to go
out there and put a stop to it --- period, end of story,'' Mr. Lynch
said on Thursday at the Republican convention.

``Democratic politicians have surrendered our streets and
institutions,'' he added. ``The loudest voices have taken control, and
our so-called leaders are scrambling to catch up to them.''

The inclusion in the prime-time program of Mr. Lynch --- who has for
decades resisted efforts to hold his 24,000 members accountable for the
deaths of civilians in their custody --- sent as clear a message as any
speaker, apart perhaps from former Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani, of Mr.
Trump's one-sided view of the protests against police killings.

Mr. Lynch's comments followed a week of unrest after an officer in
Kenosha, Wis., shot Jacob Blake, a Black man, seven times in the back in
front of his young children, leaving him paralyzed. Mr. Lynch has
responded to recent police killings, including the death of George Floyd
in Minneapolis,
\href{https://www.newyorker.com/magazine/2020/08/03/how-police-unions-fight-reform}{by
accusing demonstrators of behaving like terrorists}.

The political dynamic inside Mr. Lynch's union, the Police Benevolent
Association, in some ways resembles that of the country at large; Mr.
Lynch, who enjoys deep support among white officers who live in Staten
Island, Queens and the suburbs, in 2015 survived his toughest
re-election fight, fending off two candidates who drew support from the
growing percentage of Black, Hispanic and Asian officers in his ranks.

--- \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/glenn-thrush}{Glenn
Thrush}

\hypertarget{ann-dorn-whose-husband-was-killed-during-protests-tells-her-story-as-part-of-a-dark-portrayal-of-america}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{ann-dorn-whose-husband-was-killed-during-protests-tells-her-story-as-part-of-a-dark-portrayal-of-america}{Ann
Dorn, whose husband was killed during protests, tells her story as part
of a dark portrayal of
America.}}{Ann Dorn, whose husband was killed during protests, tells her story as part of a dark portrayal of America.}}\label{ann-dorn-whose-husband-was-killed-during-protests-tells-her-story-as-part-of-a-dark-portrayal-of-america}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/27/us/politics/27elections-briefing-dorn2/27elections-briefing-dorn2-articleLarge.png?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Ann Dorn, a sergeant in the St. Louis Police Department whose husband
was killed during protests in June, described the night of his death in
emotional detail in a speech at the Republican convention.

Her husband, David Dorn, a retired police captain, was fatally shot by
someone who had broken into a pawnshop during the unrest that followed
the police killing of George Floyd in Minneapolis. Mr. Dorn did not wake
her up when he went out to check on the shop, which belonged to a
friend; she found out, she said, when the chief of police rang her
doorbell at 4 a.m.

``I wondered why Dave had not answered the door,'' Ms. Dorn said. ``It
wasn't uncommon for him to be up watching TV at this time. I called out
to him several times. There was no reply. He just wasn't there. I let in
the chief, and fighting back tears, he uttered the words every officer's
spouse dreads.''

She continued: ``I relive that horror in my mind every single day. My
hope is that having you relive it with me now will help shake this
country from this nightmare we are witnessing in our cities and bring
about positive, peaceful change.''

Her appearance at the convention was part of an effort by Mr. Trump's
campaign to portray the country as convulsed by violence and anarchy, a
dramatic exaggeration of the limited violence that has occurred amid
mostly peaceful protests. It was also an example of the rhetorical
gymnastics that
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/27/us/politics/rnc-trump-convention-night-3.html}{many
convention speakers have been doing}: arguing that re-electing Mr. Trump
is the solution to problems that are happening now, on his watch.

``Violence and destruction are not legitimate forms of protest,'' Ms.
Dorn said. ``They do not safeguard Black lives --- they only destroy
them. President Trump understands this, has offered federal help to
restore order in our communities. In a time when police departments are
short on resources and manpower, we need that help.''

Mr. Dorn's daughters
\href{http://www.stlamerican.com/news/national_news/david-dorn-s-daughters-oppose-father-s-widow-speaking-at-rnc/article_da760964-e7fe-11ea-81fd-8f15f591da91.html}{told
The St. Louis American} this week that they were upset by Ms. Dorn's
decision to speak at the convention, and that their father had not
supported Mr. Trump.

``We know his wife is a Trump supporter, but he was not,'' his daughter
Debra White told the paper. ``He frequently said they were not able to
talk about politics, because they were at the opposite ends of the
spectrum. I know he would not want his legacy to be for his death to be
used to further Trump's law-and-order agenda.''

--- \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/maggie-astor}{Maggie
Astor}

\hypertarget{ben-carson-the-lone-black-person-in-trumps-cabinet-offers-consolation-to-jacob-blakes-family}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{ben-carson-the-lone-black-person-in-trumps-cabinet-offers-consolation-to-jacob-blakes-family}{Ben
Carson, the lone Black person in Trump's cabinet, offers consolation to
Jacob Blake's
family.}}{Ben Carson, the lone Black person in Trump's cabinet, offers consolation to Jacob Blake's family.}}\label{ben-carson-the-lone-black-person-in-trumps-cabinet-offers-consolation-to-jacob-blakes-family}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/27/us/politics/27vid-rnc-Ben-Carson/27vid-rnc-Ben-Carson-videoSixteenByNine3000.jpg}

Ben Carson, the only Black person in President Trump's cabinet, was the
first speaker on Thursday to offer his consolation to the family of
Jacob Blake, the Kenosha, Wis., man left paralyzed after being shot by a
police officer in front of his children --- striking a rare conciliatory
note during a four-day convention devoted to sharp law-and-order
rhetoric.

``Before I begin, I'd like to say that our hearts go out to the Blake
family and the other families who have been impacted by the tragic
events in Kenosha,'' said Mr. Carson, the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/03/05/us/ben-carson-hud.html}{secretary
of housing and urban development}, while also criticizing the unrest
that followed.

``As Jacob's mother has urged the country, lets use our hearts, our
love, and our intelligence to work together to show the rest of the
world how humans are supposed to treat each other,'' he said. ``History
reminds us that necessary change comes through hope and love, not
senseless and destructive violence.''

Mr. Carson, a retired neurosurgeon whose 2016 presidential campaign
flopped after a promising start, has played a paradoxical role in the
administration.

Strikingly, Mr. Carson --- one of the most famous physicians in the
country --- barely touched on the medical issue that has confounded Mr.
Trump, the coronavirus pandemic.

After a
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2017/08/12/us/charlottesville-protest-white-nationalist.html}{white
nationalist rally in Charlottesville, Va.}, in 2017, he quietly pressed
the president to moderate his tone on the issue of race while
\href{https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/politics/wp/2017/08/16/ben-carson-calls-criticism-of-trumps-charlottesville-response-little-squabbles-being-blown-out-of-proportion/}{publicly
defending Mr. Trump} when he equated white nationalists with
counterprotesters.

Yet as HUD secretary he has pursued policies that are at the vanguard of
the president's efforts at driving a wedge between Black homeowners and
white suburbanites, pressing for a rollback of an Obama-era inclusionary
housing plan that Mr. Trump has falsely
claimed\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/01/us/politics/trump-obama-housing-discrimination.html}{is
a Democratic attempt to ``destroy the suburbs.''}

The soft-spoken secretary has also pursued a hard-edge conservative
agenda at an agency responsible for overseeing public and subsidized
housing in low-income neighborhoods throughout the country. He has
thrown his support behind immense budget cuts proposed by Mr. Trump's
budget office,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/01/us/politics/hud-transgender.html}{scrapped
protections for homeless transgender people,} and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/03/28/us/ben-carson-hud-fair-housing-discrimination.html}{sidelined
the department's once powerful fair housing division} that under
President Barack Obama brought desegregation cases.

After issuing his call for restraint, Mr. Carson launched into a speech
that touched on his self-help conservative philosophy, praised Mr.
Trump's anti-abortion stance and, like so many other Black speakers at a
convention for a party overwhelmingly run by whites, vouched for Mr.
Trump's virtue on matters of race.

``President Trump does not dabble in identity politics,'' said Mr.
Carson, referring to a president who began his presidential campaign for
years ago by suggesting that Mexicans were rapists. ``Many on the other
side love to incite division by claiming that President Trump is a
racist. They could not be more wrong.''

--- \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/glenn-thrush}{Glenn
Thrush}

\hypertarget{advertisement-5}{%
\subsubsection{Advertisement}\label{advertisement-5}}

\protect\hyperlink{after-dfp-ad-mid6}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{sean-reyes-argues-that-trump-has-kept-his-promises-to-tackle-human-trafficking-and-the-opioid-crisis}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{sean-reyes-argues-that-trump-has-kept-his-promises-to-tackle-human-trafficking-and-the-opioid-crisis}{Sean
Reyes argues that Trump has kept his promises to tackle human
trafficking and the opioid
crisis.}}{Sean Reyes argues that Trump has kept his promises to tackle human trafficking and the opioid crisis.}}\label{sean-reyes-argues-that-trump-has-kept-his-promises-to-tackle-human-trafficking-and-the-opioid-crisis}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/27/us/politics/27elections-briefing-sean-reyes/merlin_176260956_b4a98993-e99f-40ae-8e01-7c09ba5f907c-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Sean Reyes, Utah's attorney general and a longtime backer of President
Trump, highlighted what he said was Mr. Trump's record of cracking down
on human trafficking and stemming the nation's opioid crisis, saying on
Thursday that he had kept his campaign promises to do both.

Mr. Reyes, who has been formally tagged as one of the Republican Party's
``\href{https://www.gop.com/rnc-announces-winter-meeting-2015-rising-stars/}{rising
stars},'' argued that Mr. Trump was ``a fierce warrior against human
trafficking'' and had taken ``aggressive action to break the chains of
drug addiction.'' During his time as Utah's top law enforcement agent,
Mr. Reyes has placed the issues of human trafficking and drug use at the
front of his agenda, helming **** statewide task forces focused on both.

Citing time he spent discussing these topics with Mr. Trump, Mr. Reyes
asserted that Mr. Trump and his administration had ``done more to combat
human trafficking than any administration in modern history.''

``That's a promise kept,'' he said. Similarly, he listed a number of
actions that he said Mr. Trump had taken to combat the opioid epidemic
that he said would save lives.

During his more than three years in office, Mr. Trump has sought to
fulfill a campaign promise by
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2017/10/26/us/politics/trump-opioid-crisis.html}{declaring
the opioid crisis a public health emergency} and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/03/19/us/politics/trump-new-hampshire-opioid-plan.html}{unveiling
a plan to combat the epidemic} that involved getting ``tougher on drug
dealers.'' He has also
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/04/24/us/politics/trump-opioid-crisis.html}{promised
to provide} more funding for treatment and stronger scrutiny of
pharmaceutical companies.

Many leading experts on the opioid crisis have criticized the federal
government's response as too slow and inadequately funded. But they have
acknowledged that the situation has improved somewhat
\href{https://www.whitehouse.gov/opioids/}{under Mr. Trump}, while
continuing to air concerns that his tough talk on the epidemic often
lacks details.

Earlier this year, Mr. Trump held what he called
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/01/31/us/politics/trump-trafficking.html}{a
summit on human trafficking} at the White House and issued an executive
order aimed at combating it. But some activists have been unsatisfied,
arguing that the administration has been dismissive of claims by women
and children who have been trafficked over the southern border; some
said they did not attend the meeting because they were concerned it
would amount to a promotional event for Mr. Trump rather than a
listening session.

The son of a Spanish-Filipino father and a Japanese-Hawaiian mother, Mr.
Reyes highlighted his background in his remarks on Thursday. He opened
and closed his speech by discussing his admiration for his father, who
he said had recently died of cancer.

``When he passed, he had by his bedside: his scriptures, family photos
and a pen President Trump gave me to give him,'' Mr. Reyes said of his
father. ``Dad loved that pen. It represented freedom to him, the freedom
that only exists when someone is willing to fight for it. To my father,
President Trump is that ultimate warrior fighting for our freedom.''

Mr. Reyes is one of several high-profile people of color in the party
whom officials have tapped to speak throughout the four-day convention.
Most --- including Senator Tim Scott of South Carolina and Nikki Haley,
the former United Nations ambassador --- have used at least part of
their speaking time to try to assuage voters' concerns about Mr. Trump's
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/17/us/politics/trump-election.html}{racist
statements} and the Republican Party's view on race writ large.

Mr. Reyes took office in 2013 to finish out the term of John Swallow,
who resigned during a corruption investigation. He
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/elections/2016/results/utah-attorney-general}{won
re-election handily} and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/06/30/us/elections/results-utah-primary-elections.html}{won
his Republican primary earlier this year}. He will face
\href{https://www.sltrib.com/news/2020/03/17/utah-defense-attorney/}{Greg
Skordas}, a high-profile lawyer, in November.

--- \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/matt-stevens}{Matt
Stevens}

\hypertarget{mitch-mcconnell-calls-the-senate-a-firewall-against-democrats-describing-their-agenda-in-hyperbolic-terms}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{mitch-mcconnell-calls-the-senate-a-firewall-against-democrats-describing-their-agenda-in-hyperbolic-terms}{Mitch
McConnell calls the Senate a `firewall' against Democrats, describing
their agenda in hyperbolic
terms.}}{Mitch McConnell calls the Senate a `firewall' against Democrats, describing their agenda in hyperbolic terms.}}\label{mitch-mcconnell-calls-the-senate-a-firewall-against-democrats-describing-their-agenda-in-hyperbolic-terms}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/27/us/politics/27elections-briefing-mcconnel/merlin_176260392_ae65005b-b5b5-4310-b8db-385106fb3af1-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the Senate majority leader, said
returning President Trump to the White House for a second term was
``incredibly consequential for Middle America'' in brief remarks on the
fourth night of the Republican convention.

Calling the Senate ``the firewall'' against Speaker Nancy Pelosi and the
Democrats, Mr. McConnell warned that voters must elect Republicans to
protect against a damaging agenda that he described with hyperbole and
exaggeration.

Democrats, he said, want to ``decide how we should live our lives. They
want to tell you, when you can go to work, when your kids can go to
school. They want to tax your job out of existence, and then send you a
government check for unemployment. They want to tell you what kind of
car you can drive, what sources of information are credible, and even
how many hamburgers you can eat.''

He also warned that Democrats were
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/26/us/politics/dc-statehood-house-vote.html}{pushing
for statehood for Washington, D.C.}, saying that they want to ``codify''
their liberal agenda ``by making the swamp itself, Washington, D.C.,
America's 51st state, with two more liberal senators.''

He urged voters to support ``my friend, President Donald Trump.''

Two men could hardly have more different personalities. Yet in the last
four years, Mr. McConnell and President Trump have become essential to
each other.

Mr. McConnell has led Republicans in the Senate since the beginning of
2007, much of that time locked in combat with a White House run by
former President Barack Obama. Mr. Trump's election changed the
equation.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/27/us/politics/27vid-rnc-Mitch-McConnell/merlin_176260863_fbea1d8a-6ec7-4e6d-83e1-983c60a97d88-videoSixteenByNineJumbo1600.jpg}

For Mr. McConnell, a six-term Kentucky senator,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/01/22/magazine/mcconnell-senate-trump.html}{the
president makes possible the pursuit of an agenda} that is at the core
of what he believes in: a strong military, lower taxes, conservative
judges and a robust defense of anti-abortion and pro-gun positions.

It is barely a secret on Capitol Hill that Mr. McConnell, stoic by
nature, is disdainful of the president's undisciplined manner, his fiery
outbursts and his xenophobic messaging. But the majority leader has
rarely challenged the president publicly or privately.

Instead, Mr. McConnell is one of the president's most ardent defenders
and led the effort to secure Mr. Trump's acquittal after Speaker Nancy
Pelosi successfully impeached the president for high crimes and
misdemeanors just before Christmas last year.

Mr. McConnell's ability to shape the Senate impeachment trial led to a
nearly unanimous verdict among Republicans in favor of the president's
acquittal; only Senator Mitt Romney of Utah voted for one of the
articles of impeachment.

But perhaps the most important role Mr. McConnell has played in the last
four years has been to successfully secure the confirmation of more than
200 federal judges, including two Supreme Court justices and more than
50 judges on the appeals courts.

That legacy is likely to outlast Mr. Trump, whether he wins another four
years in the White House or not.

--- \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/michael-d-shear}{Michael
D. Shear}

\hypertarget{dan-scavino-who-shapes-trumps-tweets-claims-the-president-shows-endless-kindness}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{dan-scavino-who-shapes-trumps-tweets-claims-the-president-shows-endless-kindness}{Dan
Scavino, who shapes Trump's tweets, claims the president shows `endless
kindness.'}}{Dan Scavino, who shapes Trump's tweets, claims the president shows `endless kindness.'}}\label{dan-scavino-who-shapes-trumps-tweets-claims-the-president-shows-endless-kindness}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/27/us/politics/27vid-rnc-Dan-Scavino/27vid-rnc-Dan-Scavino-videoSixteenByNine3000.jpg}

Dan Scavino first met President Trump in 1992, when he was chosen to be
his golf caddie.

The rest, as they say, is history.

Mr. Scavino has the distinction of being Mr. Trump's longest-serving
White House aide in a West Wing known for its fast-moving revolving door
where tenures are sometimes measured in 11-day increments known as
``Scaramuccis.'' Mr. Scavino, in contrast to basically everyone else,
has always been there.

``I have now been at President Trump's side for almost 30 years,'' he
said in his remarks Thursday night. ``He saw potential in me. A spark.
The possibility that I could be more, do more, and achieve more than
even I thought was possible.''

After working as the general manager of Trump National Golf Club, he
moved from the Trump Organization to the 2016 campaign, where he served
as Mr. Trump's social media director.

In the White House, he has risen to be a deputy chief of staff for
communications. Mr. Scavino is not a shaper of Trump administration
policy, but he is a shaper of Trump tweets. (He is often the person who
workshops tweets with Mr. Trump, and posts them to his Twitter feed.)

In an administration where senior officials are often caught off guard
by announcements the president shares on Twitter, having some control on
the account gives him a curiously powerful position in Trumpworld.

While he is often in the room, Mr. Scavino is rarely heard from. His
appearance at the Republican National Convention on the final night
marked a rare public foray for a behind-the-scenes staffer, and
something of a reward for a staff member Mr. Trump is considers loyal
and appreciates for not obviously trying to cash in on his association
with the president.

His inclusion in the program built on what viewers have seen all week
from White House staff members: personal testimonials vouching for a
thoughtful boss whose empathy is genuine and simply not seen on the
public stage. The pitch: take our word for it.

``If there is one thing I hope you will hear from me tonight, it is this
--- President Trump is a kind and decent man,'' he said. ``I wish you
could be at his side with me to see his endless kindness to everyone he
meets.''

--- \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/annie-karni}{Annie
Karni}

\hypertarget{advertisement-6}{%
\subsubsection{Advertisement}\label{advertisement-6}}

\protect\hyperlink{after-dfp-ad-mid7}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{jeff-van-drew-a-former-democratic-congressman-who-joined-the-republicans-heaps-praise-on-trump}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{jeff-van-drew-a-former-democratic-congressman-who-joined-the-republicans-heaps-praise-on-trump}{Jeff
Van Drew, a former Democratic congressman who joined the Republicans,
heaps praise on
Trump.}}{Jeff Van Drew, a former Democratic congressman who joined the Republicans, heaps praise on Trump.}}\label{jeff-van-drew-a-former-democratic-congressman-who-joined-the-republicans-heaps-praise-on-trump}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/27/us/politics/27elections-briefing-van-drew2/merlin_176260086_c5503b6b-a490-4681-bcac-8bd13fdafa5a-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Representative Jeff Van Drew of New Jersey, who garnered national
attention late last year after he
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/10/31/us/politics/who-voted-against-impeachment.html}{voted
against impeaching President Trump} and then left the Democratic Party
to become a Republican, said Thursday that the party he departed had
``moved from liberal to radical'' as he sought to paint his former
caucus and its leaders in an uncharitable light.

Mr. Van Drew, a centrist freshman who
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/12/19/us/politics/jeff-van-drew-trump.html}{has
pledged his ``undying support'' for Mr. Trump and curried favor with
him}, praised the president once more, saying he had ``made me feel more
comfortable and welcome in the Oval Office than Nancy Pelosi ever made
me feel in her caucus.''

**``**There are a lot of Democrats who support our President and are
disgusted for what their old Party --- what my old Party --- has
become,'' he said. ``Here's my advice: be true to who you are now, not
who the Democrats used to be.''

During his remarks, Mr. Van Drew, a former dentist and state legislator,
recounted his days in the national political spotlight, framing his
decision to
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/12/14/us/politics/jeff-van-drew-democrat-republican.html}{deflect
from the Democrats} and oppose impeachment as an ``easy call.''

He also attacked Joseph R. Biden Jr., the Democratic nominee, echoing
the Trump campaign's prediction that once in office, the former vice
president would move further to the left.

And although his vote and subsequent party change led to praise from Mr.
Trump and may have
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/07/07/us/elections/results-new-jersey-house-district-2-primary-election.html}{helped
him win the Republican primary}, Mr. Van Drew now faces a tough
general-election fight to continue representing the Second District, in
South Jersey. His decision to switch parties
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/12/16/nyregion/jeff-van-drew-democrat-republican.html}{enraged
both Democrats and Republicans in New Jersey}. And he now faces a stiff
challenge in November from Amy Kennedy, an educator and mental health
advocate who is the wife of former Representative Patrick J. Kennedy.

The district is Republican-leaning and was represented by a Republican
for 24 years before Mr. Van Drew's election in 2018.
\href{https://cookpolitical.com/ratings/house-race-ratings}{The Cook
Political Report} gives him a narrow edge in this year's race, and by
backing Mr. Trump in a nationally televised appearance, he is likely to
shore up support among staunch conservatives even if, at the same time,
he provides additional campaign fodder for Ms. Kennedy.

Mr. Trump won the congressional district by about five percentage points
in 2016.

--- \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/matt-stevens}{Matt
Stevens}

\hypertarget{jaron-smith-a-top-black-white-house-aide-continues-an-rnc-trend-by-saying-trump-has-deep-empathy}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{jaron-smith-a-top-black-white-house-aide-continues-an-rnc-trend-by-saying-trump-has-deep-empathy}{Ja'Ron
Smith, a top Black White House aide, continues an R.N.C. trend by saying
Trump has `deep
empathy.'}}{Ja'Ron Smith, a top Black White House aide, continues an R.N.C. trend by saying Trump has `deep empathy.'}}\label{jaron-smith-a-top-black-white-house-aide-continues-an-rnc-trend-by-saying-trump-has-deep-empathy}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/27/us/politics/27elections-briefing-thrush-27-16-08/merlin_176259591_90d64aa4-5264-4328-bfe3-a830f6fd2630-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Ja'Ron Smith, one of the most powerful Black White House aides, on
Thursday painted a very different picture of President Trump's behavior
than the one related by many Black leaders, and the families of people
killed by law enforcement.

``I have seen his true conscience. I just wish everyone would see the
deep empathy he shows the families whose loved ones were killed due to
senseless violence,'' said Mr. Smith, a former top aide to Senator Tim
Scott, Republican of South Carolina.

Mr. Smith serves in a Trump White House that has few people of color in
positions of real authority.

He was the driving force behind the creation of ``Opportunity Zones,''
the nascent tax credit program aimed at increasing investment in low
income areas, and he was one of the very few Trump aides who said they
had reached out to Black leaders during the protests after the killing
of George Floyd this year.

``As Republicans, it's our mission to renew the American dream, restore
our way of life and rebuild the greatest economy in the world,'' Mr.
Smith said on Thursday. ``The socialist Democrats have a different
agenda.''

Mr. Smith told the story of an epiphany --- a broken leg --- that kept
him off his high school football field and impelled him to raise his 1.9
grade point average.

--- \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/glenn-thrush}{Glenn
Thrush}

\hypertarget{kevin-mccarthy-rehashes-many-of-the-conventions-biggest-catchphrases-in-his-speech}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{kevin-mccarthy-rehashes-many-of-the-conventions-biggest-catchphrases-in-his-speech}{Kevin
McCarthy rehashes many of the convention's biggest catchphrases in his
speech.}}{Kevin McCarthy rehashes many of the convention's biggest catchphrases in his speech.}}\label{kevin-mccarthy-rehashes-many-of-the-conventions-biggest-catchphrases-in-his-speech}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/27/us/politics/27elections-briefing-mccarthy/27elections-briefing-mccarthy-articleLarge.png?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

In an address that replayed many of the Republican convention's biggest
catchphrases, Representative Kevin McCarthy of California, the House
minority leader, said the choice before voters ``could not be clearer.''

``Forward in freedom or backward in socialism,'' he said. ``Forward in
prosperity or backward in poverty. Forward in personal liberty or
backward in more government control.''

Joseph R. Biden Jr. and Senator Kamala Harris would ``dismantle our
institutions, defund our police and destroy our economy,'' he added,
repeating one of the most frequent lies of the week. Mr. Biden does not
support defunding the police; in fact, he has explicitly rejected calls
to do so.

In a speech that was mostly built on generalities, Mr. McCarthy came
closest to discussing specific policies when he said President Trump had
``confronted China head on, tore up bad trade deals and made better
ones, supported our men and women in uniform and took out the world's
top terrorists, achieved energy independence, defended the sanctity of
life, restored law and order at the border.''

Since the Democratic wave of 2018 demoted him from majority leader
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/11/13/us/politics/kevin-mccarthy-house-republican-leader.html}{to
minority leader} --- a status that does not appear likely to change in
November, with Democrats favored to retain control of the House --- Mr.
McCarthy has
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/01/22/us/politics/kevin-mccarthy-trump.html}{carved
out a niche for himself} in Mr. Trump's party. Notably, he kept House
Republicans unified against impeachment.

--- \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/maggie-astor}{Maggie
Astor}

\hypertarget{advertisement-7}{%
\subsubsection{Advertisement}\label{advertisement-7}}

\protect\hyperlink{after-dfp-ad-mid8}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{franklin-graham-key-to-trumps-support-among-evangelical-voters-makes-the-case-for-his-re-election}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{franklin-graham-key-to-trumps-support-among-evangelical-voters-makes-the-case-for-his-re-election}{Franklin
Graham, key to Trump's support among evangelical voters, makes the case
for his
re-election.}}{Franklin Graham, key to Trump's support among evangelical voters, makes the case for his re-election.}}\label{franklin-graham-key-to-trumps-support-among-evangelical-voters-makes-the-case-for-his-re-election}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/27/us/politics/27elections-briefing-graham/merlin_176259228_0c456200-6c11-420e-b13c-928fff7ec6e0-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

The Rev. Franklin Graham, one of President Trump's
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/02/26/us/billy-graham-franklin-graham-trump.html}{most
prominent evangelical supporters}, opened the fourth and final night of
the Republican National Convention with a prayer for Mr. Trump and his
family, asking God to ``unite our hearts to be one nation.''

Mr. Graham --- the elder son of the Rev. Billy Graham, who built an
evangelical empire and was for decades a spiritual adviser to presidents
of both political parties before his
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/02/21/obituaries/billy-graham-dead.html}{death
in 2018} --- is a fierce defender of Mr. Trump and his agenda.

``Our country is facing trouble,'' Mr. Graham said in his prayer,
referencing ``tens of thousands in the path of a deadly storm.'' The
pandemic, he said, ``has gripped millions of hearts with fear. We're
divided. We have witnessed injustice. Anger and despair have flowed into
the streets. We need your help. We need to hear your voice at this
crucial hour.''

The president and chief executive of Samaritan's Purse, a Christian
international relief organization, the younger Mr. Graham has been a key
ally in Mr. Trump's successful efforts to cement his support among
evangelical voters, especially in key swing states.

In 2016, Mr. Graham criticized the
\href{https://www.facebookcorewwwi.onion/FranklinGraham/posts/the-crude-comments-made-by-donald-j-trump-more-than-11-years-ago-cannot-be-defen/1271741769548668/}{``crude
comments''} revealed in a 2005 tape of Mr. Trump talking about
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2016/10/08/us/donald-trump-tape-transcript.html}{grabbing
women's private parts}. But he also condemned the ``godless progressive
agenda'' of Hillary Clinton. And after Mr. Trump won the election, Mr.
Graham became a vocal defender of the president.

In 2018, after Walmart briefly sold T-shirts that said ``Impeach 45,''
Mr. Graham responded by selling ``Pray for 45'' T-shirts. In June, after
Mr.
Trump\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/02/us/politics/trump-walk-lafayette-square.html}{came
under fire for using a Bible as a prop} in front of a Washington, D.C.,
church during
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/george-floyd-protests-minneapolis-new-york-los-angeles}{protests
about racial injustice}, Mr. Graham again defended him vigorously.

Mariann Edgar Budde, bishop of the Episcopal Diocese of Washington,
\href{https://twitter.com/washdio/status/1267616423142141954}{accused
the president} of using her church ``as a backdrop for a message
antithetical to the teachings of Jesus.'' Asked later whether he was
offended by the president's behavior, Mr. Graham wrote a lengthy defense
of the president on his Facebook page.

``Offended? Not at all,'' he wrote. ``This made an important statement
that what took place the night before in the burning, looting, and
vandalism of the nation's capital --- including this historic house of
worship --- mattered, and that the lawlessness had to end.''

--- \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/michael-d-shear}{Michael
D. Shear}

\hypertarget{after-pence-attacks-joe-bidens-america-biden-says-the-bigger-danger-is-donald-trumps-america}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{after-pence-attacks-joe-bidens-america-biden-says-the-bigger-danger-is-donald-trumps-america}{After
Pence attacks `Joe Biden's America,' Biden says the bigger danger is
`Donald Trump's
America.'}}{After Pence attacks `Joe Biden's America,' Biden says the bigger danger is `Donald Trump's America.'}}\label{after-pence-attacks-joe-bidens-america-biden-says-the-bigger-danger-is-donald-trumps-america}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/27/us/politics/27elections-bidenontrump/27elections-bidenontrump-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Joseph R. Biden Jr. responded on Thursday to Vice President Mike Pence's
blunt warning at the Republican National Convention that ``you won't be
safe in Joe Biden's America'' by saying that ``the problem we have right
now is we are in Donald Trump's America.''

``If you want to talk about safety, the biggest safety issue is people
dying from Covid,'' Mr. Biden said in an interview on MSNBC, during
which he discussed the coronavirus pandemic, the millions of Americans
who have lost their jobs and the unrest over policing that has gripped
the nation.

``More people have died on this president's watch than at just about any
time in American history, on a daily basis,'' Mr. Biden said. ``And
what's he doing, what's he doing about it? He continues to flaunt every
single basic rule and basic tenet that Democrats and Republicans both
have adhered to.''

\begin{quote}
Biden responds to VP Pence's RNC claim that "you won't be safe in Joe
Biden's America":

"The problem we have right now is that we're in Donald Trump's America."
\href{https://t.co/hD2SSUd7z7}{pic.twitter.com/hD2SSUd7z7}

--- MSNBC (@MSNBC)
\href{https://twitter.com/MSNBC/status/1299035406726557696?ref_src=twsrc\%5Etfw}{August
27, 2020}
\end{quote}

Addressing the unrest in Kenosha, Wis., after the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/24/us/kenosha-police-shooting.html}{police
shooting of Jacob Blake}, which Republicans have seized on to try to
present themselves as the party of law and order, Mr. Biden condemned
violence ``in any form'' but also said that he supported the right to
protest peacefully.

And he said that he was troubled by reports that Kyle Rittenhouse, a
17-year-old who was arrested in connection with shootings that left two
people dead on Tuesday night, may have had ``a connection to a militia
in Illinois.''

``This is not who we are,'' Mr. Biden said. ``This is not who America
is. They want to bring about some order in safety and security for
people, we have to start dealing with the real problems underlying all
these issues. And the president never speaks to that.''

--- \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/michael-cooper}{Michael
Cooper}

\hypertarget{harris-says-the-republican-convention-has-one-purpose-to-soothe-donald-trumps-ego}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{harris-says-the-republican-convention-has-one-purpose-to-soothe-donald-trumps-ego}{Harris
says the Republican convention has one purpose: `to soothe Donald
Trump's
ego.'}}{Harris says the Republican convention has one purpose: `to soothe Donald Trump's ego.'}}\label{harris-says-the-republican-convention-has-one-purpose-to-soothe-donald-trumps-ego}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/09/26/us/politics/26elections-live-harris-swap/merlin_176250345_25eff4ab-511b-4bbb-a80f-2e66b7bc49a3-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

WASHINGTON --- Senator Kamala Harris said on Thursday that the
Republican National Convention was operating in an alternate reality
that ignored the coronavirus pandemic and unrest over the repeated
police shooting of Black people.

``Unlike the Democratic convention, which was very cleareyed about the
challenges we are facing and how we can tackle them, the Republican
convention is designed for one purpose: to soothe Donald Trump's ego, to
make him feel good,'' said Ms. Harris, the Democratic nominee for vice
president. ``He is the president of the United States and it's not
supposed to be about him. It's supposed to be about the health and
safety and the well-being of the American people. And on that measure,
Donald Trump has failed.''

The remarks, delivered to about two dozen journalists in an auditorium
at George Washington University, appeared to be an attempt to focus
public attention on Mr. Trump's handling of the coronavirus pandemic, an
issue avoided by most of this week's speakers at the Republican National
Convention. Very few convention speakers have addressed the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html}{nearly
180,000 Americans who have died from the virus}, with discussion of the
pandemic instead focusing on how China, where it originated, failed to
contain the virus.

Ms. Harris, whom aides said would ``prosecute the case'' against Mr.
Trump, said the president has ``failed at the most basic and important
job'' of the presidency. She accused him of being too cozy with the
Chinese government, citing his January statement praising the country
for its transparency in dealing with the virus.

The senator couched her attack on Mr. Trump in the most personal of
terms, suggesting he had choked under pressure. (The president has often
ridiculed others for weakness under pressure, which he perceives as a
fatal character flaw.)

``Right at the moment we needed him to be tough on the Chinese
government, he caved,'' Ms. Harris said. ``Instead of rising to meet the
most difficult moment of his presidency, Donald Trump froze. He was
scared.''

Ms. Harris addressed for the first time before television cameras the
Sunday police shooting of Jacob Blake, the Black man shot seven times in
the back by the police in Kenosha, Wis.

``It's sickening to watch, it's all too familiar and it must end,'' Ms.
Harris said. She added that peaceful protesters should not be confused
with ``those looting and committing acts of violence.'' An Illinois
teenager was charged Wednesday with two counts of homicide after the
fatal shootings of two people.

``We will not let these vigilantes and extremists derail the path to
justice,'' she said.

--- \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/reid-j-epstein}{Reid J.
Epstein}

\hypertarget{advertisement-8}{%
\subsubsection{Advertisement}\label{advertisement-8}}

\protect\hyperlink{after-dfp-ad-mid9}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{the-biden-campaign-made-a-2-million-ad-buy-for-the-final-night-of-the-gop-convention}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{the-biden-campaign-made-a-2-million-ad-buy-for-the-final-night-of-the-gop-convention}{The
Biden campaign made a \$2 million ad buy for the final night of the
G.O.P.
convention.}}{The Biden campaign made a \$2 million ad buy for the final night of the G.O.P. convention.}}\label{the-biden-campaign-made-a-2-million-ad-buy-for-the-final-night-of-the-gop-convention}}

The Biden campaign will spend more than \$2 million to air a two-minute
ad on national networks and Fox News during coverage of the Republican
National Convention tonight.

The ad spreads the campaign's message of resilience and hope for
recovery while also getting in a few not-so-subtle digs at President
Trump, who is formally accepting his party's renomination at the
convention finale.

``When Joe Biden is president, America is just going to have to keep
up,'' the ad says, after the narrator tweaks those who ``take it slow''
as a shot of Mr. Trump gingerly ambling down a ramp in West Point plays.
``We won't have to wait to deal with Covid-19: He already has a plan.''

Both campaigns have been aggressively seeking to bracket the other's
conventions with paid messaging. Last week, during the Democratic
convention, the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/15/us/politics/trump-campaign-ads-dnc.html}{Trump
campaign ran an enormous digital ad operation}, monopolizing the top
strip of YouTube for a 96-hour stretch and taking over the home pages of
The Wall Street Journal and The Washington Post for 24 hours at a time.
That digital buy, which cost more than \$10 million, reached tens of
millions of voters.

Buying lengthy ad slots has been a campaign tactic for years. Some
candidates have even bought full 30-minute slots to run a
campaign-produced documentary on broadcast television.

But an ad buy of this scale during the final day of a political
convention is rare, even in the post-Citizens United, post-public
financing world of modern political campaigns.

The ad will air on CBS, ABC and NBC nationally, and will also run on Fox
News, local Fox affiliates and Fox Sports 1.

--- \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/nick-corasaniti}{Nick
Corasaniti}

\hypertarget{our-2020-election-guide}{%
\section{Our 2020 Election Guide}\label{our-2020-election-guide}}

Updated ~Sept. 11, 2020

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

\begin{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{the-latest}{%
  \subsection{The Latest}\label{the-latest}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Joe Biden and President Trump put
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/11/us/politics/shanksville-trump-biden.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{hostilities
    on hold today to travel to ground zero and then to Shanksville, Pa.,
    where they separately honored 9/11 victims}.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{how-to-win-270}{%
  \subsection{How to Win 270}\label{how-to-win-270}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Joe Biden and Donald Trump need 270 electoral votes to reach the
    White House. Try building
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/election-states-biden-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{your
    own coalition of battleground states}~to see potential outcomes.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{voting-by-mail}{%
  \subsection{Voting by Mail}\label{voting-by-mail}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Will you have enough time to vote by mail in your state? Yes, but
    it's risky to procrastinate.
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/31/us/politics/vote-by-mail-deadlines.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Check
    your state's deadline.}
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/joe-biden.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{}

    \hypertarget{joe-biden}{%
    \section{Joe Biden}\label{joe-biden}}

    \hypertarget{democrat}{%
    \subsection{Democrat}\label{democrat}}

    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/donald-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{}

    \hypertarget{donald-trump}{%
    \section{Donald Trump}\label{donald-trump}}

    \hypertarget{republican}{%
    \subsection{Republican}\label{republican}}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \hypertarget{keep-up-with-our-coverage}{%
  \subsection{Keep Up With Our
  Coverage}\label{keep-up-with-our-coverage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Get an
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{email}~recapping
    the day's news
  \item
    Download our mobile app on
    \href{https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nytimes/id284862083?ls=1\&mat_click_id=5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\&referrer=mat_click_id\%3D5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\%26link_click_id\%3D722930677036718082}{iOS}~and
    \href{http://a.localytics.com/android?id=com.nytimes.android\&referrer=utm_source\%3Dother_nyt_mobile_web\%26utm_medium\%3DWeb\%2520page\%26utm_term\%3DGeneral\%2520Mobile\%2520Page\%26utm_campaign\%3DNYT\%2520Mobile\%2520General\%2520Page}{Android}~and
    turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
