Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/us}{U.S.}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/us}{U.S.}\textbar{}America's Governors Get Tested for a
Virus That Is Testing Them

\url{https://nyti.ms/305GwiE}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/news-event/coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{The
Coronavirus Outbreak}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  live\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/01/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Latest
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Maps
  and Cases}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Vaccine
  Tracker}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/07/29/us/schools-reopening-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{What
  School May Look Like}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/live/2020/07/31/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Economy}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{americas-governors-get-tested-for-a-virus-that-is-testing-them}{%
\section{America's Governors Get Tested for a Virus That Is Testing
Them}\label{americas-governors-get-tested-for-a-virus-that-is-testing-them}}

The pandemic has put many governors of both parties under a spotlight
for which none of their aides and consultants have a playbook.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/07/10/us/00VIRUS-GOVS-inslee/merlin_174411192_cf734c54-f5d0-436a-8474-8e41fc9edf9a-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/manny-fernandez}{Manny Fernandez},
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/rick-rojas}{Rick Rojas},
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/shawn-hubler}{Shawn Hubler} and
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/mike-baker}{Mike Baker}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Published July 13, 2020Updated July 14, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

HOUSTON --- Governors have always been judged on their disaster
responses, but the coronavirus wreaking havoc across the country these
days does not recede like floodwaters and cannot be tamed by calling out
the National Guard.

The states' chief executives have been tested for the very virus that
keeps testing them --- politically, personally, logistically. And they
have been forced onto the national and global stage in a way few
governors have ever endured --- an unending and very public test on a
highly scientific and ever-shifting subject with the lives of their
constituents, the economies of their states and their political careers
at stake.

Tate Reeves has been the governor of Mississippi for just under six
months. During that time, he has had a very full plate:
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/04/13/us/tornado-storm-south.html}{deadly
tornadoes},
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/02/16/us/mississippi-flood-jackson.html}{the
flooding of the capital city of Jackson},
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/01/09/us/mississippi-prisons.html}{violence
in the state prisons},
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/10/us/mississippi-confederate-flag.html}{a
vote to take down the flag} with the Confederate battle emblem.

But the coronavirus has eclipsed all of that, and in recent days, the
virus was threatening the Statehouse and his own house a few blocks
away.

Mr. Reeves, 46, was tested for the virus, as were his wife and three
daughters. The tests came back negative, but many of his colleagues at
the Mississippi State Capitol were not as lucky --- the virus has
infected 26 lawmakers, including the lieutenant governor and the House
speaker. Cases have surged statewide --- the state has averaged more
than 700 new cases daily --- and intensive care units at many of the
state's largest hospitals are near capacity.

``I have taken to replacing sleeping with praying,'' Mr. Reeves, an
accountant before he got into politics, told reporters.

The pandemic has put Mr. Reeves, a Republican, and many of America's
governors of both parties under a spotlight for which none of their
aides and consultants have a playbook. Interviews with aides, advisers
and others involved in the coronavirus response efforts of seven
governors revealed just how much the crisis has upended their offices,
their lives, and how they approach the job. For some, it has magnified
their weaknesses and drawn out tensions even within their own parties.

The crisis reached a boiling point this month for some governors, as the
virus spread and deaths increased in a swath of states that governors
had reopened. By this week, the outbreak was growing across 39 states,
from hot spots across the Sun Belt to new surges emerging in the
nation's middle. Florida reported the highest single-day total of new
virus cases of any state --- more than 15,000 --- since the start of the
pandemic. And leaders in some places, including one county in Texas,
have been calling for a return of stay-at-home orders amid surges of new
virus cases.

Reversing course --- a practice governors prefer not to be seen doing
--- has become routine in the age of coronavirus on policies around
masks, crowds, bars and more.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/07/10/us/00VIRUS-GOVS-reeves/merlin_174368808_c2c6dbe3-7e83-42e1-8d38-d5fe290492dc-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Mr. Reeves had once been eager to lift the restrictions stalling
Mississippi's economy, hoping to have the whole state open by July 1.
Now, he has been warning residents of a ``slow-moving disaster'' and
made masks mandatory in 13 of the hardest-hit counties.

Gov. Greg Abbott of Texas, a Republican, was adamant for weeks that
government could not mandate masks. Just before the Fourth of July
weekend, as cases and hospitalizations skyrocketed, he swiftly reversed,
ordering all Texans to cover their faces in most situations.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-global-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/01/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: Global Coronavirus
Outbreak}}{Latest Updates: Global Coronavirus Outbreak}}\label{latest-updates-global-coronavirus-outbreak}}

Updated 2020-08-02T07:42:09.613Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/01/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-34047410}{The
  U.S. reels as July cases more than double the total of any other
  month.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/01/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-780ec966}{Top
  U.S. officials work to break an impasse over the federal jobless
  benefit.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/01/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-2bc8948}{Its
  outbreak untamed, Melbourne goes into even greater lockdown.}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/01/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

More live coverage:
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/live/2020/07/31/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Markets}

Minutes before the announcement, he held a conference call with
lawmakers, many of them irate Republicans who have grown weary of his
mandates, flip-flops and rushed, behind-the-scenes calls.

``He is doing all this on his own, as far as I can tell, with little to
no input,'' said State Representative Jonathan Stickland, a conservative
from the Fort Worth suburbs who was on the call and said lawmakers were
not permitted to ask any questions. ``It's a one-way conversation. The
last time I checked we didn't elect a king in Texas.''

The seven governors whose crisis moments were reviewed by The New York
Times --- Mr. Reeves of Mississippi; Mr. Abbott of Texas; Gov. Jay
Inslee of Washington State; Gov. Ron DeSantis of Florida; Gov. Gavin
Newsom of California; Gov. Laura Kelly of Kansas; and Gov. David Ige of
Hawaii --- have been scrambling in ways large and small, in manners seen
and unseen by the public.

Mr. Inslee, a Democrat, managed the crisis without the guidance of some
members of his staff on various days last week, including his chief of
staff. They had to take a day off for furloughs --- a requirement as the
state grapples with financial shortfalls caused by the pandemic.

Mr. Abbott has had his deputy chief of staff talk to the head of the
Texas Restaurant Association to relay the latest developments, but Mr.
DeSantis in Florida --- whose wife, Casey, gave birth in late March to
their third child --- often gets on the line himself.

``I don't get a heads up from the governor that he's going to call, he
just calls,'' said David M. Kerner, the mayor of Palm Beach County. ``At
first it caught me off guard.''

Ms. Kelly, the Democratic governor of Kansas, has kept her circle of
pandemic advisers small, relying largely on the expertise of her top
health official.

Hawaii's Democratic governor, Mr. Ige, was criticized, according to
local news reports, for keeping his inner circle too small by excluding
the lieutenant governor, who happened to be a practicing emergency room
physician. Early in the pandemic, Mr. Ige's administration was reluctant
to expand testing, but Lt. Gov. Josh Green wanted an aggressive
expansion. In an interview, Mr. Ige attributed the tension to
``misunderstanding and miscommunication,'' and said the lieutenant
governor had been continuously involved in the response.

Image

Beachgoers in Waikiki on Thursday.~Gov David Ige of Hawaii was
criticized for keeping his inner circle too small by excluding the
lieutenant governor, according to local media reports.Credit...Michelle
Mishina-Kunz for The New York Times

Image

A restaurant blocked off an entrance with chairs Wednesday in Miami
Beach, Fla.Credit...Saul Martinez for The New York Times

This is a crisis that governors are managing remotely.

On Thursday morning, Mr. Inslee settled at a kitchen table inside the
governor's mansion in Olympia, Wash., for a series of videoconference
meetings. To get the tablet screen up to eye level, the governor placed
it on top of a book --- ``A Thousand Days: John F. Kennedy in the White
House.'' He used an album, Judy Collins's ``Strangers Again,'' to prop
it at an angle that worked. On the couch nearby, Mr. Inslee's wife,
Trudi, read a copy of The Seattle Times.

Such are the coronavirus war rooms of state chief executives.

Mr. DeSantis, who has been criticized for reopening Florida too fast and
for not issuing a statewide mask mandate, was perhaps the most mobile of
the seven governors, leaving home frequently to attend public events. He
held three news conferences in three cities in a single week, often
wearing a mask that he slipped off when he spoke at the microphone. Mr.
Inslee, by comparison, has taken to wearing his mask even during video
news conferences, his voice muffled as a result.

Image

Gov. Laura Kelly of Kansas spoke with Clay Britton,~her chief attorney,
before a meeting in Topeka, Kan., about an executive order she issued
requiring people to wear masks in public.Credit...John Hanna/Associated
Press

Without a coordinated federal response, governors find themselves in an
awkward role, appearing to wield much of the decision-making around
managing the crisis, but also expected to hear out and satisfy the
wishes of mayors, restaurant owners, emergency medical workers and
everyone else. The result: all sorts of new coronavirus committees and
task forces --- and bureaucratic snarls.

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/news-event/coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{}

\hypertarget{the-coronavirus-outbreak-}{%
\subsubsection{The Coronavirus Outbreak
›}\label{the-coronavirus-outbreak-}}

\hypertarget{frequently-asked-questions}{%
\paragraph{Frequently Asked
Questions}\label{frequently-asked-questions}}

Updated July 27, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{should-i-refinance-my-mortgage}{%
  \paragraph{Should I refinance my
  mortgage?}\label{should-i-refinance-my-mortgage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/coronavirus-money-unemployment.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{It
    could be a good idea,} because mortgage rates have
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/16/business/mortgage-rates-below-3-percent.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{never
    been lower.} Refinancing requests have pushed mortgage applications
    to some of the highest levels since 2008, so be prepared to get in
    line. But defaults are also up, so if you're thinking about buying a
    home, be aware that some lenders have tightened their standards.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{what-is-school-going-to-look-like-in-september}{%
  \paragraph{What is school going to look like in
  September?}\label{what-is-school-going-to-look-like-in-september}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    It is unlikely that many schools will return to a normal schedule
    this fall, requiring the grind of
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/05/us/coronavirus-education-lost-learning.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{online
    learning},
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/05/29/us/coronavirus-child-care-centers.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{makeshift
    child care} and
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/03/business/economy/coronavirus-working-women.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{stunted
    workdays} to continue. California's two largest public school
    districts --- Los Angeles and San Diego --- said on July 13, that
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/13/us/lausd-san-diego-school-reopening.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{instruction
    will be remote-only in the fall}, citing concerns that surging
    coronavirus infections in their areas pose too dire a risk for
    students and teachers. Together, the two districts enroll some
    825,000 students. They are the largest in the country so far to
    abandon plans for even a partial physical return to classrooms when
    they reopen in August. For other districts, the solution won't be an
    all-or-nothing approach.
    \href{https://bioethics.jhu.edu/research-and-outreach/projects/eschool-initiative/school-policy-tracker/}{Many
    systems}, including the nation's largest, New York City, are
    devising
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/26/us/coronavirus-schools-reopen-fall.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{hybrid
    plans} that involve spending some days in classrooms and other days
    online. There's no national policy on this yet, so check with your
    municipal school system regularly to see what is happening in your
    community.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{is-the-coronavirus-airborne}{%
  \paragraph{Is the coronavirus
  airborne?}\label{is-the-coronavirus-airborne}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    The coronavirus
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/04/health/239-experts-with-one-big-claim-the-coronavirus-is-airborne.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{can
    stay aloft for hours in tiny droplets in stagnant air}, infecting
    people as they inhale, mounting scientific evidence suggests. This
    risk is highest in crowded indoor spaces with poor ventilation, and
    may help explain super-spreading events reported in meatpacking
    plants, churches and restaurants.
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/06/health/coronavirus-airborne-aerosols.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{It's
    unclear how often the virus is spread} via these tiny droplets, or
    aerosols, compared with larger droplets that are expelled when a
    sick person coughs or sneezes, or transmitted through contact with
    contaminated surfaces, said Linsey Marr, an aerosol expert at
    Virginia Tech. Aerosols are released even when a person without
    symptoms exhales, talks or sings, according to Dr. Marr and more
    than 200 other experts, who
    \href{https://academic.oup.com/cid/article/doi/10.1093/cid/ciaa939/5867798}{have
    outlined the evidence in an open letter to the World Health
    Organization}.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{what-are-the-symptoms-of-coronavirus}{%
  \paragraph{What are the symptoms of
  coronavirus?}\label{what-are-the-symptoms-of-coronavirus}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Common symptoms
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/symptoms-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{include
    fever, a dry cough, fatigue and difficulty breathing or shortness of
    breath.} Some of these symptoms overlap with those of the flu,
    making detection difficult, but runny noses and stuffy sinuses are
    less common.
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/04/27/health/coronavirus-symptoms-cdc.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{The
    C.D.C. has also} added chills, muscle pain, sore throat, headache
    and a new loss of the sense of taste or smell as symptoms to look
    out for. Most people fall ill five to seven days after exposure, but
    symptoms may appear in as few as two days or as many as 14 days.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{does-asymptomatic-transmission-of-covid-19-happen}{%
  \paragraph{Does asymptomatic transmission of Covid-19
  happen?}\label{does-asymptomatic-transmission-of-covid-19-happen}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    So far, the evidence seems to show it does. A widely cited
    \href{https://www.nature.com/articles/s41591-020-0869-5}{paper}
    published in April suggests that people are most infectious about
    two days before the onset of coronavirus symptoms and estimated that
    44 percent of new infections were a result of transmission from
    people who were not yet showing symptoms. Recently, a top expert at
    the World Health Organization stated that transmission of the
    coronavirus by people who did not have symptoms was ``very rare,''
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/09/world/coronavirus-updates.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq\#link-1f302e21}{but
    she later walked back that statement.}
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Even with so much advice, governors seemed to be making it up as they
go.

Dr. Lee A. Norman, the secretary of the Kansas Department of Health and
Environment and a colonel in the Kansas Army National Guard, said the
coronavirus crisis reminded him of his deployments in the Middle East in
that he and Governor Kelly have had to make decisions without as much
data as they would like. Kansas has averaged more than 400 cases per day
over the past week, its highest numbers yet. Infections have risen
around Wichita, Topeka and the Kansas City suburbs.

``This very much has that same feel,'' he said of his experience in the
military and with the virus. ``We're making decisions before we have
complete information and we have to use our best data and judgment and
make bold decisions.''

In California, Mr. Newsom awakens early with his children on most days
and starts emailing his staff by 6 a.m. He dons a mask and works not out
of the domed Capitol in Sacramento, but out of the California Office of
Emergency Services command center, a complex in the suburb of
Carmichael, Calif., where he and his family live.

Image

Gov. Gavin Newsom of~California~ discussed the state's new efforts to
protect emergency personnel and evacuees from Covid-19 during wildfires
in Sacramento on Thursday.Credit...Pool photo by Hector Amezcua

Mornings are for meetings and prep for the noon livestream news
conference that Mr. Newsom has done almost daily since the start of the
pandemic. The Capitol press corps calls the news conferences ``Newsom at
Noon'' and for a while some swapped bingo cards with his go-to phrases:
``Bend the curve.'' ``Meet the moment.'' ``Localism is determinative.''

California acted early to impose a stay-at-home order but the virus,
after appearing under control, is on the upswing. That is no surprise to
Mr. Newsom, who says that the early shutdown helped the state prepare.

``It bought us time to build out our health care delivery system,'' Mr.
Newsom said in an interview this month. The state has wrestled with a
surge in cases; Los Angeles County alone has been averaging more than
2,600 cases per day.

For Mr. Reeves in Mississippi, who was sworn in on Jan. 14, one of his
challenges has been in publicly shifting his pandemic posture, from
being eager to reopen the economy to urging caution and toughening
restrictions.

He has spent much of his time in recent days ringing alarm bells he had
ignored for weeks, telling reporters on Wednesday that the ``situation
that we have feared is upon us'' and urging people to wear a mask and
stay home as much as possible.

``He's dealt with more emergencies than most elected officials deal with
in their entire time in office, and this has been like no other,'' said
Pat Fontaine, who is the executive director of the Mississippi
Hospitality and Restaurant Association and who has been in regular
contact with the governor's office.

Image

A taco shop in Oxford, Miss., was open to customers late last
month.Credit...Timothy Ivy for The New York Times

Image

Masks were for sale at Sika, a shop in the Leimert Park neighborhood in
Los Angeles, on Thursday.Credit...Jenna Schoenefeld for The New York
Times

At some daily briefings, Mr. Reeves has wished a happy birthday to
Mississippians: Alex, Brianna, Alana, Mariah, Asher and Billy. One day,
he pointed out that one boy was a green belt in karate. And then he came
to Ian Sylvester.

``Ian Sylvester loves his dog Happy,'' Mr. Reeves said, after looking up
from his notes. ``Everyone these days needs a dog named Happy.''

Manny Fernandez reported from Houston, Rick Rojas from Jackson, Miss.,
Shawn Hubler from Sacramento, and Mike Baker from Seattle. Contributing
reporting were Frances Robles from Key West, Fla., Simon Romero from
Albuquerque, and Nicholas Bogel-Burroughs from New York.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
