Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}Trump Tailors Exaggerations
and False Claims to Election Battlegrounds

\url{https://nyti.ms/32QBeuh}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/08/us/trump-vs-biden?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Election
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/election-states-biden-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Paths
  to 270}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/31/us/politics/vote-by-mail-deadlines.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Voting
  by Mail}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/us/elections/2020-presidential-election-calendar.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Key
  Dates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Politics
  Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

Fact Check

\hypertarget{trump-tailors-exaggerations-and-false-claims-to-election-battlegrounds}{%
\section{Trump Tailors Exaggerations and False Claims to Election
Battlegrounds}\label{trump-tailors-exaggerations-and-false-claims-to-election-battlegrounds}}

From lobsters in Maine to ethanol in Iowa to the oil fields of Texas,
the president has tried to bolster his case for re-election by promoting
localized --- and factually challenged --- accomplishments.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/07/24/us/politics/24dc-factcheck-1/24dc-factcheck-1-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/linda-qiu}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/06/12/multimedia/author-linda-qiu/author-linda-qiu-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/linda-qiu}{Linda Qiu}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Published July 24, 2020Updated July 28, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Even as President Trump's 2020 campaign struggles under the weight of a
health crisis and battered economy, he has sought to tailor familiar
national themes --- as well as falsehoods and exaggerations --- to
crucial electoral battlegrounds.

While many of Mr. Trump's more incendiary falsehoods --- his many
misleading remarks about the coronavirus and his baseless attacks on
election integrity --- have received widespread attention, some of his
more localized claims also require scrutiny. Here's a fact check.

\hypertarget{industry-specific-appeals}{%
\subsection{Industry-Specific Appeals}\label{industry-specific-appeals}}

Mr. Trump has falsely portrayed several issues important in swing states
as matters that his political enemies have ignored and that he himself
has championed.

``Pres. Obama destroyed the lobster and fishing industry in Maine. Now
it's back, bigger and better than anyone ever thought possible. Enjoy
your `lobstering' and fishing! Make lots of money!'' he falsely
\href{https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/1275951862269829121}{wrote
last month on Twitter}.

This was a reference to a
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2016/09/16/us/politics/obama-to-create-atlantic-oceans-first-marine-monument.html}{marine
sanctuary} off the coast of the Atlantic Ocean established by President
Barack Obama in 2016 and opened up for commercial fishing in June by Mr.
Trump. Drilling and oil exploration was banned in the protected area but
Mr. Obama carved out a seven-year exception for lobster and red crab
fisheries, so the creation of the monument had little immediate effect
on the seafood industry, let alone destroy it.

Maine's lobster landings
\href{https://www.maine.gov/dmr/commercial-fishing/landings/documents/lobster.table.pdf}{reported}
a record haul in 2016 of over 132 million pounds worth over \$540
million as
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/06/21/climate/maine-lobsters.html}{seas
warmed by climate change} created ideal conditions for the crustaceans.
Hauls and
\href{https://www.st.nmfs.noaa.gov/apex/f?p=213:19:15297671813997::NO:::}{exports}
decreased under Mr. Trump, partly because of
\href{https://www.pressherald.com/2020/03/06/lobster-harvest-smallest-in-9-years-but-value-increased/}{natural
fluctuations} but partly because of retaliatory tariffs China imposed on
seafood in 2018. Still, lobstermen caught over 100 million pounds for
the ninth year in a row in 2019.

Likewise, Mr. Trump has sought to curry favor with corn farmers in Iowa
and the Midwest by claiming to have
\href{https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefings-statements/remarks-president-trump-supporting-nations-farmers-ranchers-food-supply-chain/}{``kept
our promise on ethanol''} and falsely charging Democrats with wanting to
``\href{https://www.c-span.org/video/?468452-1/president-trump-rally-des-moines-iowa}{wipe
out, totally, Iowa ethanol.}''

Mr. Trump did lift
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/05/31/climate/trump-ethanol-fuel-ban.html}{a
summertime ban} on the use of E15, a blend of 15 percent ethanol and 85
percent gasoline, drawing praise from corn growers. But his
Environmental Protection Agency has also irked farmers by continuing to
issue dozens of waivers to oil refineries that allow them to bypass
legal requirements to blend in ethanol.

``The Trump administration's ethanol policy has been defined by a failed
attempt to placate both oil-and-gas and ethanol producers,'' said
Jeffrey T. Manuel, a historian at Southern Illinois University
Edwardsville and author of a coming book about ethanol politics. ``The
Trump administration held meetings last year to resolve the
oil-versus-ethanol standoff, but they were inconclusive.''

Despite Mr. Trump's characterization of ethanol as a partisan issue,
Democrats from corn-producing states are ``strong supporters of policies
that favor ethanol,'' Mr. Manuel said. For example, Senator Amy
Klobuchar, Democrat of Minnesota, and Senator Charles E. Grassley,
Republican of Iowa, introduced a
\href{https://www.klobuchar.senate.gov/public/index.cfm/2020/5/klobuchar-grassley-introduce-bill-to-support-biofuel-producers}{bill}
that would grant relief funding to the biofuels industry hard hit by the
coronavirus. Bipartisan groups of lawmakers from
\href{https://finkenauer.house.gov/sites/finkenauer.house.gov/files/RFS\%20Waiver\%20letter\%20-\%20Final\%5B1\%5D.pdf}{both}
\href{https://www.ernst.senate.gov/public/_cache/files/2491e051-f2e5-4701-8727-9958d46cc9ff/08FD201527A837DBF9839F7E76AF4F50.rfs-waiver-letter-to-potus-final.pdf}{chambers}
have written to Mr. Trump urging him to deny waiver requests. The
Congressional Biofuels Caucus is led by two Democratic and two
Republican House members. Former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr.'s
campaign proposals include more funding for ethanol.

Similarly, Mr. Trump promised Michigan voters to help protect the Great
Lakes from Asian carp, a nonnative fish that pose a significant threat
to the natural ecosystem and commercial fisheries of the region.

``Who would have thought that was going to happen?'' he said in January
\href{https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefings-statements/remarks-president-trump-usmca-celebration-american-workers-warren-mi/}{during
an event in the state}. ``The U.S. Army Corps of Engineers already has a
plan, and we are going to get this done and ready to go.''

Contrary to his suggestion that support for tackling the invasive
species problem had been slow to arrive, the Obama administration
provided
\href{https://www.everycrsreport.com/files/20171019_R41082_b2bd1e6cff8551e9d06dd4916d7076434cec8a5c.pdf\#page=23}{\$40
million to \$80 million} each fiscal year starting in 2010 to control
the Asian carp population in the Great Lakes.

While federal funding has continued under Mr. Trump to the tune of
\href{https://www.asiancarp.us/Documents/2019ActionPlan.pdf\#page=75}{\$30
million} to
\$\href{https://www.asiancarp.us/Documents/2019ActionPlan.pdf\#page=75}{45
million a year}, neither the president's
\href{https://www.lrc.usace.army.mil/Media/News-Releases/Article/2081447/presidents-fiscal-year-2021-budget-for-us-army-corps-of-engineers-civil-works-p/}{2021
budget proposal} or the Corps' own
\href{https://www.usace.army.mil/Portals/2/docs/civilworks/budget/FY\%202020\%20Work\%20Plan\%20Construction\%20Statement\%20of\%20Managers\%20FINAL.PDF}{list
of projects} for this fiscal year included funding for its
\href{https://usace.contentdm.oclc.org/utils/getfile/collection/p16021coll7/id/11399}{plan}
to construct a variety of fish barriers at a lock and dam south of
Chicago.

\hypertarget{national-boasts-with-a-local-spin}{%
\subsection{National Boasts With a Local
Spin}\label{national-boasts-with-a-local-spin}}

The president's regional overtures can also mirror familiar campaign
riffs about the economy.

Accustomed to trumpeting a
\href{https://data.bls.gov/timeseries/LNS14000000}{national unemployment
rate} that had been declining for years and reached a five-decade low
last year, Mr. Trump has adapted the line for audiences in particular
states with varying degrees of accuracy.

He overreached when he said during a town hall event in Scranton, Pa.,
that the city and the state
``\href{https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefings-statements/remarks-president-trump-fox-news-town-hall-scranton-pa/}{had
the lowest and best unemployment numbers}'' ever and when he told
attendees at a rally in Phoenix that ``Arizona, you've had the best
year, the most successful year you've ever had in the history of the
country.''

The unemployment rate in Pennsylvania reached
\href{https://data.bls.gov/timeseries/LASST420000000000003?amp\%253bdata_tool=XGtable\&output_view=data\&include_graphs=true}{4.1
percent} in 2018, higher than the 4.0 percent rate in the first few
months of 2000. In the Scranton area, it reached
\href{https://data.bls.gov/timeseries/LAUMT424254000000003?amp\%253bdata_tool=XGtable\&output_view=data\&include_graphs=true}{4.4
percent} in 2018, also higher than the 4.1 percent in September 2000.
Arizona's unemployment rate fell to 4.5 percent January, while the
recorded low was
\href{https://data.bls.gov/timeseries/LASST040000000000004?amp\%253bdata_tool=XGtable\&output_view=data\&include_graphs=true}{3.6
percent} in June and July 2007.

When repeating misleading claims about
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/01/08/us/politics/trump-fact-check.html}{an
energy revolution} and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/08/13/business/economy/donald-trump-jobs-created.html}{manufacturing
revitalization}, Mr. Trump has specified that these turnarounds have
occurred in a few states.

``We have so many plants coming into Michigan and so many other
states,'' he said in June during a rally in Tulsa, Okla., before
\href{https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/1275218587188449280}{tweeting
days later}: ``I brought back Cars \& Jobs. Will do it again for
Michigan, \& everywhere else!!!''

But there has been no sudden uptick or reversal of fortune in car
manufacturing jobs or plant openings since Mr. Trump's election.

Before the coronavirus epidemic,
\href{https://data.bls.gov/timeseries/CES3133600101?amp\%253bdata_tool=XGtable\&output_view=data\&include_graphs=true}{employment
in automobile manufacturing} nationwide had been steadily increasing
since the economic recovery in 2009, while
\href{https://data.bls.gov/timeseries/SMU26000003133610001?amp\%253bdata_tool=XGtable\&output_view=data\&include_graphs=true}{jobs
in the sector in Michigan} had also increased from mid-2009 before
plateauing in recent years.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/2020-election}{Election
2020 ›}

\hypertarget{live-updates}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/08/us/trump-vs-biden}{Live
Updates}}{Live Updates}}\label{live-updates}}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/08/us/trump-vs-biden\#pence-and-harris-vied-for-wisconsin-as-trump-vented-from-the-white-house}{}

Sept. 8, 2020, 8:40 a.m. ET

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/08/us/trump-vs-biden\#pence-and-harris-vied-for-wisconsin-as-trump-vented-from-the-white-house}{Pence
and Harris vied for Wisconsin as Trump vented from the White
House.}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/08/us/trump-vs-biden\#with-labor-day-behind-them-the-campaigns-take-flight-literally}{}

Sept. 8, 2020, 8:18 a.m. ET

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/08/us/trump-vs-biden\#with-labor-day-behind-them-the-campaigns-take-flight-literally}{With
Labor Day behind them, the campaigns take flight ---
literally.}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/08/us/trump-vs-biden\#the-trump-campaigns-lavish-spending-eroded-its-head-start-a-times-analysis-shows}{}

Sept. 8, 2020, 8:18 a.m. ET

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/08/us/trump-vs-biden\#the-trump-campaigns-lavish-spending-eroded-its-head-start-a-times-analysis-shows}{The
Trump campaign's lavish spending eroded its head start, a Times analysis
shows.}

Since 2017, there have been 10 new assembly or manufacturing investments
across the country, with three in Michigan totaling \$30.6 million, said
Kristin Dziczek, the vice president for industry, labor and economics at
the Center for Automotive Research, which is based in Michigan. In the
three years before Mr. Trump took office, there were 10 new automaker
plant announcements, including three in Michigan totaling \$1.8 billion.

The president has also taken outsize or even undue credit for trends in
the oil and gas industry that precede his time in office.

At the same town hall event in Scranton, he falsely claimed to have
opened up liquefied natural gas ``plants in Louisiana where they were
for years --- for 10, 12, 14 years and longer trying to get permits,
they couldn't get permits.''

Of the seven liquefied natural gas projects in Louisiana
\href{https://www.eia.gov/energyexplained/natural-gas/liquefied-natural-gas.php}{listed}
in an Energy Information Administration's database,
\href{https://fossil.energy.gov/ng_regulation/applications-2012-ceflng12123lng}{six}
\href{https://fossil.energy.gov/ng_regulation/applications-2013-lakecharleslngexport13-04-lng}{received}
\href{https://fossil.energy.gov/ng_regulation/applications-2012-magnolialngllc12-183-lng}{permits}
\href{https://fossil.energy.gov/ng_regulation/orders-2010-sabine10111dkt}{to
export}
\href{https://fossil.energy.gov/ng_regulation/applications-2013-venturegloballlc-13-69-lng1}{under}
\href{https://fossil.energy.gov/ng_regulation/applications-2011-cameron11-162-lngnfta}{the
Obama administration} with wait times under two years; the seventh
project
\href{https://www.energy.gov/sites/prod/files/2019/05/f62/ord4373.pdf}{requested}
approval in September 2016 and received it under Mr. Trump.
\href{https://elibrary.ferc.gov/IDMWS/file_list.asp?document_id=14431482}{Four
applications}
\href{https://elibrary.ferc.gov/IDMWS/file_list.asp?document_id=14449217}{to
begin construction}
\href{https://elibrary.ferc.gov/IDMWS/file_list.asp?document_id=14013209}{were
approved}
\href{https://elibrary.ferc.gov/IDMWS/file_list.asp?document_id=14227420}{under
Mr. Obama}, all in two years, while one project applied in 2015 and
received approval in 2019. The other two applied under Mr. Trump and
received it in three years.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/07/24/business/24dc-factcheck-2/merlin_172029018_05d3bc98-c7b2-4c08-8079-b313aaa07184-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

``I saved their oil industry,'' he
\href{https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefings-statements/remarks-president-trump-roundtable-stakeholders-positively-impacted-law-enforcement/}{said
in July} of Texas. ``I created it; we became No. 1. We have millions of
jobs. And we saved it, so Texas is not going to have to let go of
millions and millions of people.''

Clearly Mr. Trump did not ``create'' the oil industry in Texas, which
experienced its first oil boom
\href{https://www.thestoryoftexas.com/discover/campfire-stories/roughneck}{at
the start of the 20th century} and has been the
\href{https://www.eia.gov/todayinenergy/detail.php?id=38992}{top
oil-producing state} in the country every year except one since 1970.
Hydraulic fracturing, or fracking, set off
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2011/05/28/business/energy-environment/28shale.html}{another
boom} in Texas in
\href{https://www.eia.gov/dnav/pet/hist/LeafHandler.ashx?n=PET\&s=MCRFPTX2\&f=M}{2011},
while the United States became the top producer of oil and gas in the
world in
\href{https://www.eia.gov/todayinenergy/detail.php?id=36292\&src=email}{2013}.

As for his claims to have ``saved'' Texas's oil industry, Mr. Trump was
most likely referring to his role in
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/12/business/energy-environment/opec-russia-saudi-arabia-oil-coronavirus.html}{helping
broker} a deal this year between Russia and Saudi Arabia to cut
production, which in turn helped bolster collapsing oil prices. Still,
there is little evidence that the oil industry has recovered. In Texas,
the industry has continued to
\href{https://fred.stlouisfed.org/series/SMU48000001021100001}{shed
jobs} while production
\href{https://www.rrc.state.tx.us/oil-gas/research-and-statistics/production-data/texas-monthly-oil-gas-production/}{declined}.

Over all, ``the fall in U.S. oil production since March is unprecedented
in the historical record, and production has
\href{https://www.eia.gov/dnav/pet/hist/LeafHandler.ashx?n=PET\&s=WCRFPUS2\&f=W}{not
rebounded} despite the Nymex futures price returning to \$40 per
barrel,'' said Ryan Kellogg, a professor and energy economist at the
University of Chicago. ``New drilling, as measured by
\href{https://www.eia.gov/dnav/ng/hist/e_ertrro_xr0_nus_cm.htm}{rig
counts}, remains depressed at levels not seen since the Great Recession.
Industry jobs will not come back until drilling rebounds.''

\hypertarget{highlighting-federally-funded-local-projects}{%
\subsection{Highlighting Federally Funded Local
Projects}\label{highlighting-federally-funded-local-projects}}

Mr. Trump has also emphasized investments in local infrastructure and
businesses in states important to electoral success, but to varying
degrees has exaggerated his role or omitted context.

``I love saying it because we are funding, for New Hampshire, the New
Hampshire Army National Guard readiness centers just a few miles from
here, in Pembroke and in Concord,'' Mr. Trump said during
\href{https://www.c-span.org/video/?468493-1/president-trump-holds-rally-manchester-hampshire}{a
campaign rally in the state}.

Those facilities were funded by
\href{https://www.congress.gov/bill/116th-congress/senate-bill/1790/text/enr}{annual}
\href{https://www.congress.gov/bill/115th-congress/house-bill/5895/text/enr}{appropriations}
bills that passed with overwhelming bipartisan majorities.

He devoted 10 tweets in May to various transit projects that had
received funding from the Transportation Department, five of which were
in the swing states of Arizona, Florida, Pennsylvania and Wisconsin.

But he failed to note that the projects were part of the
\href{https://www.transit.dot.gov/funding/grant-programs/capital-investments/current-capital-investment-grant-cig-projects}{Capital
Investment Grant program}, which is authorized and structured by
Congress and has routinely awarded grants since the 2013 federal fiscal
year. In the first two years of his presidency, Mr. Trump had a budget
that called for the
\href{https://crsreports.congress.gov/product/pdf/R/R46191\#page=10}{grants
to be phased out,} though in practice his administration has increased
spending on the program since he took office.

At
\href{https://www.rev.com/blog/transcripts/donald-trump-town-hall-transcript-with-sean-hannity-june-25}{events}
in
\href{https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefings-statements/remarks-president-trump-fincantieri-marinette-marine-marinette-wi/}{Wisconsin}
in June, Mr. Trump bragged about a nearly
\href{https://www.defense.gov/Newsroom/Contracts/Contract/Article/2171906/}{\$800
million military contract awarded} to a shipbuilding company in the
state to build up to 10 guided missile frigates, claiming that it would
create or support 6,000, 9,000 or 15,000 additional jobs at various
points.

Those employment estimates are at odds with those from
\href{https://gallagher.house.gov/media/press-releases/gallagher-ffg-x-contract-massive-win-northeast-wisconsin-free-world}{local
lawmakers} and the shipbuilding company itself, which range from
\href{https://www.baldwin.senate.gov/press-releases/wisconsin-to-build-new-ships}{1,000}
to
\href{https://insightonbusiness.com/business_articles/a-huge-huge-win/}{5,000.}

Mr. Trump alluded to the reason that particular company was chosen:
``Maneuverability is one of the big factors that you were chosen for the
contract. The other is your location in Wisconsin, if you want to know
the truth.''

Curious about the accuracy of a claim? Email
\href{mailto:factcheck@NYTimes.com}{\nolinkurl{factcheck@NYTimes.com}}.

\hypertarget{our-2020-election-guide}{%
\section{Our 2020 Election Guide}\label{our-2020-election-guide}}

Updated ~Sept. 8, 2020

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

\begin{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{the-latest}{%
  \subsection{The Latest}\label{the-latest}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    The campaign
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/08/us/trump-vs-biden?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{shifts
    to a higher gear this week}, with President Trump set to visit
    Florida and North Carolina today and Joseph R. Biden heading to
    Michigan tomorrow.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{how-to-win-270}{%
  \subsection{How to Win 270}\label{how-to-win-270}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Joe Biden and Donald Trump need 270 electoral votes to reach the
    White House. Try building
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/election-states-biden-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{your
    own coalition of battleground states}~to see potential outcomes.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{voting-by-mail}{%
  \subsection{Voting by Mail}\label{voting-by-mail}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Will you have enough time to vote by mail in your state? Yes, but
    it's risky to procrastinate.
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/31/us/politics/vote-by-mail-deadlines.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Check
    your state's deadline.}
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/joe-biden.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{}

    \hypertarget{joe-biden}{%
    \section{Joe Biden}\label{joe-biden}}

    \hypertarget{democrat}{%
    \subsection{Democrat}\label{democrat}}

    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/donald-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{}

    \hypertarget{donald-trump}{%
    \section{Donald Trump}\label{donald-trump}}

    \hypertarget{republican}{%
    \subsection{Republican}\label{republican}}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \hypertarget{keep-up-with-our-coverage}{%
  \subsection{Keep Up With Our
  Coverage}\label{keep-up-with-our-coverage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Get an
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{email}~recapping
    the day's news
  \item
    Download our mobile app on
    \href{https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nytimes/id284862083?ls=1\&mat_click_id=5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\&referrer=mat_click_id\%3D5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\%26link_click_id\%3D722930677036718082}{iOS}~and
    \href{http://a.localytics.com/android?id=com.nytimes.android\&referrer=utm_source\%3Dother_nyt_mobile_web\%26utm_medium\%3DWeb\%2520page\%26utm_term\%3DGeneral\%2520Mobile\%2520Page\%26utm_campaign\%3DNYT\%2520Mobile\%2520General\%2520Page}{Android}~and
    turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
