Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/spotlight/podcasts}{Podcasts}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/spotlight/podcasts}{Podcasts}\textbar{}Frosted Flakes

\url{https://nyti.ms/2VtYQjh}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

transcript

Back to Still Processing

bars

0:00/39:49

-39:49

transcript

\hypertarget{frosted-flakes}{%
\subsection{Frosted Flakes}\label{frosted-flakes}}

\hypertarget{hosted-by-wesley-morris-and-jenna-wortham-produced-by-hans-buetow}{%
\subsubsection{Hosted by Wesley Morris and Jenna Wortham. Produced by
Hans
Buetow.}\label{hosted-by-wesley-morris-and-jenna-wortham-produced-by-hans-buetow}}

\hypertarget{we-explore-tiger-king-and-what-it-says-about-americas-unique-relationship-to-freedom}{%
\paragraph{We explore ``Tiger King'' and what it says about America's
unique relationship to
freedom.}\label{we-explore-tiger-king-and-what-it-says-about-americas-unique-relationship-to-freedom}}

Thursday, April 9th, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item
  jenna wortham\\
  OK.
\item
  {[}music{]}
\item
  jenna wortham\\
  I'm Jenna Wortham.
\item
  wesley morris\\
  I'm Wesley Morris. We are two culture writers at The New York Times.
\item
  jenna wortham\\
  This is ``Still Processing.''

  A few weeks ago all of my social feeds were completely colonized by
  these memes of a really sunburned looking white guy with a situation
  ship on top of his head. Like, I still don't understand what is going
  on with his hair, but bleach blonde hair, OK? Shaved and dark on the
  sides. Piercings, tattoos, and a feral look in his eyes and in an
  animal cage or next to a tiger. And every third person in my life:
  ``Have you seen `Tiger King?' Are you watching Tiger King?''' I was
  like, I don't need more things to keep me awake at night. I was
  assured over and over again, ``No, it's not stressful. It's very
  absorbing.'' And they were right about that. I mean, I put this show
  on, and I did not think about anything else. I was just not in America
  in 2020 anymore.
\item
  wesley morris\\
  ``Tiger King: Murder, Mayhem, and Madness,'' this documentary that
  runs in seven parts on Netflix, its popularity makes all the sense in
  the world. It's got disappearances. There is an attempted murder for
  hire, accusations of actual murder, lawsuits, arson, guns, explosions,
  addiction, sex, cheating ---
\item
  jenna wortham\\
  So much sex!
\item
  wesley morris\\
  --- polyamory.
\item
  jenna wortham\\
  So much sex! Ugh, go on.
\item
  wesley morris\\
  --- and lots of big, dangerous animals.
\item
  archived recording (joe exotic)\\
  My name's Joe Exotic. And this is Thunder and Lightning. The only
  difference between my pet and your pet is mine have three-inch teeth,
  and they weigh 400 pounds. Does it feel good to stand on my stage with
  500-pound tigers and everybody envy you? Absolutely. I would be the
  biggest liar if I said no.
\end{itemize}

wesley morris

Also, also, also it is a true crime story with a lot of cats. So its
popularity is just --- during these times, is a no-brainer.

jenna wortham

So let's back up for a second and talk about who the Tiger King actually
is.

wesley morris

He's got a lot of tigers, and he's got a lot of names. His Wikipedia
entry name would be Joseph Allen Schreibvogel Maldonado-Passage.

jenna wortham

Wow.

wesley morris

And his nom de zoo is Joe Exotic. When the docuseries starts, he's the
owner and operator of the G.W. Zoo, which is in the middle of Oklahoma
in a place called Wynnewood. And there are scores of lions and tigers
but also alligators and bears and wolves and all kinds of monkeys. For
people willing to pay money to come see these animals, they can plunk
down some, go in, and see them all. At some point he had 187 cats. And
you could go in and see Joe's animals.

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  archived recording (joe exotic)\\
  Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I'd like to welcome you to the
  Greater Wynnewood Exotic Animal Park. I'm going to show you you're
  going to get closer to tigers and lions here than you would anywhere
  in the world. As a matter of fact, you're going to get so close I can
  almost promise you some of you will be urinated on. If that happens,
  we have T-shirts at the gift shop that says, ``I got peed on by a
  tiger.''
\end{itemize}

wesley morris

He is physically a character. He is personality-wise one of the most
interesting people I've ever watched in a movie or a television show.

jenna wortham

When's the last time you saw someone living at the intersection of all
of these identities on television before? He's a proudly proclaimed
gun-toting, gay, polyamorous, redneck, et cetera, et cetera. He's just
--- it's hard to believe that people like him exist. And so for me,
that's like the first thing that drew me in was like, who is this guy,
and why the hell does he have all these cats?

\begin{itemize}
\item
  archived recording (joe exotic)\\
  I'm outspoken, good-looking, love to party and have fun.
\item
  archived recording\\
  Hello.
\item
  archived recording (joe exotic)\\
  Let's go blow some shit up.
\item
  archived recording\\
  Blow some shit up.
\end{itemize}

jenna wortham

So Joe's nemesis is a self-styled animal rights activists who's in
Florida, and her name is Carole Baskin.

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  archived recording (carole baskin)\\
  You see how they go from being so sweet to just wanting to tear your
  face off, and they can do it like that. And it's like, oh, that's
  amazing to have that kind of range and that speed. {[}LAUGHS{]}
\end{itemize}

jenna wortham

Now, when you meet Carole, she also looks like someone who could be
famous or wants to be famous. Like, there's so much ---

wesley morris

Yes, yes.

jenna wortham

--- going on with her. She has this SoCal beachy vibes, huge eyes. She
runs an animal sanctuary called Big Cat Rescue, and she would like all
of us to think she's an animal rights activist. So you know, from her
perspective, Joe is a bad guy. He mistreats his animals. He's not taking
care of them. She wants to shut him down.

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  archived recording (carole baskin)\\
  People like Joe Exotic, what they are doing is breeding cats for a
  life in cages. A tiger needs 400 square miles of territory in the
  wild. So there's no cage that's going to be sufficient.
\end{itemize}

jenna wortham

And yet, she herself also trots out these animals for display. People
pay to come visit her refuge and look at the cats as well. I mean, it's
just --- it's, you know, by any other name, tomato, tomato. I don't
know.

\begin{itemize}
\item
  archived recording (joe exotic)\\
  You're open to the public. You're doing bone tours, night tours, day
  tours, kid tours, kid camps, weddings, you name it.
\item
  archived recording (carole baskin)\\
  If you're taking photos and stuff, it'd be great if you would use the
  hashtag \#bigcatrescue. So you can find us there. Go ahead and open
  the gates and go see some cats. {[}APPLAUSE{]}
\item
  archived recording (joe exotic)\\
  It's a moneymaker for them.
\item
  archived recording (carole baskin)\\
  These tickets sold out really fast. And so we're so happy to see all
  you guys.
\item
  archived recording (joe exotic)\\
  If you're not {[}EXPLETIVE{]} exploiting animals at that point ---
  what the hell are you doing?
\end{itemize}

jenna wortham

But essentially, this dynamic between the two of them gets whipped up
into a frenzy. And the culminating question of the show is whether or
not Joe eventually did what he said he's going to do throughout the
whole show and hire someone to kill her. But the more time you spend
with Carole, the more you start to understand there is something else
happening below all those layers. She is a master chess player. And she
is playing the game to win.

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  archived recording\\
  It's like the Hatfield and McCoy. They go at each other. ``Oh, well,
  you did this. Well, you did that. I got this. I got that.'' It's just
  a crazy little comedy between exotic animal owners.
\end{itemize}

jenna wortham

For both of these characters, the animals are the beginning of a turning
point in both of their lives. They completely transform them into
entirely new people. They start to revolve all of their lives, all of
their businesses, all of their motivation around big cats.

\begin{itemize}
\item
  archived recording (joe exotic)\\
  At the age of 13, I knew I was gay. And I had a bad time struggling
  with it. When my father found out, he made me shake his hand in front
  of my mom and promise not to come to his funeral. So I had a real
  issue dealing with that. And one night I drove my car off a bridge.

  I broke my back and spent five years in braces. I went to Florida to
  do my therapy. And my neighbor was the manager of Lion Country Safari.
  And he brought home all the baby lions and baby monkeys and stuff at
  night to bottlefeed. And that's where my attraction to exotic animals
  really started in.

  I know that they have a heart and a soul and a mind. I've learned from
  them, and they do therapy for me. Let's see your voice, sexy lion.
\end{itemize}

wesley morris

Yeah, I mean, they started out loving these animals. And legitimately, I
don't disbelieve the origin stories of all the participants who get an
origin story in this series.

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  archived recording (carole baskin)\\
  I've never been a person that had friends, and so my friends were two
  imaginary white cats. I've always had cats in my life, and I've always
  felt a certain affinity toward them.
\end{itemize}

wesley morris

Carole is leaning into her thing. And she's got like cat print luggage,
cat print clothes. Joe, he's got a gift shop at the G.W. Zoo. And in the
gift shop, they're selling Joe Exotic honey. They're selling Joe Exotic
lube ---

jenna wortham

Lube!

{[}laughter{]}

wesley morris

--- Joe Exotic underwear. And so you get this sense that the animals ---
OK, they might love the animals. This might have begun from a place of
pure animal love. But once the commerce gets involved, the animals
become this kind of fetish. I can say that I am going to the zoo to just
see some cute little animals. But I also maybe like the fact that
they've been made safe for me and so that part of the appeal of being at
these places is the ownership and dominance that we have over these
animals. And that, to me, is what I'm ascribing to Joe and Carole is
like they're profiting from these other people. And that, in a weird
way, it just seems like this is the sort of thing that can only happen
in the United States of America.

jenna wortham

Ding, ding, ding, yeah.

wesley morris

This couldn't happen in India in the same way. It couldn't happen in
Mexico in the same way. It couldn't happen in China the same way.
There's something about these people's relationship to power,
capitalism, land, each other. It only happens here.

jenna wortham

Yeah, a hundred percent, a hundred percent. It is so specifically ---
like, the self-righteousness is so American.

wesley morris

Yes, yes, yes.

jenna wortham

The entitlement is so American, the obsession with freedom and personal
freedom. Never mind that we're actually taking away pretty incredible
creatures' freedoms. No, no, no, what about our freedoms and our
lifestyles? I mean, if I had a dollar for every single time someone on
the show says, like, ``you can't take this away from me --- this is my
lifestyle'' --- I'd probably be able to go to Shake Shack if a Shake
Shack was open. There's a lot of occurrences of this idea that this is
my right.

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  archived recording\\
  According to Thomas Jefferson, any law that you think is unfair or
  unjustice, it is your obligation, it is your responsibility to stand
  up against that bullshit law.
\end{itemize}

jenna wortham

It reminds me of some of the videos that I've been seeing of people
defying social distancing orders and defying the public health orders
and just doing what they want to do and going where they want to go
regardless of how it impacts anyone else around them. It's like, ``No,
no, no, this is my right as an American.'' ``I get to walk. I get to go
out for a walk. I get to go lay in the park. I don't care what you
people have to say.'' And in the case of the show, the you people are
the animal rights activists that are always coming for them.

wesley morris

Yes, yes, yes, yes.

jenna wortham

There are so many moments in the show where you kind of see the extent
of what those personal freedoms mean. It looks like driving around in
drop tops or pickup trucks with a tiger in the front seat. It's like
riding a four wheeler towards a tornado to try to like scope it out. I
mean, there's just this kind of rogue scrappyness --- shooting guns at
the lake just because you feel like it. I was like, what's in the lake?
In my mind, I was like, what poor animals are dodging bullets under the
water? I mean, there's just so much human arrogance on display and a
callousness for any other living thing except for oneself. You see it in
the type of food they feed the animals, which I still have indigestion.
I get such a queasyness ---

wesley morris

I can't even.

jenna wortham

--- when I think about this show, let alone what they were feeding the
animals, which is expired meat from Walmart. By the way, it's not just
the cats that are making a meal of that expired meats. It's also the zoo
employees. So you start to really understand the real cost of this
empire building that's happening. It's not just the cats that are having
to sacrifice. It's the people too.

wesley morris

It's the people. There is an element of what I can only call
whitesploitation happening here ---

jenna wortham

Yes.

wesley morris

--- where this show is filling a void that shows like ``Cops'' and
``Maury'' and ---

jenna wortham

``Duck Dynasty.''

wesley morris

--- that Anna Nicole Smith show, ``Duck Dynasty'' ---

jenna wortham

``Honey Boo Boo.''

wesley morris

--- ``Dog the Bounty Hunter.''

jenna wortham

Well, some people have called this poverty porn. Some people call it
also classploitation. I mean, it's basically trash TV. But it's also a
zoo itself. And we're also the gawkers. We're also pulling up to this
roadside attraction to watch these people who are on display in the same
way that the cats are at the G.W. Zoo. And we're looking at them and
marveling at them and thinking to ourselves, like, how the hell do these
people exist? There's like a fishbowl-ness where we're getting a peek
into these lives that we normally --- we hear about, but we really don't
have any other access to. And our own fascination with how another
quadrant of Americanness happens and what it looks like is also part of
that feedback loop and also part of that exploitative wheel.

wesley morris

Well, Jenna, I hear you say that, and this show could only exist with
white people. This story could only happen to white people.

jenna wortham

I know.

wesley morris

You show me the show about some black zookeeper with a flamingo farm
fighting with some black woman in like Compton ---

jenna wortham

It's like Maxine Waters versus --- yeah.

wesley morris

It just doesn't happen.

jenna wortham

White people are the only ones who get to have fun while committing
crimes. They're the only ones that get to document it, make a reality
show out of it, and we can't get enough. We love it. In the three-ring
circus act that is Joe Exotic, one of the rings is crime. It's part of
the show. It is part of the spectacle. It is part of the wild ride. And
that is a uniquely white thing. So in addition to murder for hire,
homeboy's out here falsifying all kinds of records around either loans,
wildlife transaction. He's committing campaign fraud. But you can talk
about all the crimes this man is perpetuating without even getting to
all the abuses and the violations of endangered species acts and all the
other multitude of things that he's doing against the animals. It's
just, people are fascinated with white criminality in a way that --- it
stands out in stark contrast to the way that this country thinks about
black people who even sneeze at a crosswalk let alone cross it sideways.

wesley morris

Well, normally when you see black criminals, they come in one flavor.
And that is drug dealer. A lot of those stories --- and let's just think
specifically about ``The Wire.'' But even a show like ``Snowfall,''
which is on FX, you rarely get the shows to bring these men and women to
life. So the difference I guess is that black people are drug dealers
trapped in a plot, right? And with white criminals, in general, it's
more about who the criminal is. You get to know them. It's a character
study before it's a procedural.

jenna wortham

Well, it's also humanizing. They get to be people.

wesley morris

Like, Walter White is a school teacher with inoperable lung cancer who
winds up at his lowest moment turning into the greatest drug lord in the
history of America. And Tony Soprano --- another person. I mean, we
accept the idea that as part of our entertainment that there's a lot of
rope for white criminals in entertainment to hang themselves if they
even get hung, right? But the idea that when you do get black versions
of this, it's stuff like that really good movie about the D.C. shooter,
the D.C. sniper. It's ``Blue Caprice.'' Or you get something like
``O.J.: Made in America.'' Or I mentioned ``The Wire.'' But none of
those works is a comedy. And ``Tiger King'' is essentially --- like, it
can join a long list of funny --- front, really, facing comedies about
white criminals. A show like ``Fargo'' is a pretty perfect example of
there is this whole zone of funny white criminals where you're basically
watching a movie full of nincompoops trying to commit crimes, and the
movie is laughing at them too. But the only comparable thing I can think
of that's even remotely in that universe when it comes to black people
and criminals is a show like ``Empire,'' which is about a crime family
that winds up running a huge record label. And it's not afraid to make
terrible people interesting.

jenna wortham

It's tough, right? Like, you would never --- and I don't want to see it
also, it's worth noting. But there would never be even a two-part series
about what Michael Vick was up to, his origin story and whatever
happened on the other side of that with his dogfighting ring. And I
think that's the part that just sours all of this for me, which is just
it's frustrating to think about how we laugh at someone like Joe Exotic
and then how we demonize someone like Michael Vick.

wesley morris

Right, right. But it's just more about the way the system is set up to
allow all of this leeway for a person like Joe Exotic to enjoy himself.

jenna wortham

And is it worth making the point that ---

wesley morris

From prison too, by the way.

jenna wortham

From prison. And I don't think there are any white people who are
watching this show feeling like embarrassed on behalf of an entire genre
of people. But when Michael Vick was in the news and being prosecuted,
it felt like if you were a black person and you --- you were somehow
also responsible for the crimes perpetuated by Michael Vick, which is
also a distillation of how we think about race in this country.

wesley morris

Well, you know, Jenna, we actually do have a black Tiger King.

It's Michael Jackson.

jenna wortham

Ugh.

wesley morris

I mean, ``Neverland,'' it wasn't an official public zoo, but there was a
zoo.

jenna wortham

Yeah.

wesley morris

And it was predicated upon this fantasy of, I don't know, childhood for
Michael Jackson.

jenna wortham

Delights?

wesley morris

Delight, yeah. It was essentially part of the lore for kids ---

jenna wortham

And adults.

wesley morris

And their parents. There were these animals there. And you got this
tandem of the biggest music star in the world and these adorable animals
you could maybe pet. I don't know if you remember this, but the gatefold
for the ``Thriller'' LP was Michael Jackson sprawled on his side with a
tiger cub on his knee.

jenna wortham

Right, I do remember that. My sister had it pinned up on her wall. It is
imprinted into my childhood brain for sure.

wesley morris

Michael Jackson is not Joe Exotic. But with ``Tiger King,'' the only
reason to bring it up at all is just to say that when it comes to
popular culture, a black criminal is a black criminal first. And if that
person is lucky, then maybe, maybe he gets to be a character second.

jenna wortham

But that's what makes the show so insidious, Wesley. We should not be
sitting here trying to find some compassion for Michael Jackson, for
O.J. Simpson, for Michael Vick. The show is putting us into a position
where we feel defensive over people who've done horrible things. Why?
Why? And what we're really talking about is behaviors that are deemed
acceptable by society. What behaviors are worthy of prosecution, and
what becomes a sideshow attraction? When you really watch the show and
you parse out Joe's actions --- like, I can not stop thinking about a
young man named Travis Maldonado, who you meet on the show. And he
becomes Joe's next love interest and eventually his husband, although I
don't know how legal these marriages were. But the way they introduced
this young man, who's 19 by the way, 19 to Joe's 51 ---

\begin{itemize}
\item
  archived recording (joe exotic)\\
  He arrived. And my god, it was a 6 foot 6 dark-complected gentlemen
  with the most godawful big hands you've ever seen in your life.
\item
  archived recording\\
  Joe immediately is, like, love struck by this. So we're taking the
  trash trailer down one day. John's driving the truck. Me, Joe, and
  Travis are in the back of the trailer. And Joe says ---
\item
  archived recording (joe exotic)\\
  How straight are you? And he goes, ``Pretty straight.'' And I said,
  you watch porn? He says, ``Yeah.'' I said, well, do you enjoy the guy
  with the little one doing her? Or do you enjoy watching the guy with
  the big one doing her? And he says, ``Well, obviously you want to
  watch the guy with the big one.'' I said, well, you ain't that
  straight. {[}LAUGHS{]}
\end{itemize}

jenna wortham

Travis seems to be very unhappy and deeply miserable. This is someone
who is under the spell of addiction. This is somebody who apparently
does not have a lot of economic resources. This is someone who is in a
lot of trouble as a young person who gets totally swept into Joe
Exotic's big, narcissistic, egotistic plan. And the show scores this, I
guess seduction if you want to call it that, with romantic music as if
it's a love story. But it's really a dark tragedy. And Travis is not the
only young person who comes under Joe's manipulation and appears to be
held there by means beyond their control, doesn't seem to be able to
leave.

wesley morris

I mean, not to keep doing this, but it sounds like R. Kelly and Bill
Cosby to me.

jenna wortham

No. I'm so mad at you for bringing that up. I can't. I can't!

wesley morris

Sorry. But I'm just saying that like just in terms of what we do and
don't permit to be entertainment, a show like ``Surviving R. Kelly,''
that docuseries that ran on Lifetime last year, the stakes were too high
for it to be anything other than a legal document ---

jenna wortham

Right.

wesley morris

--- that has the power to at least get R. Kelly to get near a courtroom.
And the R. Kelly series didn't have the luxury of entertaining you. Do
you know what I mean, Jenna?

jenna wortham

Mmm. Yeah, yeah, yeah.

wesley morris

These issues were too urgent to be cute or wink. And the point of
``Surviving R. Kelly'' was to actually put some bars around this man and
actually try to prosecute him.

jenna wortham

It was a public service. The series was an act of public service, yeah.

wesley morris

Right. And this other show, ``Tiger King,'' gets to be free, has the
luxury of letting Joe kind of tell his own story in some ways. I mean,
he obviously doesn't have all the controls. None of these people do. The
filmmakers do. And they definitely have a point of view. But they're so
generous in how much of these people get to be people before they become
sort of criminal justice items. But if you were going to make a
documentary about R. Kelly, you better be using it as a tool of social
justice and criminal justice.

{[}music{]}

But there are other things about ``Tiger King'' with respect to power
that are worth talking about. And I don't know. I think maybe we should
try to talk about those too.

jenna wortham

I'm here for it, babes. Let's take a quick break. And when we come back,
we will get into it.

{[}music{]}

wesley morris

Jenna.

jenna wortham

Yes, dear.

wesley morris

I need you to know something about me.

jenna wortham

Oh, OK.

wesley morris

It's not that bad, but I just remembered it while we were talking about
this. When I was a kid, I had a bunch of, like all kids, like lots of
kids who are lucky enough to have a bedroom, had posters on my wall of
things that appealed to me. And had a picture of E.T. I had a picture of
Emmanuel Lewis.

jenna wortham

Oh, interesting, OK.

wesley morris

I had my obligatory Michael Jackson poster.

jenna wortham

Sure, sure.

wesley morris

You know, the magic was working. The magic was working. What can I say?

jenna wortham

We all did.

wesley morris

I had a 1983 Philadelphia 76ers little insert thing that the
Philadelphia Daily News gave everybody after they won the championship.

jenna wortham

Very cute.

wesley morris

I also had this giant poster of Gunther Gebel-Williams. Does that name
mean anything to you?

jenna wortham

No.

wesley morris

Gunther Gebel-Williams was some kind of Ringling Brothers lion tamer big
cats person. And the picture that I kept on my bedroom wall from the
time I was maybe seven or eight years old until I was a teenager was of
him. I don't think he had any shirt on, and around his neck was a tiger.
And I've got to assume that part of the appeal of that image was that it
was erotic.

jenna wortham

Oh, yeah.

wesley morris

And there was something about him and those animals and the control that
I guess young me would have assumed that he had over them.

jenna wortham

Power is sexy.

wesley morris

Well, I mean, there's also something about the circus I think. I mean
there's something about the circus for me where like the thing with the
animals was just seeing these live animals in person. It just really
spoke to me.

jenna wortham

You know, I think from a very young age we are socialized to find that
appealing. And I think humans in general are obsessed with controlling
the natural world. They're obsessed with asserting themselves in
relationship to it. You can see it as a way to understand yourself and
your purpose and your place in the order of things through the dominance
and control and reorientation of those creatures.

wesley morris

Yeah, I mean, there's a moment in the show where the guy who does all
Joe Exotic's videos, this guy named Rick Kirkham, says that there's
something really addictive about the cats.

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  archived recording (rick kirkham)\\
  I felt it when I got to hold a tiger in my hands, when I got my hand
  in a cage with six eight-month-old tigers and lions. There's something
  very addicting about the feeling of power being around these animals.
\end{itemize}

jenna wortham

Most people are not immune to that power. And there is a whole thing
about people posing with tigers in their Tinder profiles. It is a thing.
I think for most people, when you're presented with the option to hold a
baby tiger, you're going to say yes. I have to say I've never been in
that position, but I'm having a hard time --- prior to seeing ``Tiger
King'' --- I'm having a really hard time imagining myself saying no. I
think I would have been like, ``Give me baby Tony. Hell, yeah, take my
picture.'' How can you say no? And both Joe and Carole make money off of
that attraction. People line up to pet them. We've been seeing a little
bit about how these tiger cubs are being used for entertainment and how
they're being used for profit, but we really haven't been forced to
confront the real brutality of what that means for these animals. You
know, one of the most horrific parts of the show for me --- and
admittedly, I definitely could not fully watch it --- there is a scene
in the show when Joe was filming and watching a tiger giving birth. And
it's worth noting we're deep, deep down the rabbit hole at this point.
We've been invested in this show for hours. And so in this scene,
they're watching this tiger giving birth. But then as the tiger is
giving birth, Joe is taking a tool and thrusting it into the cage to
pull the baby tiger away from the mother at the moment of birth. And it
was so --- it touched something inside of me that was so painful, so
absolutely painful. And it felt like a deep maternal womb wound. And I'm
not a parent, so I --- but I felt it. You know, I felt it deep in my
solar plexus. It was awful.

wesley morris

Well, there's also that moment at the end where he's talking about the
chimps that he'd kept in separate cages for, like, a decade. At some
point, the chimps wind up in the same enclosure. And he has a moment of
actual regret.

\begin{itemize}
\item
  archived recording (joe exotic)\\
  And in two days they were out in a big yard hugging on each other.

  Did I deprive them of that for 10 years? Yep.

  I deprived them of being chimpanzees.

  Did I do it on purpose? No, I was wrapped up in having a zoo.
\end{itemize}

jenna wortham

Those two moments are the moments in the show that really blow the whole
operation wide open. You know, it's not about the animals. It's not
about the animals. It's about the money that the animals provide access
to and the personal gain and the currency, right, the currency that
these people have by being in proximity to them. And I also feel like it
just makes me call B.S. on everything about Joe Exotic, to be honest
with you. Because I don't know how you're in possession of primates and
not know how intelligent they are, how sensitive they are, how social
they are.

wesley morris

There's also the fact that Joe seems so blinded by his narcissism that
the needs of people around him frequently just --- he doesn't notice
what people need.

jenna wortham

There's this --- oh my god --- gut-wrenching scene in which one of Joe's
employees has been attacked by a tiger. And they're doing --- again,
they have footage for it --- they're doing triage in front of the cage,
and Joe rushes into the gift shop, makes the announcement to everybody
there --- I don't know why. But the first thing he says is, ``I am never
going to financially recover from this.'' And it's just --- I mean,
really, Joe? That's your first response, not is he OK? Is he going to be
OK? What's the status? That might have happened, but we didn't see it on
screen. Joe was really just worried about his financial prospects.

wesley morris

That incident happens I believe in the second episode. And it's possible
to see that happen and just be mad at the practices of the G.W. Zoo. But
in some ways, I feel like any anger that you have about this show is a
proxy or maybe a stand-in or a replacement for some other real things
that have been happening that don't involve this virus.

jenna wortham

Yeah.

wesley morris

I mean, this sort of goes back to what we were saying before about like
the --- there is a kind of luxury of this show. And you know, there are
actual people in cages right now. And I'd be very interested to see a
filmmaker try to get away with something like ``Undocumented Labor
King.'' Or like ``I.C.E. Exotic.''

jenna wortham

Oh my god. What about ``The Package King'' starring Jeff Bezos? Like
what's going on with Amazon right now? All this two-day delivery and
workers being pushed beyond their limits and not having protective gear,
I mean, that is a show that we need to really dive into so we can be
implicated in this. Because with the ``Tiger King,'' you and I aren't at
the zoo right now. You and I aren't holding baby cubs. Our hands are
clean. But I think it would be much more interesting to think about what
this show could look like if we did have to engage with our own
relationship to unsavory labor practices.

wesley morris

But when you substitute the tigers for people, it makes it easier to
watch in some ways.

jenna wortham

I know.

wesley morris

But at the end of the day, the tigers do serve this other allegorical
purpose. This entire enterprise just sort of struck me as not terribly
dissimilar from human enslavement.

jenna wortham

I agree! That was the first thing I thought about when I watched that
baby tiger being yanked away from its mother with the cord still
attached essentially. I was thinking the exact same thing.

wesley morris

But it isn't so much that the animals are proxies for enslavement. It's
more like the hunger for ownership is really the story. That's where the
heart of this story overlaps with the heart of how enslavement worked.
Joe's obsession with Carole, it just reminds me of all of those southern
plantation owners and enslavers who just couldn't believe the nerve of
northerners in the run-up to the Civil War. There was this sense among
certain plantation owners that the North really had some nerve casting
aspersions on this practice when you're just as guilty of benefiting
from this practice. You know, we make, and y'all take. So you need to
get your story straight. And I feel like Joe's obsession with Carole is
so much in line with that. ``You are guilty of every single thing that
you're accusing me of doing, except you somehow are able to get away
with it. How is that? That's absurd. You're a criminal too.''

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  archived recording (joe exotic)\\
  She's got tens of thousands of people out there brainwashed that we're
  abusing animals. I just called her playing that hypocrite.
\end{itemize}

wesley morris

And Carole's logic is, ``I treat them better.''

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  archived recording (carole baskin)\\
  What really sets apart Big Cat Rescue from a zoo is that we are fixing
  the problem, they are creating the problem. But the reason that we
  have cats in cages is to provide them a safe place to live until they
  die.
\end{itemize}

wesley morris

Her corollary would be like, ``We in the North have freed blacks, and if
we hire them for work, we pay them. It's not much ---''

jenna wortham

``But we at least pay them,'' without acknowledging that they're still
complicit in the same systematic disenfranchisement.

wesley morris

And that is the thing that kind of brings me back to this idea that this
is an only in America thing. Property ownership, ownership of other
creatures, the refusal to acknowledge that there might have to be a
limit to how much you can have and land and what you can do on that land
because it's yours. It just feels like the show could have called itself
American Tiger, and nobody would have bat an eyelash.

jenna wortham

Truly. The most uncomfortable thing for me about the show was the
realization that there is no version of freedom that exists as a stand
alone entity or way of life. It rests on another being's subjugation. It
rests on profit. It rests on imprisonment and cruelty. And those are the
things about this show that make it feel uniquely American. And those
are the things that we need to interrogate and that I think the show
actually does help us interrogate. It's just deeply uncomfortable
because it is still all framed as entertainment. And I think there's
just so many parallels in this framework that were hard to digest. But
it's maybe too deep of a read on ``Tiger King,'' but maybe it's also not
deep enough. You know, Wesley, we just thought we were going to get our
trash TV fix. But we ended up somewhere really different. And I feel
like we're both permanently altered. I feel like you and I will never
look at a zoo or a baby tiger cub, for that matter, the same way again,
right?

wesley morris

100 percent.

{[}music{]}

That is our show.

Next week we're going to be talking about health, wellness, the ways in
which plagues and viruses reorient us and society. And the thing that we
thought would be a great thing to talk about is David France's 2012
documentary ``How to Survive a Plague'' about the AIDS crisis and the
fight for a cure. It's very good and extremely instructive, so that's
what we're going to talk about next week.

jenna wortham

``Still Processing'' is a product of The New York Times and is currently
being recorded from our living rooms.

wesley morris

It's produced by Hans Buetow And our editors are Sara Sarasohn, Sasha
Weiss, Wendy Dorr, and Lisa Tobin.

jenna wortham

Our engineer is Jake Gorski.

wesley morris

And our theme music's by Kindness. It's called ``World Restart'' from
the album ``Otherness.''

jenna wortham

You can find all of our episodes and various fun things at
NYTimes.com/stillprocessing.

wesley morris

Take it easy, you guys. Wash your hands and moisturize.

jenna wortham

Bye.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/column/still-processing-podcast}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2019/09/15/podcasts/still-processing-album-art-2/still-processing-album-art-2-square320.jpg}Still
Processing}Subscribe:

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://itunes.apple.com/us/podcast/id1151436460}{Apple
  Podcasts}
\item
  \href{https://www.google.com/podcasts?feed=aHR0cHM6Ly9yc3MuYXJ0MTkuY29tL255dC1zdGlsbC1wcm9jZXNzaW5n}{Google
  Podcasts}
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{frosted-flakes-1}{%
\section{Frosted Flakes}\label{frosted-flakes-1}}

\hypertarget{we-explore-tiger-king-and-what-it-says-about-americas-unique-relationship-to-freedom-1}{%
\subsection{We explore ``Tiger King'' and what it says about America's
unique relationship to
freedom.}\label{we-explore-tiger-king-and-what-it-says-about-americas-unique-relationship-to-freedom-1}}

Hosted by Wesley Morris and Jenna Wortham. Produced by Hans Buetow.

Transcript

transcript

Back to Still Processing

bars

0:00/39:49

-0:00

transcript

\hypertarget{frosted-flakes-2}{%
\subsection{Frosted Flakes}\label{frosted-flakes-2}}

\hypertarget{hosted-by-wesley-morris-and-jenna-wortham-produced-by-hans-buetow-1}{%
\subsubsection{Hosted by Wesley Morris and Jenna Wortham. Produced by
Hans
Buetow.}\label{hosted-by-wesley-morris-and-jenna-wortham-produced-by-hans-buetow-1}}

\hypertarget{we-explore-tiger-king-and-what-it-says-about-americas-unique-relationship-to-freedom-2}{%
\paragraph{We explore ``Tiger King'' and what it says about America's
unique relationship to
freedom.}\label{we-explore-tiger-king-and-what-it-says-about-americas-unique-relationship-to-freedom-2}}

Thursday, April 9th, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item
  jenna wortham\\
  OK.
\item
  {[}music{]}
\item
  jenna wortham\\
  I'm Jenna Wortham.
\item
  wesley morris\\
  I'm Wesley Morris. We are two culture writers at The New York Times.
\item
  jenna wortham\\
  This is ``Still Processing.''

  A few weeks ago all of my social feeds were completely colonized by
  these memes of a really sunburned looking white guy with a situation
  ship on top of his head. Like, I still don't understand what is going
  on with his hair, but bleach blonde hair, OK? Shaved and dark on the
  sides. Piercings, tattoos, and a feral look in his eyes and in an
  animal cage or next to a tiger. And every third person in my life:
  ``Have you seen `Tiger King?' Are you watching Tiger King?''' I was
  like, I don't need more things to keep me awake at night. I was
  assured over and over again, ``No, it's not stressful. It's very
  absorbing.'' And they were right about that. I mean, I put this show
  on, and I did not think about anything else. I was just not in America
  in 2020 anymore.
\item
  wesley morris\\
  ``Tiger King: Murder, Mayhem, and Madness,'' this documentary that
  runs in seven parts on Netflix, its popularity makes all the sense in
  the world. It's got disappearances. There is an attempted murder for
  hire, accusations of actual murder, lawsuits, arson, guns, explosions,
  addiction, sex, cheating ---
\item
  jenna wortham\\
  So much sex!
\item
  wesley morris\\
  --- polyamory.
\item
  jenna wortham\\
  So much sex! Ugh, go on.
\item
  wesley morris\\
  --- and lots of big, dangerous animals.
\item
  archived recording (joe exotic)\\
  My name's Joe Exotic. And this is Thunder and Lightning. The only
  difference between my pet and your pet is mine have three-inch teeth,
  and they weigh 400 pounds. Does it feel good to stand on my stage with
  500-pound tigers and everybody envy you? Absolutely. I would be the
  biggest liar if I said no.
\end{itemize}

wesley morris

Also, also, also it is a true crime story with a lot of cats. So its
popularity is just --- during these times, is a no-brainer.

jenna wortham

So let's back up for a second and talk about who the Tiger King actually
is.

wesley morris

He's got a lot of tigers, and he's got a lot of names. His Wikipedia
entry name would be Joseph Allen Schreibvogel Maldonado-Passage.

jenna wortham

Wow.

wesley morris

And his nom de zoo is Joe Exotic. When the docuseries starts, he's the
owner and operator of the G.W. Zoo, which is in the middle of Oklahoma
in a place called Wynnewood. And there are scores of lions and tigers
but also alligators and bears and wolves and all kinds of monkeys. For
people willing to pay money to come see these animals, they can plunk
down some, go in, and see them all. At some point he had 187 cats. And
you could go in and see Joe's animals.

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  archived recording (joe exotic)\\
  Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I'd like to welcome you to the
  Greater Wynnewood Exotic Animal Park. I'm going to show you you're
  going to get closer to tigers and lions here than you would anywhere
  in the world. As a matter of fact, you're going to get so close I can
  almost promise you some of you will be urinated on. If that happens,
  we have T-shirts at the gift shop that says, ``I got peed on by a
  tiger.''
\end{itemize}

wesley morris

He is physically a character. He is personality-wise one of the most
interesting people I've ever watched in a movie or a television show.

jenna wortham

When's the last time you saw someone living at the intersection of all
of these identities on television before? He's a proudly proclaimed
gun-toting, gay, polyamorous, redneck, et cetera, et cetera. He's just
--- it's hard to believe that people like him exist. And so for me,
that's like the first thing that drew me in was like, who is this guy,
and why the hell does he have all these cats?

\begin{itemize}
\item
  archived recording (joe exotic)\\
  I'm outspoken, good-looking, love to party and have fun.
\item
  archived recording\\
  Hello.
\item
  archived recording (joe exotic)\\
  Let's go blow some shit up.
\item
  archived recording\\
  Blow some shit up.
\end{itemize}

jenna wortham

So Joe's nemesis is a self-styled animal rights activists who's in
Florida, and her name is Carole Baskin.

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  archived recording (carole baskin)\\
  You see how they go from being so sweet to just wanting to tear your
  face off, and they can do it like that. And it's like, oh, that's
  amazing to have that kind of range and that speed. {[}LAUGHS{]}
\end{itemize}

jenna wortham

Now, when you meet Carole, she also looks like someone who could be
famous or wants to be famous. Like, there's so much ---

wesley morris

Yes, yes.

jenna wortham

--- going on with her. She has this SoCal beachy vibes, huge eyes. She
runs an animal sanctuary called Big Cat Rescue, and she would like all
of us to think she's an animal rights activist. So you know, from her
perspective, Joe is a bad guy. He mistreats his animals. He's not taking
care of them. She wants to shut him down.

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  archived recording (carole baskin)\\
  People like Joe Exotic, what they are doing is breeding cats for a
  life in cages. A tiger needs 400 square miles of territory in the
  wild. So there's no cage that's going to be sufficient.
\end{itemize}

jenna wortham

And yet, she herself also trots out these animals for display. People
pay to come visit her refuge and look at the cats as well. I mean, it's
just --- it's, you know, by any other name, tomato, tomato. I don't
know.

\begin{itemize}
\item
  archived recording (joe exotic)\\
  You're open to the public. You're doing bone tours, night tours, day
  tours, kid tours, kid camps, weddings, you name it.
\item
  archived recording (carole baskin)\\
  If you're taking photos and stuff, it'd be great if you would use the
  hashtag \#bigcatrescue. So you can find us there. Go ahead and open
  the gates and go see some cats. {[}APPLAUSE{]}
\item
  archived recording (joe exotic)\\
  It's a moneymaker for them.
\item
  archived recording (carole baskin)\\
  These tickets sold out really fast. And so we're so happy to see all
  you guys.
\item
  archived recording (joe exotic)\\
  If you're not {[}EXPLETIVE{]} exploiting animals at that point ---
  what the hell are you doing?
\end{itemize}

jenna wortham

But essentially, this dynamic between the two of them gets whipped up
into a frenzy. And the culminating question of the show is whether or
not Joe eventually did what he said he's going to do throughout the
whole show and hire someone to kill her. But the more time you spend
with Carole, the more you start to understand there is something else
happening below all those layers. She is a master chess player. And she
is playing the game to win.

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  archived recording\\
  It's like the Hatfield and McCoy. They go at each other. ``Oh, well,
  you did this. Well, you did that. I got this. I got that.'' It's just
  a crazy little comedy between exotic animal owners.
\end{itemize}

jenna wortham

For both of these characters, the animals are the beginning of a turning
point in both of their lives. They completely transform them into
entirely new people. They start to revolve all of their lives, all of
their businesses, all of their motivation around big cats.

\begin{itemize}
\item
  archived recording (joe exotic)\\
  At the age of 13, I knew I was gay. And I had a bad time struggling
  with it. When my father found out, he made me shake his hand in front
  of my mom and promise not to come to his funeral. So I had a real
  issue dealing with that. And one night I drove my car off a bridge.

  I broke my back and spent five years in braces. I went to Florida to
  do my therapy. And my neighbor was the manager of Lion Country Safari.
  And he brought home all the baby lions and baby monkeys and stuff at
  night to bottlefeed. And that's where my attraction to exotic animals
  really started in.

  I know that they have a heart and a soul and a mind. I've learned from
  them, and they do therapy for me. Let's see your voice, sexy lion.
\end{itemize}

wesley morris

Yeah, I mean, they started out loving these animals. And legitimately, I
don't disbelieve the origin stories of all the participants who get an
origin story in this series.

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  archived recording (carole baskin)\\
  I've never been a person that had friends, and so my friends were two
  imaginary white cats. I've always had cats in my life, and I've always
  felt a certain affinity toward them.
\end{itemize}

wesley morris

Carole is leaning into her thing. And she's got like cat print luggage,
cat print clothes. Joe, he's got a gift shop at the G.W. Zoo. And in the
gift shop, they're selling Joe Exotic honey. They're selling Joe Exotic
lube ---

jenna wortham

Lube!

{[}laughter{]}

wesley morris

--- Joe Exotic underwear. And so you get this sense that the animals ---
OK, they might love the animals. This might have begun from a place of
pure animal love. But once the commerce gets involved, the animals
become this kind of fetish. I can say that I am going to the zoo to just
see some cute little animals. But I also maybe like the fact that
they've been made safe for me and so that part of the appeal of being at
these places is the ownership and dominance that we have over these
animals. And that, to me, is what I'm ascribing to Joe and Carole is
like they're profiting from these other people. And that, in a weird
way, it just seems like this is the sort of thing that can only happen
in the United States of America.

jenna wortham

Ding, ding, ding, yeah.

wesley morris

This couldn't happen in India in the same way. It couldn't happen in
Mexico in the same way. It couldn't happen in China the same way.
There's something about these people's relationship to power,
capitalism, land, each other. It only happens here.

jenna wortham

Yeah, a hundred percent, a hundred percent. It is so specifically ---
like, the self-righteousness is so American.

wesley morris

Yes, yes, yes.

jenna wortham

The entitlement is so American, the obsession with freedom and personal
freedom. Never mind that we're actually taking away pretty incredible
creatures' freedoms. No, no, no, what about our freedoms and our
lifestyles? I mean, if I had a dollar for every single time someone on
the show says, like, ``you can't take this away from me --- this is my
lifestyle'' --- I'd probably be able to go to Shake Shack if a Shake
Shack was open. There's a lot of occurrences of this idea that this is
my right.

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  archived recording\\
  According to Thomas Jefferson, any law that you think is unfair or
  unjustice, it is your obligation, it is your responsibility to stand
  up against that bullshit law.
\end{itemize}

jenna wortham

It reminds me of some of the videos that I've been seeing of people
defying social distancing orders and defying the public health orders
and just doing what they want to do and going where they want to go
regardless of how it impacts anyone else around them. It's like, ``No,
no, no, this is my right as an American.'' ``I get to walk. I get to go
out for a walk. I get to go lay in the park. I don't care what you
people have to say.'' And in the case of the show, the you people are
the animal rights activists that are always coming for them.

wesley morris

Yes, yes, yes, yes.

jenna wortham

There are so many moments in the show where you kind of see the extent
of what those personal freedoms mean. It looks like driving around in
drop tops or pickup trucks with a tiger in the front seat. It's like
riding a four wheeler towards a tornado to try to like scope it out. I
mean, there's just this kind of rogue scrappyness --- shooting guns at
the lake just because you feel like it. I was like, what's in the lake?
In my mind, I was like, what poor animals are dodging bullets under the
water? I mean, there's just so much human arrogance on display and a
callousness for any other living thing except for oneself. You see it in
the type of food they feed the animals, which I still have indigestion.
I get such a queasyness ---

wesley morris

I can't even.

jenna wortham

--- when I think about this show, let alone what they were feeding the
animals, which is expired meat from Walmart. By the way, it's not just
the cats that are making a meal of that expired meats. It's also the zoo
employees. So you start to really understand the real cost of this
empire building that's happening. It's not just the cats that are having
to sacrifice. It's the people too.

wesley morris

It's the people. There is an element of what I can only call
whitesploitation happening here ---

jenna wortham

Yes.

wesley morris

--- where this show is filling a void that shows like ``Cops'' and
``Maury'' and ---

jenna wortham

``Duck Dynasty.''

wesley morris

--- that Anna Nicole Smith show, ``Duck Dynasty'' ---

jenna wortham

``Honey Boo Boo.''

wesley morris

--- ``Dog the Bounty Hunter.''

jenna wortham

Well, some people have called this poverty porn. Some people call it
also classploitation. I mean, it's basically trash TV. But it's also a
zoo itself. And we're also the gawkers. We're also pulling up to this
roadside attraction to watch these people who are on display in the same
way that the cats are at the G.W. Zoo. And we're looking at them and
marveling at them and thinking to ourselves, like, how the hell do these
people exist? There's like a fishbowl-ness where we're getting a peek
into these lives that we normally --- we hear about, but we really don't
have any other access to. And our own fascination with how another
quadrant of Americanness happens and what it looks like is also part of
that feedback loop and also part of that exploitative wheel.

wesley morris

Well, Jenna, I hear you say that, and this show could only exist with
white people. This story could only happen to white people.

jenna wortham

I know.

wesley morris

You show me the show about some black zookeeper with a flamingo farm
fighting with some black woman in like Compton ---

jenna wortham

It's like Maxine Waters versus --- yeah.

wesley morris

It just doesn't happen.

jenna wortham

White people are the only ones who get to have fun while committing
crimes. They're the only ones that get to document it, make a reality
show out of it, and we can't get enough. We love it. In the three-ring
circus act that is Joe Exotic, one of the rings is crime. It's part of
the show. It is part of the spectacle. It is part of the wild ride. And
that is a uniquely white thing. So in addition to murder for hire,
homeboy's out here falsifying all kinds of records around either loans,
wildlife transaction. He's committing campaign fraud. But you can talk
about all the crimes this man is perpetuating without even getting to
all the abuses and the violations of endangered species acts and all the
other multitude of things that he's doing against the animals. It's
just, people are fascinated with white criminality in a way that --- it
stands out in stark contrast to the way that this country thinks about
black people who even sneeze at a crosswalk let alone cross it sideways.

wesley morris

Well, normally when you see black criminals, they come in one flavor.
And that is drug dealer. A lot of those stories --- and let's just think
specifically about ``The Wire.'' But even a show like ``Snowfall,''
which is on FX, you rarely get the shows to bring these men and women to
life. So the difference I guess is that black people are drug dealers
trapped in a plot, right? And with white criminals, in general, it's
more about who the criminal is. You get to know them. It's a character
study before it's a procedural.

jenna wortham

Well, it's also humanizing. They get to be people.

wesley morris

Like, Walter White is a school teacher with inoperable lung cancer who
winds up at his lowest moment turning into the greatest drug lord in the
history of America. And Tony Soprano --- another person. I mean, we
accept the idea that as part of our entertainment that there's a lot of
rope for white criminals in entertainment to hang themselves if they
even get hung, right? But the idea that when you do get black versions
of this, it's stuff like that really good movie about the D.C. shooter,
the D.C. sniper. It's ``Blue Caprice.'' Or you get something like
``O.J.: Made in America.'' Or I mentioned ``The Wire.'' But none of
those works is a comedy. And ``Tiger King'' is essentially --- like, it
can join a long list of funny --- front, really, facing comedies about
white criminals. A show like ``Fargo'' is a pretty perfect example of
there is this whole zone of funny white criminals where you're basically
watching a movie full of nincompoops trying to commit crimes, and the
movie is laughing at them too. But the only comparable thing I can think
of that's even remotely in that universe when it comes to black people
and criminals is a show like ``Empire,'' which is about a crime family
that winds up running a huge record label. And it's not afraid to make
terrible people interesting.

jenna wortham

It's tough, right? Like, you would never --- and I don't want to see it
also, it's worth noting. But there would never be even a two-part series
about what Michael Vick was up to, his origin story and whatever
happened on the other side of that with his dogfighting ring. And I
think that's the part that just sours all of this for me, which is just
it's frustrating to think about how we laugh at someone like Joe Exotic
and then how we demonize someone like Michael Vick.

wesley morris

Right, right. But it's just more about the way the system is set up to
allow all of this leeway for a person like Joe Exotic to enjoy himself.

jenna wortham

And is it worth making the point that ---

wesley morris

From prison too, by the way.

jenna wortham

From prison. And I don't think there are any white people who are
watching this show feeling like embarrassed on behalf of an entire genre
of people. But when Michael Vick was in the news and being prosecuted,
it felt like if you were a black person and you --- you were somehow
also responsible for the crimes perpetuated by Michael Vick, which is
also a distillation of how we think about race in this country.

wesley morris

Well, you know, Jenna, we actually do have a black Tiger King.

It's Michael Jackson.

jenna wortham

Ugh.

wesley morris

I mean, ``Neverland,'' it wasn't an official public zoo, but there was a
zoo.

jenna wortham

Yeah.

wesley morris

And it was predicated upon this fantasy of, I don't know, childhood for
Michael Jackson.

jenna wortham

Delights?

wesley morris

Delight, yeah. It was essentially part of the lore for kids ---

jenna wortham

And adults.

wesley morris

And their parents. There were these animals there. And you got this
tandem of the biggest music star in the world and these adorable animals
you could maybe pet. I don't know if you remember this, but the gatefold
for the ``Thriller'' LP was Michael Jackson sprawled on his side with a
tiger cub on his knee.

jenna wortham

Right, I do remember that. My sister had it pinned up on her wall. It is
imprinted into my childhood brain for sure.

wesley morris

Michael Jackson is not Joe Exotic. But with ``Tiger King,'' the only
reason to bring it up at all is just to say that when it comes to
popular culture, a black criminal is a black criminal first. And if that
person is lucky, then maybe, maybe he gets to be a character second.

jenna wortham

But that's what makes the show so insidious, Wesley. We should not be
sitting here trying to find some compassion for Michael Jackson, for
O.J. Simpson, for Michael Vick. The show is putting us into a position
where we feel defensive over people who've done horrible things. Why?
Why? And what we're really talking about is behaviors that are deemed
acceptable by society. What behaviors are worthy of prosecution, and
what becomes a sideshow attraction? When you really watch the show and
you parse out Joe's actions --- like, I can not stop thinking about a
young man named Travis Maldonado, who you meet on the show. And he
becomes Joe's next love interest and eventually his husband, although I
don't know how legal these marriages were. But the way they introduced
this young man, who's 19 by the way, 19 to Joe's 51 ---

\begin{itemize}
\item
  archived recording (joe exotic)\\
  He arrived. And my god, it was a 6 foot 6 dark-complected gentlemen
  with the most godawful big hands you've ever seen in your life.
\item
  archived recording\\
  Joe immediately is, like, love struck by this. So we're taking the
  trash trailer down one day. John's driving the truck. Me, Joe, and
  Travis are in the back of the trailer. And Joe says ---
\item
  archived recording (joe exotic)\\
  How straight are you? And he goes, ``Pretty straight.'' And I said,
  you watch porn? He says, ``Yeah.'' I said, well, do you enjoy the guy
  with the little one doing her? Or do you enjoy watching the guy with
  the big one doing her? And he says, ``Well, obviously you want to
  watch the guy with the big one.'' I said, well, you ain't that
  straight. {[}LAUGHS{]}
\end{itemize}

jenna wortham

Travis seems to be very unhappy and deeply miserable. This is someone
who is under the spell of addiction. This is somebody who apparently
does not have a lot of economic resources. This is someone who is in a
lot of trouble as a young person who gets totally swept into Joe
Exotic's big, narcissistic, egotistic plan. And the show scores this, I
guess seduction if you want to call it that, with romantic music as if
it's a love story. But it's really a dark tragedy. And Travis is not the
only young person who comes under Joe's manipulation and appears to be
held there by means beyond their control, doesn't seem to be able to
leave.

wesley morris

I mean, not to keep doing this, but it sounds like R. Kelly and Bill
Cosby to me.

jenna wortham

No. I'm so mad at you for bringing that up. I can't. I can't!

wesley morris

Sorry. But I'm just saying that like just in terms of what we do and
don't permit to be entertainment, a show like ``Surviving R. Kelly,''
that docuseries that ran on Lifetime last year, the stakes were too high
for it to be anything other than a legal document ---

jenna wortham

Right.

wesley morris

--- that has the power to at least get R. Kelly to get near a courtroom.
And the R. Kelly series didn't have the luxury of entertaining you. Do
you know what I mean, Jenna?

jenna wortham

Mmm. Yeah, yeah, yeah.

wesley morris

These issues were too urgent to be cute or wink. And the point of
``Surviving R. Kelly'' was to actually put some bars around this man and
actually try to prosecute him.

jenna wortham

It was a public service. The series was an act of public service, yeah.

wesley morris

Right. And this other show, ``Tiger King,'' gets to be free, has the
luxury of letting Joe kind of tell his own story in some ways. I mean,
he obviously doesn't have all the controls. None of these people do. The
filmmakers do. And they definitely have a point of view. But they're so
generous in how much of these people get to be people before they become
sort of criminal justice items. But if you were going to make a
documentary about R. Kelly, you better be using it as a tool of social
justice and criminal justice.

{[}music{]}

But there are other things about ``Tiger King'' with respect to power
that are worth talking about. And I don't know. I think maybe we should
try to talk about those too.

jenna wortham

I'm here for it, babes. Let's take a quick break. And when we come back,
we will get into it.

{[}music{]}

wesley morris

Jenna.

jenna wortham

Yes, dear.

wesley morris

I need you to know something about me.

jenna wortham

Oh, OK.

wesley morris

It's not that bad, but I just remembered it while we were talking about
this. When I was a kid, I had a bunch of, like all kids, like lots of
kids who are lucky enough to have a bedroom, had posters on my wall of
things that appealed to me. And had a picture of E.T. I had a picture of
Emmanuel Lewis.

jenna wortham

Oh, interesting, OK.

wesley morris

I had my obligatory Michael Jackson poster.

jenna wortham

Sure, sure.

wesley morris

You know, the magic was working. The magic was working. What can I say?

jenna wortham

We all did.

wesley morris

I had a 1983 Philadelphia 76ers little insert thing that the
Philadelphia Daily News gave everybody after they won the championship.

jenna wortham

Very cute.

wesley morris

I also had this giant poster of Gunther Gebel-Williams. Does that name
mean anything to you?

jenna wortham

No.

wesley morris

Gunther Gebel-Williams was some kind of Ringling Brothers lion tamer big
cats person. And the picture that I kept on my bedroom wall from the
time I was maybe seven or eight years old until I was a teenager was of
him. I don't think he had any shirt on, and around his neck was a tiger.
And I've got to assume that part of the appeal of that image was that it
was erotic.

jenna wortham

Oh, yeah.

wesley morris

And there was something about him and those animals and the control that
I guess young me would have assumed that he had over them.

jenna wortham

Power is sexy.

wesley morris

Well, I mean, there's also something about the circus I think. I mean
there's something about the circus for me where like the thing with the
animals was just seeing these live animals in person. It just really
spoke to me.

jenna wortham

You know, I think from a very young age we are socialized to find that
appealing. And I think humans in general are obsessed with controlling
the natural world. They're obsessed with asserting themselves in
relationship to it. You can see it as a way to understand yourself and
your purpose and your place in the order of things through the dominance
and control and reorientation of those creatures.

wesley morris

Yeah, I mean, there's a moment in the show where the guy who does all
Joe Exotic's videos, this guy named Rick Kirkham, says that there's
something really addictive about the cats.

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  archived recording (rick kirkham)\\
  I felt it when I got to hold a tiger in my hands, when I got my hand
  in a cage with six eight-month-old tigers and lions. There's something
  very addicting about the feeling of power being around these animals.
\end{itemize}

jenna wortham

Most people are not immune to that power. And there is a whole thing
about people posing with tigers in their Tinder profiles. It is a thing.
I think for most people, when you're presented with the option to hold a
baby tiger, you're going to say yes. I have to say I've never been in
that position, but I'm having a hard time --- prior to seeing ``Tiger
King'' --- I'm having a really hard time imagining myself saying no. I
think I would have been like, ``Give me baby Tony. Hell, yeah, take my
picture.'' How can you say no? And both Joe and Carole make money off of
that attraction. People line up to pet them. We've been seeing a little
bit about how these tiger cubs are being used for entertainment and how
they're being used for profit, but we really haven't been forced to
confront the real brutality of what that means for these animals. You
know, one of the most horrific parts of the show for me --- and
admittedly, I definitely could not fully watch it --- there is a scene
in the show when Joe was filming and watching a tiger giving birth. And
it's worth noting we're deep, deep down the rabbit hole at this point.
We've been invested in this show for hours. And so in this scene,
they're watching this tiger giving birth. But then as the tiger is
giving birth, Joe is taking a tool and thrusting it into the cage to
pull the baby tiger away from the mother at the moment of birth. And it
was so --- it touched something inside of me that was so painful, so
absolutely painful. And it felt like a deep maternal womb wound. And I'm
not a parent, so I --- but I felt it. You know, I felt it deep in my
solar plexus. It was awful.

wesley morris

Well, there's also that moment at the end where he's talking about the
chimps that he'd kept in separate cages for, like, a decade. At some
point, the chimps wind up in the same enclosure. And he has a moment of
actual regret.

\begin{itemize}
\item
  archived recording (joe exotic)\\
  And in two days they were out in a big yard hugging on each other.

  Did I deprive them of that for 10 years? Yep.

  I deprived them of being chimpanzees.

  Did I do it on purpose? No, I was wrapped up in having a zoo.
\end{itemize}

jenna wortham

Those two moments are the moments in the show that really blow the whole
operation wide open. You know, it's not about the animals. It's not
about the animals. It's about the money that the animals provide access
to and the personal gain and the currency, right, the currency that
these people have by being in proximity to them. And I also feel like it
just makes me call B.S. on everything about Joe Exotic, to be honest
with you. Because I don't know how you're in possession of primates and
not know how intelligent they are, how sensitive they are, how social
they are.

wesley morris

There's also the fact that Joe seems so blinded by his narcissism that
the needs of people around him frequently just --- he doesn't notice
what people need.

jenna wortham

There's this --- oh my god --- gut-wrenching scene in which one of Joe's
employees has been attacked by a tiger. And they're doing --- again,
they have footage for it --- they're doing triage in front of the cage,
and Joe rushes into the gift shop, makes the announcement to everybody
there --- I don't know why. But the first thing he says is, ``I am never
going to financially recover from this.'' And it's just --- I mean,
really, Joe? That's your first response, not is he OK? Is he going to be
OK? What's the status? That might have happened, but we didn't see it on
screen. Joe was really just worried about his financial prospects.

wesley morris

That incident happens I believe in the second episode. And it's possible
to see that happen and just be mad at the practices of the G.W. Zoo. But
in some ways, I feel like any anger that you have about this show is a
proxy or maybe a stand-in or a replacement for some other real things
that have been happening that don't involve this virus.

jenna wortham

Yeah.

wesley morris

I mean, this sort of goes back to what we were saying before about like
the --- there is a kind of luxury of this show. And you know, there are
actual people in cages right now. And I'd be very interested to see a
filmmaker try to get away with something like ``Undocumented Labor
King.'' Or like ``I.C.E. Exotic.''

jenna wortham

Oh my god. What about ``The Package King'' starring Jeff Bezos? Like
what's going on with Amazon right now? All this two-day delivery and
workers being pushed beyond their limits and not having protective gear,
I mean, that is a show that we need to really dive into so we can be
implicated in this. Because with the ``Tiger King,'' you and I aren't at
the zoo right now. You and I aren't holding baby cubs. Our hands are
clean. But I think it would be much more interesting to think about what
this show could look like if we did have to engage with our own
relationship to unsavory labor practices.

wesley morris

But when you substitute the tigers for people, it makes it easier to
watch in some ways.

jenna wortham

I know.

wesley morris

But at the end of the day, the tigers do serve this other allegorical
purpose. This entire enterprise just sort of struck me as not terribly
dissimilar from human enslavement.

jenna wortham

I agree! That was the first thing I thought about when I watched that
baby tiger being yanked away from its mother with the cord still
attached essentially. I was thinking the exact same thing.

wesley morris

But it isn't so much that the animals are proxies for enslavement. It's
more like the hunger for ownership is really the story. That's where the
heart of this story overlaps with the heart of how enslavement worked.
Joe's obsession with Carole, it just reminds me of all of those southern
plantation owners and enslavers who just couldn't believe the nerve of
northerners in the run-up to the Civil War. There was this sense among
certain plantation owners that the North really had some nerve casting
aspersions on this practice when you're just as guilty of benefiting
from this practice. You know, we make, and y'all take. So you need to
get your story straight. And I feel like Joe's obsession with Carole is
so much in line with that. ``You are guilty of every single thing that
you're accusing me of doing, except you somehow are able to get away
with it. How is that? That's absurd. You're a criminal too.''

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  archived recording (joe exotic)\\
  She's got tens of thousands of people out there brainwashed that we're
  abusing animals. I just called her playing that hypocrite.
\end{itemize}

wesley morris

And Carole's logic is, ``I treat them better.''

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  archived recording (carole baskin)\\
  What really sets apart Big Cat Rescue from a zoo is that we are fixing
  the problem, they are creating the problem. But the reason that we
  have cats in cages is to provide them a safe place to live until they
  die.
\end{itemize}

wesley morris

Her corollary would be like, ``We in the North have freed blacks, and if
we hire them for work, we pay them. It's not much ---''

jenna wortham

``But we at least pay them,'' without acknowledging that they're still
complicit in the same systematic disenfranchisement.

wesley morris

And that is the thing that kind of brings me back to this idea that this
is an only in America thing. Property ownership, ownership of other
creatures, the refusal to acknowledge that there might have to be a
limit to how much you can have and land and what you can do on that land
because it's yours. It just feels like the show could have called itself
American Tiger, and nobody would have bat an eyelash.

jenna wortham

Truly. The most uncomfortable thing for me about the show was the
realization that there is no version of freedom that exists as a stand
alone entity or way of life. It rests on another being's subjugation. It
rests on profit. It rests on imprisonment and cruelty. And those are the
things about this show that make it feel uniquely American. And those
are the things that we need to interrogate and that I think the show
actually does help us interrogate. It's just deeply uncomfortable
because it is still all framed as entertainment. And I think there's
just so many parallels in this framework that were hard to digest. But
it's maybe too deep of a read on ``Tiger King,'' but maybe it's also not
deep enough. You know, Wesley, we just thought we were going to get our
trash TV fix. But we ended up somewhere really different. And I feel
like we're both permanently altered. I feel like you and I will never
look at a zoo or a baby tiger cub, for that matter, the same way again,
right?

wesley morris

100 percent.

{[}music{]}

That is our show.

Next week we're going to be talking about health, wellness, the ways in
which plagues and viruses reorient us and society. And the thing that we
thought would be a great thing to talk about is David France's 2012
documentary ``How to Survive a Plague'' about the AIDS crisis and the
fight for a cure. It's very good and extremely instructive, so that's
what we're going to talk about next week.

jenna wortham

``Still Processing'' is a product of The New York Times and is currently
being recorded from our living rooms.

wesley morris

It's produced by Hans Buetow And our editors are Sara Sarasohn, Sasha
Weiss, Wendy Dorr, and Lisa Tobin.

jenna wortham

Our engineer is Jake Gorski.

wesley morris

And our theme music's by Kindness. It's called ``World Restart'' from
the album ``Otherness.''

jenna wortham

You can find all of our episodes and various fun things at
NYTimes.com/stillprocessing.

wesley morris

Take it easy, you guys. Wash your hands and moisturize.

jenna wortham

Bye.

Previous

More episodes ofStill Processing

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/23/podcasts/hamilton-ziwe-discomfort.html?action=click\&module=audio-series-bar\&region=header\&pgtype=Article}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/07/23/multimedia/23stillprocessing-pix/23stillprocessing-pix-thumbLarge.jpg}}

July 23, 2020~~•~ 38:10Ziwe May Destroy Hamilton

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/16/podcasts/reparations-for-aunt-jemima.html?action=click\&module=audio-series-bar\&region=header\&pgtype=Article}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/07/18/multimedia/16stillprocessing-pix/16stillprocessing-pix-thumbLarge.jpg}}

July 16, 2020~~•~ 35:35Reparations for Aunt Jemima!

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/09/podcasts/still-processing-black-lives-matter.html?action=click\&module=audio-series-bar\&region=header\&pgtype=Article}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/07/12/podcasts/09stillprocessing-image/xx-stillprocessing-thumbLarge.jpg}}

July 9, 2020~~•~ 26:29So Y'all Finally Get It

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/14/podcasts/still-processing-westworld-hollywood-utopia-dystopia.html?action=click\&module=audio-series-bar\&region=header\&pgtype=Article}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/05/16/podcasts/14stillprocessing-image/14stillprocessing-image-thumbLarge-v2.jpg}}

May 14, 2020New Loop, America

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/07/podcasts/still-processing-internet-vulnerability-sondheim-parks-recreation.html?action=click\&module=audio-series-bar\&region=header\&pgtype=Article}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/04/28/pageoneplus/28sondheimjp-sp/28sondheimjp-sp-thumbLarge-v4.jpg}}

May 7, 2020Does This Phone Make Me Look Human?

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/30/podcasts/still-processing-fiona-apple-fetch-bolt-cutters.html?action=click\&module=audio-series-bar\&region=header\&pgtype=Article}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/05/03/multimedia/30stillpro-image/30stillpro-image-thumbLarge.jpg}}

May 1, 2020Fiona Ex Machina

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/23/podcasts/still-processing-halle-berry-sharon-stone-catwoman-quarantine.html?action=click\&module=audio-series-bar\&region=header\&pgtype=Article}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/04/25/arts/23stillprocessing/23stillprocessing-thumbLarge-v3.jpg}}

April 23, 2020Halle Berry? Hallelujah.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/16/podcasts/still-processing-AIDS-survive-coronavirus.html?action=click\&module=audio-series-bar\&region=header\&pgtype=Article}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/04/20/us/16stillprocessing/16stillprocessing-thumbLarge-v3.jpg}}

April 16, 2020How to Learn From a Plague

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/09/podcasts/still-processing-tiger-king.html?action=click\&module=audio-series-bar\&region=header\&pgtype=Article}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/04/11/podcasts/09stillprocessing-image2/09stillprocessing-image2-thumbLarge-v2.jpg}}

April 9, 2020~~•~ 39:49Frosted Flakes

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/02/podcasts/high-fidelity-zoe-kravitz.html?action=click\&module=audio-series-bar\&region=header\&pgtype=Article}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/04/05/arts/02still-processing-highfidelity/13highfidelity-thumbLarge.jpg}}

April 2, 2020~~•~ 40:55Delicious Vinyl

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/26/podcasts/still-processing-quarantine.html?action=click\&module=audio-series-bar\&region=header\&pgtype=Article}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/03/29/podcasts/26stillprocessing1/26stillprocessing1-thumbLarge.jpg}}

March 26, 2020~~•~ 30:47A Pod From Both Our Houses

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/11/07/podcasts/still-processing-parasite-watchmen-bong-joon-ho.html?action=click\&module=audio-series-bar\&region=header\&pgtype=Article}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2019/11/08/arts/07stilpr-parasite/00parasite-1-thumbLarge.jpg}}

November 7, 2019Wake

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/column/still-processing-podcast}{See
All Episodes ofStill Processing}

Next

April 9, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/wesley-morris}{Wesley
Morris} and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/jenna-wortham}{Jenna
Wortham}

Lions, and tigers and barely suppressed glee at criminal weirdos, oh my!

What has big personalities, big issues and big cats? Netflix's hit
streaming show ``Tiger King: Murder, Mayhem and Madness.''

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/04/11/podcasts/09stillprocessing-image2/09stillprocessing-image2-articleLarge-v2.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Discussed this week:

\begin{itemize}
\item
  ``\href{https://www.netflix.com/title/81115994}{Tiger King: Murder,
  Mayhem and Madness}'' (Netflix, 2020)
\item
  ``\href{https://www.imdb.com/title/tt2027064/}{Blue Caprice}''
  (directed by Alexandre Moors, 2013)
\item
  ``\href{https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0306414/}{The Wire}'' (HBO,
  2002-08)
\item
  ``\href{https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0903747/}{Breaking Bad}'' (AMC,
  2008-13)
\item
  ``\href{https://www.imdb.com/title/tt5275892/}{O.J.: Made In
  America}'' (ESPN, 2016)
\item
  ``\href{https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0116282/}{Fargo}'' (directed by
  Joel and Ethan Coen, 1996)
\item
  ``\href{https://www.imdb.com/title/tt3228904/}{Empire}'' (Fox,
  2015-20)
\item
  ``\href{https://www.imdb.com/title/tt8385496/}{Surviving R. Kelly}''
  (Lifetime, 2019)
\item
  \href{https://www.google.com/search?q=gunther+gebel+williams\&client=safari\&rls=en\&sxsrf=ALeKk02wBMUiTlTj1jh_juFOVUu_Z1hPiw:1586204061513\&source=lnms\&tbm=isch\&sa=X\&ved=2ahUKEwjft4LNztToAhXvmOAKHXNADh0Q_AUoAnoECBYQBA\&biw=1694\&bih=957}{Gunther
  Gebel-Williams}
\end{itemize}

``Still Processing'' is produced by Hans Buetow and edited by Sara
Sarasohn and Sasha Weiss, with editorial oversight from Wendy Dorr and
Lisa Tobin. Our engineer is Jake Gorski. Our theme music is by Kindness.
It's called ``World Restart,'' from the album ``Otherness.''

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
