 **NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please
upgrade your browser.
\href{http://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/content/help/site/ie9-support.html}{LEARN
MORE »}

**Sections

**Home

**Search

\hypertarget{the-new-york-times}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\href{http://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/}{The
New York Times}}{The New York Times}}\label{the-new-york-times}}

\hypertarget{-t-magazine-}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/t-magazine}{T Magazine}
}{ T Magazine }}\label{-t-magazine-}}

 \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/t-magazine}{T
Magazine} \textbar{}Rihanna Opens Up About Her New Clothing Line, the
Future of Fashion and Her Next Album

**Close search

\hypertarget{site-search-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Search Navigation}\label{site-search-navigation}}

Search NYTimes.com

**Clear this text input

Go

\url{https://nyti.ms/2HIfrZF}

\hypertarget{site-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Navigation}\label{site-navigation}}

\hypertarget{site-mobile-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Mobile Navigation}\label{site-mobile-navigation}}

\hypertarget{rihanna-opens-up-about-her-new-clothing-line-the-future-of-fashion-and-her-next-album}{%
\section{Rihanna Opens Up About Her New Clothing Line, the Future of
Fashion and Her Next
Album}\label{rihanna-opens-up-about-her-new-clothing-line-the-future-of-fashion-and-her-next-album}}

For her next act, the pop star will become the first black woman in
charge of a major luxury fashion house in Paris. Here, she gives T
magazine an exclusive first look.

\hypertarget{spring-2019}{%
\subsection{Spring 2019}\label{spring-2019}}

\hypertarget{in}{%
\section{In}\label{in}}

Conversation:\\
Rihanna

For her next act, the pop star will become the first black woman in
charge of a major luxury fashion house in Paris. Here, she gives T
magazine an exclusive first look.

By Jeremy O. Harris Photographs by Kristin-Lee Moolman Styled by Suzanne
Koller MAY 19, 2019

\textbf{FOR THREE YEARS,} I have been a diligent student of Rihanna's
2016 song ``Work.'' The first lesson it taught me was in the fine art of
ubiquity: The omnipresent earworm hovered over casual intimacies,
significant encounters, mundane journeys and made sense of itself
wherever, in whatever crevices it chose. Then ``Work'' found its way
into my own work. In my script for ``Slave Play,'' which debuted at New
York Theater Workshop in 2018, the protagonist Kaneisha suffers from
obsessive-compulsive disorder and Rihanna's ``Work'' plays in her head
on repeat, taking on a frighteningly oppressive quality and revealing
the historic bedrock I was attempting to excavate: namely, that black
people, specifically women, must live with the knowledge that their
emotional and physical labor is the backbone of every relationship that
they endeavor to have with their partners, with America. The song, which
weaves through the dialogue, brought more attention to the play than any
other device could have.

This sense of casual immensity is what drew me to Robyn Rihanna Fenty,
31, as not only a performer but as an artist and a businessperson: a
model for my own maturation. When listening to her repetitive,
\href{https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HL1UzIK-flA}{patois-filled song}
--- \emph{work, work, work, work}, \emph{work, work} --- one hears a
Barbados-born1 musician who recognizes that the histories that are
carried in her movement and her tongue are foreign to the listener. But
instead of shying from that otherness, she dines upon it, a lesson for
any of us who have held onto the shame of difference. As she prepares to
launch \href{https://www.fenty.com/}{Fenty}, the fashion line she has
created in partnership with \href{https://www.lvmh.com/}{LVMH}2 --- the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/05/10/fashion/rihanna-lvmh-fenty.html}{first
luxury fashion house} the conglomerate has created from scratch (which
will begin sales at a pop-up in Paris on May 24, then be fully available
at \href{http://fenty.com/}{fenty.com} on May 29) --- I wanted to
discover what lessons she had to offer as she carried that confident
otherness deeper into the nonmusical work she has been concentrating on
this decade.

In April, we agreed to meet among barrels of chocolate at Dark Sugars
Cocoa House,3 in the Shoreditch neighborhood of London. I thought about
the unenviable position that Rihanna has come to occupy throughout her
14-year career, since she first moved to Stamford, Conn., and released
her first tracks in 2005. To be black, a woman and an immigrant in the
United States is to be a collection of negations of the American dream
--- yet she stepped past those negations and into a fantasy of abundance
few could imagine. In the last five years, we have witnessed her release
her most critically acclaimed album,4 become creative director of
women's collections for the German sportswear brand Puma,5 develop a
line of size- and gender-inclusive lingerie under the
\href{https://www.savagex.com/}{Savage x Fenty label} and debut her
\href{https://www.fentybeauty.com/}{Fenty Beauty} line,6 which literally
changed the face of the cosmetics world by introducing a foundation
palette with 40 shades, from the palest to the darkest skin tones. Now,
Rihanna has become the first black woman to run a major luxury fashion
house. Featuring structured silhouettes in subdued neutrals (at least to
start) that emphasize strong shoulders, cinched waists and exposed legs,
the Fenty brand is hoping to disrupt the market not only by channeling
the imagination of a black woman but by revolutionizing the luxury
distribution model by focusing on direct-to-consumer online sales. This
allows Rihanna and her team of collaborators the freedom to drop new
additions to the collection --- which includes sunglasses, shoes and
other accessories --- every few weeks, like singles from an album. LVMH
and the artist decided last year to expand their current relationship
beyond cosmetics into a full-fledged fashion company, and Rihanna has
already imbued the collection with her high-low aesthetic, incorporating
intricate leatherwork and meticulous techniques like boning, then
queering the looks by playing with gender tropes.

Rihanna is uniquely positioned to forge a path for black owners in
luxury fashion: Not only is she a muse of that realm herself but she has
studied the maps she's inherited from her forebears. From a red-carpet
style indebted to the silhouettes of Zelda Wynn Valdes7 as well as the
lush fabrics of Sean Combs's \href{http://seanjohn.com/}{Sean John}
line8 and the steely assurance of Jay-Z's
\href{https://www.rocawear.com/}{Rocawear}9 collection, we have seen
black fashion's past adorning Rihanna as she steps into black fashion's
future. Indeed, the mission of the Fenty clothing line, according to
Jahleel Weaver, a stylist for Rihanna who is now the label's style
director, ``is to really speak to how multifaceted today's woman is.
We're thinking about each release as a different facet to a woman's
wardrobe and how she approaches dressing. Luxury has been defined in the
past as one woman, one brand: You know who the Saint Laurent woman is,
you understood who the Céline woman was when it was Phoebe.10 Which is
fine, but you think about how that relates to the modern woman. I don't
think she is just \emph{one} thing, Rih being the perfect example of
that.''

\textbf{AS THE DOORBELL} chimed, a brilliantly heeled foot --- wearing
one of the aggressively pointed leather Fenty sandals I'd previewed the
day before --- stepped through a hidden side door. I was instantly hit
with the emotional heft that a student feels in the presence of a
favorite teacher --- if only all teachers wore pinstriped Balenciaga
suits. She smelled like cinnamon, bubble gum and the sea, her scent
dominating the overpowering chocolate around us. For the next two and a
half hours, I studied her every glance and gesture for a hint of the
weight her work must put upon her. The weight of expectation, the weight
of anticipation, the weight of youth, the weight of doubt --- though
only in a single moment, when we spoke of fear, did this weight announce
itself. Yet the lesson I took back home to New Haven with me is that
there can be pleasure in the privilege of working despite society's
negations. The pleasure and ubiquity of Rihanna's work endures because
the only thing that will stop her from doing it --- is

\begin{quote}
her.
\end{quote}

\begin{quote}
\mbox{}%
\hypertarget{i-cant-just-think-i-know-everything-im-very-smart-with-my-control-freak-i-welcome-other-peoples-expertise}{%
\paragraph{\texorpdfstring{\textbf{`I can't just think I know
everything.} \textbf{I'm very smart with my control freak.} \textbf{I
welcome other people's
expertise.'}}{`I can't just think I know everything. I'm very smart with my control freak. I welcome other people's expertise.'}}\label{i-cant-just-think-i-know-everything-im-very-smart-with-my-control-freak-i-welcome-other-peoples-expertise}}
\end{quote}

\textbf{JH: What are some of the things you've come to appreciate since
you've moved to London?11}

RF: Walking around the block.

\textbf{JH: Wait, you can walk around the block? Because here, they had
to shut everything down.}

RF: No! This is not a regular day in London. It's a bank holiday.
Everyone's out. It's insane.

\textbf{JH: Do people recognize you?}

RF: When I go walking, I try to keep it a little incognito.

\textbf{JH: Well, you \emph{are} Rihanna. Which brings me to my first
question: What draws you to collaborate with a company like LVMH? I feel
like you're as big as LVMH, if not bigger.}

RF: Whoa. That's kind of crazy to say.

\textbf{JH: It's true, though. Numbers don't lie.12}

RF: I've been slowly evolving throughout the fashion world. First
wearing it, buying it, being recognized for my style and then
collaborating with brands. I never just wanted to put my name on
something and sell my license. I'm very hands-on, so I wanted to take it
slowly and gain respect as a designer. I already had a relationship with
them after the Versailles campaign13 and the makeup line, so they
extended the offer to me and it was a no-brainer because LVMH is a
machine.
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/topic/person/bernard-arnault}{Bernard
Arnault}14 was so enthusiastic; he trusted me and my vision.

\textbf{JH: When they came to you with this, was part of your calculus,
like, ``I'm gonna be the first black woman to do this?''}

RF: No, and I didn't even know \emph{that} until months into our
relationship, when Jahleel15 brought it to my attention. And I'm like,
``Are you sure about that? Did you do your research? 'Cause I don't
wanna state a claim that's {[}expletive{]}.'' Because I still couldn't
believe it. It made me feel proud.

\textbf{JH: It's unmapped territory. What models did you have --- or
were you purely going from one task to the next?}

RF: I didn't have these dreams when I was little. I had a dream of
making music; that's it. I didn't even think about the fame part, and
then that happened, and it's like, ``Do I \emph{really} like this? How
much do I really \emph{love} music that I'm dealing with this?'' Then
the one-hit-wonder comment16 came straight out of the gate and that put
a fire under my ass, and I just never stopped working. Every time it was
about challenging myself: I have to do better, I \emph{have} to do
better. And what's next, what's \emph{next}? I won a Grammy17 and that
was seconds into my past as soon as it got into my hands. I have to
think about the next thing, which is terrible because people should live
in the moment. I just started branching out into different creative
outlets. That's what makes me happy.

\emph{{[}Coming later this spring: the T List newsletter, a weekly
roundup of what T Magazine editors are noticing and coveting.}
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/t-list?module=inline}{\emph{Sign
up here}}\emph{.{]}}

\textbf{JH: Something that one of my mentors, the playwright Branden
Jacobs-Jenkins,18 said to me is, ``Never let anyone rob you of your
right to fail.''}

RF: You know what's crazy, I have a tattoo that's written backward so I
can read it in the mirror: ``Never a failure. Always a lesson.'' So what
you just said is, like, \emph{boom}! How you gonna learn without making
mistakes? Did you believe your mom when she said, ``Don't touch the
iron''?

\textbf{JH: No! None of us did.}

RF: You had to touch it, right? You had to get burned.

\textbf{JH: What lessons do you think you could learn from failing with
this Fenty project?}

RF: So many, because it's the beginning of a new world. Everything was a
collaboration, so I've plugged my DNA into theirs, but there was already
a blueprint. I'm learning so much: about the tailoring, the fabric ---
I'm seeing fabrics that I've never seen in my life.

\textbf{JH: What are some of those fabrics?}

RF: One of them is called Weapon.19 That's what we ended up making our
suits in. Even making clothes in luxury is different. All the techniques
are, like, \emph{ridiculous}.

\textbf{JH: I mean, all of the boning on your dresses is ---}

RF: I love a corset. We put a corset in a suit, a dress, a shirt, a
denim jacket and a T-shirt dress.

\textbf{JH: It's so femme. But you're using traditionally masculine
shapes (the suit, the chore coat) to tell a complex narrative about the
Fenty person. What is the Fenty person's relationship to masculinity and
femininity?}

RF: I use myself as the muse. It's sweatpants with pearls, or a
masculine denim jacket with a corset. I feel like we live in a world
where people are embracing every bit of who they are. Look at Jaden
Smith,20 Childish Gambino.21 They dare you to tell them not to.

\textbf{JH: To me, part of being Rihanna is twerking on a yacht and
walking out of a bar with a wine glass. You're like a modern Dionysus, a
goddess of the party, the turn-up. Does that feel true to you now as
Fenty's muse?}

RF: There has been quite an evolution in \emph{that} party. In the
beginning, it was just my culture, my life. And now, the party, believe
it or not, is at work. I do not go out. I will go to a dinner. I try to
have as much fun as I can during work. And even after work, when I'm
literally in my kitchen having a drink, I invite all my staff. And we
work, \emph{still}.

\textbf{JH: Do you think that that ability to party with your staff
comes from the fact your associates and staff, known as \#TheCorp,22 are
like family?}

RF: I see them more than my family and spend most of my life with them.
It becomes friendship first, and then it leads into family because we
lean on each other. I'm sure it's really different from any other
boss-employee relationship.

\textbf{JH: Using your family name as the anchor of this company
\emph{and} Fenty Beauty seems to recall the idea of a family business.
What was behind that choice?}

RF: I used to be afraid to step into the whole celebrity makeup world. I
saw brands like Hilary Duff and Hannah Montana23 have so much success
{[}in the aughts{]}, but it got to a place where they were so
oversaturated in the market that it diluted their personal brands. It
made me think, ``I'm not going to do this, because you lose your respect
and credibility,'' and so every collaboration I did outside of music, I
used Fenty so that you didn't have to hear the word ``Rihanna'' every
time you saw something that I did. So Rihanna stayed the music, the
person. But these other brands are called

\begin{quote}
Fenty.
\end{quote}

\begin{quote}
\mbox{}%
\hypertarget{youre-going-to-be-black-wherever-you-go-and-i-dont-know-if-its-unfortunate-or-fortunate-because-i-love-being-black}{%
\paragraph{\texorpdfstring{\textbf{`You're going to be black wherever
you go.} \textbf{And I don't know if it's unfortunate} \textbf{or
fortunate, because I love being
black.'}}{`You're going to be black wherever you go. And I don't know if it's unfortunate or fortunate, because I love being black.'}}\label{youre-going-to-be-black-wherever-you-go-and-i-dont-know-if-its-unfortunate-or-fortunate-because-i-love-being-black}}
\end{quote}

\textbf{JH: Do you know where your last name comes from? I looked it
up.}

RF: Really? You're about to teach me something about myself. Is it
Irish?

\textbf{JH: No, it's Spanish and Portuguese. It derives from the word
``infante,'' a title for the children of royals.}

RF: Get out of here!

\textbf{JH: It's a medieval name.}

RF: That is tripping me out.

\textbf{JH: Does it trip you out that Fenty gets to open so many doors?
How are you looking to make room at that table of luxury design for
other black, brown and female designers?}

RF: I like to think of my establishment at the Fenty house as a hub. So
I am always looking at grad collections, who's about to leave college,
who wants a year here. And we've done that with a couple young designers
and a couple new ones that are coming in. Even if you've never designed
something in your life, you might have impeccable taste: I'm welcoming
everyone's vision here, because that's what it's gonna take. I can't
just think I know everything. I'm very smart with my control freak --- a
smart control freak. I welcome other people's expertise. I love new,
young talent.

\textbf{JH: Who was really generous with their knowledge with you?}

RF: Jay Brown, my manager who started off as my A\&R.24 He's been a
father figure in my life.25

\textbf{JH: Jahleel said that when you hired him you gave him ``his
freedom papers.'' He's free to walk through the LVMH headquarters in
Paris and be who he wants to be. Where does that freedom come from? From
being affiliated with you?}

RF: No, because even within being Rihanna, that freedom didn't exist for
a while.
``\href{https://open.spotify.com/album/4OXnPSBtZo8PBFiTOfuumP}{Good Girl
Gone Bad}''26 is where I started to take the reins: ``I'm going to do
whatever I want to do, I'm taking control of my vision, my sound, my
clothes.'' I also embraced change along the way --- things that make me
a better woman, a better human being. Like, even the way I communicate:
I'm really proud of my growth on that. I'm proud to walk into any
building as this person. Nothing about me makes me embarrassed about me.

\textbf{JH: You did
\href{https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5dnrohN4P0A}{an interview} in 2012
where you said you used to change your voice in business meetings. Was
that one of the pressures you felt in that era, to be a certain type of
Bajan woman in American society?}

RF: No, that was the pressure I felt from the jump, with
``\href{https://open.spotify.com/album/4FyGpObwABjn0o8Tdp7AZz}{Music of
the Sun}.''27 I'm walking into a new world, new industry, with people
who have been doing this \emph{forever}. I'm literally from a rock in
the ocean.

\textbf{JH: You were 15!28}

RF: Right. You know nothing then. So you just take these people's
advice, and you realize, \emph{This is not who I am}. It was the
pressure of feeling safe in a box. I never liked that feeling, and so I
grew out of that box when I couldn't take it anymore, and I just went
for it.

\textbf{JH: Is ``Good Girl Gone Bad'' your favorite album?}

RF: No, because that was a transition. I don't know what my favorite
album is --- I'm sure if I put all my favorite songs together, it would
be a really sick album. Maybe I should do that one day.

\textbf{JH: You should troll your fans by doing that. Be like, ``New
album, y'all!''}

RF: They would hate me. They would take me down.

\textbf{JH: I'm not in the Navy,29 but I am Navy adjacent. So I have to
ask some questions I saw floating around the message boards.}

RF: O.K. {[}\emph{Laughs}.{]}

\textbf{JH: Is it true you are doing a reggae album?}

RF: Yeah.

\textbf{JH: You are? O.K., are you collaborating with Lady Gaga?}

RF: No.

\textbf{JH: Oh, they think you're doing a collaboration with Lady Gaga.}

RF: Maybe because she followed me on Instagram. It's not in the books
right now, but I'm not against it.

\textbf{JH: Are you going to collaborate with Drake again?30}

RF: Not anytime soon, I don't see it happening. Not on this album,
that's for sure.

\textbf{JH: What is the album called?}

RF: Uh, I don't know yet.

\textbf{JH: If you don't know yet, then you probably don't know when
it's coming out?}

RF: I don't.

\textbf{JH: Do you have any names under consideration?}

RF: No, so far it's just been R9,31 thanks to the Navy. I'm about to
call it that probably, 'cause they have haunted me with this ``R9, R9,
when is R9 coming out?'' How will I accept another name after that's
been burned into my skull?

\textbf{JH: It's this gift to the fans who have been most hungry for
it.}

RF: That would be cute.

\textbf{JH: You are one of our only immigrant pop stars in America,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/02/17/arts/music/21-savage-ice-interview.html}{21
Savage}32 being another. Did coming from an island that's 90 percent
black make it feel natural to have 40 distinct shades in the first run
of Fenty Beauty?}

RF: In my own household, my father is half black, half white. My mom is
black from South America. I was seeing diversity. That's all I knew.
Growing up, I wanted to be darker, always. So, making makeup, it wasn't
even a thing I had to think about. I didn't even really know how bad it
was, the void in the market for dark foundation, because all I'd seen
was black women put makeup on. I don't even think 40 shades is enough!
And so I added 10 more recently, and we're not gonna stop there.

\textbf{JH: A few years ago, you started going on a ``thicc'' journey.33
How did that change how you looked at inclusivity with regard to your
fashion line?}

RF: It just changed how I dress in terms of my proportions. You wear
what looks good on you and that's it. I'm thick and curvy right now, and
so if I can't wear my own stuff then, I mean, that's not gonna work,
right? And my size is not the biggest size. It's actually closer to the
smallest size we have: We go up to a {[}French size{]} 46.34 We're
saying we can meet you at any one drop that we put out.

\textbf{JH: Let's talk about those monthly drops, which is one of the
innovative aspects of this: Fenty will be releasing several new items
--- from basics to special pieces --- exclusively on its
\href{https://fenty.com/}{website}. How did you come up with the
distribution model?}

RF: Because I'm a millennial, you know? People are always looking for
the thing that hasn't made it online yet. And as a consumer, I hate
seeing something on the runway and then having to wait six months for
it. I had to wait all that time to get it, do I even\ldots{}

\textbf{JH: Love it anymore?}

RF: Yeah! So with this, you see it, you love it, you can have it. I want
to be as disruptive as possible. The brand is not traditional. There is
no runway show. It's a new way of doing things because I believe that
this is where fashion is going to go eventually.

\textbf{JH: Was there any white knuckling in the LVMH offices when you
presented this distribution model? Tradition is a major pillar of that
company.}

RF: Believe it or not, it's the thing that actually excited Mr. Arnault.
He hasn't started a brand from scratch for a while. It's his baby as
well. He is so hands-on, which validates how I handle things.

\textbf{JH: Jahleel said Fenty is being released like a bunch of singles
that add up to an album.}

RF: That's a cute analogy.

\textbf{JH: What do you think is the vibe of the first single?}

RF: The first single is really strong and edgy, compared to the drop
right after, which is a little more feminine. But the first one, there
are a lot of classic pieces as well.

\textbf{JH: I think you have your Fenty little black dress in there,
with the vents and high shoulder.}

RF: I see a lot of these pieces as classic pieces. They're not gonna go
out of style.

\textbf{JH: What are you inspired by as you prepare for the next few
drops?}

RF: Free postcards or booklets at hotels in Barbados from years ago:
You'll see some of those on our T-shirts. There are also these prints
that look like really ancient paintings that we're making dresses and
skirt suits out of.

\textbf{JH: With all of these pieces, who else do you think is in
conversation with them? What should shoppers pair with Fenty?}

RF: I don't care what you pair it with. Whatever you want. You know,
when I was younger, I couldn't afford everything, but a pair of
Timberlands: That was my Dior. And I had to save my money for a whole
school year to get those Timberlands that I wanted, and I did it. Shoot,
if your closet is full of Dior, go for it, put Fenty on with that. But
you might have some Balenciaga sneakers and a Fashion Nova fit that my
jacket is super lit with.

\textbf{JH: So that little girl that's saving up pennies for
Timberlands, what do you say to her right now?}

RF: It's the thing that keeps me asking: So how much is this gonna cost
at retail?35 How can we bring the price down without compromising on
quality?

\textbf{JH: I can't get over the fact that, you know, the fashion
industry is historically so explicitly white, it's so racist, it's so
classist and it's so sexist. Have there been moments where, as a black
woman, you've felt like an outsider in this space? Or does being Rihanna
alleviate that?}

RF: It's never alleviated, you know? You're going to be black wherever
you go. And I don't know if it's unfortunate or fortunate, because I
love being black. So, sorry for those who don't like it --- that's the
first thing you see before you even hear my voice. There are also other
factors: I'm young. I'm new to the family. I'm a woman. Those factors
\emph{do} come into play, but I will \emph{not} apologize for them, and
I will \emph{not} back down from being a woman, from being black, from
having an opinion. I'm running a company and that's exactly what I came
here to do. I don't know if it makes people uncomfortable or not, but
that's not even my business, you know? I \emph{do} know that the reason
I'm here is not \emph{because} I'm black. It's because of what I have to
offer. That's what they're invested in. And the fact that I'm black is
just that: a fact.

\textbf{JH: I feel like your ability to take on that fight seems so
indebted to your mother, Ms. Monica,36 because you often discuss how she
is most proud of you when you stand up for yourself. I wonder, does
anything surprise her now?}

RF: When I told her about LVMH, she just couldn't believe it. She said,
``Oh God, glory, glory to God.'' She's so proud, so happy, and she's
still pinching herself. She carries my makeup in her store37 in
Barbados. It's full circle, because she was the one who brought me into
the department store after school --- all that makeup, it was fun.

\textbf{JH: I was at my mom's feet in a hair salon. I know she'd want to
know: Do you have Fenty hair coming?}

RF: As soon as I'm ready to give up the two hours of sleep that I get
now, that's for hair. You know we're not stopping.

\textbf{JH: As a playwright, I have to ask: Would you act again? Pull
``A Star Is Born?''}

RF: I'll probably try a little more,38 but not until I know I can handle
a lead and carry a movie on my own, because I've been offered ---

\textbf{JH: I'm sure.}

RF: I'm always like, ``Guys, thank you for trusting me, but Angelina
Jolie is over there.''

\textbf{JH: What else are you afraid of? Do you hold fear at all?}

RF: I am afraid of being afraid, because I know that means it's wrong.
If I feel fear, that means it's not right.

\textbf{JH: Did you feel fear when it came to working with LVMH and
Arnault?}

RF: No, I got this pressure to not let Arnault down. I felt like this is
a moment in history that I have to live up to. This is my one shot and I
only get one time to do it and it can't be wrong. But I did get fear one
time in my life, I can't remember exactly about what: I remember my mom
saying, like, ``I see something in your eyes I've never seen before.''
And I was like, ``What?'' And she was like, ``Fear.'' And I started
crying. So any time I get that anxiety feeling, I literally try to shove
it right back down to nothing.

\textbf{JH: You visualize it. Before I go, one last question: When are
you going to take a vacation from all of this? Is it going to be when
you've made enough money --- is there a number in your mind?}

RF: I never thought I'd make this much money, so a number is not going
to stop me from working. I'm not being driven by money right now. Money
is happening along the way, but I'm working out of what I love to do,
what I'm passionate about. Work will change when my life changes in the
future but an amount of money is not going to stop that.

\textbf{JH: If money's not driving the work, what does the money mean,
then?}

RF: The money means that I can take care of my family. The money means
that I can facilitate the businesses that I want to. I can create jobs
for other people. My money is not for me; it's always the thought that I
can help someone else or, in the future, for if I have kids. The world
can really make you believe that the wrong things are priority, and it
makes you really miss the core of life, what it means to be alive. It
could literally be walking outside in the sun. That makes me happy. Like
going to the grocery store --- you know, there's a cute little Jamaican
market near where I live right now.

\emph{This interview has been edited and condensed.}

\emph{Jeremy O. Harris is an actor and playwright} \emph{whose works
include} \emph{``Slave Play'' and ``Daddy.''}

1. Robyn Rihanna Fenty was born on February 20, 1988, in St. Michael,
Barbados.

2. LVMH Moët Hennessy Louis Vuitton is the French luxury goods
conglomerate that owns and operates the fashion lines Dior, Celine and
Loewe, among others. Rihanna's new label will be the first that LVMH
chairman and C.E.O. Bernard Arnault has launched since his company
Financière Agache partnered with the couturier Christian LaCroix 32
years ago.

3. A \href{https://www.darksugars.co.uk/}{chocolatier} owned and
operated by Fatou Mendy. Rihanna and I both enjoyed the black vanilla
ice cream.

4. 2016's moody and atmospheric
``\href{https://open.spotify.com/album/3Q149ZH46Z0f3oDR7vlDYV}{Anti}''
was met with close to unanimous praise. In
\href{https://www.rollingstone.com/music/music-album-reviews/anti-194522/}{a
review} for ``Rolling Stone,'' Brittany Spanos wrote, ``This is an album
that forces us to question the boxes we've placed Rihanna in all
along.''

5. She was the first female designer to win Footwear News'
\href{https://footwearnews.com/2016/fashion/designers/rihanna-wins-shoe-of-the-year-fenty-puma-creepers-footwear-news-achievement-awards-fnaa-2016-272599/}{Shoe
of the Year award} in 2016 for her Fenty Puma Creeper.

6. Rihanna partnered with Kendo Holdings, a subsidiary of LVMH, to
launch her makeup line in 2017.

7. A mid-20th-century
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/obituaries/zelda-wynn-valdes-overlooked.html}{black
fashion designer} known for helping to create the Playboy Bunny costume.

8. Founded by Sean Combs in 1998, the sportswear line changed the
perception of urban wear for many titans in the fashion industry.

9. Founded by Jay-Z and Damon Dash in 1999, Rocawear offers elevated
streetwear that makes ample use of fur, leather and denim.

10. Phoebe Philo was the creative director of Céline from 2008 to 2018.

11. Rihanna moved to London earlier this year, where she is closer to
the team working on Fenty, which is designed in Paris and manufactured
in Italy.

12. According to the Recording Industry Association of America, Rihanna
has sold a total of 125 million certified digital singles in the U.S.,
second only to Drake. In Fenty Beauty's first year of business, which
concluded in September 2018, the brand surpassed \$500 million in
revenues.

13. A Dior advertising campaign that introduced Rihanna as the brand's
new muse in 2015 and featured her walking through the former palace of
Louis XIV at night.

14. The chairman of LVMH since 1989.

15. \href{https://www.instagram.com/illjahjah/?hl=en}{Jahleel Weaver},
33, began working with Rihanna in 2011, as an assistant to her stylist,
Mel Ottenberg. Rihanna approached him about joining her team to work on
the Puma line in 2014, and he was later named style director for what is
now Fenty.

16. After she released her first single,
``\href{https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oEauWw9ZGrA}{Pon de Replay},''
in May 2005, many music critics were dismissive. For ``Rolling Stone,''
\href{https://www.rollingstone.com/music/music-album-reviews/music-of-the-sun-187916/}{Barry
Walters wrote}, ``At fifty-two minutes, Rihanna's debut overstays its
welcome, but the single justifies plenty of replays.''

17. She won her first Grammy award in 2008 for best rap/sung
collaboration for the song
``\href{https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CvBfHwUxHIk}{Umbrella}'' with
Jay-Z. She has since won eight more and has been nominated 32 more
times.

18. Branden Jacobs-Jenkins, 34, is the author of the plays ``An
Octoroon'' (2014), ``Gloria'' (2015) and ``Everybody'' (2017), the
latter two of which
\href{https://www.pulitzer.org/finalists/branden-jacobs-jenkins}{were}
\href{https://www.pulitzer.org/finalists/branden-jacobs-jenkins-0}{finalists}
for the Pulitzer Prize for Drama.

19. A cotton canvas fabric. Other textiles in the collection include
denim and leather.

20. The 20-year-old son of actors Will Smith and Jada Pinkett Smith is
known for flamboyant looks comprising skirts, chunky gold jewelry and
mismatched patterns.

21. Childish Gambino is the often shirtless musical alter ego of the
actor Donald Glover, which he introduced in 2008 with his ``Sick Boi''
mixtape. In 2019, Rihanna starred opposite Glover in his Childish
Gambino musical film,
``\href{https://www.amazon.com/Guava-Island-Donald-Glover/dp/B07QH2V6GT}{Guava
Island}.''

22. Along with Weaver, \#TheCorp includes
\href{https://www.instagram.com/mdollas11/?hl=en}{Melissa Forde},
Jennifer Rosales, Jay Brown, Kristina Fields and a rotating cast of
others.

23. Hannah Montana was the musician Miley Cyrus's alter ego on a Disney
Channel series of the same name, which ran for four seasons from 2006 to
2011 and spawned a concert film and a musical film adaptation.

24. Short for Artists and Repertoire, a music executive who develops
rising stars.

25. Jay Brown, C.E.O. of Roc Nation since 2008, also manages the careers
of Mariah Carey and Shakira. He and Jay-Z signed Rihanna in 2005, when
she was 16.

26. ``\href{https://open.spotify.com/album/4OXnPSBtZo8PBFiTOfuumP}{Good
Girl Gone Bad},'' Rihanna's third studio album, was released in 2007 and
included
``\href{https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CvBfHwUxHIk}{Umbrella}.'' The LP
sold more than 9 million copies worldwide and solidified her stardom.

27. Released in August 2005,
``\href{https://open.spotify.com/album/4FyGpObwABjn0o8Tdp7AZz}{Music of
the Sun}'' was Rihanna's debut album and featured her introductory
single, ``\href{https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oEauWw9ZGrA}{Pon de
Replay},'' which peaked at No. 2 on the Billboard Hot 100.

28. Rihanna was discovered in December 2003 by the American producer
Evan Rogers while he was vacationing in Barbados. Rihanna auditioned for
Rogers, and he soon invited her to live with him and his family in
Connecticut while kicking off her career.

29. The name of Rihanna's fan base, the Navy, has disputed origins, but
many believe it began after she appeared in Peter Berg's film
``Battleship'' in 2012. What is clear is the fans' militaristic fervor
in promoting and discussing all things Rihanna.

30. Rihanna's close relationship with Drake is reportedly linked to a
past romance between them that she has never confirmed. It has resulted
in some of the best songs in both of their repertoires, from 2010's
``\href{https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=U0CGsw6h60k}{What's My Name?}''
to 2011's ``\href{https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-zzP29emgpg}{Take
Care}'' to the aforementioned
``\href{https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HL1UzIK-flA}{Work}.''

31. Her forthcoming album will, yes, be her ninth.

32. In February, the British rapper 21 Savage's
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/02/03/arts/21-savage-arrest-ice-uk.html}{arrest}
by Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) while living in Atlanta on
charges of overstaying his visa activated a community of hip-hop fans
around immigration issues in the United States.

33. In 2018, Rihanna began engaging with fans and press about her
changing body. In an August 2018 interview
\href{https://www.vogue.co.uk/article/rihanna-september-cover-british-vogue-2018}{in
British Vogue}, she said, in regard to women increasingly identifying
with her, ``I don't know, maybe it's because I'm `thicc' now.''

34. The equivalent of an American size 14.

35. Prices will range from \$200 to \$1,500 in the first drop: A T-shirt
will cost about \$200; outerwear will range from \$1,100 to \$1,500.
Accessories will also be available, including shoes from \$600 to \$700
and jewelry from \$350 to \$600.

36. Monica Fenty, née Braithwaite. Rihanna's mother has of late become a
star in her own right on social media.

37. Monica Fenty owns Fab-u-Lus, a clothing and accessories boutique in
Bridgetown, Barbados, which now has two locations.

38. While 2012's ``Battleship'' was not Rihanna's film debut --- that
would be 2006's ``Bring It On: All or Nothing,'' starring Solange
Knowles --- it was the first time she didn't play herself in a film.

Makeup: Lauren Parsons at Art Partner. Hair: Yusef at Factory Downtown
using Rich Hair Care. Manicure: Jenny Longworth at CLM using the
GelBottle Inc. Set designer: Andrew Tomlinson at Streeters. Tailoring:
Hannah Wood. Photo assistants: Maya Zardi, Teddy Park and Straton Heron.
Digital operator: Nicholas Beutler at Format Digital. Stylist's
assistants: Charlotte Thommeret and Letitia Leporcq. Makeup assistant:
Anastasia Hess. Hair assistant: Andrea Naphia White. Set designer's
assistant: David Konix. Production: Holmes Production.

Digital production and design by Hilary Moss and Daniel Wagner. Videos
by Kristin-Lee Moolman.

Digital production and design by Hilary Moss and Daniel Wagner. Videos
by Kristin-Lee Moolman.

\textbf{Correction: May 20, 2019}

An earlier version of this article misstated the surname of a member of
Rihanna's associates and staff, known as \#TheCorp. She is Jennifer
Rosales, not Jennifer Morales.

\subsection{}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/05/10/fashion/rihanna-lvmh-fenty.html}{}

  \includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2019/05/10/fashion/10Rihanna-1/10Rihanna-1-mediumThreeByTwo225.jpg}

  \hypertarget{rihanna-joins-with-lvmh-its-a-breakthrough-for-luxury-fashion}{%
  \subsection{Rihanna Joins With LVMH. It's a Breakthrough for Luxury
  Fashion.}\label{rihanna-joins-with-lvmh-its-a-breakthrough-for-luxury-fashion}}

  May 23, 2019
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2015/10/12/t-magazine/rihanna-miranda-july-interview.html}{}

  \includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2015/10/25/t-magazine/25tmag-11well_rihanna-t_CA0/25tmag-11well_rihanna-t_CA0-mediumThreeByTwo225.jpg}

  \hypertarget{a-very-revealing-conversation-with-rihanna}{%
  \subsection{A Very Revealing Conversation With
  Rihanna}\label{a-very-revealing-conversation-with-rihanna}}

  Dec. 21, 2017
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/02/13/t-magazine/swizz-beatz-art.html}{}

  \includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2019/02/11/t-magazine/11tmag-swizz-slide-319V-promo/11tmag-swizz-slide-319V-mediumThreeByTwo225.jpg}

  \hypertarget{how-swizz-beatz-bridged-the-worlds-of-hip-hop-and-contemporary-art}{%
  \subsection{How Swizz Beatz Bridged the Worlds of Hip-Hop and
  Contemporary
  Art}\label{how-swizz-beatz-bridged-the-worlds-of-hip-hop-and-contemporary-art}}

  Sept. 19, 2019
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2017/11/29/t-magazine/jay-z-dean-baquet-interview.html}{}

  \includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2017/12/05/t-magazine/29tmag-holiday-cover-slide-8PFI/29tmag-holiday-cover-slide-8PFI-mediumThreeByTwo225-v3.jpg}

  \hypertarget{an-interview-with-jay-z-the-strongest-thing-a-man-can-do-is-cry}{%
  \subsection{An Interview With Jay-Z: `The Strongest Thing a Man Can Do
  Is
  Cry'}\label{an-interview-with-jay-z-the-strongest-thing-a-man-can-do-is-cry}}

  Nov. 29, 2019
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2016/10/17/t-magazine/lady-gaga-joanne.html}{}

  \includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2016/10/17/t-magazine/lady-gaga-slide-EF8A/lady-gaga-slide-EF8A-mediumThreeByTwo225.jpg}

  \hypertarget{lady-gaga-on-her-new-album--and-everything-that-came-before}{%
  \subsection{Lady Gaga on Her New Album --- and Everything That Came
  Before}\label{lady-gaga-on-her-new-album--and-everything-that-came-before}}

  Jan. 20, 2018
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©
  2020 The New York Times Company}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Home}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/search/}{Search}
\item
  Accessibility concerns? Email us at
  \href{mailto:accessibility@NYTimes.com}{\nolinkurl{accessibility@NYTimes.com}}.
  We would love to hear from you.
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014892108-Privacy-policy\#pp}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014892108-Privacy-policy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation-1}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation-1}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us?redir=myacc}{Site
  Feedback}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
