Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/sports/basketball}{Pro
Basketball}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/sports/basketball}{Pro Basketball}\textbar{}Ja Morant's
Dunks Are Amazing. His Misses Are Even Better.

\url{https://nyti.ms/3i2b0ta}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{ja-morants-dunks-are-amazing-his-misses-are-even-better}{%
\section{Ja Morant's Dunks Are Amazing. His Misses Are Even
Better.}\label{ja-morants-dunks-are-amazing-his-misses-are-even-better}}

Morant, the star rookie for the Memphis Grizzlies, has become known for
dunking over any and everyone. ``He really doesn't care who's down
there,'' a teammate said.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/05/sports/03nba-morant-lede/merlin_170038836_d4fdfa5a-5a4b-4d18-b73c-b492710d646c-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/scott-cacciola}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/02/20/multimedia/author-scott-cacciola/author-scott-cacciola-thumbLarge.jpg}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/scott-cacciola}{Scott
Cacciola}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Aug. 3, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Ja Morant of the Memphis Grizzlies had already spent several months
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/11/02/sports/basketball/ja-morant-memphis-grizzlies.html}{showcasing
his hops} when he and his teammates faced the Los Angeles Lakers in
February. By then, Morant's willingness to challenge some of the
N.B.A.'s most towering figures was no secret.

But Morant, 20, was about to take his fearlessness to a new level. As he
slipped toward the lane, he caught a backdoor bounce pass and gathered
himself before bounding toward the rim. A defender was impeding his
path. Morant \href{https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=de0nkHhxGKI}{behaved
as if no one was there at all}, even though that no one happened to be
Anthony Davis, one of the league's most ferocious rim protectors.

``Just a guy standing in my way,'' Morant said in an interview. ``I
don't care about a name or who it is. I'm just trying to finish a
play.''

Nearing the apex of his flight, Morant shoved his left forearm into
Davis's neck as he tried to jam the ball over the top of him. He missed
in spectacular fashion: The ball banged off the backboard as Davis and
Morant tumbled to the court. But the building in Memphis was abuzz.

``The A.D. one was kind of the one where you were like, `Oh, wow, he
really doesn't care who's down there,''' the Grizzlies' De'Anthony
Melton said. ``If you're in his way, you're in his way.''

A rookie point guard, Morant is leading the Grizzlies in their pursuit
of one of the final playoff spots in the N.B.A.'s restart at Walt Disney
World in Florida. But for all the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/27/sports/basketball/coronavirus-nba-season-bubble-disney-world.html}{weirdness
of the so-called bubble}, the atmosphere feels oddly familiar now that
Morant is once again soaring for dunks --- and not just for the ones he
makes.

In only his first season in the league, Morant has pulled off a
remarkable feat: Few players have ever made missed dunks look cooler.

``They're all just so disrespectful,'' Melton said.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/05/sports/03nba-morant-love/merlin_166235259_515cc7a6-2c38-4785-809e-2cae1eb1ecb1-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

The aesthetics of Morant's dunks (both the makes and the misses) are
captivating because of his size. In a league populated by redwoods,
Morant --- listed at 6-foot-3 and 174 pounds --- is more of a spruce
tree. It is one thing for point guards to dunk on breakaways, in the
open court. It is another thing for someone like Morant to have the
confidence to scale the likes of Davis, a 6-foot-10 colossus, and Kevin
Love, a 6-foot-8 power forward for the Cleveland Cavaliers whom Morant
\href{https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SJvHeuCLJAs}{nearly posterized
earlier this season}.

``I knew he was athletic, but damn,'' Love told reporters after the
game. ``He legit jumped over me.''

When the Cavaliers hosted the Grizzlies in December, Love had a couple
of thoughts that surfaced when Morant collected a loose ball near the
3-point line and began to accelerate toward the basket with a hard
dribble.

The first was that Love wanted to draw a charge. (In the past, Love
said, the Cavaliers had awarded players \$100 for such feats.) The
second was fear in the form of a haunting image: the 7-foot-2
\href{https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=k_uZeCymShQ}{Frederic Weis getting
demolished by Vince Carter} at the 2000 Summer Olympics, the so-called
dunk of death.

Sure enough, Morant tried to vault himself over Love and spike the ball
through the hoop. But the ball ricocheted off the back of the rim and
straight into orbit.

``Probably the best missed dunk ever,'' the Grizzlies' Tyus Jones said.

After the play, Love reached down to help bring Morant to his feet, a
sign of respect --- and relief.

``I was so glad he missed,'' Love said.

Pete Pranica, the Grizzlies' television play-by-play announcer, recalled
in an interview how Tony Brothers, one of the referees, made his way to
the scorer's table during a subsequent timeout and shook his head in
disbelief. As the season wore on, Pranica advised referees who were new
to the Morant experience to stay on high alert.

``You might see something tonight,'' Pranica recalled telling them,
``that you've never seen before.''

When Morant had his near-dunk over the Lakers' Davis in February, he was
on his way to collecting 27 points and 14 assists in a lopsided win.
Afterward, he exchanged jerseys with the Lakers' LeBron James, who
called him ``super special.''

Four days later, Morant seemed to levitate against the Nets in Brooklyn,
corralling an alley-oop lob from Jones before
\href{https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DM4xRtygt-0}{violently misfiring
off the back iron}. The Nets' Timothé Luwawu-Cabarrot was whistled for
nudging him, and the Grizzlies went on to win by 39. And while the clip
of his missed dunk went viral online, Morant avoided watching the
replay. He never watches any of them, he said, even though his teammates
do.

``I only like makes,'' he said. ``I don't get cool points for misses.''

N.B.A. players dunk all the time, but there is still a mystique to the
craft --- even for the practitioners themselves. In fact, most players
can remember their first time. Jones and Melton said they both first
dunked as high school freshmen, and their memories are vivid. Melton,
for example, dunked on an alley-oop from a teammate after practice.

``Man, it was exciting,'' Melton said. ``Because when you get up there,
it changes the whole game. You've suddenly got that confidence to finish
at the rim, no matter what.''

In that sense, Morant was a late bloomer. He said he did not start
dunking until the summer before his senior year of high school.

``It was just a basic rim grazer,'' he said. ``I'd say it was hard
layup.''

These days, Morant's misses are tantalizing because he has shown that
\href{https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DdgAGzQRTfg}{he can finish}, too.
He proved as much against the Phoenix Suns in December, when he found
himself being defended by Aron Baynes, a 6-foot-10 center, on the
perimeter after a switch. Morant seized on the mismatch by taking a
couple of aggressive dribbles into the paint, then
\href{https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KUcpjuJRnpg}{soaring over Baynes}.
The dunk came in the final minute of a nip-and-tuck game, sealing the
win for the Grizzlies.

``That one was nasty,'' Jones said. ``He's a dog. He just goes after it
full throttle with no remorse, every single night.''

Before the N.B.A. suspended its season on March 11 because of the
coronavirus pandemic, Morant had
\href{https://stats.nba.com/player/1629630/shooting/}{successfully
completed 44 of his 58 dunk attempts}. He spent the ensuing four-month
layoff working on his craft --- and his body.

Given his aerial feats, it might be easy to overlook the arthroscopic
surgery Morant had on his right knee before the Grizzlies made him the
second overall pick in the 2019 N.B.A. draft. By the time the Grizzlies
reported to Disney World in July, he said that he had gained 12 pounds.
The result?

``I actually feel like I'm leaving the floor easier and jumping
higher,'' he said in a recent Zoom conference call. ``I'll do the things
I've been doing before, but better.''

The Grizzlies have struggled in the bubble, losing their first three
games of the restart, and Morant --- who has averaged 19.3 points, 9.3
assists and 6.7 rebounds --- is still searching for his shooting touch.
His most dynamic moment came when he soared for an alley-oop dunk
against the Portland Trail Blazers on Friday. It went in.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
