Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/09/08/us/elections/results-new-hampshire-primary-elections.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{New
  Hampshire Results}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/08/us/trump-vs-biden?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Election
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/election-states-biden-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Paths
  to 270}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/31/us/politics/vote-by-mail-deadlines.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Voting
  by Mail}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/us/elections/2020-presidential-election-calendar.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Key
  Dates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Politics
  Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{fact-checking-night-3-of-the-republican-national-convention}{%
\section{Fact-Checking Night 3 of the Republican National
Convention}\label{fact-checking-night-3-of-the-republican-national-convention}}

Last Updated

Aug. 28, 2020, 8:10 a.m. ET

Aug. 28, 2020, 8:10 a.m. ET

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/26/us/politics/26dc-factcheck/26dc-factcheck-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  Republicans used the third night of their national convention to craft
  a portrait of President Trump as a fierce supporter of social
  conservatives, the military and women, often using exaggeration and
  hype that papered over Mr. Trump's personal history and policy record
  during the last four years. Times correspondents provided context,
  analysis and fact-checking throughout the night.
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  In the wake of new violence in Wisconsin, Vice President Mike Pence
  gravely claimed that ``you won't be safe in Joe Biden's America'' as
  other speakers incorrectly asserted that Mr. Biden has said he would
  ``defund the police.'' He has not.
\item
  Several of the speakers focused on the president's national security
  credentials, at times overstating Mr. Trump's accomplishments on the
  world stage as they sought to counter Mr. Biden's decades of foreign
  policy experience.
\item
  As they did during the first two days of the convention, the
  Republican speakers rarely mentioned the coronavirus pandemic, even
  though Mr. Pence has led the White House's task force. When they did
  refer to the global crisis, the speakers largely downplayed the threat
  or misstated the government's response, as one lawmaker did when he
  said the administration ``authorized testing requests at blazing
  speed.'' It did not.
\end{itemize}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/icons/t_logo_291_black.png}

Aug. 27, 2020, 12:07 a.m. ET

Aug. 27, 2020, 12:07 a.m. ET

By Michael Croley

\hypertarget{joe-biden-criticized-president-trump-following-his-decision-to-rid-the-world-of-both-of-those-terrorists-but-its-not-surprising-because-history-records-that-joe-biden-even-opposed-the-operation-that-took-down-osama-bin-laden}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{joe-biden-criticized-president-trump-following-his-decision-to-rid-the-world-of-both-of-those-terrorists-but-its-not-surprising-}{``Joe
Biden criticized President Trump following his decision to rid the world
of both of those terrorists. But it's not surprising because history
records that Joe Biden even opposed the operation that took down Osama
bin
Laden.''}}{``Joe Biden criticized President Trump following his decision to rid the world of both of those terrorists. But it's not surprising because history records that Joe Biden even opposed the operation that took down Osama bin Laden.''}}\label{joe-biden-criticized-president-trump-following-his-decision-to-rid-the-world-of-both-of-those-terrorists-but-its-not-surprising-because-history-records-that-joe-biden-even-opposed-the-operation-that-took-down-osama-bin-laden}}

--- Vice President Mike Pence

\hypertarget{this-is-misleading}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\textbf{This is
misleading.}}{This is misleading.}}\label{this-is-misleading}}

Former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. has offered shifting accounts
of how he counseled then President Barack Obama. It is clear that he was
more skeptical than most other Obama officials about the May 2011
operation that killed the Osama bin Laden. But saying that he opposed
the raid outright is at best a selective interpretation of the available
evidence.

In the months after Mr. Obama ordered the risky mission, Mr. Biden said
he had been skeptical of the unconfirmed intelligence showing that bin
Laden was hiding in a compound in Pakistan. In January 2012, he
\href{https://abcnews.go.com/blogs/politics/2012/01/joe-biden-advised-against-the-osama-bin-laden-raid}{recalled}
having told Mr. Obama in a final Situation Room meeting when top
officials were polled on their positions: ``Mr. President, my suggestion
is, don't go.'' But he implied that his view was subject to change,
saying that more work should be done ``to see if he's there.''

A few months later, he
\href{http://www.nbcnews.com/id/47311900/ns/meet_the_press-transcripts/t/may-joe-biden-kelly-ayotte-diane-swonk-tom-brokaw-chuck-todd/\#.X0chN9NKjCB}{added
more detail} to his account, saying that he spoke privately with Mr.
Obama after that Situation Room meeting and told him, ``Follow your
instincts, Mr. President.'' At the time, Mr. Biden recounted, ``I knew
he was going to go,'' thus indicating that he was implicitly endorsing
Mr. Obama's decision to act.

In 2015, Mr. Biden offered a
\href{https://gwtoday.gwu.edu/joe-biden-and-walter-mondale-discuss-\%E2\%80\%98new-modern-vice-presidency\%E2\%80\%99}{new
account} of his private exchange with Mr. Obama after the meeting. ``I
told him my opinion, that I thought he should go, but follow his own
instincts,'' Mr. Biden said. ``Imagine if I had said in front of
everyone, `Don't go,' or `Go,' and his decision was a different
decision. It undercuts that relationship.'' That analysis conflicts with
his first account of telling Mr. Obama to delay the operation.

Subsequent books by former Obama officials describe Mr. Biden as
skeptical of the intelligence and former Defense Secretary Robert Gates
recounted that ``Biden's primary concern was the political consequences
of failure.'' Mr. Biden's own 2017 memoir does not mention the bin Laden
raid, and Mr. Obama has not commented on the matter.

Read more

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/linda-qiu}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/06/12/multimedia/author-linda-qiu/author-linda-qiu-thumbLarge.png}}

Aug. 27, 2020, 12:06 a.m. ET

Aug. 27, 2020, 12:06 a.m. ET

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/linda-qiu}{Linda Qiu}

\hypertarget{people-like-dave-patrick-underwood-an-officer-in-the-department-of-homeland-securitys-federal-protective-service-who-was-shot-and-killed-during-the-riots-in-oakland-california}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{people-like-dave-patrick-underwood-an-officer-in-the-department-of-homeland-securitys-federal-protective-service-who-was-shot-an}{``People
like Dave Patrick Underwood, an officer in the Department of Homeland
Security's Federal Protective Service, who was shot and killed during
the riots in Oakland,
California.''}}{``People like Dave Patrick Underwood, an officer in the Department of Homeland Security's Federal Protective Service, who was shot and killed during the riots in Oakland, California.''}}\label{people-like-dave-patrick-underwood-an-officer-in-the-department-of-homeland-securitys-federal-protective-service-who-was-shot-and-killed-during-the-riots-in-oakland-california}}

--- Vice President Mike Pence

\hypertarget{this-is-misleading-1}{%
\subsubsection{This is misleading.}\label{this-is-misleading-1}}

Mr. Pence was making a point about the need to support law enforcement
as protests occurred around the country in the wake of the killing of
George Floyd. But he failed to mention that
\href{https://slack-redir.net/link?url=https\%3A\%2F\%2Fwww.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion\%2F2020\%2F06\%2F16\%2Fus\%2Fsteven-carrillo-air-force-boogaloo.html}{the
man}charged with killing Mr. Underwood was an Air Force sergeant linked
to a far-right anti-government movement. The suspect, Staff Sgt. Steven
Carrillo, 32, had expressed his allegiance to the boogaloo, an extremist
ideology that seeks to bring about a second civil war to overthrow the
United States government. F.B.I. officials said that Sergeant Carrillo
had traveled to Oakland to ``kill cops.''

In its news release announcing the charges against Sergeant Carrillo and
another man who participated, a Justice Department official
\href{https://slack-redir.net/link?url=https\%3A\%2F\%2Fwww.justice.gov\%2Fopa\%2Fpr\%2Ftwo-defendants-charged-murder-and-aiding-and-abetting-slaying-federal-protective-service}{said},
``The Department of Justice stands in support of all Americans
exercising their First Amendment rights to peaceable assembly and speech
but we stand firmly against anyone who seeks to hijack the protests with
acts of violence and destruction.''

\hypertarget{advertisement}{%
\subsubsection{Advertisement}\label{advertisement}}

\protect\hyperlink{after-dfp-ad-mid1}{Continue reading the main story}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/coral-davenport}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/10/03/multimedia/author-coral-davenport/author-coral-davenport-thumbLarge-v2.png}}

Aug. 26, 2020, 11:35 p.m. ET

Aug. 26, 2020, 11:35 p.m. ET

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/coral-davenport}{Coral
Davenport}

\hypertarget{where-donald-trump-achieved-energy-independence-for-the-united-states-joe-biden-would-abolish-fossil-fuels-end-fracking-and-impose-a-regime-of-climate-change-regulations-that-would-drastically-increase-the-cost-of-living-for-american-working-families}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{where-donald-trump-achieved-energy-independence-for-the-united-states-joe-biden-would-abolish-fossil-fuels-end-fracking-and-impo}{``Where
Donald Trump achieved energy independence for the United States, Joe
Biden would abolish fossil fuels, end fracking, and impose a regime of
climate change regulations that would drastically increase the cost of
living for American working
families.''}}{``Where Donald Trump achieved energy independence for the United States, Joe Biden would abolish fossil fuels, end fracking, and impose a regime of climate change regulations that would drastically increase the cost of living for American working families.''}}\label{where-donald-trump-achieved-energy-independence-for-the-united-states-joe-biden-would-abolish-fossil-fuels-end-fracking-and-impose-a-regime-of-climate-change-regulations-that-would-drastically-increase-the-cost-of-living-for-american-working-families}}

--- Vice President Mike Pence

\hypertarget{this-is-misleading-2}{%
\subsubsection{This is misleading.}\label{this-is-misleading-2}}

The phrase ``energy independence'' suggests that the United States does
not depend on energy imports, but the United States still relies
significantly on imports of oil and natural gas.

It is false to suggest that Mr. Biden would ``end fracking.'' Mr.
Biden's climate change plan would end new leases for hydraulic
fracturing or fracking, for oil and gas on federal lands, but does not
ban existing fracking on public lands or new or existing fracking on
private land.

It is accurate that Mr. Biden is likely to reinstate many of the
Obama-era climate change regulations that were rolled back or weakened
by the Trump administration, including rules reining in greenhouse
pollution from coal-fired power plants and vehicles. At the time those
rules were put forth, the federal government's cost-benefit analyses
concluded that they would have a net benefit on the economy, but studies
have also shown that they could disproportionately affect some regions
and sectors, particularly coal mining.

Read more

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/jeanna-smialek}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/07/03/reader-center/author-jeanna-smialek/author-jeanna-smialek-thumbLarge.png}}

Aug. 26, 2020, 11:24 p.m. ET

Aug. 26, 2020, 11:24 p.m. ET

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/jeanna-smialek}{Jeanna
Smialek}

\hypertarget{because-of-the-strong-foundation-that-president-trump-poured-in-our-first-three-years-weve-already-gained-back-93-million-jobs-over-the-last-three-months}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{because-of-the-strong-foundation-that-president-trump-poured-in-our-first-three-years-weve-already-gained-back-9-3-million-jobs-}{``Because
of the strong foundation that President Trump poured in our first three
years, we've already gained back 9.3 million jobs over the last three
months.''}}{``Because of the strong foundation that President Trump poured in our first three years, we've already gained back 9.3 million jobs over the last three months.''}}\label{because-of-the-strong-foundation-that-president-trump-poured-in-our-first-three-years-weve-already-gained-back-93-million-jobs-over-the-last-three-months}}

--- Vice President Mike Pence

\hypertarget{this-is-mostly-true}{%
\subsubsection{This is mostly true.}\label{this-is-mostly-true}}

Mr. Pence is right that the economy has gained back 9.3 million jobs
through July. It is important to note that is only about 40 percent of
the more than 22 million lost between February and April, though the
rebound has actually marked a faster snapback than what many economists
and analysts anticipated. It is probably unreasonable to pin those job
gains squarely on Mr. Trump's pre-pandemic policies: Many factors,
including the government's small business loans and broader pandemic
relief package, have helped the labor market to recover.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/sharon-lafraniere}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/07/12/multimedia/author-sharon-lafraniere/author-sharon-lafraniere-thumbLarge.png}}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/katherine-j--wu}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/11/reader-center/author-katherine-j-wu/author-katherine-j-wu-thumbLarge.png}}

Aug. 26, 2020, 11:20 p.m. ET

Aug. 26, 2020, 11:20 p.m. ET

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/sharon-lafraniere}{Sharon
LaFraniere} and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/katherine-j--wu}{Katherine
J. Wu}

\hypertarget{were-on-track-to-have-the-worlds-first-safe-effective-coronavirus-vaccine-by-the-end-of-this-year}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{were-on-track-to-have-the-worlds-first-safe-effective-coronavirus-vaccine-by-the-end-of-this-year}{``We're
on track to have the world's first safe, effective coronavirus vaccine
by the end of this
year.''}}{``We're on track to have the world's first safe, effective coronavirus vaccine by the end of this year.''}}\label{were-on-track-to-have-the-worlds-first-safe-effective-coronavirus-vaccine-by-the-end-of-this-year}}

--- Vice President Mike Pence

\hypertarget{mostly-true}{%
\subsubsection{Mostly True.}\label{mostly-true}}

The race to develop a vaccine is well underway, but it is uncertain
whether it will produce results by the end of the year. Dr. Anthony S.
Fauci, an infectious disease expert and a member of the White House
coronavirus task force, has repeatedly said it will likely be the end of
2020 or the start of 2021 before it is clear whether clinical trials
were successful. Some researchers working on vaccine candidates have
said getting data this year will be a real feat.

Mr. Trump has been pushing hard for a faster timetable. According to two
people with knowledge of the discussion, Treasury Secretary Steven
Mnuchin, who sits on the coronavirus task force, suggested in a July 30
meeting with congressional leaders that the administration would likely
grant emergency authorization for a vaccine before the end of phase
three clinical trials in the United States.

Asked about that remark, a Treasury Department spokesman said that Mr.
Mnuchin believes vaccine approval is wholly up to the Food and Drug
Administration. Nonetheless, the promotion of overly optimistic
scenarios by Mr. Trump and his aides has fostered deep concern that the
White House will try to influence the vaccine approval process for
political reasons.

And a vaccine approval is also only the first step. Even a safe,
effective vaccine is useless unless it can be administered widely, and
experts have begun to worry that many Americans will be unwilling to
take the vaccine, or be unable to access it. A greenlit vaccine also
won't necessarily make people impervious to infection or even mild
disease, which means that masking and distancing will likely need to
continue for some time yet.

Read more

\hypertarget{advertisement-1}{%
\subsubsection{Advertisement}\label{advertisement-1}}

\protect\hyperlink{after-dfp-ad-mid2}{Continue reading the main story}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/linda-qiu}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/06/12/multimedia/author-linda-qiu/author-linda-qiu-thumbLarge.png}}

Aug. 26, 2020, 11:11 p.m. ET

Aug. 26, 2020, 11:11 p.m. ET

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/linda-qiu}{Linda Qiu}

\hypertarget{joe-biden-wants-to-end-school-choice}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{joe-biden-wants-to-end-school-choice}{``Joe
Biden wants to end school
choice.''}}{``Joe Biden wants to end school choice.''}}\label{joe-biden-wants-to-end-school-choice}}

--- Vice President Mike Pence

\hypertarget{this-is-misleading-3}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\textbf{This is
misleading.}}{This is misleading.}}\label{this-is-misleading-3}}

Mr. Biden has a different concept of ``school choice'' than the Trump
administration. He opposes the administration's
\href{https://slack-redir.net/link?url=https\%3A\%2F\%2Fwww.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion\%2F2020\%2F02\%2F25\%2Fus\%2Fpolitics\%2Fcharter-schools-trump-devos-democrats.html}{support}
\href{https://slack-redir.net/link?url=https\%3A\%2F\%2Fwww.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion\%2F2017\%2F12\%2F02\%2Fus\%2Fpolitics\%2Fbetsy-devos-school-choice-vouchers-trump.html}{for
voucher programs} that use taxpayer funds to pay for private school
tuition, according to a spokesman, but he supports continuing federal
funding for high-performing public charter schools.

The Trump administration has in fact not succeeded in implementing its
voucher programs because they have been blocked by Congress.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/sharon-lafraniere}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/07/12/multimedia/author-sharon-lafraniere/author-sharon-lafraniere-thumbLarge.png}}

Aug. 26, 2020, 11:09 p.m. ET

Aug. 26, 2020, 11:09 p.m. ET

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/sharon-lafraniere}{Sharon
LaFraniere}

\hypertarget{were-developing-a-growing-number-of-treatments-known-as-therapeutics-including-convalescent-plasma-that-are-saving-lives-all-across-america}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{were-developing-a-growing-number-of-treatments-known-as-therapeutics-including-convalescent-plasma-that-are-saving-lives-all-acr}{``We're
developing a growing number of treatments, known as therapeutics,
including convalescent plasma, that are saving lives all across
America.''}}{``We're developing a growing number of treatments, known as therapeutics, including convalescent plasma, that are saving lives all across America.''}}\label{were-developing-a-growing-number-of-treatments-known-as-therapeutics-including-convalescent-plasma-that-are-saving-lives-all-across-america}}

--- Vice President Mike Pence

\hypertarget{mostly-true-1}{%
\subsubsection{Mostly true.}\label{mostly-true-1}}

The Food and Drug Administration on Sunday issued emergency use
authorization that will expand the use of antibody-rich blood plasma to
treat coronavirus patients. The decision will broaden use of a treatment
that has already been administered to more than 70,000 patients.

The data suggests that the treatment is most likely to benefit patients
less than 80 years old who receive plasma with a high level of
virus-fighting antibodies within three days of diagnosis. But the extent
of the benefits was exaggerated during a White House news conference.
Research showed that about seven in 100 patients would survive because
of the plasma treatment --- not 35 in 100, as President Trump and other
administration officials said. Dr. Stephen Hahn, who heads the Food and
Drug Administration, later corrected his assertions of the benefits of
the treatment, saying he misspoke.

Some experts have also sounded a note of caution, noting the data is
preliminary and the results need to be verified by randomized clinical
trials.

Read more

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/ana-swanson}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/12/10/multimedia/author-ana-swanson/author-ana-swanson-thumbLarge.png}}

Aug. 26, 2020, 11:07 p.m. ET

Aug. 26, 2020, 11:07 p.m. ET

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/ana-swanson}{Ana Swanson}

\hypertarget{joe-biden-has-been-a-cheerleader-for-communist-china-he-wants-to-repeal-all-the-tariffs-that-are-leveling-the-playing-field-for-american-workers}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{joe-biden-has-been-a-cheerleader-for-communist-china-he-wants-to-repeal-all-the-tariffs-that-are-leveling-the-playing-field-for-}{``Joe
Biden has been a cheerleader for Communist China. He wants to repeal all
the tariffs that are leveling the playing field for American
workers.''}}{``Joe Biden has been a cheerleader for Communist China. He wants to repeal all the tariffs that are leveling the playing field for American workers.''}}\label{joe-biden-has-been-a-cheerleader-for-communist-china-he-wants-to-repeal-all-the-tariffs-that-are-leveling-the-playing-field-for-american-workers}}

--- Vice President Mike Pence

\hypertarget{this-is-false}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\textbf{This is
false.}}{This is false.}}\label{this-is-false}}

Mr. Biden has not publicly committed to repealing all of the tariffs
that Mr. Trump imposed on more than \$360 billion of Chinese products in
the course of the trade war. Mr. Biden actually appears reluctant to
commit either way to fully keeping or eliminating the tariffs, and his
aides have said that he plans to evaluate the tariffs once in office
based on their impact on the American middle class. Earlier this month,
Mr. Biden had
\href{https://slack-redir.net/link?url=https\%3A\%2F\%2Fnews.yahoo.com\%2Fsaid-trumps-ideas-good-one-153901834.html}{a
confusing exchange about the tariffs} with the NPR reporter Lulu
Garcia-Navarro. Mr. Biden appeared to respond ``no'' when asked if he
would keep the tariffs on China. The Trump campaign
\href{https://slack-redir.net/link?url=https\%3A\%2F\%2Fwww.donaldjtrump.com\%2Fmedia\%2Fjoe-biden-says-hell-surrender-to-china-on-trade-scrap-tariffs-without-any-concessions\%2F}{seized
on the statement to say} Mr. Biden would ``scrap tariffs without any
concessions.'' But an aide said that Mr. Biden was actually responding
to an earlier assertion by the reporter, that Mr. Trump's stance was a
``good one, to counter China's influence.''

\hypertarget{advertisement-2}{%
\subsubsection{Advertisement}\label{advertisement-2}}

\protect\hyperlink{after-dfp-ad-mid3}{Continue reading the main story}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/linda-qiu}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/06/12/multimedia/author-linda-qiu/author-linda-qiu-thumbLarge.png}}

Aug. 26, 2020, 11:07 p.m. ET

Aug. 26, 2020, 11:07 p.m. ET

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/linda-qiu}{Linda Qiu}

\hypertarget{and-when-asked-whether-hed-support-cutting-funding-to-law-enforcement-and-he-replied-yes-absolutely}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{and-when-asked-whether-hed-support-cutting-funding-to-law-enforcement-and-he-replied-yes-absolutely}{``And
when asked whether he'd support cutting funding to law enforcement, and
he replied, `Yes,
absolutely.'''}}{``And when asked whether he'd support cutting funding to law enforcement, and he replied, `Yes, absolutely.'''}}\label{and-when-asked-whether-hed-support-cutting-funding-to-law-enforcement-and-he-replied-yes-absolutely}}

--- Vice President Mike Pence

\hypertarget{this-is-misleading-}{%
\subsubsection{This is misleading. }\label{this-is-misleading-}}

Vice President Mike Pence is taking Joseph R. Biden Jr.'s comments out
of context. In \href{https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EEIPXpdeia8}{a July
discussion}, the prominent liberal activist Ady Barkan asked Mr. Biden
whether he would support redirecting ``some of the funding for police
into social services, mental health counseling and affordable housing.''

Mr. Biden agreed and listed his proposals to increase funding for mental
health clinics, more federal oversight of police departments, and
restricting military equipment sold to the police.

``But do we agree that we can redirect some of the funding?'' Mr. Barkan
asked.

``Yes, absolutely,'' Mr. Biden responded.

The published version of that conversation edited out some of Mr.
Biden's remarks that made his positions clearer. In the full version,
provided to The Times by the Biden campaign, Mr. Biden emphasized that
his proposals were ``not the same as getting rid of or defunding all the
police'' and repeated that he believed federal grants to departments
should be ``conditioned.''

Read more

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/coral-davenport}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/10/03/multimedia/author-coral-davenport/author-coral-davenport-thumbLarge-v2.png}}

Aug. 26, 2020, 11:02 p.m. ET

Aug. 26, 2020, 11:02 p.m. ET

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/coral-davenport}{Coral
Davenport}

\hypertarget{our-country-became-a-net-exporter-of-energy-for-the-first-time-in-70-years}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{our-country-became-a-net-exporter-of-energy-for-the-first-time-in-70-years}{``Our
country became a net exporter of energy for the first time in 70
years.''}}{``Our country became a net exporter of energy for the first time in 70 years.''}}\label{our-country-became-a-net-exporter-of-energy-for-the-first-time-in-70-years}}

--- Vice President Mike Pence

\hypertarget{this-is-exaggerated}{%
\subsubsection{This is exaggerated.}\label{this-is-exaggerated}}

The United States has been a net exporter of coal since at least 1949.
It became a net exporter of natural gas in 2017 for the first time in 59
years. In September 2019,
\href{https://slack-redir.net/link?url=https\%3A\%2F\%2Fwww.eia.gov\%2Ftodayinenergy\%2Fdetail.php\%3Fid\%3D42176}{it
briefly became a net exporter of petroleum for the first time since
monthly records began being kept in 1973}, according to the Energy
Information Administration, the statistical arm of the Energy
Department. Earlier this year, the International Energy Agency projected
that the United States could become a sustained net exporter of oil by
late 2020 or 2021.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/mark-mazzetti}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/07/12/multimedia/author-Mark-Mazzetti/author-Mark-Mazzetti-thumbLarge-v4.png}}

Aug. 26, 2020, 11:01 p.m. ET

Aug. 26, 2020, 11:01 p.m. ET

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/mark-mazzetti}{Mark
Mazzetti}

\hypertarget{former-vice-president-joe-biden-asked-intelligence-officials-to-uncover-the-hidden-information-on-president-trumps-incoming-national-security-adviser-three-weeks-before-the-inauguration}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{former-vice-president-joe-biden-asked-intelligence-officials-to-uncover-the-hidden-information-on-president-trumps-incoming-nati}{``Former
Vice President Joe Biden asked intelligence officials to uncover the
hidden information on President Trump's incoming national security
adviser three weeks before the
inauguration.''}}{``Former Vice President Joe Biden asked intelligence officials to uncover the hidden information on President Trump's incoming national security adviser three weeks before the inauguration.''}}\label{former-vice-president-joe-biden-asked-intelligence-officials-to-uncover-the-hidden-information-on-president-trumps-incoming-national-security-adviser-three-weeks-before-the-inauguration}}

--- Richard Grenell, former acting director of national intelligence

\hypertarget{this-is-misleading-4}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\textbf{This is
misleading.}}{This is misleading.}}\label{this-is-misleading-4}}

When American surveillance aimed at gathering foreign intelligence
information picks up information about an American --- either because a
target is speaking with an American, or because foreign targets are
talking to other foreigners about an American --- it is routine, for
privacy reasons, to mask that American's name in intelligence reports.
It is lawful for officials to ask to ``unmask'' the names when it is
necessary to understand the intelligence report.

Documents that Mr. Grenell declassified earlier this year show that,
during the presidential transition in 2017, someone in Mr. Biden's
office requested to know who an American was whose name had been
redacted in an intelligence report. It turned out to be Michael Flynn,
Mr. Trump's incoming national security adviser.

The request logged under Mr. Biden's name came on Jan. 12, not ``three
weeks before the inauguration'' as Mr. Grenell said. And contrary to Mr.
Grenell's claim that Mr. Biden made this request, it could instead have
been an adviser working in his office, because such requests are logged
in the name of senior officials. Rather than a request to unmask Mr.
Flynn, as Mr. Grenell put it, by definition the request was instead to
learn who the unnamed person was.

Read more

\hypertarget{advertisement-3}{%
\subsubsection{Advertisement}\label{advertisement-3}}

\protect\hyperlink{after-dfp-ad-mid4}{Continue reading the main story}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/katherine-j--wu}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/11/reader-center/author-katherine-j-wu/author-katherine-j-wu-thumbLarge.png}}

Aug. 26, 2020, 11:00 p.m. ET

Aug. 26, 2020, 11:00 p.m. ET

By
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/katherine-j--wu}{Katherine
J. Wu}

\hypertarget{no-one-who-required-a-ventilator-was-ever-denied-a-ventilator-in-the-united-states}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{no-one-who-required-a-ventilator-was-ever-denied-a-ventilator-in-the-united-states}{``No
one who required a ventilator was ever denied a ventilator in the United
States.''}}{``No one who required a ventilator was ever denied a ventilator in the United States.''}}\label{no-one-who-required-a-ventilator-was-ever-denied-a-ventilator-in-the-united-states}}

--- Vice President Mike Pence

\hypertarget{false}{%
\subsubsection{False.}\label{false}}

Hospitals across the nation experienced
\href{https://www.nejm.org/doi/full/10.1056/NEJMp2006141}{ventilator
shortages} when
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/31/us/coronavirus-covid-triage-rationing-ventilators.html}{inundated}
with coronavirus cases in the spring, prompting local leaders to plead
with the federal government for assistance.

President Trump initially expressed skepticism about surging demand for
hospital supplies. In March, for example, when Gov. Andrew Cuomo of New
York openly called for tens of thousands of ventilators from the federal
government, Mr. Trump
\href{https://thehill.com/homenews/administration/489789-trump-questions-need-for-30000-ventilators-in-new-york}{questioned
the volume of the request}. Some hospitals resorted to
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/26/health/coronavirus-ventilator-sharing.html}{pairing
two patients on one ventilator} --- a desperate and risky measure to
alleviate shortages.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/lara-jakes}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2019/07/25/reader-center/author-lara-jakes/author-lara-jakes-thumbLarge.png}}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/eric-schmitt}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/06/12/multimedia/author-eric-schmitt/author-eric-schmitt-thumbLarge-v2.png}}

Aug. 26, 2020, 10:59 p.m. ET

Aug. 26, 2020, 10:59 p.m. ET

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/lara-jakes}{Lara Jakes}
and \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/eric-schmitt}{Eric
Schmitt}

\hypertarget{it-is-no-wonder-that-the-secretary-of-defense-under-the-obama-biden-administration-once-said-that-joe-biden-has-been-and-i-quote-wrong-on-nearly-every-major-foreign-policy-and-national-security-issue-over-the-past-four-decades}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{it-is-no-wonder-that-the-secretary-of-defense-under-the-obama-biden-administration-once-said-that-joe-biden-has-been-and-i-quote}{``It
is no wonder that the secretary of defense under the Obama-Biden
administration once said that Joe Biden has been, and I quote, `wrong on
nearly every major foreign policy and national security issue over the
past four
decades.'''}}{``It is no wonder that the secretary of defense under the Obama-Biden administration once said that Joe Biden has been, and I quote, `wrong on nearly every major foreign policy and national security issue over the past four decades.'''}}\label{it-is-no-wonder-that-the-secretary-of-defense-under-the-obama-biden-administration-once-said-that-joe-biden-has-been-and-i-quote-wrong-on-nearly-every-major-foreign-policy-and-national-security-issue-over-the-past-four-decades}}

--- Vice President Mike Pence

\hypertarget{this-is-mostly-true-1}{%
\subsubsection{This is mostly true.}\label{this-is-mostly-true-1}}

In his 2014 book, ``Duty: Memoirs of a Secretary at War,'' the former
Pentagon chief and C.I.A. director Robert M. Gates offered a
\href{https://slack-redir.net/link?url=https\%3A\%2F\%2Fwww.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion\%2F2014\%2F01\%2F08\%2Fworld\%2Fasia\%2Fobama-lost-faith-in-his-afghan-strategy-memoir-asserts.html}{scathing
assessment of how the Obama administration handled the war in
Afghanistan}. Of Mr. Biden in particular,
\href{https://slack-redir.net/link?url=https\%3A\%2F\%2Fwww.theatlantic.com\%2Fpolitics\%2Farchive\%2F2014\%2F01\%2Frobert-gates-thinks-joe-biden-hasnt-stopped-being-wrong-40-years\%2F356785\%2F}{Mr.
Gates said}, ``I think he's been wrong on nearly every major foreign
policy and national security issue over the past four decades. ''

But Mr. Pence did not mention what Mr. Gates had written immediately
before his criticism of Mr. Biden. ``He's a man of integrity, incapable
of hiding what he really thinks, and one of those rare people you know
you could turn to for help in a personal crisis,'' Mr. Gates wrote of
the then-vice president.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/edward-wong}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/09/24/multimedia/author-edward-wong/author-edward-wong-thumbLarge-v5.png}}

Aug. 26, 2020, 10:55 p.m. ET

Aug. 26, 2020, 10:55 p.m. ET

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/edward-wong}{Edward Wong}

\hypertarget{before-the-first-case-of-the-coronavirus-spread-within-the-united-states-the-president-took-unprecedented-action-and-suspending-all-travel-from-china-the-second-largest-economy-in-the-world-that-action-saved-untold-number-of-american-lives}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{before-the-first-case-of-the-coronavirus-spread-within-the-united-states-the-president-took-unprecedented-action-and-suspending-}{``Before
the first case of the coronavirus spread within the United States, the
president took unprecedented action and suspending all travel from
China, the second-largest economy in the world. That action saved untold
number of American
lives.''}}{``Before the first case of the coronavirus spread within the United States, the president took unprecedented action and suspending all travel from China, the second-largest economy in the world. That action saved untold number of American lives.''}}\label{before-the-first-case-of-the-coronavirus-spread-within-the-united-states-the-president-took-unprecedented-action-and-suspending-all-travel-from-china-the-second-largest-economy-in-the-world-that-action-saved-untold-number-of-american-lives}}

--- Vice President Mike Pence

\hypertarget{this-is-false-1}{%
\subsubsection{This is false.}\label{this-is-false-1}}

Mr. Trump did not suspend all travel from China in his Jan. 31
announcement. There were notable exceptions to the ban. For example,
American citizens and permanent residents were allowed to enter the
United States even if they had been in China within 14 days before
arrival. Close family members of American citizens were also allowed to
enter the United States. Moreover, the travel ban had only a limited
effect in stopping or lessening the spread of the novel coronavirus in
the United States. The ban was porous --- a New York Times analysis of
data determined that
\href{https://slack-redir.net/link?url=https\%3A\%2F\%2Fwww.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion\%2F2020\%2F04\%2F04\%2Fus\%2Fcoronavirus-china-travel-restrictions.html}{nearly
40,000 travelers} arrived in the United States on direct flights from
China in the two months after Mr. Trump imposed his ban. Scientists have
also found that the
\href{https://slack-redir.net/link?url=https\%3A\%2F\%2Fwww.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion\%2F2020\%2F04\%2F08\%2Fscience\%2Fnew-york-coronavirus-cases-europe-genomes.html}{strain
of the virus} that began circulating in New York around mid-February was
one that spread earlier in Europe, indicating it was carried by
travelers from there. In any case, even with Mr. Trump's partial travel
ban on China, the United States has had one of the worst pandemic
outcomes in the world, with deaths estimated to be as high as
\href{https://slack-redir.net/link?url=https\%3A\%2F\%2Fwww.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion\%2Finteractive\%2F2020\%2F08\%2F12\%2Fus\%2Fcovid-deaths-us.html}{200,000},
about a quarter of the total worldwide.

\hypertarget{advertisement-4}{%
\subsubsection{Advertisement}\label{advertisement-4}}

\protect\hyperlink{after-dfp-ad-mid5}{Continue reading the main story}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/jeanna-smialek}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/07/03/reader-center/author-jeanna-smialek/author-jeanna-smialek-thumbLarge.png}}

Aug. 26, 2020, 10:51 p.m. ET

Aug. 26, 2020, 10:51 p.m. ET

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/jeanna-smialek}{Jeanna
Smialek}

\hypertarget{under-president-trumps-leadership-womens-unemployment-hit-the-lowest-level-since-world-war-ii-43-million-new-jobs-have-been-created-for-women--in-2019-alone-women-took-over-70-percent-of-those-new-jobs}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{under-president-trumps-leadership-womens-unemployment-hit-the-lowest-level-since-world-war-ii-4-3-million-new-jobs-have-been-cre}{``Under
President Trump's leadership women's unemployment hit the lowest level
since World War II. 4.3 million new jobs have been created for women ---
in 2019 alone, women took over 70 percent of those new
jobs.''}}{``Under President Trump's leadership women's unemployment hit the lowest level since World War II. 4.3 million new jobs have been created for women --- in 2019 alone, women took over 70 percent of those new jobs.''}}\label{under-president-trumps-leadership-womens-unemployment-hit-the-lowest-level-since-world-war-ii-43-million-new-jobs-have-been-created-for-women--in-2019-alone-women-took-over-70-percent-of-those-new-jobs}}

--- Lara Trump, the president's daughter-in-law

\hypertarget{this-is-exaggerated--}{%
\subsubsection{This is exaggerated. **** }\label{this-is-exaggerated--}}

It is true that women's unemployment hit the lowest level since roughly
World World II before the pandemic, and it is also true that women took
more than 70 percent of jobs added to the economy last year. Ms. Trump
is right that women gained more than 4 million jobs between November
2016 and early 2020, but that was pre-pandemic: Since February, they
have lost all of those jobs, and their employment is back at 2015
levels, based on
\href{https://fred.stlouisfed.org/series/CES0000000010}{Bureau of Labor
Statistics data}.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/linda-qiu}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/06/12/multimedia/author-linda-qiu/author-linda-qiu-thumbLarge.png}}

Aug. 26, 2020, 10:48 p.m. ET

Aug. 26, 2020, 10:48 p.m. ET

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/linda-qiu}{Linda Qiu}

\hypertarget{veterans-choice-is-now-available-to-every-veteran}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{veterans-choice-is-now-available-to-every-veteran}{``Veterans
Choice is now available to every
veteran.''}}{``Veterans Choice is now available to every veteran.''}}\label{veterans-choice-is-now-available-to-every-veteran}}

--- Vice President Mike Pence

\hypertarget{this-is-misleading-5}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\textbf{This is
misleading.}}{This is misleading.}}\label{this-is-misleading-5}}

The Veterans Choice Program was
\href{https://slack-redir.net/link?url=https\%3A\%2F\%2Fwww.congress.gov\%2Fbill\%2F113th-congress\%2Fhouse-bill\%2F3230}{created
in 2014} after
\href{https://slack-redir.net/link?url=https\%3A\%2F\%2Fwww.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion\%2F2014\%2F05\%2F29\%2Fus\%2Fva-report-confirms-improper-waiting-lists-at-phoenix-center.html\%3Fmodule\%3Dinline}{the
scandal of hidden waiting lists} at Department of Veterans Affairs
hospitals. Under the program, veterans who do not live within 40 miles
of a department hospital or face wait times of more than 30 days for
care could seek private health care funded by the government. In 2018,
Mr. Trump signed
\href{https://slack-redir.net/link?url=https\%3A\%2F\%2Fwww.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion\%2F2018\%2F05\%2F23\%2Fus\%2Fpolitics\%2Fveterans-health-care.html\%3Fmodule\%3Dinline}{a
law that overhauled and consolidated} Veterans Choice and other existing
programs into a single Veterans Community Care Program. Under
\href{https://slack-redir.net/link?url=https\%3A\%2F\%2Fwww.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion\%2F2019\%2F01\%2F30\%2Fus\%2Fpolitics\%2Fveterans-health-care.html}{new
rules}, veterans who must drive for at least 30 minutes to one of the
department's facilities will be able to opt for private care, a less
stringent requirement for many veterans.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/lara-jakes}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2019/07/25/reader-center/author-lara-jakes/author-lara-jakes-thumbLarge.png}}

Aug. 26, 2020, 10:44 p.m. ET

Aug. 26, 2020, 10:44 p.m. ET

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/lara-jakes}{Lara Jakes}

\hypertarget{a-return-to-the-biden-way-of-thinking-means-america-gives-the-radical-terrorist-regime-in-tehran-a-planeload-of-cash-in-the-middle-of-the-night}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{a-return-to-the-biden-way-of-thinking-means-america-gives-the-radical-terrorist-regime-in-tehran-a-planeload-of-cash-in-the-midd}{``A
return to the Biden way of thinking means America gives the radical
terrorist regime in Tehran a planeload of cash in the middle of the
night.''}}{``A return to the Biden way of thinking means America gives the radical terrorist regime in Tehran a planeload of cash in the middle of the night.''}}\label{a-return-to-the-biden-way-of-thinking-means-america-gives-the-radical-terrorist-regime-in-tehran-a-planeload-of-cash-in-the-middle-of-the-night}}

--- Richard Grenell, former acting director of national intelligence

\hypertarget{this-is-exaggerated-1}{%
\subsubsection{This is exaggerated.}\label{this-is-exaggerated-1}}

The day that an accord went into effect in 2016 to limit Iran's nuclear
program, as brokered by the United States and other world powers, the
Obama administration loaded a plane with
\href{https://slack-redir.net/link?url=https\%3A\%2F\%2Fwww.cnn.com\%2F2016\%2F08\%2F03\%2Fpolitics\%2Fus-sends-plane-iran-400-million-cash\%2Findex.html}{\$400
million} in several currencies as a first installment of money long owed
to Tehran. The money was part of \$1.7 billion in assets, including
interest, that the
\href{https://slack-redir.net/link?url=https\%3A\%2F\%2Fwww.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion\%2F2016\%2F08\%2F23\%2Fopinion\%2Fthe-fake-400-million-iran-ransom-story.html}{United
States froze after Iran's revolution in 1979} and that had been intended
to pay for military hardware that the former shah in Tehran had
purchased but that was never delivered.

\hypertarget{advertisement-5}{%
\subsubsection{Advertisement}\label{advertisement-5}}

\protect\hyperlink{after-dfp-ad-mid6}{Continue reading the main story}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/edward-wong}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/09/24/multimedia/author-edward-wong/author-edward-wong-thumbLarge-v5.png}}

Aug. 26, 2020, 10:42 p.m. ET

Aug. 26, 2020, 10:42 p.m. ET

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/edward-wong}{Edward Wong}

\hypertarget{we-also-must-be-clear-that-when-those-who-seek-freedom-take-tremendous-personal-risks-in-places-like-hong-kong-tehran-or-minsk-there-is-no-doubt-who-president-trumps-administration-supports-we-will-always-stand-with-the-people-who-fight-for-their-god-given-freedoms}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{we-also-must-be-clear-that-when-those-who-seek-freedom-take-tremendous-personal-risks-in-places-like-hong-kong-tehran-or-minsk-t}{``We
also must be clear that when those who seek freedom take tremendous
personal risks in places like Hong Kong, Tehran, or Minsk, there is no
doubt who President Trump's administration supports. We will always
stand with the people who fight for their God-given
freedoms.''}}{``We also must be clear that when those who seek freedom take tremendous personal risks in places like Hong Kong, Tehran, or Minsk, there is no doubt who President Trump's administration supports. We will always stand with the people who fight for their God-given freedoms.''}}\label{we-also-must-be-clear-that-when-those-who-seek-freedom-take-tremendous-personal-risks-in-places-like-hong-kong-tehran-or-minsk-there-is-no-doubt-who-president-trumps-administration-supports-we-will-always-stand-with-the-people-who-fight-for-their-god-given-freedoms}}

--- Richard Grenell, former acting director of national intelligence

\hypertarget{this-is-false-2}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\textbf{This is
false.}}{This is false.}}\label{this-is-false-2}}

Richard Grenell is trying to assert that President Trump always shows
support for protests against authoritarian governments. Mr. Trump, who
often
\href{https://www.defendingdemocracytogether.org/national-security/}{praises
dictators}, has failed to express support for some of the most prominent
such protests of the last three years. The most notable example is that
of the pro-democracy protests that began in June 2019 in Hong Kong.

Mr. Trump told Xi Jinping, the leader of China, on a telephone call that
June that he and his aides would
\href{https://www.ft.com/content/3ef12a1e-a2b8-11e9-a282-2df48f366f7d}{refrain
from commenting on the protests} if the Chinese government agreed to
continue with trade talks, according to administration officials. John
R. Bolton, the former national security adviser,
\href{https://www.wsj.com/articles/john-bolton-the-scandal-of-trumps-china-policy-11592419564}{wrote
in his new book} that he heard Mr. Trump say of the Hong Kong protests
that month: ``I don't want to get involved,'' and, ``We have
human-rights problems too.''

Mr. Bolton also wrote that Mr. Trump refused to issue a White House
statement on the 30th anniversary of the Chinese military's massacre of
pro-democracy protesters around Tiananmen Square.

``Who cares about it?'' Mr. Trump said. ``I'm trying to make a deal.''

Mr. Trump has made a few comments on the protests in Belarus, where
demonstrators say Aleksandr G. Lukashenko, the authoritarian leader,
subverted a presidential election this month. But Mr. Trump did
\href{https://www.politico.com/news/2020/01/11/trump-iran-protesters-tweets-097554}{express
support} on Twitter in January for anti-government protests in Iran. The
message appeared on his account in
\href{https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/1216114135529902081}{English}
and
\href{https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/1216114167108849665}{Persian}.

Read more

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/sheryl-gay-stolberg}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/11/26/multimedia/author-sheryl-gay-stolberg/author-sheryl-gay-stolberg-thumbLarge.png}}

Aug. 26, 2020, 10:40 p.m. ET

Aug. 26, 2020, 10:40 p.m. ET

By
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/sheryl-gay-stolberg}{Sheryl
Gay Stolberg}

\hypertarget{defund-the-police-is-the-rallying-cry-for-the-new-radical-democrat-party-joe-biden-will-not-do-what-it-takes-to-maintain-order}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{defund-the-police-is-the-rallying-cry-for-the-new-radical-democrat-party-joe-biden-will-not-do-what-it-takes-to-maintain-order}{``Defund
the police is the rallying cry for the new, radical Democrat Party. Joe
Biden will not do what it takes to maintain
order.''}}{``Defund the police is the rallying cry for the new, radical Democrat Party. Joe Biden will not do what it takes to maintain order.''}}\label{defund-the-police-is-the-rallying-cry-for-the-new-radical-democrat-party-joe-biden-will-not-do-what-it-takes-to-maintain-order}}

--- Lara Trump, the president's daughter-in-law

\hypertarget{this-is-misleading-6}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\textbf{This is
misleading}.}{This is misleading.}}\label{this-is-misleading-6}}

While some progressive Democrats do want to ``defund the police,'' Mr.
Biden is not among them. Since the police killing of George Floyd on
Memorial Day, Mr. Biden has made calls for systemic changes to the
country's criminal justice system and proposed changes to police
tactics. But he has said he opposes cutting resources for law
enforcement --- rather, he has
\href{https://slack-redir.net/link?url=https\%3A\%2F\%2Fwww.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion\%2F2020\%2F06\%2F26\%2Fus\%2Fpolitics\%2Fdefund-police-protests-democrats.html}{proposed
new funding for community policing}, which a spokesman said would be
conditioned on departments implementing reforms. He reinforced this
sentiment on the
\href{https://slack-redir.net/link?url=https\%3A\%2F\%2Fwww.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion\%2F2020\%2F08\%2F19\%2Fus\%2Fpolitics\%2Fdemocrats-biden-defund-police.html}{opening
night} of the Democratic National Convention, taking pains to set
himself apart from the left wing of his party. ``Most cops are good,''
Mr. Biden said then, ``but the fact is, the bad ones need to be
identified and prosecuted.''

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/charlie-savage}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/06/12/multimedia/author-charlie-savage/author-charlie-savage-thumbLarge-v2.png}}

Aug. 26, 2020, 10:36 p.m. ET

Aug. 26, 2020, 10:36 p.m. ET

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/charlie-savage}{Charlie
Savage}

\hypertarget{the-obama-biden-administration-secretly-launched-a-surveillance-operation-on-the-trump-campaign}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{the-obama-biden-administration-secretly-launched-a-surveillance-operation-on-the-trump-campaign}{``The
Obama-Biden administration secretly launched a surveillance operation on
the Trump
campaign.''}}{``The Obama-Biden administration secretly launched a surveillance operation on the Trump campaign.''}}\label{the-obama-biden-administration-secretly-launched-a-surveillance-operation-on-the-trump-campaign}}

--- Richard Grenell, former acting director of national intelligence

\hypertarget{this-is-misleading-7}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\textbf{This is
misleading.}}{This is misleading.}}\label{this-is-misleading-7}}

Mr. Trump and his supporters --- like Mr. Grenell, who Mr. Trump
installed as the nation's top intelligence official from February to May
without Senate confirmation to be in that role --- have sought to
portray him as a victim of the counterintelligence investigation the
F.B.I. opened in July 2016 into Russia's covert operation to tilt the
election in his favor.

The investigation included an attempt to figure out whether anyone
associated with the Trump campaign cooperated with that effort,
wittingly or otherwise. In the course of that inquiry, the F.B.I. used
several confidential human informants to approach Trump campaign
associates to see what they would say about any advance knowledge of
Russia's hacking and release of Democratic emails. It also wiretapped
Carter Page, a former Trump campaign adviser with many ties to Russian
intelligence officials; by the time the F.B.I. applied for that warrant,
the election was nearly over and Mr. Page had already left the Trump
campaign, although wiretap orders permit the F.B.I. to look at any older
emails in a target's account.

The purpose of this investigation was to understand the scope and nature
of an effort by a foreign adversary to manipulate an American election.
Calling it a ``surveillance operation on the Trump campaign'' connotes
trying to gain an electoral advantage, but there is no evidence that any
information gathered by the inquiry was provided to the Clinton campaign
or leaked to affect the vote. Moreover, saying it was launched by the
Obama-Biden administration suggests political appointees launched it,
but the investigation was opened by career law enforcement officials and
continued under the Trump administration.

Read more

\hypertarget{our-2020-election-guide}{%
\section{Our 2020 Election Guide}\label{our-2020-election-guide}}

Updated ~Sept. 8, 2020

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

\begin{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{the-latest}{%
  \subsection{The Latest}\label{the-latest}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    President Trump and his party are using a playbook that aims to
    alarm people about crime in their backyards. It didn't work in 2018,
    but
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/08/us/politics/trump-republicans-fear-strategy.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{both
    parties think it could resonate more this year}.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{how-to-win-270}{%
  \subsection{How to Win 270}\label{how-to-win-270}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Joe Biden and Donald Trump need 270 electoral votes to reach the
    White House. Try building
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/election-states-biden-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{your
    own coalition of battleground states}~to see potential outcomes.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{voting-by-mail}{%
  \subsection{Voting by Mail}\label{voting-by-mail}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Will you have enough time to vote by mail in your state? Yes, but
    it's risky to procrastinate.
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/31/us/politics/vote-by-mail-deadlines.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Check
    your state's deadline.}
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/joe-biden.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{}

    \hypertarget{joe-biden}{%
    \section{Joe Biden}\label{joe-biden}}

    \hypertarget{democrat}{%
    \subsection{Democrat}\label{democrat}}

    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/donald-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{}

    \hypertarget{donald-trump}{%
    \section{Donald Trump}\label{donald-trump}}

    \hypertarget{republican}{%
    \subsection{Republican}\label{republican}}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \hypertarget{keep-up-with-our-coverage}{%
  \subsection{Keep Up With Our
  Coverage}\label{keep-up-with-our-coverage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Get an
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{email}~recapping
    the day's news
  \item
    Download our mobile app on
    \href{https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nytimes/id284862083?ls=1\&mat_click_id=5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\&referrer=mat_click_id\%3D5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\%26link_click_id\%3D722930677036718082}{iOS}~and
    \href{http://a.localytics.com/android?id=com.nytimes.android\&referrer=utm_source\%3Dother_nyt_mobile_web\%26utm_medium\%3DWeb\%2520page\%26utm_term\%3DGeneral\%2520Mobile\%2520Page\%26utm_campaign\%3DNYT\%2520Mobile\%2520General\%2520Page}{Android}~and
    turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
