Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/obituaries}{Obituaries}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/obituaries}{Obituaries}\textbar{}Nick Cordero, Nominated
for Tony as Tap-Dancing Tough Guy, Dies at 41

\url{https://nyti.ms/2VTd8L0}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{The
Coronavirus Outbreak}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  live\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/04/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Latest
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Maps
  and Cases}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Vaccine
  Tracker}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/02/us/covid-college-reopening.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{College
  Reopening}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/03/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Economy}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

those we've lost

\hypertarget{nick-cordero-nominated-for-tony-as-tap-dancing-tough-guy-dies-at-41}{%
\section{Nick Cordero, Nominated for Tony as Tap-Dancing Tough Guy, Dies
at
41}\label{nick-cordero-nominated-for-tony-as-tap-dancing-tough-guy-dies-at-41}}

The Broadway actor's battle with the coronavirus was followed closely by
many as his wife chronicled his experience on social media.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/07/07/obituaries/00Cordero1/merlin_117949154_98216d00-b3ac-4794-968b-84514a908fde-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/michael-paulson}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/02/20/multimedia/author-michael-paulson/author-michael-paulson-thumbLarge.jpg}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/michael-paulson}{Michael
Paulson}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  July 5, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Nick Cordero, a musical theater actor whose imposing height --- 6 feet 5
inches --- and effortless charm brought him a series of tough-guy roles
on Broadway, died on Sunday in Los Angeles. He was 41.

His death, at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center, was
\href{https://www.instagram.com/p/CCSBM89Axt_/}{announced on Instagram}
by his wife, Amanda Kloots. She did not cite a cause, but he had been in
the hospital for three months after contracting the coronavirus. The
couple moved from New York to Los Angeles last year.

Mr. Cordero's experience with the virus, which included weeks in a
\href{https://www.latimes.com/entertainment-arts/tv/story/2020-04-30/coronavirus-nick-cordero-amanda-kloots-interview-cbs-this-morning}{medically
induced coma} and the
\href{https://www.today.com/health/nick-cordero-s-wife-his-coronavirus-leg-amputation-it-was-t179215}{amputation}
of his right leg, was chronicled by Ms. Kloots on Instagram.

Mr. Cordero's big break came in 2014, when he played Cheech, a gangster
with a fondness for theater and a talent for tap in a musical adaptation
of Woody Allen's 1994 film ``\href{https://nyti.ms/1lNUKtH}{Bullets Over
Broadway}.'' The role earned him a Tony nomination for best performance
by an actor in a featured role in a musical. (James Monroe Iglehart won
for ``Aladdin.'')

``Mr. Cordero never pushes for effect, even when he's leading a
homicidal dance number to `'Tain't Nobody's Biz-ness if I Do,''' Ben
Brantley wrote in his review in The New York Times. ``And somehow, this
dopey, mass-murdering thug and the actor playing him stand out as being
far more endearingly earnest than anybody else.''

He went on to play the abusive husband of the title character in
``\href{https://nyti.ms/1SYwN0i}{Waitress}'' and a mentoring mobster in
``\href{https://nyti.ms/2gSjZh0}{A Bronx Tale}.''

``The terrific Mr. Cordero radiates a cool charisma that mixes a surface
geniality with shrugging ruthlessness'' in ``A Bronx Tale,'' Charles
Isherwood wrote in his Times review.

Mr. Cordero
\href{https://www.instagram.com/tv/B-hXYJPgalZ/?utm_source=ig_web_copy_link}{fell
ill on March 20} with what was initially diagnosed as pneumonia and
later as Covid-19, Ms. Kloots said in her Instagram posts.

He was kept alive for weeks, she said, through the use of a ventilator,
dialysis and a specialized heart-lung bypass machine; he endured brief
heart stoppage, minor heart attacks and sepsis,
\href{https://www.instagram.com/p/B_8qYEogmw7/}{Ms. Kloots said}, as
well as the leg amputation and a tracheotomy.

As he remained unresponsive, she began daily playing a song that he had
written, ``\href{https://youtu.be/LHTezKJdYTg}{Live Your Life},'' and
encouraging others to do so as well. Many people joined in online,
sharing videos of themselves singing and dancing as they tried to
encourage his recovery with the hashtag \#WakeUpNick.

Alumni of musicals like
``\href{https://youtu.be/RIkV4s3ubj8}{Waitress},''
``\href{https://www.instagram.com/tv/B_gkSkHngdb/?igshid=12rkjeumeagpk}{Good
Vibrations}'' and
``\href{https://www.facebookcorewwwi.onion/jonquesenberry/videos/10160469098802524/?t=2}{Rock
of Ages}'' recorded online performances for him, as did
\href{https://youtu.be/-mVKcSmaHbI}{a group of musicians} led by
Constantine Maroulis and Steven Van Zandt.

``We sang it to him today, holding his hands,'' Ms. Kloots said in her
Instagram post announcing his death. She said that as she sang lines
from the song's last verse --- ``They'll give you hell but don't you let
them kill your light/Not without a fight'' --- ``I smiled because he
definitely put up a fight.''

While Mr. Cordero was hospitalized, Ms. Kloots and her family had been
living in a guesthouse owned by the actor Zach Braff, Mr. Cordero's
co-star in ``Bullets Over Broadway.'' He said
\href{https://twitter.com/zachbraff/status/1279961237342674944}{on
Twitter}, ``Don't believe that Covid only claims the elderly and
infirm.''

Ms. Kloots's updates on Instagram occasionally had encouraging news; on
April 24 she said that Mr. Cordero had tested negative in two tests for
Covid-19. ``We think the virus is out of his system,'' she wrote. On May
12, she said he had woken up after a long medically induced coma.

But a lung infection persisted, and by May 20 she told her followers
that ``unfortunately things are going a little downhill at the moment.''
In recent weeks he had been able to respond with his eyes to some
communication but otherwise remained immobile, she said.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/07/07/books/00Cordero3/merlin_80502331_bc359062-0e72-41f2-86c3-4404f29ae8ad-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Nicholas Eduardo Alberto Cordero was born on Sept. 17, 1978, in
Hamilton, Ontario, to Eduardo and Lesley Cordero. His father was
originally from Costa Rica. Both parents were teachers.

Nick performed frequently as an adolescent in school shows and at local
theaters. He attended Ryerson University in Toronto to study acting but
dropped out to join a band called Love Method.

His professional acting career began with ``Tony n' Tina's Wedding'' in
Toronto, followed by a two-year stint working on cruise ships.

He moved to New York in 2007, and by 2008 he was starring in a small
musical called ``The Toxic Avenger,'' first
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2008/10/19/nyregion/new-jersey/19theatnj.html}{in
New Jersey} and then
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2009/04/07/theater/reviews/07toxi.html}{Off
Broadway}.

``Mr. Cordero morphs convincingly from supernerd to slime-dripping hulk,
retaining traces of geekery that glimmer appealingly from under the
neon-green gunk,'' Mr. Isherwood wrote in The Times.

After a period of unemployment, Mr. Cordero was cast in the national
tour of ``Rock of Ages'' and in 2012
\href{https://www.broadwayworld.com/article/ROCK-OF-AGES-Welcomes-Nick-Cordero-to-the-Cast-as-Dennis-924-20120921}{joined
the Broadway cast} of that long-running show; another stretch of
joblessness prompted him to
\href{https://www.broadway.com/buzz/175841/tony-nominated-bullets-star-nick-cordero-on-quitting-school-getting-in-trouble-woody-allens-comedy-tips/}{consider
a career in real estate}.

But then he landed his breakout role in ``Bullets Over Broadway.'' It
was also there that he met Ms. Kloots, who was a dancer in the ensemble.
\href{https://amandakloots.com/}{(She is now a fitness trainer.)}

In addition to his wife, his survivors include their 1-year-old son,
\href{https://www.playbill.com/article/broadways-nick-cordero-and-amanda-kloots-welcome-first-child}{Elvis}.

In Los Angeles this year, Mr. Cordero returned to a familiar show
reconceived for a new setting, appearing in a
\href{https://www.latimes.com/entertainment-arts/story/2020-01-15/rock-of-ages-hollywood-bourbon-room}{bar-based
version of ``Rock of Ages,''} staged in a nightclub.

In \href{https://nyti.ms/1qc1E17}{a 2014 interview}, he reflected on the
challenge of finding his way into the roles coming his way.

``The producer kept telling me, `Get tough. Get mean. Get angry,' '' he
said. ``But I'm a nice guy. I'm Canadian.''

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/obituaries/people-died-coronavirus-obituaries.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=covid_obits_promo}{}

\hypertarget{those-weve-lost}{%
\section{Those We've Lost}\label{those-weve-lost}}

The coronavirus pandemic has taken an incalculable death toll. This
series is designed to put names and faces to the numbers.

Read more

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/07/30/obituaries/30Pedro/30Pedro-square640.jpg}

\hypertarget{bernaldina-josuxe9-pedro}{%
\section{Bernaldina José Pedro}\label{bernaldina-josuxe9-pedro}}

d. Boa Vista, Brazil

Leader among the Indigenous Macuxi

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/07/31/obituaries/31Swing/merlin_175167783_8913bc90-0d64-43f3-a655-1bb1bf1601c9-square640.jpg}

\hypertarget{john-eric-swing}{%
\section{John Eric Swing}\label{john-eric-swing}}

d. Fountain Valley, Calif.

Champion of Filipino-Americans

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/07/27/obituaries/27Victor/merlin_175001436_38b11f8e-227a-4e2c-9821-7618af9b2524-square640.jpg}

\hypertarget{victor-victor}{%
\section{Victor Victor}\label{victor-victor}}

d. Santo Domingo, Dominican Republic

Beloved musician of the Dominican Republic

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/07/31/obituaries/31Negron/merlin_175160169_516322ae-fd23-4969-b6b2-193ced371105-square640.jpg}

\hypertarget{dr-eddie-negruxf3n}{%
\section{Dr. Eddie Negrón}\label{dr-eddie-negruxf3n}}

d. Fort Walton Beach, Fla.

Internist on Florida's Emerald Coast

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/07/30/obituaries/30Dobson/merlin_175115928_f6b9271c-8f05-4fe1-a38a-5ca4a58f8935-square640.jpg}

\hypertarget{dobby-dobson}{%
\section{Dobby Dobson}\label{dobby-dobson}}

d. Coral Springs, Fla.

Jamaican singer and songwriter

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/01/obituaries/28Gonzalez/merlin_175002771_beb57888-3951-409a-ae13-03a94b2e962e-square640.jpg}

\hypertarget{waldemar-gonzalez}{%
\section{Waldemar Gonzalez}\label{waldemar-gonzalez}}

d. White Plains, N.Y.

Teacher and social worker

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
