Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/spotlight/at-home}{At Home}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/spotlight/at-home}{At Home}\textbar{}Honor America's Birthday
(Safely) in 2020

\url{https://nyti.ms/2NzRmaU}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/spotlight/at-home?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=at_home_menu}{At
Home}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/14/dining/lobster-salad-recipe.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=at_home_menu}{Make:
  Lobster Salad}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/15/at-home/coronavirus-at-home-quick-exercises.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=at_home_menu}{Sneak
  In: Exercise}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/at-home/even-more-reporters-editors-diaries-lists-recommendations.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=at_home_menu}{See:
  Reporters' Obsessions}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/15/at-home/coronavirus-fall-patio-furniture.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=at_home_menu}{Deck
  Out: Your Porch}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{honor-americas-birthday-safely-in-2020}{%
\section{Honor America's Birthday (Safely) in
2020}\label{honor-americas-birthday-safely-in-2020}}

You may not be able to congregate for parades or fireworks, but there
are other options when it comes to having a festive Fourth.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/06/28/multimedia/28ah-julyfourth02/28ah-julyfourth02-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/sara-aridi}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2019/04/30/multimedia/author-sara-aridi/author-sara-aridi-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/sara-aridi}{Sara Aridi}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Published June 26, 2020Updated July 3, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

This year, Fourth of July revelers will have to swap many traditions ---
peppy parades, large family reunions and patriotic concerts --- with
low-key celebrations. But there are plenty of safe ways to commemorate
America's birthday. Here are some suggestions.

\hypertarget{watch-fireworks-in-person-or-onscreen}{%
\subsubsection{Watch fireworks, in person or
onscreen.}\label{watch-fireworks-in-person-or-onscreen}}

Many cities have canceled their festivities, and with that, the main
draw: fireworks. But some are moving forward. Your best, and safest, bet
is to watch either in your backyard or on a TV or computer screen.

In New York City, \href{https://www.macys.com/social/fireworks/}{Macy's
fireworks show}, a spectacle that usually beckons residents to rooftops
and parks on July 4, will take place on several unspecified nights from
Monday through the holiday, with each display lasting only five minutes.
They will be set off from unannounced locations across the five boroughs
--- a strategy meant to prevent New Yorkers from congregating in public
spaces. A special presentation featuring a recap of the fireworks will
be televised nationally on July 4 at 8 p.m. Eastern on NBC.

Fireworks will light up Washington during ``A Capital Fourth.'' The
event traditionally takes place on the West Lawn of the Capitol, but
this year viewers are encouraged to watch from home. The presentation
features recorded performances by stars such as Patti LaBelle and Ren√©e
Fleming; the actors John Stamos and Vanessa Williams will host. Tune in
to PBS, \href{http://www.pbs.org/a-capitol-fourth}{PBS.org}, Facebook or
YouTube at 8 p.m. Eastern.

Elsewhere, Houston's ``\href{https://www.houstontx.gov/july4/}{Shell
Freedom Over Texas}'' celebration has traded its annual festival on the
Buffalo Bayou for a virtual show featuring fireworks and musical acts,
like the Houston Symphony and the country singer Pat Green. Tune in at 8
p.m. Eastern on \href{https://abc13.com/}{ABC13.com}. Nashville's
``\href{https://www.visitmusiccity.com/july4th}{Let Freedom Sing!}''
event will honor workers who have been on the front lines of the
coronavirus crisis. There won't be a public concert, and Riverfront
Park, along the Cumberland, will be closed to spectators as a
precaution. But you can catch the fireworks show on
\href{https://www.newschannel5.com/}{NewsChannel5.com} at 10 p.m.
Eastern.

Other cities haven't guaranteed fireworks, but they will salute the
country in different ways: Starting Sunday, Philadelphia's weeklong
virtual
``\href{https://welcomeamerica.com/wp-content/uploads/2020/06/brochure_10_compressed.pdf}{Welcome
America''} festival features cultural programming, fun lessons for
children, and family-friendly workout sessions. It culminates in a
concert by the performers Cynthia Erivo and Jason Derulo.

On the Fourth,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/03/us/politics/july-4-events-los-angeles.html}{Los
Angeles} is still having \href{https://july4.grandparkla.org/}{an annual
block party} --- this time, the block is onscreen --- hosted by Grand
Park and the Music Center, a performing arts venue. There will be
musical performances, a poetry reading, comedy sketches and more. The
first hour can be streamed on \href{https://abc7.com/}{ABC7.com}
beginning at 10 p.m. Eastern; the rest of the event continues
\href{https://grandparkla.org/}{on Grand Park's website and Facebook
page,
and}\href{http://musiccenter.org/}{MusicCenter.org}\href{https://grandparkla.org/}{.}

And the
\href{https://www.bostonusa.com/event/a-boston-pops-salute-to-our-heroes/65476/}{Boston
Pops Orchestra} will pay tribute to front-line workers in a celebration
airing on Bloomberg Television, Bloomberg Radio and Boston's WHDH-TV at
8 p.m. Eastern.

Depending on where you live, you may be able to get off your couch and
watch firework shows at drive-ins, a new alternative that at least a few
cities have announced in response to the crisis, among them
\href{https://www.cityofnorthport.com/government/city-services/parks-recreation/special-events/freedom-festival}{North
Port, Fla.};
\href{https://news.auburnalabama.org/article/Top\%20Stories/3569}{Auburn,
Ala.}; and
\href{https://www.visitlovelandco.org/event/july-4th-drive-in-fireworks-show/}{Loveland,
Colo}.

Plans are subject to change, so be sure to check for updates.

\hypertarget{take-a-virtual-tour-of-national-landmarks}{%
\subsubsection{Take a virtual tour of national
landmarks.}\label{take-a-virtual-tour-of-national-landmarks}}

If you typically take this time to visit monuments or educate your
children about American history, the internet has plenty of resources.
The website
\href{https://www.capitol.gov/\#THMESEC_2010061447464\%7CTHME_2010062211742}{Architect's
Virtual Capitol} is an immersive look at the heart of federal
government. Choose from several videos about the history of the National
Capitol, a virtual walking tour of its campus or an interactive map of
other key sites in Washington.

Or visit Philadelphia's Independence National Historical Park, home to
Independence Hall, the Liberty Bell and the Benjamin Franklin Museum,
through educational videos, photo galleries and more on the
\href{https://www.nps.gov/inde/learn/photosmultimedia/index.htm}{National
Park Service's website}.

While there's nothing quite like getting an up-close-and-personal look
at the Statue of Liberty,
\href{https://www.nps.gov/stli/learn/photosmultimedia/virtualtour.htm}{an
interactive virtual tour} by the National Park Service comes close. It
offers panoramic views of the statue's exterior and interior, saving you
the strenuous climb.

You can also take a virtual tour of
\href{https://www.historicstjohnschurch.org/virtual-tour}{St. John's
Church} in Richmond, Va., through its website, or watch educational
videos about the Second Virginia Convention, the weeklong meeting in
1775 where Patrick Henry delivered his famous ``Give me liberty, or give
me death'' speech to more than 100 delegates who had gathered to discuss
the future of the colonies.

The Founding Fathers certainly excluded many from their vision, so
consider exploring key moments in the fight against slavery by clicking
through
\href{https://artsandculture.google.com/exhibit/the-struggle-for-african-american-freedom-the-henry-ford/mgIi-GjK9Fx4KA?hl=en}{``The
Struggle for African American Freedom,''} an online exhibition on
Google's Arts \& Culture platform from the Henry Ford museum complex in
Dearborn, Mich. And, while not a national landmark, the Gilder Lehrman
Institute of American History in Manhattan also has a virtual exhibition
on Google's platform titled
\href{https://artsandculture.google.com/exhibit/african-americans-in-the-us-military-from-the-revolution-to-the-world-wars/DgJiYQ9uBRWnIw}{``African-Americans
in the U.S. Military,''} detailing African-Americans' roles in American
conflicts, starting with the Revolution.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/06/28/multimedia/28ah-julyfourth04/merlin_173874279_f7c4715a-b844-4ea5-b903-181c2fb2fa32-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\hypertarget{watch-a-movie-about-the-countrys-founding}{%
\subsubsection{Watch a movie about the country's
founding.}\label{watch-a-movie-about-the-countrys-founding}}

If you prefer a dose of drama with your history lesson, settle in for a
movie night. And if you have a backyard and a projector, you can set up
an outdoor theater and catch the fireworks as an intermission.

A live recording of
\href{https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DSCKfXpAGHc\&feature=youtu.be}{``Hamilton,''}
the acclaimed Broadway musical from the writer and its star Lin-Manuel
Miranda, and the director Thomas Kail, arrives on
\href{https://www.disneyplus.com/}{Disney Plus} on Friday.

Or \href{https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iPS-P6yes8A}{``1776,''} a 1972
movie that is also based on a musical, follows the debates at the Second
Continental Congress that led to the drafting and signing of the
Declaration of Independence. (Mr. Miranda has said that ``1776''
\href{https://www.playbill.com/article/lin-manuel-miranda-and-william-daniels-talk-hamilton-1776-mr-feeny-and-more}{paved
the way} for ``Hamilton.'') Stream it free on
\href{https://pluto.tv/on-demand/movies/1776-1972-1-1?utm_medium=textsearch\&utm_source=google}{Pluto
TV}, or rent or buy it on
\href{https://www.amazon.com/gp/video/detail/amzn1.dv.gti.70a9f704-1468-1688-82f6-18d97d981c5a?autoplay=1\&ref_=atv_cf_strg_wb}{Amazon},
\href{https://play.google.com/store/movies/details?id=COGmVpHWr7s}{Google
Play},
\href{https://itunes.apple.com/us/movie/1776/id290547622}{iTunes},
\href{https://www.vudu.com/content/movies/details/1776-Directors-Cut/26381}{Vudu}
or \href{https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=COGmVpHWr7s}{YouTube}. It will
also air on July 4 on TCM at 2:30 p.m. Eastern.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/1939/11/04/archives/the-screen-john-fords-film-of-drums-along-the-mohawk-opens-at-the.html}{``Drums
Along the Mohawk,''} a 1939 adventure based on the novel of the same
name, follows a young settler couple (played by Henry Fonda and
Claudette Colbert) on the frontier in central New York during the
American Revolution. The movie was nominated for two Oscars. Rent or buy
it on
\href{https://www.amazon.com/gp/video/detail/amzn1.dv.gti.2ea9f738-1788-4bcc-5070-04a9b242fad8?autoplay=1\&ref_=atv_cf_strg_wb}{Amazon},
\href{https://play.google.com/store/movies/details?id=iCw82SzUnBk}{Google
Play},
\href{https://itunes.apple.com/us/movie/drums-along-the-mohawk/id566992684}{iTunes},
\href{https://www.vudu.com/content/movies/details/Drums-Along-the-Mohawk/8506}{Vudu}
or \href{https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iCw82SzUnBk}{YouTube}.

\hypertarget{revisit-the-declaration-of-independence}{%
\subsubsection{Revisit the Declaration of
Independence.}\label{revisit-the-declaration-of-independence}}

For the past 50 years, the National Archives in Washington has hosted a
reading ceremony of the Declaration on its museum's steps. This year,
the event is moving to \href{http://www.archivesjuly4.org/}{its website}
and
\href{https://www.facebookcorewwwi.onion/usnationalarchives/}{Facebook
page}. The reading starts at 4 p.m. Eastern and is hosted by the
broadcast journalist Soledad O'Brien. Another tradition continues on
NPR: Reporters, hosts, newscasters and commentators will perform their
own reading of the Declaration, which will air on
\href{https://www.npr.org/}{``Morning Edition''} on Friday at 6:10 a.m.
Eastern.

\hypertarget{celebrate-in-the-kitchen}{%
\subsubsection{Celebrate in the
kitchen.}\label{celebrate-in-the-kitchen}}

If all this time at home has helped you find your inner chef, consider
trying a New York Times Fourth of July recipe, like
\href{https://cooking.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/recipes/1018796-gochujang-barbecue-ribs-with-peanuts-and-scallions?action=click\&module=Collection\%20Page\%20Recipe\%20Card\&region=Really\%20Good\%20Recipes\%20for\%20Grilled\%20Steak\%2C\%20Ribs\%20\%26\%20Chops\&pgType=collection\&rank=7}{gochujang
barbecue ribs} with peanuts and scallions or
\href{https://cooking.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/recipes/1017405-lemon-potato-salad-with-mint?action=click\&module=Collection\%20Band\%20Recipe\%20Card\&region=Our\%20Best\%20Picnic-Perfect\%20Potato\%20Salads\&pgType=supercollection\&rank=1}{lemon
potato salad} with mint.

Or invite your children to help you prepare some classic patriotic
treats. Think of red, white and blue ingredients, like marshmallows,
whipped cream, cherries, blueberries, strawberries, jam or colored
candy. Of course, the simplest approach never fails: Bake your choice of
dessert, hand over some red, white and blue frosting or sprinkles, and
let your little ones go crazy.

Image

Credit...Calla Kessler/The New York Times

\hypertarget{get-together-safely}{%
\subsubsection{Get together (safely).}\label{get-together-safely}}

If you plan on seeing friends or family, keep the fun outside, as
experts have said indoor gatherings pose a huge risk. You could host a
barbecue in your backyard. Space chairs six feet apart, if you have
room, and make it a potluck, so you won't have to share meals. If you
want to serve food, make sure it's hot off the grill.
(\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/06/at-home/coronavirus-how-to-have-friends-over.html}{Here
are more tips} on how to host during the coronavirus crisis.)

Or if space is tight, spend the day on your porch or stoop and organize
a block party with your neighbors. If you have a car, make it a tailgate
party. All it takes is a few chairs, a table and a grill.

Another option is to have a picnic in the park. All you need is a
blanket, some food and good company. (And masks, of course.)

\hypertarget{play-outdoor-games}{%
\subsubsection{Play outdoor games.}\label{play-outdoor-games}}

While team sports can be dangerous, playing baseball with those in your
household is on the safer side. Wear face coverings and gloves, stay six
feet apart from strangers and be sure to wash your equipment afterward.
For more guidance, Little League has released a list of
\href{https://www.littleleague.org/downloads/best-practices/}{best
practices} for teams considering returning to the field.

Or have a water balloon fight. Play with a small group of friends, wash
your hands before making the balloons and don't aim for anyone's face.
(Always a good rule, regardless of health concerns.)

You could also try cornhole. Wear gloves to avoid spreading germs
through the beanbags and, if you're playing in teams of two, wear a
mask.

For a quieter time, test your knowledge of American history with some
trivia. PBS has a quiz
\href{http://www.pbs.org/a-capitol-fourth/fireworks-fun/history-quiz/}{on
its website}. You can also create your own and challenge your friends
and family.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{¬©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
