Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/books/review}{Book
Review}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/books/review}{Book Review}\textbar{}Charlie Kaufman Is
Sorry, He's a Bit Distracted

\url{https://nyti.ms/2CD9G0y}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\href{/column/by-the-book}{By the Book}

\hypertarget{charlie-kaufman-is-sorry-hes-a-bit-distracted}{%
\section{Charlie Kaufman Is Sorry, He's a Bit
Distracted}\label{charlie-kaufman-is-sorry-hes-a-bit-distracted}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/07/19/books/review/19ByTheBook-Kaufman/19ByTheBook-Kaufman-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

July 16, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\emph{``I'm fairly certain I just swallowed a tooth,'' says the film
director, whose debut novel is ``Antkind.''}

\textbf{What books are on your nightstand?}

Not to split hairs, but I don't have a nightstand. I'm living in a
temporary place for reasons too tedious and painful to get into here.
There's not much furniture. In the bedroom, such as it is, I have only a
sleeping bag and a floor lamp. There are a few books next to me (I'm
currently in the sleeping bag), books I ordered for research purposes.
I'm reading Toynbee's ``A Study of History'' and Tsiolkovsky's ``The
Will of the Universe,'' although the truth is, I am having trouble
focusing lately. I spend long hours staring at the old, stained
mattresses in the dump outside my window, as I shelter in place in this
unfamiliar apartment. There is so much unexplained in my new, small
world. The strange noises emanating from my neighbors' apartments; the
constant dropping of large items on the floor above me, the clinking of
hundreds of wine bottles, as the neighbors across the hall carry them
daily to the trash room. The screams.

\textbf{What's the last great book you read?}

It's difficult to remember. There was a novel I read some years ago or
very recently that really stayed with me. I can't recall the title or
the subject matter. It was like a dream: chaotic, violent, but the
specifics are lost. I believe there was an unreliable narrator, which I
always enjoy, I suspect. I do recall my dream last night, though: an
older man removed his dress shirt to reveal a military uniform
underneath. Latvian? I felt insecure, as I knew I had only bare skin
under \emph{my} shirt. The unreliable narrator of the last great book I
read was young and male, although, being unreliable, she might've been
lying. There was perhaps a murder or several. I often wonder if it's the
reader who is unreliable rather than the narrator. If both are
unreliable does that make the narration reliable? That book changed
everything. For a while. I now remember it was called ``Jesus
Weeped*.*'' I look it up. There is no such book.

\textbf{What's your favorite book no one else has heard of?}

How can I know what no one else has heard of? That would require a lot
more polling than I have the time or attention for currently. I guess,
as I can find no mention of it anywhere, I must assume no one else has
heard of ``Jesus Weeped.'' I am quite certain now that this was the
title. Perhaps I only dreamed I read it. There was a talking bear, I
believe, but it wasn't cutesy. The bear was pedantic and noisome. He
worked as a tax preparer in the city, but had dreams of living off the
grid. Unfortunately, he kept delaying the move until it was too late.
There was some sort of crisis, which drove everyone to socially distance
in the woods. There was no longer anywhere to go. He sheltered in place
in his small apartment and regretted his life.

\textbf{Do you count any books as a guilty pleasure?}

Not a book (yet!), but I've been reading a lot of Sweet Tooth Pam on
Twitter lately. Her biography describes her as a ``Fun-loving senior.
Loves travel and my grandkids.'' I don't know anything else about her,
but that makes her sound pretty great, and I've gotten over my
embarrassment about admitting this infatuation. I stumbled upon her
account while perusing the responses to a President Donald Trump tweet.
There is surprisingly little in her musings about travel or her
grandkids; it's mostly 2A (a highway in Alberta, it turns out) and Q
(British writer Sir Arthur Quiller-Couch, I believe), but I'm learning
an awful lot. Perhaps she should add ``polymath'' to her bio!

\textbf{What writers are especially good on the culture of Hollywood and
the film industry?}

Recent discovery: No one writes more incisively on Hollywood than Andrei
Zhdanov, Stalin's minister of culture. His book ``The Zionism, Ebionism,
and Pie in the Sky-onism of Hollywood Under Jewish Businessmen Goldwyn,
Zanuck, and Fox'' is a refreshingly chatty yet eye-opening read. Sweet
Tooth Pam tweeted about it last week, and I read all 543 pages on my
Kindle in a single sitting.

\textbf{What book would most like to see turned into a movie or TV show
that hasn't already been adapted?}

Yesterday, after inadvertently punching a hole through my bedroom wall
in an effort to get back at my neighbor for his relentless and
unmelodious sousaphone (?) playing, I discovered an old book hidden in
the space between our apartments. It's titled ``The Thousand Knots Every
Longshoreman Needs to Know.'' There are no diagrams (perhaps they are in
a second volume behind another wall? I will have to look later), but,
bored sheltering in place, I immediately went to work on the opening
passage anyway:

Right over left 2) Left under right 3) Right through loop ``A'' 4)
Double end ``B'' 5) Pull left side semi-taut 6) Pinch far end between
thumb and forefinger 7) Rotate near end 180 degrees 8) Insert through
loop ``D'' 9) Uninsert 10) Insert 11) Mount cord as for Lark's Head Knot
(see chapter 12).

For three hours now, with the cache of expired Brazilian dental floss I
found in the medicine cabinet, I have been attempting to accomplish this
knot, which the manuscript calls a Morgan's Reverse Double Ploughman's
Lunch. Anyway, it would make a very good movie, I think.

\textbf{You're organizing a literary dinner party. Which three writers,
living or dead, would you invite?}

I've always loved this exercise, the imaginary dinner party! What fun! I
see Oscar Wilde there, of course, Voltaire, Carol Saroyan Saroyan
Matthau (wife of William Saroyan, William Saroyan, and Walter Matthau,
and a writer in her own right), Hitler (not witty but quite a ``get''),
Edie Sitwell, Moli√®re, Oscar Wilde (so witty I thought why not double
him and place him on each end of the table so everyone could enjoy his
witticisms?), Aristophanes, and Sir Kenneth Dover (to translate
Aristophanes' jokes for the other guests). That's more than three, but
one must assume there will be cancellations. Oh, and Jesus.

\textbf{Which subjects do you wish more authors would write about?}

I fear being alone in this apartment for so long is adversely affecting
my mental health. I talk to myself a great deal now, but tend not to
listen to what I say. I'm like an old married couple. Sometimes I ask
myself, Are you even listening? And I say, Yes, of course. Then I snap,
OK, well what did I just tell you? I take a guess (at this point I know
myself pretty well, so it's worth a shot), but I immediately storm out
of the room, so I know I was wrong. I wish someone would write about
this.

\textbf{What genres do you especially enjoy reading? And which do you
avoid.}

Everyone loves a mystery. For my money, the best of that genre is the
Japanese mystery and the best of the Japanese mysteries is ``Dogra
Magra,'' by Kyusaku Yumeno. This 1935 novel by the unrivaled master of
surrealism finds an amnesiac awakening in a clinic, attended by two
doctors who tell him he's killed his wife. Did he? Are the doctors
playing a cruel game? The point is it's impossible to know, especially
in the only English language version, which seems to have been
translated by a drunk computer. And this is what makes the book so
delicious, as it adds another dreamy layer of incomprehension to the
already mysterious story. Here's a taste:

\emph{The girl across the wall knows me. It is my wife. \ldots{} And I
was killed by my hand the night before I had a wedding with me. And the
wall with meSingleFor a momentIn a room across the
streetCloseWhenTimeBasketThisIt seems that they are calling me, not at
night, but not at night.}

This novel ticks off all my boxes.

As for a genre I avoid? Anything with a dog as the narrator.

\textbf{What book might people be surprised to find on your shelves?}

I don't have shelves currently, but the autobiography of Donald Trump.
It's called ``Dreams From \emph{My} Father'' and it is the best book
I've ever read, as it brilliantly encapsulates the present. Like a tooth
infection, it narrows one's focus to the interminable now. And this book
wasn't ghostwritten. Consequently, it exists as a stew of half-thoughts,
distracted notions, flailings, bullying and self-aggrandizement. Take
the opening:

A few days after my 53rd birthday --- I had a tremendous party, by the
way --- a stranger called to give \emph{me} the news. I was living in
New York in Trump Tower --- they tell me Trump Tower is the most
beautiful building in New York. Everyone wants to live there. They call
me in secret to tell me that --- Not only did I live there, but it has
my name on the top. I am Donald John Trump, President of the United
States. And this is my story. Trump Tower is between 56th and 57th
Street on 5th Avenue, the richest block, by far, they say in New York
City. It is very great, close to great restaurants, great shopping,
stores, great Central Park, which I renovated the ice skating rink of
for free. It was a gift to the people of New York. But it was a
beautiful renovation. Everyone says so. And I took no credit. New
Yorkers ice skate there, of all races. African-American, Puerto Rican,
China.

``It is Madonna,'' said the stranger on the phone, ``and it's 1999, so
I'm still pretty young now, only forty, so I'm not yet an embarrassment
for you to have sex with. Your father Fred Trump, great New York real
estate man, not as rich as you, died and I want to have sex with you.''

\textbf{What's the most interesting thing you've learned from a book
lately?}

``Jenny barn'' is an archaic term for ``whorehouse.''

\textbf{Do you prefer books that reach you emotionally, or
intellectually?}

I'm sorry, what? I'm a bit distracted. I'm fairly certain I just
swallowed a tooth.

\textbf{What's the best book you've received as a gift?}

I'm concerned about my tooth. Not the swallowed one --- I've come to
terms with that loss --- but another. Is this the beginning of a cavity?
What does one do about a cavity in times like these? Can more rest cure
it? This sleeping bag I'm in is not conducive to restful slumber. But
there are plenty of mattresses in the dump outside; I will mask up, grab
one. Just till the cavity goes away.

At the dump, while sifting through the mattresses, I come upon a
discarded book called ``You Are a Mattress,'' about a mattress, it
seems, although not from the mattress's point of view, but rather in the
second mattress. I haul one of the mattresses and the book, a gift, up
to my apartment.

\textbf{What books are you embarrassed not to have read yet?}

``The Thousand Knots Every Longshoreman Must Know: Updated with a New
Introduction by Barack Obama.''

\textbf{Whom would you want to write your life story?}

Rabbi Harold Kushner.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{¬©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
