 **NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please
upgrade your browser.
\href{http://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/content/help/site/ie9-support.html}{LEARN
MORE Â»}

**Sections

**Home

**Search

\hypertarget{the-new-york-times}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\href{http://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/}{The
New York Times}}{The New York Times}}\label{the-new-york-times}}

 \href{/section/world/asia}{Asia Pacific} \textbar{}More Than 14 Years
After U.S. Invasion, the Taliban Control Large Parts of Afghanistan

Log In

**0

**Settings

**Close search

\hypertarget{site-search-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Search Navigation}\label{site-search-navigation}}

Search NYTimes.com

**Clear this text input

Go

\url{https://nyti.ms/1KK4Dp2}

\begin{enumerate}
\def\labelenumi{\arabic{enumi}.}
\item
  Loading...
\end{enumerate}

See next articles

See previous articles

\hypertarget{site-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Navigation}\label{site-navigation}}

\hypertarget{site-mobile-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Mobile Navigation}\label{site-mobile-navigation}}

Advertisement

\hypertarget{-asia-pacific-}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{ \href{/section/world/asia}{Asia Pacific}
}{ Asia Pacific }}\label{-asia-pacific-}}

\hypertarget{more-than-14-years-after-us-invasion-the-taliban-control-large-parts-of-afghanistan}{%
\section{More Than 14 Years After U.S. Invasion, the Taliban Control
Large Parts of
Afghanistan}\label{more-than-14-years-after-us-invasion-the-taliban-control-large-parts-of-afghanistan}}

The Taliban have a significant footprint in Afghanistan, according to
Bill Roggio, the editor of The
\href{http://www.longwarjournal.org/}{Long War Journal}, an online
publication that is tracking Taliban control. Mr. Roggio has been able
to confirm that about one-fifth of the country is controlled or
contested by the Taliban, but he emphasized that this was a conservative
estimate. ``They probably either control or heavily influence about a
half of the country,'' he said.
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2015/09/14/world/middleeast/syria-war-deaths.html}{Related
Article}

Last week, Taliban fighters renewed their assault

on \textbf{Kunduz}, which briefly fell to them last year.

Kunduz

Kholm

Baghlan

The Taliban overran

\textbf{Warduj} and \textbf{Baharak}

districts in early

October.

Kabul

Herat

Afghanistan

The Taliban took

control of \textbf{Waygal}

district in June.

Jalalabad

Gardez

Taliban-controlled districts

Contested districts

100 Miles

Kandahar

Lashkar Gah

\textbf{Khan Neshin} is the most recent district

in Helmand Province to fall to the Taliban.

Kunduz

Kholm

Baghlan

Herat

Kabul

Jalalabad

Afghanistan

Gardez

Kandahar

Taliban-controlled districts

Contested districts

100 Miles

Kunduz

Kabul

Herat

Afghanistan

Kandahar

Taliban-controlled districts

Contested districts

200 Miles

The New York Times\textbar{}Source: The Long War Journal

According to Mr. Roggio, ``contested'' districts are those where the
Afghan government controls the district center but the Taliban control
large areas outside of the district center. ``Control'' means the
Taliban are openly administering a district. Taliban control has
fluctuated over the past 14 years. The Taliban government collapsed
after the American invasion, but the group regained control of multiple
districts between 2005 and 2009, Mr. Roggio said. They withdrew from
these areas after the temporary surge of American troops at the
beginning of President Obama's administration, but they have been
reclaiming territory since 2013.

\hypertarget{oct-3-2015}{%
\subparagraph{Oct. 3, 2015}\label{oct-3-2015}}

\hypertarget{us-blamed-after-bombs-hit-a-kunduz-hospital}{%
\subsection{U.S. Blamed After Bombs Hit a Kunduz
Hospital}\label{us-blamed-after-bombs-hit-a-kunduz-hospital}}

A hospital run by Doctors Without Borders was hit by an American
airstrike that killed at least 22 people and wounded nearly 40. The
hospital treats the wounded from all sides of the conflict. Doctors
Without Borders said it had informed all fighting parties of hospital's
GPS coordinates.

Kunduz

Afghanistan

Reported

Taliban presence

A \textbf{hospital}

run by Doctors

Without Borders

was hit in

an airstrike.

Kunduz

Reported

Taliban presence

American forces conducted airstrikes near \textbf{Kunduz airport}.

Hospital hit

in airstrike

150 meters

Kunduz

Afghanistan

Reported

Taliban presence

A \textbf{hospital} run by Doctors Without Borders was hit in an
airstrike.

Kunduz

Reported

Taliban presence

American forces also conducted airstrikes near \textbf{Kunduz airport}.

Hospital hit

in airstrike

150 meters

Kunduz

Afghanistan

Reported

Taliban presence

A \textbf{hospital}

run by Doctors

Without Borders

was hit in

an airstrike.

Kunduz

Reported

Taliban presence

American forces also conducted airstrikes near \textbf{Kunduz airport}.

Hospital hit

in airstrike

150 meters

Kunduz

Afghanistan

Reported

Taliban presence

Kunduz

\textbf{Hospital}

hit in airstrike

Reported

Taliban presence

Hospital hit

in airstrike

Kunduz

airport

150 meters

The New York Times\textbar{}Source: Doctors Without Borders (location of
hospital); Satellite image by DigitalGlobe via Bing Maps

\hypertarget{sept-29---oct-1-2015}{%
\subparagraph{Sept. 29 - Oct. 1, 2015}\label{sept-29---oct-1-2015}}

\hypertarget{the-fight-to-retake-kunduz}{%
\subsection{The Fight to Retake
Kunduz}\label{the-fight-to-retake-kunduz}}

On Thursday, Afghan forces in Kunduz engaged in heavy fighting against
Taliban insurgents near the city center. The Taliban continue to control
Kunduz and several northern districts, including the strategic district
of Chardara, which has a road to northern Afghanistan's largest city,
Mazar-i-Sharif.

Taliqan

Area of

detail

Kunduz

To Mazar-i-Sharif

Afghanistan

TAKHAR

chardara

kunduz

\textbf{Kunduz airport}

American forces conducted airstrikes near the airport, where Afghan
soldiers and civilians are holed up.

baghlan

Aybak

More than 1,000 reinforcements remain stuck in Baghlan Province because
of Taliban resistance.

Baghlan

SAMANGAN

\textbf{Pul-i-Kumri}

Residents have begun to evacuate in anticipation of a Taliban advance.

10 MILES

Kunduz

To Mazar-i-Sharif

chardara

kunduz

\textbf{Kunduz airport}

American forces conducted airstrikes near the airport, where Afghan
soldiers and civilians are holed up.

SAMANGAN

baghlan

Aybak

More than 1,000 reinforcements remain stuck in Baghlan Province because
of Taliban resistance.

Baghlan

Area of

detail

Afghanistan

\textbf{Pul-i-Kumri}

Residents have begun to evacuate in anticipation of a Taliban advance.

10 MILES

Kunduz

To Mazar-i-Sharif

chardara

kunduz

\textbf{Kunduz airport}

American forces conducted airstrikes near the airport, where Afghan
soldiers and civilians are holed up.

baghlan

More than 1,000 reinforcements remain stuck in Baghlan Province because
of Taliban resistance.

Baghlan

Area of

detail

Afghanistan

\textbf{Pul-i-Kumri}

Residents have begun to evacuate in anticipation of a Taliban advance.

10 MILES

Kunduz

chardara

kunduz

\textbf{Kunduz airport}

American forces conducted airstrikes near the airport, where Afghan
soldiers and civilians are holed up.

baghlan

More than 1,000 reinforcements remain stuck in Baghlan Province because
of Taliban resistance.

Area of

detail

Afghanistan

\textbf{Pul-i-Kumri}

Residents have begun to evacuate in anticipation of a Taliban advance.

10 MILES

The New York Times

\hypertarget{sept-28-2015}{%
\subparagraph{Sept. 28, 2015}\label{sept-28-2015}}

\hypertarget{how-the-taliban-seized-kunduz}{%
\subsection{How the Taliban Seized
Kunduz}\label{how-the-taliban-seized-kunduz}}

Taliban fighters have been attacking areas of Kunduz Province since
August of last year. Within hours of their advance on Monday, they took
control of Kunduz city, the provincial capital. A counterattack began on
Tuesday, but Afghan forces failed to retake the city as the Taliban
ended the day with another aggressive advance.

Kunduz

Afghanistan

Around 7 a.m. Monday, the Taliban flag was raised in the city's main
roundabout.

Kunduz

\textbf{Seh Darak}

By early morning, Taliban fighters reached the central hospital near
here.

\textbf{Kunduz airport}

Afghan special forces arrived in Kunduz on Tuesday.

1 Mile

Kunduz

Afghanistan

Around 7 a.m. Monday, the Taliban flag was raised in the city's main
roundabout.

Kunduz

\textbf{Seh Darak}

By early morning, Taliban fighters reached the central hospital near
here.

\textbf{Kunduz airport}

Afghan special forces arrived in Kunduz on Tuesday.

1 Mile

Kunduz

Afghanistan

Around 7 a.m. Monday, the Taliban flag was raised in the city's main
roundabout.

Kunduz

\textbf{Seh Darak}

By early morning, Taliban fighters reached the central hospital near
here.

\textbf{Kunduz airport}

Afghan special forces arrived in Kunduz on Tuesday.

1 Mile

Kunduz

Afghanistan

Around 7 a.m. Monday, the Taliban flag was raised in the city's main
roundabout.

Kunduz

\textbf{Seh Darak}

By early morning, Taliban fighters reached the central hospital near
here.

\textbf{Kunduz airport}

Afghan special forces arrived in Kunduz on Tuesday.

Advance

The city was captured within hours of the insurgents' advance from three
directions early on Monday morning.

Retreat

Afghan security forces retreated to Kunduz airport on the outskirts of
the city.

Counterattack

American forces conducted at least two airstrikes around Kunduz on
Tuesday as Afghan ground forces slowly advanced toward the city.

Looting

The U.N. regional branch, an Afghan intelligence agency office, two
radio stations and several car dealerships were looted by fighters.

The New York Times\textbar{}Source: Institute for the Study of War

\hypertarget{sept-29-2015}{%
\subparagraph{Sept. 29, 2015}\label{sept-29-2015}}

\hypertarget{taliban-presence-in-afghanistan}{%
\subsection{Taliban Presence in
Afghanistan}\label{taliban-presence-in-afghanistan}}

Insurgents continue to attack and move freely in other areas, mostly
rural, throughout Afghanistan.

Uzbekistan

Tajikistan

Turkmenistan

Badakhshan

Jowzjan

Kunduz

Kholm

Kunduz

Taliban

attack

zones

Balkh

Takhar

Baghlan

Samangan

Faryab

Baghlan

Sar-i-Pul

Nuristan

Badghis

Kapisa

Parwan

Bamian

Kunar

Kabul

Jalalabad

Afghanistan

Wardak

Herat

Nangarhar

Herat

Ghor

Logar

Paktia

Daykondi

Gardez

Ghazni

Khost

oruzgan

Farah

Paktika

Zabul

Support

zones

Pakistan

Kandahar

Iran

Nimruz

Kandahar

Helmand

100 Miles

Uzbekistan

Tajikistan

Turkmenistan

Kholm

Taliban

attack

zones

Kunduz

Jalalabad

Kabul

Herat

Afghanistan

Gardez

Support

zones

Pakistan

Kandahar

Iran

100 Miles

Turkmenistan

Kholm

Taliban

attack

zones

Kunduz

Kabul

Herat

Afghanistan

Gardez

Pakistan

Support

zones

Kandahar

Iran

100 Miles

Turkmenistan

Taliban

attack

zones

Kholm

Kunduz

Kabul

Herat

Afghanistan

Gardez

Support

zones

Kandahar

Pakistan

200 Miles

The New York Times\textbar{}Source: Institute for the Study of War
(Taliban presence as of Sept. 29)

Additional work by K.K. Rebecca Lai, Sergio PeÃ§anha and Tim Wallace

\textbf{Correction: Sept. 30, 2015}

An earlier version of this map mislabeled the city of Gardez.

\subsection{}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2015/09/14/world/middleeast/syria-war-deaths.html}{}

  \includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2015/09/11/world/middleeast/syria-war-deaths-1442010980408/syria-war-deaths-1442010980408-mediumThreeByTwo225-v2.jpg}

  \hypertarget{how-syrians-are-dying}{%
  \subsection{How Syrians Are Dying}\label{how-syrians-are-dying}}

  June 1, 2017
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2015/06/29/world/middleeast/isis-historic-sites-control.html}{}

  \includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2015/06/29/world/middleeast/isis-historic-sites-control-1435711528382/isis-historic-sites-control-1435711528382-mediumThreeByTwo225-v4.png}

  \hypertarget{the-strategy-behind-the-islamic-states-destruction-of-ancient-sites}{%
  \subsection{The Strategy Behind the Islamic State's Destruction of
  Ancient
  Sites}\label{the-strategy-behind-the-islamic-states-destruction-of-ancient-sites}}

  May 25, 2016
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2015/10/16/world/asia/obama-troop-withdrawal-afghanistan.html}{}

  \includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2015/10/16/world/prexy-video2/prexy-video2-mediumThreeByTwo225.jpg}

  \hypertarget{in-reversal-obama-says-us-soldiers-will-stay-in-afghanistan-to-2017}{%
  \subsection{In Reversal, Obama Says U.S. Soldiers Will Stay in
  Afghanistan to
  2017}\label{in-reversal-obama-says-us-soldiers-will-stay-in-afghanistan-to-2017}}

  Dec. 21, 2017
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2015/10/04/world/asia/afghanistan-bombing-hospital-doctors-without-borders-kunduz.html}{}

  \includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2015/10/04/world/SUB-JP-AFGHANISTAN/SUB-JP-AFGHANISTAN-mediumThreeByTwo225.jpg}

  \hypertarget{airstrike-hits-doctors-without-borders-hospital-in-afghanistan}{%
  \subsection{Airstrike Hits Doctors Without Borders Hospital in
  Afghanistan}\label{airstrike-hits-doctors-without-borders-hospital-in-afghanistan}}

  Jan. 19, 2018
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{Â©
  2020 The New York Times Company}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Home}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/search/}{Search}
\item
  Accessibility concerns? Email us at
  \href{mailto:accessibility@NYTimes.com}{\nolinkurl{accessibility@NYTimes.com}}.
  We would love to hear from you.
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014892108-Privacy-policy\#pp}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014892108-Privacy-policy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation-1}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation-1}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us?redir=myacc}{Site
  Feedback}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
