Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/us}{U.S.}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/us}{U.S.}\textbar{}Andrew Gillum Concedes to Ron DeSantis
in Florida Governor's Race

\url{https://nyti.ms/2yW22cJ}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{andrew-gillum-concedes-to-ron-desantis-in-florida-governors-race}{%
\section{Andrew Gillum Concedes to Ron DeSantis in Florida Governor's
Race}\label{andrew-gillum-concedes-to-ron-desantis-in-florida-governors-race}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/11/07/us/politics/07florida-promo/07florida-promo-videoSixteenByNine3000-v2.jpg}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/patricia-mazzei}{Patricia Mazzei}
and \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/frances-robles}{Frances Robles}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Nov. 6, 2018
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

TALLAHASSEE, Fla. --- Ron DeSantis was elected governor of Florida on
Tuesday, handing President Trump an important victory and extending the
Republican Party's dominance in the nation's third-largest state.

Mr. DeSantis, a 40-year-old former congressman, fended off his opponent,
Andrew Gillum, one of the strongest candidates Florida Democrats had
fielded in years. Republicans have now won every election for governor
since 1998.

``Every two years there's one day in November where elites don't call
the shots, don't craft the narrative or set the agenda,'' Mr. DeSantis
told jubilant supporters festooned in confetti in an Orlando hotel
ballroom late on Tuesday night. ``On Election Day, it's the voice of the
people that rules.''

He thanked President Trump for standing by him ``when it wasn't
necessarily the smart thing to do.''

``I think you are going to get tired of me calling you asking you for
things for Florida,'' Mr. DeSantis told the president from afar.

\emph{{[}See the}
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/elections/results/florida-governor?action=click\&module=Intentional\&pgtype=Article}{\emph{results
for the Florida governor's race}} \emph{and for}
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2018/11/06/us/elections/results-governor-elections.html?action=click\&module=Intentional\&pgtype=Article}{\emph{other
states' elections for governor}}\emph{.{]}}

Mr. DeSantis pledged to choose ``constitutionalist'' judges --- he will
get to name replacements in January to three liberal-leaning justices
who are term-limited on the State Supreme Court --- fight toxic algae
blooms, protect military veterans and keep scholarships for low-income
students to attend private schools.

Mr. Gillum conceded the race at around 11 p.m. after running behind most
of the night. ``We could not be prouder of the way we ran this race,''
he told supporters at Florida A\&M University. ``We recognize that we
didn't win this tonight.''

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/11/06/us/politics/6gillum/6gillum-videoSixteenByNine3000-v2.jpg}

In an emotional address, in which he appeared close to tears, he
apologized to those who had worked on his campaign. ``I sincerely regret
that I couldn't bring it home for you,'' he said. But, he added: ``Are
we going to wake up and bask in sorrow and defeat? Or are we going to
get up and reassert ourselves at the mission at hand?''

The crowd, which waited through much of the night in pouring rain, held
up phones and filmed the speech, exchanging hugs and praying. A few
supporters cried.

With Mr. DeSantis's win, Republicans held onto the governor's mansion
two years after Hillary Clinton seemed to open a door for Democrats by
only narrowly losing to Mr. Trump in the country's largest battleground
state. The president may take much of the credit for Tuesday's success:
He helped elevate Mr. DeSantis, a loyal acolyte,
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/07/30/us/politics/florida-governor-election.html}{during
the primary} and rallied twice for him in the final days of the
campaign. Going into the 2020 election, Mr. Trump can now count on a
friend in Tallahassee who will be able to exert influence over the
crucial redrawing of the state's congressional and legislative districts
after the next census.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/11/07/us/politics/07florida-desantis2/merlin_146429859_6a736197-079c-4bba-9719-bb76d3201e42-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Florida Democrats, who have now lost three consecutive elections for
governor by about one percentage point, will be left to grapple once
again with what could have been. Senator Bill Nelson, the only Democrat
elected statewide, was losing late on Tuesday to Gov. Rick Scott in a
race even tighter than the governor's contest. Mr. Scott poured more
than \$50 million of his fortune into his campaign, an eye-popping
amount that helped lift Mr. DeSantis and other Republicans down the
ballot.

Democrats had
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/11/05/us/politics/florida-andrew-gillum-ron-desantis-bill-nelson.html}{pinned
their hopes} on Mr. Gillum, the
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/10/18/us/politics/andrew-gillum-florida-governor.html}{mayor
of Tallahassee} and a talented campaigner who upended his party's
orthodoxy and ran as a defiant progressive instead of the more typical
centrist thought to appeal to independent voters and moderates. Mr.
Gillum, who would have become Florida's first African-American governor,
came close to succeeding, garnering over a million votes more than Mr.
Scott did in 2014. But he ultimately could not overcome the state's
inexorable demographics: Older white voters who lean conservative vote
at far higher rates than do millennial and minority voters, whom Mr.
Gillum needed to turn out in big numbers to assemble a winning
coalition.

The Florida story on election night in 2018 played out much as it did in
2016: Big, urban counties that lean Democratic reported a significant
lead for Mr. Gillum. But that advantage was wiped out as results rolled
in from white suburbs and exurbs in red counties, especially in the
conservative Panhandle and on the southwest coast, where Mr. Trump
campaigned last week and turnout was impressively high.

Mr. Gillum's stunning win in the August primary overshadowed Mr.
DeSantis's own noteworthy accomplishment: He
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/08/28/us/politics/florida-arizona-election-results.html}{defeated
Adam Putnam}, the state agriculture commissioner, by an astonishing 20
percentage points. Mr. Putnam had seemed a lock for the Republican
nomination before Mr. Trump stepped in for Mr. DeSantis, an Ivy League
graduate and former Navy legal officer at Guantánamo Bay and in Iraq who
gained a national audience by vigorously defending the president in
frequent Fox News appearances.

Still, Mr. DeSantis stumbled early on in the general election, starting
the day after the primary, when he went on Fox News lauding Florida's
economic success under a Republican administration and warned that
electing Mr. Gillum could ``monkey this up,'' a phrase
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/08/29/us/politics/desantis-monkey-up-gillum.html}{seen
by many as a racist dog whistle}. Mr. DeSantis denied any racial intent
in his comment.

After effectively losing the month of September to various
controversies, Mr. DeSantis
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/10/04/us/politics/florida-desantis-governor.html}{eventually
regrouped}, hiring Mr. Trump's Florida campaign manager from 2016, Susie
Wiles. He sharpened his message against Mr. Gillum, portraying him as a
corrupt radical whose proposals were out of step with the values of most
Floridians.

On Sunday, a day after Mr. Trump's final visit, Mr. DeSantis drew
hundreds of people to a campaign rally in South Daytona, in his former
congressional district. His ``secret weapon,'' he said on Tuesday, was
his running mate, State Representative Jeanette Nuñez of Miami, who
helped him solidify support among Cuban-American Republicans and will
become the state's first female Latina lieutenant governor.

Mr. DeSantis's campaign platform, derided by Democrats as thin,
essentially came down to promising to continue on the path set by
Florida's current governor.

``There's a reason people move to Florida: The people who move to
Florida don't want Florida to turn into one of those states they came
from,'' said Blaise Ingoglia, the chairman of the Republican Party of
Florida. ``I don't think that resonated with independents.''

But many voters said what they found most attractive about Mr. DeSantis
was his friend in the White House.

``I voted Republican all the way,'' Renee Wilson, 69, said after voting
in Palm Beach Gardens. ``To defend Trump.''

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
