Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/us}{U.S.}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/us}{U.S.}\textbar{}Florida's Covid Cases Up Fivefold in 2
Weeks: `The Numbers Are Scary'

\url{https://nyti.ms/2YKFKs1}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{the-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=3e6b8210-e385-11ea-85cc-bf105b368d22}{The
Coronavirus
Outbreak}}{The Coronavirus Outbreak}}\label{the-coronavirus-outbreak}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  live\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/20/world/coronavirus-covid.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=3e6ba920-e385-11ea-85cc-bf105b368d22}{Latest
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=3e6ba921-e385-11ea-85cc-bf105b368d22}{Maps
  and Cases}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=3e6ba922-e385-11ea-85cc-bf105b368d22}{Vaccine
  Tracker}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/19/us/colleges-closing-covid.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=3e6ba923-e385-11ea-85cc-bf105b368d22}{Colleges
  Closing}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/20/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=3e6ba924-e385-11ea-85cc-bf105b368d22}{Economy}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{floridas-covid-cases-up-fivefold-in-2-weeks-the-numbers-are-scary}{%
\section{Florida's Covid Cases Up Fivefold in 2 Weeks: `The Numbers Are
Scary'}\label{floridas-covid-cases-up-fivefold-in-2-weeks-the-numbers-are-scary}}

A surge in coronavirus cases has prompted officials to prohibit alcohol
sales in bars and close Miami beaches for the coming holiday. But will
it be enough?

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/06/28/us/28VIRUS-FLORIDA-1/merlin_174014601_da3319fd-cba9-4e23-9b70-1be677f668ed-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/frances-robles}{Frances
Robles}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Published June 28, 2020Updated July 20, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

MIAMI --- John Delgado has slept in a tent in his backyard for 57 nights
and counting.

As the inventory manager of Farm Share, an immense South
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/20/us/coronavirus-florida-elderly.html}{Florida}
food bank, Mr. Delgado, 51, finds himself holding his breath under his
face-covering as he speaks to the many clients who come in without
masks, for fear that
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/20/us/coronavirus-florida-elderly.html}{coronavirus}
particles will seep through the fabric.

Because he interacts with the public every day, Mr. Delgado
\href{https://www.miamiherald.com/news/coronavirus/article241708756.html}{sleeps
outdoors} to avoid contaminating his wife, aging mother-in-law, three
sons and grandson. At night, he sometimes peeks through the window to
watch his wife sleep. By day, he does socially-distanced yard work with
his sons.

``I want to sleep in my house, sleep in my bed,'' he said. ``I want to
hug my wife, my children, grandson, and want to go out to the community
not feeling like I'm in `The Walking Dead,' where I'm going to be
attacked by a zombie. I want to live. Right now, I don't feel like I'm
living.

``How long is this going to be?''

On Saturday, for the second straight day, Florida crushed its previous
record for new coronavirus cases, reporting 9,585 infections. Another
8,530 were reported on Sunday.

The closest hospital to Mr. Delgado's house in Homestead, 40 miles south
of Miami, is nearing capacity as Covid-19 cases soar. The situation in
Miami is equally serious: About a quarter of all patients admitted to
the city's main public hospital over the past two weeks tested positive
for the coronavirus, including those who came in from car crashes, heart
attacks and other problems.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/06/28/us/28VIRUS-FLORIDA-2/merlin_174013140_6b16bec9-a3b3-482b-b02b-b89f4007268c-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Six-hour lines formed in Jacksonville over the weekend as thousands of
people flocked to get drive-through tests. Orlando has seen an explosion
of coronavirus: nearly 60 percent of all cases diagnosed in that county
came in just the past two weeks.

Much of Florida's new surge in cases appears to follow from the
reopening of beaches, bars, restaurants and other social activities. The
state's beaches are full and throngs of revelers pack its waterways on
boats.

Many people have had enough of staying inside, feeling trapped and
scared. As fear subsided, coronavirus grew.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-the-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/20/world/coronavirus-covid.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: The Coronavirus
Outbreak}}{Latest Updates: The Coronavirus Outbreak}}\label{latest-updates-the-coronavirus-outbreak}}

Updated 2020-08-21T07:46:15.883Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/20/world/coronavirus-covid.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-68774d88}{Shutdowns,
  warnings and scoldings follow alarming incidents on college campuses.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/20/world/coronavirus-covid.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-26b58724}{Biden
  knocks Trump's pandemic response, and outlines a national strategy.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/20/world/coronavirus-covid.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-4e542da3}{U.S.
  health agencies announce moves to confront the flu season and
  plummeting child vaccination rates.}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/20/world/coronavirus-covid.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

More live coverage:
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/20/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Markets}

Florida now joins South Carolina and Nevada among the states that broke
daily records over the weekend.

``I'm one of the people who contributed to the 9,000-person day,'' said
Ian Scott, a 19-year-old college sophomore in Orlando who tested
positive on Friday. He has no idea how he got it.

Mr. Scott said that for young people, getting tested has become an
amusing pastime. They challenge each other to see who can get the nasal
swab test without crying. About half of his fraternity has tested
positive.

``We're seeing positive, positive, positive, positive,'' he said. ``My
generation says: `Let's get this over with. Let's suck it up for two
weeks, sit in our rooms, play video games, play with our phones, finish
online classes, and it's over.''

Mr. Scott barely felt sick, and was fine by the time the test results
came back. Patients like him could help account for the fact that while
Florida's daily case count has increased fivefold in two weeks, the rate
of deaths has not increased so far. State records show that
hospitalization rates have inched up but are not at crisis levels.

Gov. Ron DeSantis said more Covid-related fatalities in the state had
been people over 90 than people under 65.

Image

Jackson Memorial Hospital in Miami on Sunday. About a quarter of all
patients admitted to the hospital over the past two weeks tested
positive for the coronavirus.Credit...Saul Martinez for The New York
Times

The median age of people testing positive for the coronavirus is now 36,
the Department of Health said.

``Those groups are much less at risk for very serious consequences,''
Governor DeSantis said of younger patients. But they can spread the
virus to their older relatives and others who are medically vulnerable
without even realizing it, he stressed.

Officials have done little so far to halt public interactions. The mayor
of one affluent Miami suburb implored residents this week to stop
throwing house parties; on Friday, state officials prohibited the sale
of alcohol in bars. Miami-Dade and Broward counties chose to close its
beaches for the busy Fourth of July weekend.

Governor DeSantis said the surge of new cases can be attributed to the
huge numbers of tests results that are coming in each day. But he
acknowledged that since the second week of June, the share of tests
coming back positive has been creeping upward. That trend coincided with
the reopening of the economy, and also the onset of recent street
protests.

Statewide, about
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/25/us/coronavirus-cases-young-people.html}{20
percent of people aged 25 to 34 are testing positive}, he said at a news
conference Sunday.

He said the risk has also increased as temperatures outside rise and
people seek relief in the air conditioning.

``As it gets warmer in Florida, people want to beat the heat,'' he said.
``They are more likely to do that indoors, in closed spaces. That is
going to increase the risk of transmission of the coronavirus.''

Florida public health experts worry that the surging case numbers will
lead to a crush of hospitalizations and, eventually, of deaths.

``We know that there's a lag,'' said Natalie E. Dean, an assistant
professor of biostatistics at the University of Florida.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{}

\hypertarget{the-coronavirus-outbreak-}{%
\subsubsection{The Coronavirus Outbreak
›}\label{the-coronavirus-outbreak-}}

\hypertarget{frequently-asked-questions}{%
\paragraph{Frequently Asked
Questions}\label{frequently-asked-questions}}

Updated August 17, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{why-does-standing-six-feet-away-from-others-help}{%
  \paragraph{Why does standing six feet away from others
  help?}\label{why-does-standing-six-feet-away-from-others-help}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    The coronavirus spreads primarily through droplets from your mouth
    and nose, especially when you cough or sneeze. The C.D.C., one of
    the organizations using that measure,
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/14/health/coronavirus-six-feet.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{bases
    its recommendation of six feet} on the idea that most large droplets
    that people expel when they cough or sneeze will fall to the ground
    within six feet. But six feet has never been a magic number that
    guarantees complete protection. Sneezes, for instance, can launch
    droplets a lot farther than six feet,
    \href{https://jamanetwork.com/journals/jama/fullarticle/2763852}{according
    to a recent study}. It's a rule of thumb: You should be safest
    standing six feet apart outside, especially when it's windy. But
    keep a mask on at all times, even when you think you're far enough
    apart.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{i-have-antibodies-am-i-now-immune}{%
  \paragraph{I have antibodies. Am I now
  immune?}\label{i-have-antibodies-am-i-now-immune}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    As of right
    now,\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/22/health/covid-antibodies-herd-immunity.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{that
    seems likely, for at least several months.} There have been
    frightening accounts of people suffering what seems to be a second
    bout of Covid-19. But experts say these patients may have a
    drawn-out course of infection, with the virus taking a slow toll
    weeks to months after initial exposure. People infected with the
    coronavirus typically
    \href{https://www.nature.com/articles/s41586-020-2456-9}{produce}
    immune molecules called antibodies, which are
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/07/health/coronavirus-antibody-prevalence.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{protective
    proteins made in response to an
    infection}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/07/health/coronavirus-antibody-prevalence.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{.
    These antibodies may} last in the body
    \href{https://www.nature.com/articles/s41591-020-0965-6}{only two to
    three months}, which may seem worrisome, but that's perfectly normal
    after an acute infection subsides, said Dr. Michael Mina, an
    immunologist at Harvard University. It may be possible to get the
    coronavirus again, but it's highly unlikely that it would be
    possible in a short window of time from initial infection or make
    people sicker the second time.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{im-a-small-business-owner-can-i-get-relief}{%
  \paragraph{I'm a small-business owner. Can I get
  relief?}\label{im-a-small-business-owner-can-i-get-relief}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    The
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/small-business-loans-stimulus-grants-freelancers-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{stimulus
    bills enacted in March} offer help for the millions of American
    small businesses. Those eligible for aid are businesses and
    nonprofit organizations with fewer than 500 workers, including sole
    proprietorships, independent contractors and freelancers. Some
    larger companies in some industries are also eligible. The help
    being offered, which is being managed by the Small Business
    Administration, includes the Paycheck Protection Program and the
    Economic Injury Disaster Loan program. But lots of folks have
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/05/07/business/small-business-loans-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{not
    yet seen payouts.} Even those who have received help are confused:
    The rules are draconian, and some are stuck sitting on
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/02/business/economy/loans-coronavirus-small-business.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{money
    they don't know how to use.} Many small-business owners are getting
    less than they expected or
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/10/business/Small-business-loans-ppp.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{not
    hearing anything at all.}
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{what-are-my-rights-if-i-am-worried-about-going-back-to-work}{%
  \paragraph{What are my rights if I am worried about going back to
  work?}\label{what-are-my-rights-if-i-am-worried-about-going-back-to-work}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Employers have to provide
    \href{https://www.osha.gov/SLTC/covid-19/standards.html}{a safe
    workplace} with policies that protect everyone equally.
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/coronavirus-money-unemployment.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{And
    if one of your co-workers tests positive for the coronavirus, the
    C.D.C.} has said that
    \href{https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/community/guidance-business-response.html}{employers
    should tell their employees} -\/- without giving you the sick
    employee's name -\/- that they may have been exposed to the virus.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{what-is-school-going-to-look-like-in-september}{%
  \paragraph{What is school going to look like in
  September?}\label{what-is-school-going-to-look-like-in-september}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    It is unlikely that many schools will return to a normal schedule
    this fall, requiring the grind of
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/05/us/coronavirus-education-lost-learning.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{online
    learning},
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/29/us/coronavirus-child-care-centers.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{makeshift
    child care} and
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/03/business/economy/coronavirus-working-women.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{stunted
    workdays} to continue. California's two largest public school
    districts --- Los Angeles and San Diego --- said on July 13, that
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/13/us/lausd-san-diego-school-reopening.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{instruction
    will be remote-only in the fall}, citing concerns that surging
    coronavirus infections in their areas pose too dire a risk for
    students and teachers. Together, the two districts enroll some
    825,000 students. They are the largest in the country so far to
    abandon plans for even a partial physical return to classrooms when
    they reopen in August. For other districts, the solution won't be an
    all-or-nothing approach.
    \href{https://bioethics.jhu.edu/research-and-outreach/projects/eschool-initiative/school-policy-tracker/}{Many
    systems}, including the nation's largest, New York City, are
    devising
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/26/us/coronavirus-schools-reopen-fall.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{hybrid
    plans} that involve spending some days in classrooms and other days
    online. There's no national policy on this yet, so check with your
    municipal school system regularly to see what is happening in your
    community.
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Even though young people are less likely to have severe cases, the
long-term consequences of Covid-19 infection among the young are still
unknown, she said. ``Some people do get pretty sick,'' she said. ``Even
what's classified as a mild disease, some people really get the wind
knocked out of them for a week.''

Mariely Ferraro, 40, a heart-monitor technician who lives in Orlando,
caught Covid-19 seven weeks ago and has been unable to shake it.

``I think the situation in Florida is scary,'' she said. ``The numbers
are climbing, and the numbers are scary. I wish there was a way that it
could be explained. If there were 9,000 people in one day, are they
symptomatic? Do they have fevers? Are they sick?''

Ms. Ferraro's entire family caught the virus last month, but only she is
still ill. Her 13- and 14-year-old daughters had very mild symptoms,
losing their sense of taste and smell for a while.

``The whole age thing is --- I don't want to say offensive, but it's
untrue,'' she said. ``Coronavirus is affecting everyone. People
protesting the masks think it's fake. It's not fake. It sucks to wake up
and you can't catch your breath, or to have a headache you can't get rid
of, no matter how much Advil you take. It sucks to take a shower and
fall down because you got dizzy.''

Shamarial Roberson, deputy secretary of the Florida Department of
Health, said in an interview on Sunday that the state is monitoring
hospital admissions and intensive care units' bed capacity and watching
for problem areas.

One of them is an outbreak at a meatpacking facility in Suwannee County
in northern Florida, she said.

``We are working to make sure that if we are seeing surges, that we're
in communication with those hospital systems to ensure their capacity,''
she said. ``I am keeping my eye on the entire state of Florida.''

Image

People spend time outside of bars and restaurants in St. Petersburg,
Fla., on Friday.Credit...Eve Edelheit for The New York Times

Rose Castanon, 35, who works on the business side of a hospital chain in
Orlando, tested positive June 18, after her gym alerted her to a fellow
customer who was infected.

``I know almost 10 people that have tested positive,'' she said. ``All
of our friends are freaking out, because it's getting a little too close
to home now.''

Jeanette Matas, a 41-year-old reading teacher in Coral Gables, Fla., had
been limiting her visits to her 95-year-old grandmother, Reina L.
Palacios, so as not to put her at risk. But her grandmother wound up
catching the virus from her home health care attendant, a woman in her
40s. Mrs. Palacios died on June 17.

``You can't blame them for feeling trapped'' Ms. Matas said of the
people who had lost patience with isolation and had resumed socializing
in public. ``I feel like they're stupid. They don't realize what they're
doing. They're only thinking of themselves.''

Now, Ms. Matas said she is conflicted about what to do with her two
children when it is time for school.

``Parents are scared; teachers are scared,'' she said. ``I don't know
what to do. I think about it every day.''

Amaris Castillo in Tampa and Patricia Mazzei in Miami contributed
reporting.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
