Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/us}{U.S.}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/us}{U.S.}\textbar{}Oklahoma Governor Tests Positive for
Coronavirus

\url{https://nyti.ms/30c8A3Y}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/news-event/coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{The
Coronavirus Outbreak}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  live\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/01/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Latest
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Maps
  and Cases}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Vaccine
  Tracker}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/07/29/us/schools-reopening-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{What
  School May Look Like}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/live/2020/07/31/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Economy}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{oklahoma-governor-tests-positive-for-coronavirus}{%
\section{Oklahoma Governor Tests Positive for
Coronavirus}\label{oklahoma-governor-tests-positive-for-coronavirus}}

Gov. Kevin Stitt said he was ``pretty shocked'' to become the first
governor known to have contracted the virus. Oklahoma has averaged more
than 640 new cases per day over the past week.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/07/15/us/15VIRUS-OKLAHOMA-swap/15VIRUS-OKLAHOMA-swap-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/manny-fernandez}{Manny Fernandez}
and \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/sarah-mervosh}{Sarah Mervosh}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  July 15, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Gov. Kevin Stitt of Oklahoma announced on Wednesday that he tested
positive for the coronavirus, becoming the first governor in the United
States known to have been infected during the pandemic.

Mr. Stitt told reporters in a video news conference that he was feeling
fine and that he did not know where, when or how he had become infected.

Mr. Stitt, a Republican, said that his own infection had not prompted
him to second-guess his response to the virus, which has been less
aggressive than in many other states, including some led by fellow
Republicans. The governor has resisted issuing a statewide mask order,
and continued to do so on Wednesday. He faced criticism early on in the
outbreak, in March, when he
\href{https://twitter.com/SculptorJon/status/1239021903454453761}{posted
a photo of himself} with his children inside a crowded restaurant at a
time when many people in the state were following social distancing
protocols.

``I'm probably getting tons of texts right now from other governors
around the country,'' he said. ``I was pretty shocked that I was the
first governor to get it.''

Oklahoma has averaged more than 640 new cases per day over the past
week, more than at any point in the pandemic. On the same day the
governor announced that he had tested positive, the state reported 1,075
new coronavirus cases, surpassing the single-day record set on Tuesday.
The county that includes Oklahoma City, the state capital, has seen some
of the swiftest growth, with more than 200 daily cases on average, more
than double the rate of two weeks ago.

The positive test for Mr. Stitt represents a new frontier for America's
governors, who have been at the
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/13/us/coronavirus-governors.html}{forefront
of responding to the crisis} but have so far largely avoided personally
confronting the virus.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-global-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/01/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: Global Coronavirus
Outbreak}}{Latest Updates: Global Coronavirus Outbreak}}\label{latest-updates-global-coronavirus-outbreak}}

Updated 2020-08-02T07:42:09.613Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/01/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-34047410}{The
  U.S. reels as July cases more than double the total of any other
  month.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/01/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-780ec966}{Top
  U.S. officials work to break an impasse over the federal jobless
  benefit.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/01/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-2bc8948}{Its
  outbreak untamed, Melbourne goes into even greater lockdown.}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/01/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

More live coverage:
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/live/2020/07/31/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Markets}

In late March, Gov. Tim Walz of Minnesota quarantined himself after
coming in contact with someone who tested positive for the virus, but
the governor
\href{https://minnesota.cbslocal.com/2020/04/06/coronavirus-in-minnesota-gov-tim-walz-no-longer-under-self-quarantine/}{did
not develop symptoms}. Gov. J.B. Pritzker of Illinois
\href{https://www.chicagotribune.com/coronavirus/ct-coronavirus-jb-pritzker-staff-20200511-pc2b5w74jvehfp7aisew7d42rm-story.html}{isolated
at home} in May after a senior staff member tested positive, and the
governor later
\href{https://www.facebook.com/GovPritzker/posts/after-attending-recent-protests-and-coming-into-contact-with-someone-who-tested-/3183920535055618/}{tested
negative} after attending anti-racism protests and coming into contact
with someone who was infected. Gov. Steve Sisolak of Nevada at one point
also
\href{https://www.reviewjournal.com/local/local-nevada/nevada-gov-steve-sisolak-tests-negative-for-coronavirus-2037303/}{tested
negative}.

A number of politicians and prominent figures have had the virus, from
the
\href{https://www.clarionledger.com/story/news/politics/2020/07/07/mississippi-coronavirus-lt-gov-delbert-hosemann-tests-positive/5391032002/}{lieutenant
governor in Mississippi} to
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/22/us/politics/trump-campaign-coronavirus-tulsa.html}{members
of President Trump's campaign staff}. At least three senators,
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/22/us/politics/coronavirus-rand-paul.html}{Rand
Paul of Kentucky},
\href{https://www.kaine.senate.gov/press-releases/kaine-statement-on-coronavirus-antibody-test-results}{Tim
Kaine of Virginia}, and
\href{https://www.politico.com/news/2020/05/29/bob-casey-tests-positive-coronavirus-antibodies-288843}{Bob
Casey of Pennsylvania}, have said they tested positive for the virus or
antibodies.

Mr. Stitt, 47, said he did not think that he had a serious case.

``It just kind of feels achy, like maybe the start of a little cold is
what it feels like right now, but really I feel fine,'' Mr. Stitt said
during the Zoom call while sitting at home.

He said that he received his test results at 12:30 p.m. on Tuesday, and
that given the timing, he did not believe his infection was linked to
President Trump's rally in Tulsa on June 20. Mr. Stitt was one of
thousands who attended the rally, where many officials and Mr. Trump's
supporters decided not to wear masks. A surge in coronavirus cases in
and around Tulsa was most likely tied to the rally, the city's top
health official said last week.

``I don't think there was any way it was at the president's rally,'' Mr.
Stitt said Wednesday.

Mr. Stitt has not been shy about not wearing a mask, at public events,
meetings and at Mr. Trump's rally. But he said he could have been
exposed anywhere at any time.

``You just never know where it is,'' he said, adding, ``I gassed up at a
gas station and we could have touched the gas pump. You start
second-guessing and wondering all those different things and how you
could have gotten it.'' The virus spreads mainly from person to person,
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/05/22/health/cdc-coronavirus-touching-surfaces.html}{rather
than via contaminated surfaces}, according to public health experts.

Mr. Stitt's announcement set off a flurry of testing and self-isolating
among state and local officials who had been in close contact with him
or had recent meetings with him. The governor's busy, in-person schedule
in recent days will complicate contact tracing efforts. The governor
said that in talking to health officials, he was likely not contagious
before Saturday and that he did not have ``the traditional symptoms'' of
Covid-19.

On Tuesday morning, hours before he received his test results, Mr. Stitt
attended a
\href{https://tulsaworld.com/news/local/oklahoma-watch-gov-stitt-lashes-out-as-pick-to-run-land-office-is-approved-in/article_677a77e8-9b90-5344-8ad9-d3268fb1fb03.html}{special
meeting} of the state's Land Office in a conference room at the State
Capitol in Oklahoma City. He did not wear a mask.

Lt. Gov. Matt Pinnell, who serves in the governor's cabinet as secretary
of tourism and branding and who sat unmasked at a conference table
across from Mr. Stitt at the Land Office meeting, said in a Facebook
post that he was going to be tested after learning the news and was
self-isolating at home.

``No one in Oklahoma can say they don't know anyone who has had it,''
Mr. Pinnell
\href{https://www.facebook.com/matt.pinnell.5/posts/10223594197268150}{wrote
on Facebook}. ``We all know someone now and it should absolutely be
taken seriously.''

Mr. Stitt said he was tested for the virus on Tuesday but it was unclear
what time. Asked why he had not worn a mask at the morning Land Office
meeting, Mr. Stitt said he has since notified the two people he sat
closest to, Mr. Pinnell and Blayne Arthur, the state agriculture
secretary, that he had tested positive for the virus.

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/news-event/coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{}

\hypertarget{the-coronavirus-outbreak-}{%
\subsubsection{The Coronavirus Outbreak
›}\label{the-coronavirus-outbreak-}}

\hypertarget{frequently-asked-questions}{%
\paragraph{Frequently Asked
Questions}\label{frequently-asked-questions}}

Updated July 27, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{should-i-refinance-my-mortgage}{%
  \paragraph{Should I refinance my
  mortgage?}\label{should-i-refinance-my-mortgage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/coronavirus-money-unemployment.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{It
    could be a good idea,} because mortgage rates have
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/16/business/mortgage-rates-below-3-percent.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{never
    been lower.} Refinancing requests have pushed mortgage applications
    to some of the highest levels since 2008, so be prepared to get in
    line. But defaults are also up, so if you're thinking about buying a
    home, be aware that some lenders have tightened their standards.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{what-is-school-going-to-look-like-in-september}{%
  \paragraph{What is school going to look like in
  September?}\label{what-is-school-going-to-look-like-in-september}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    It is unlikely that many schools will return to a normal schedule
    this fall, requiring the grind of
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/05/us/coronavirus-education-lost-learning.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{online
    learning},
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/05/29/us/coronavirus-child-care-centers.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{makeshift
    child care} and
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/03/business/economy/coronavirus-working-women.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{stunted
    workdays} to continue. California's two largest public school
    districts --- Los Angeles and San Diego --- said on July 13, that
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/13/us/lausd-san-diego-school-reopening.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{instruction
    will be remote-only in the fall}, citing concerns that surging
    coronavirus infections in their areas pose too dire a risk for
    students and teachers. Together, the two districts enroll some
    825,000 students. They are the largest in the country so far to
    abandon plans for even a partial physical return to classrooms when
    they reopen in August. For other districts, the solution won't be an
    all-or-nothing approach.
    \href{https://bioethics.jhu.edu/research-and-outreach/projects/eschool-initiative/school-policy-tracker/}{Many
    systems}, including the nation's largest, New York City, are
    devising
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/26/us/coronavirus-schools-reopen-fall.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{hybrid
    plans} that involve spending some days in classrooms and other days
    online. There's no national policy on this yet, so check with your
    municipal school system regularly to see what is happening in your
    community.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{is-the-coronavirus-airborne}{%
  \paragraph{Is the coronavirus
  airborne?}\label{is-the-coronavirus-airborne}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    The coronavirus
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/04/health/239-experts-with-one-big-claim-the-coronavirus-is-airborne.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{can
    stay aloft for hours in tiny droplets in stagnant air}, infecting
    people as they inhale, mounting scientific evidence suggests. This
    risk is highest in crowded indoor spaces with poor ventilation, and
    may help explain super-spreading events reported in meatpacking
    plants, churches and restaurants.
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/06/health/coronavirus-airborne-aerosols.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{It's
    unclear how often the virus is spread} via these tiny droplets, or
    aerosols, compared with larger droplets that are expelled when a
    sick person coughs or sneezes, or transmitted through contact with
    contaminated surfaces, said Linsey Marr, an aerosol expert at
    Virginia Tech. Aerosols are released even when a person without
    symptoms exhales, talks or sings, according to Dr. Marr and more
    than 200 other experts, who
    \href{https://academic.oup.com/cid/article/doi/10.1093/cid/ciaa939/5867798}{have
    outlined the evidence in an open letter to the World Health
    Organization}.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{what-are-the-symptoms-of-coronavirus}{%
  \paragraph{What are the symptoms of
  coronavirus?}\label{what-are-the-symptoms-of-coronavirus}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Common symptoms
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/symptoms-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{include
    fever, a dry cough, fatigue and difficulty breathing or shortness of
    breath.} Some of these symptoms overlap with those of the flu,
    making detection difficult, but runny noses and stuffy sinuses are
    less common.
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/04/27/health/coronavirus-symptoms-cdc.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{The
    C.D.C. has also} added chills, muscle pain, sore throat, headache
    and a new loss of the sense of taste or smell as symptoms to look
    out for. Most people fall ill five to seven days after exposure, but
    symptoms may appear in as few as two days or as many as 14 days.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{does-asymptomatic-transmission-of-covid-19-happen}{%
  \paragraph{Does asymptomatic transmission of Covid-19
  happen?}\label{does-asymptomatic-transmission-of-covid-19-happen}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    So far, the evidence seems to show it does. A widely cited
    \href{https://www.nature.com/articles/s41591-020-0869-5}{paper}
    published in April suggests that people are most infectious about
    two days before the onset of coronavirus symptoms and estimated that
    44 percent of new infections were a result of transmission from
    people who were not yet showing symptoms. Recently, a top expert at
    the World Health Organization stated that transmission of the
    coronavirus by people who did not have symptoms was ``very rare,''
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/09/world/coronavirus-updates.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq\#link-1f302e21}{but
    she later walked back that statement.}
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

``Those two were probably six feet away from me,'' Mr. Stitt said.

Photographs of the meeting show Mr. Stitt sitting at the head of a
conference table, with the lieutenant governor leaning in to his
immediate left and the agriculture secretary to his right. Mr. Stitt
appears to be sitting closer than six feet to them. Paul Monies, a
reporter for Oklahoma Watch, a nonprofit online news outlet, covered the
meeting, and said it looked to him as if the governor at times could
have been closer than six feet.

Mr. Monies tested positive for the virus after covering the president's
rally in Tulsa, and had recently returned to work. He said that although
he was wearing a mask at the meeting, he is now considering getting
tested again.

``It was my first in-person meeting back from quarantine,'' Mr. Monies
said.

Oklahoma was among the first states to reopen its economy, with stores,
barbershops and salons opening back up on April 24. At the time, the
state had just 3,100 cases. New infections were holding steady --- with
an average of 94 new cases a day --- but not on a sustained decrease,
the path that is recommended by public health experts before reopening.

Restaurants, movie theaters, gyms and houses of worship were allowed to
reopen shortly afterward, on May 1. Bars --- a known source of new
infections across the country --- reopened on May 15.

By early June, there were signs of worrisome spread. On June 12,
Oklahoma surpassed more than 200 new confirmed daily cases for the first
time. A little more than a month later, the state has recorded more than
21,000 cases, and the positive test rate is about 8.5 percent, among the
highest in months.

Mr. Stitt has been slow to embrace measures recommended by public health
experts, such as issuing stay-at-home orders and mandating face
coverings in public. While he shut down businesses in the state this
spring, he is
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/04/03/us/coronavirus-states-without-stay-home.html}{among
a handful of governors} who never issued formal orders for residents to
stay at home during the pandemic, and he only recently encouraged
Oklahomans to wear masks.

He briefly wore a face covering at a news conference on June 30, the
first time he had appeared at a news briefing wearing a mask since the
pandemic began,
\href{https://oklahoman.com/article/5665748/gov-kevin-stitt-urges-oklahomans-to-wear-masks-in-public}{The
Oklahoman reported.} ``It's this easy,'' he was quoted as saying.

On Wednesday, the governor said he had no plans to roll back the state's
reopening or to mandate the use of masks, which he said are matters of
personal responsibility and not within the purview of government. ``You
can't pick and choose what freedoms you are going to give people,'' Mr.
Stitt said. ``This is something that could be with us for the next 24
months. I don't think Americans, Oklahomans particularly, want to bunker
in place for the next 24 months.''

Mr. Stitt said he did not have a fever, was self-isolating away from his
family and would be working from home. His wife, Sarah, and their six
children have tested negative.

A member of the Cherokee Nation, Mr. Stitt is the first tribal citizen
to become governor of Oklahoma since the 1950s.

Manny Fernandez reported from Houston, and Sarah Mervosh from New York.
Ben Fenwick contributed reporting from Tulsa, Okla., and Mitch Smith
from Chicago.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
