Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/world/asia}{Asia
Pacific}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/world/asia}{Asia Pacific}\textbar{}In North Korea,
Coronavirus Hurts More Than Any Sanctions Could

\url{https://nyti.ms/38p2hgW}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{the-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=21923ae0-f4b9-11ea-a90a-b333a65d9ace\&variant=undefined}{The
Coronavirus
Outbreak}}{The Coronavirus Outbreak}}\label{the-coronavirus-outbreak}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  live\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/11/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=219261f0-f4b9-11ea-a90a-b333a65d9ace\&variant=undefined}{Latest
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=219261f1-f4b9-11ea-a90a-b333a65d9ace\&variant=undefined}{Maps
  and Cases}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=219261f2-f4b9-11ea-a90a-b333a65d9ace\&variant=undefined}{Vaccine
  Tracker}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/10/us/politics/fda-coronavirus-vaccine.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=219261f3-f4b9-11ea-a90a-b333a65d9ace\&variant=undefined}{F.D.A.
  Regulators' Self-Defense}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/09/upshot/coronavirus-surprise-test-fees.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=219261f4-f4b9-11ea-a90a-b333a65d9ace\&variant=undefined}{Surprise
  Test Fees}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{in-north-korea-coronavirus-hurts-more-than-any-sanctions-could}{%
\section{In North Korea, Coronavirus Hurts More Than Any Sanctions
Could}\label{in-north-korea-coronavirus-hurts-more-than-any-sanctions-could}}

Closing the border with China crippled the regime's few remaining
methods, legal and otherwise, for bringing in much-needed foreign
currency.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/07/05/world/00nkorea-economy/merlin_171966219_b05ddba9-62db-406e-8a43-4ee1294bf418-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/choe-sang-hun}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/07/18/multimedia/author-choe-sang-hun/author-choe-sang-hun-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/choe-sang-hun}{Choe
Sang-Hun}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Published July 4, 2020Updated Aug. 14, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://cn.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/asia-pacific/20200706/north-korea-sanctions-coronavirus/}{阅读简体中文版}\href{https://cn.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/asia-pacific/20200706/north-korea-sanctions-coronavirus/zh-hant/}{閱讀繁體中文版}

SEOUL, South Korea --- On New Year's Day,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/14/world/asia/north-korea-floods-coronavirus.html}{North
Korea}'s leader, Kim Jong-un, called for a ``frontal breakthrough to
foil the enemies' sanctions.'' The strategy meant finding new sources of
income, legal or illegal, and mainly from China.

Sending North Korean workers to China. Bringing more tourists from
there. Smuggling banned cargo, like coal or oil,
\href{http://vod.kbs.co.kr/index.html?source=episode\&sname=vod\&stype=vod\&program_code=T2011-1097\&program_id=PS-2019197532-01-000\&section_code=05\&broadcast_complete_yn=N\&local_station_code=00\&section_sub_code=06}{across
the border at night} or between
ships\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/01/18/world/asia/north-korea-oil-smuggling.html}{on
high seas.}

But there was one thing Mr. Kim did not foresee: the coronavirus.

Barely three weeks after Mr. Kim unveiled his New Year's resolution,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/31/world/asia/north-korea-coronavirus.html}{North
Korea shut down ​its border} with China to protect itself against the
emerging outbreak in the city of Wuhan. It was no ordinary border​
closure.

China accounted for 95 percent of the North's trade. Consumer goods, raw
materials, fuel and machine parts smuggled into the North across their
870-mile border kept North Korean markets and factories sputtering
along, despite United Nations sanctions designed to curb the Kim
regime's nuclear ambitions.

With the border sealed, the North's official exports to China, already
hobbled by the sanctions, have crashed even further. In March, they were
worth just \$610,000, according to Chinese customs data --- down 96
percent from a year earlier. The North's
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/12/03/world/asia/north-korea-resorts-sanctions.html}{newly
opened ski and spa resorts}are empty of Chinese tourists, and its
smuggling ships
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/26/video/coronavirus-north-korea.html}{sit
idle in their ports.}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/07/05/world/00nkorea-economy5/merlin_169995969_afc1e8e7-272a-466e-98f4-d19069b3b746-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

The virus has isolated the North Korean economy as no sanctions could.
It has devastated the regime's ability to bring in money through legal
and illegal trade, leaving it scrambling to protect the country's
diminishing foreign currency reserves.

``To North Korea, Covid-19 is a black swan, none of its policymakers saw
it coming,'' said Go Myong-hyun, an analyst at the Asan Institute for
Policy Studies in Seoul.

​North Korea
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/31/world/asia/north-korea-coronavirus.html}{claims
it has had no coronavirus cases}. But it was one of the first countries
to shut its border, aware that its woefully underequipped public health
system made it particularly vulnerable to mass infection.

The pandemic could hardly have come at a worse time for Mr. Kim, whose
attempts to win sanctions relief in talks with President Trump have been
fruitless. North Korea's recent acts of hostility toward South Korea,
including
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/16/world/asia/north-korea-explosion-liaison-office.html}{the
destruction of the inter-Korean liaison office in the North,}have been
seen in part as acts of economic desperation.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-the-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/11/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: The Coronavirus
Outbreak}}{Latest Updates: The Coronavirus Outbreak}}\label{latest-updates-the-coronavirus-outbreak}}

Updated 2020-09-12T04:56:54.924Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/11/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-dfb8a16}{Fauci
  cautions the virus could disrupt life in the U.S. until `maybe even
  towards the end of 2021.'}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/11/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-7104d154}{From
  Asia to Africa, China promotes its vaccine candidates to win friends.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/11/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-393ad215}{The
  other way the virus will kill: hunger.}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/11/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

More live coverage:
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/11/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Markets}

``If you peel North Korea's problem like an onion, at the core is its
economy, and its economic trouble comes down to whether it can lift
sanctions,'' said Kim Yong-hyun, a professor of North Korean studies at
Dongguk University in Seoul.

Image

Temperature checks outside the Pyongyang University of Medicine in
April. North Korea claims to have had no Covid-19 cases.Credit...Kim Won
Jin/Agence France-Presse --- Getty Images

The North Korean economy has languished for decades, hobbled by
communist mismanagement, a famine in the late 1990s and the gradually
tougher sanctions imposed by the United Nations since 2006, when the
North carried out its first nuclear test.

Mr. Kim has tried to boost the economy with domestic reforms, aimed at
creating a ``socialist system of responsible business operation.''
Factories and collective farms were given more incentives to increase
productivity, including the right to keep surpluses.

Mr. Kim also ramped up exports of coal, iron ore, textiles and seafood
to China, achieving economic growth of 3.9 percent in 2016, the highest
since the late 1990s, according to South Korea's central bank.

But the North also rapidly expanded ​its weapons ​programs,
testing\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2017/11/30/world/asia/north-korea-missile-test.html}{three
intercontinental ballistic missiles} in 2017, as well as what it said
was
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2017/09/03/world/asia/north-korea-tremor-possible-6th-nuclear-test.html}{a
hydrogen bomb}. In response, the United Nations Security Council
tightened the noose around the North's economy by banning all of its
major exports.​

The economy shrank by 3.5 percent in 2017. It contracted by 4.1 percent
the following year, with its exports to China plummeting 86 percent.

By February 2019, when Mr. Kim and Mr. Trump held their second summit
meeting, in Vietnam, the North Korean leader was desperate ​for relief​.
The Security Council had required China, Russia and other countries to
expel all
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2015/02/20/world/asia/north-koreans-toil-in-slavelike-conditions-abroad-rights-groups-say.html}{North
Korean workers} by ​December, which threatened to deprive the North of
another key source of income, estimated at \$500 million to \$1 billion
a year.

But Mr. Kim's hopes of easing the sanctions ended when the Vietnam talks
collapsed.

Image

Kim Jong-un, the North's leader, with President Trump at
the~Demilitarized Zone between the two Koreas in June
2019.~Credit...Erin Schaff/The New York Times

In his ​grim New Year's message​, Mr. Kim seemed determined to slog
through the sanctions, asking North Koreans to prepare to ``tighten our
belts'' again. He also vowed to boost his nuclear weapons program
further, hoping that a more advanced nuclear arsenal would give him more
leverage with Mr. Trump or his successor. He
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/12/31/world/asia/north-korea-kim-speech.html}{threatened
to end his moratorium on nuclear and long-range missile tests,} warning
that ​the world would soon witness ​his ``new strategic weapon​.''

State-run television echoed that sentiment later in January, in a
broadcast about Mr. Kim's
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/06/30/world/asia/trump-north-korea-dmz.html}{brief
meeting with Mr. Trump last summer} on the inter-Korean border. ``We
don't intend to sell our pride and national power for some spectacular
economic transformation,'' Mr. Kim was quoted as telling Mr. Trump,
after the American leader promised the North a better economic future if
it gave up its nuclear weapons first.

At the time, Mr. Kim had reason to be so defiant.

After hitting bottom in 2018, his country's trade with China grew 15
percent last year, according to data compiled by the Korea International
Trade Association. It exported practically anything not banned by United
Nations sanctions: cheap watches assembled with Chinese components;
artificial eyelashes; wigs, mannequins, soccer balls and tungsten.

China also sent more tourists to the North after Mr. Kim's third summit
meeting with its leader, Xi Jinping, in June 2018. Tourism was one North
Korean industry that had not been affected by the sanctions, and Mr. Kim
has been
\href{https://www.38north.org/tag/wonsan-kalma-tourist-zone/}{busy
building massive new resort towns}.

The North also continued to circumvent the sanctions. Last year, it
\href{https://www.reuters.com/article/us-northkorea-sanctions-un-exclusive/exclusive-north-korea-enhanced-nuclear-missile-programs-in-2019-in-breach-of-sanctions-u-n-report-idUSKBN20426J}{exported
\$370 million worth of coal} in illicit ship-to-ship transfers to
Chinese barges, according to the United Nations. And despite the ban on
work permits for North Koreans, China allowed many to be employed on
short-term tourist or student visas, according to analysts and news
reports​ in South Korea​.

Image

A United Nations report documented what it said was an illicit transfer
of North Korean coal near the Chinese port of Lianyungang last
August.Credit...United Nations, via Reuters

But the trade imbalance with China created its own concerns.

Even as the sanctions hit the North's exports hard, the country
continued to buy cooking oil, flour, sugar and other consumer goods, as
well as construction materials, from China. The imports were needed to
keep its industries going, as well as
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2017/04/30/world/asia/north-korea-economy-marketplace.html}{the
unofficial markets} that have helped many people to survive, as the
North's food rationing system fails to meet the population's needs.

Since 2017, North Korea has reported a trade deficit of more than \$2
billion every year. In comparison, the North's total exports last year
were \$260 million.​

``The clock is ticking and the bomb could explode any time,'' Kim
Byung-yeon, a​ Seoul National University​ economist​,
\href{https://koreajoongangdaily.joins.com/2019/12/18/columns/Kim-in-a-cage/3071650.html?detailWord=}{wrote}
in December, predicting that the North's foreign currency reserves would
shrink by \$1 billion a year, leading inexorably to a crisis.

North Korea has tried to replenish its coffers with revenues from
illegal smuggling and
\href{https://www.reuters.com/article/us-northkorea-cyber-un/north-korea-took-2-billion-in-cyberattacks-to-fund-weapons-program-u-n-report-idUSKCN1UV1ZX}{cybertheft,}
as well as ``loyalty donations'' from ​what are known as donju ---
tradespeople with political connections, who have hoarded foreign
currency obtained through smuggling​ and other enterprises.

Mr. Kim's government also runs shops in Pyongyang, the capital, where
the moneyed class spends foreign currency on imported goods. And it has
profited by selling Chinese smartphones to an estimated six million
cellphone subscribers in the country.

``The debate has been about how quickly or slowly the North's foreign
currency would diminish,'' Mr. Go said. ``But there is no doubt now that
Covid-19 has accelerated the speed.''

Image

Disinfecting surfaces at a Pyongyang department store in
February.Credit...Kyodo News, via Associated Press

​Recently, signs have emerged of growing stress on the North's economy,
especially its foreign currency reserves.

The government recently
\href{https://www.dailynk.com/english/north-korea-begun-issuing-public-bonds/}{issued
public bonds} for the first time in 17 years, reported Daily NK, a
Seoul-based website that uses informants inside ​the ​North. Mr. Kim
tested the elites' loyalty by asking them to buy bonds with foreign
currency, it said.

The authorities have also cracked down harder on the use of foreign
currency in markets in an effort to shore up the won, the local
currency, said Jiro Ishimaru, a chief editor at
\href{http://www.asiapress.org/rimjin-gang/}{Asia Press International}in
Japan, who has monitored the North Korean economy for years with the
help of correspondents there.

To save on foreign currency, ​Mr. Kim has encouraged his people to
produce more goods at home, like snacks, cosmetics and beverages. But
Covid-19 has hit those sectors as well, because they depended on Chinese
raw materials to produce the goods.

``Kim Jong-un thought he could survive with tourism revenues, smuggling
and Chinese help,​ but his plans have crumbled because of the
coronavirus,'' said Mr. Ishimaru​. ``If the virus has taught him
anything, it is how dependent his economy is on China.''

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
