Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/fashion/mens-style}{Men's Style}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/fashion/mens-style}{Men's Style}\textbar{}New Men's
Underwear, Briefly

\href{https://nyti.ms/2wMxKbb}{https://nyti.ms/2wMxKbb}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{new-mens-underwear-briefly}{%
\section{New Men's Underwear,
Briefly}\label{new-mens-underwear-briefly}}

Brands like MeUndies and CDLP are trying to disrupt the market. We gave
six pairs a test drive.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2019/06/13/fashion/mens-style/boxers/oakImage-1559334260024-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/max-berlinger}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/11/05/multimedia/author-max-berlinger/author-max-berlinger-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/max-berlinger}{Max Berlinger}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  June 5, 2019
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Here's a news flash: Guys don't like shopping for underwear. Luckily,
the same retail forces that disrupted razors, eyeglasses, luggage,
mattresses and hair-loss treatments, have set their sights on men's
drawers.

In the last decade, a handful of upstart labels are trying to dethrone
old faithfuls like Hanes and Calvin Klein. Hate going to the store? Buy
direct online. Forget to replenish worn-out pairs? Get a subscription.
Can't choose? Buy several and return rejects for free.

Newcomers like Tommy John and CDLP are also using high-tech fabrics that
promise to stay dry, odor free and comfortable, even in swampy
conditions.

Still can't decide? We gave six upstart brands a test run, so you don't
have to.

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

\hypertarget{tommy-john}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://tommyjohn.com/}{Tommy
John}}{Tommy John}}\label{tommy-john}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2019/06/13/fashion/mens-style/13undies-TJOHN/oakImage-1559577131762-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Founded a decade ago, Tommy John is the Harry's Razor of the men's
underwear market, with more than six million pairs sold through its
website or at big American retailers like Men's Wearhouse and Nordstrom.

\textbf{Aha Moment:} Aren't billowing undershirts the worst? That's what
Tom Patterson, a former medical device salesman from San Diego, thought
whenever his undershirts would bunch up under his suits. In 2008, with
zero background in clothing, he and Erin Fujimoto (then his girlfriend,
now his wife) designed the
\href{https://tommyjohn.com/products/second-skin-crew-neck-stay-tucked-undershirt-2-0}{Stay-Tucked
Undershirt} with a tapered profile made of Micro Modal, a silky fabric
derived from beech trees. Underwear soon followed.

\textbf{Target Guy:} No-nonsense dudes who don't aspire to be
\href{https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5PZjo7tpb1w}{Shawn Mendes.}

\textbf{Sales Twist:} Satisfaction guaranteed for first pair (``the best
pair you'll ever wear or it's free'').

\textbf{Test Drive:} The ``horizontal fly'' is like a trap door for your
privates. Odd and hysterical at first, but surprisingly functional.
(\$25 to \$45)

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

\hypertarget{mack-weldon}{%
\subsubsection{Mack Weldon}\label{mack-weldon}}

Image

If Tommy John is the market leader among these upstarts, Mack Weldon is
its techier brother. Primarily an e-commerce brand, the New York company
recently opened its first shop, at Hudson Yards.

\textbf{Aha Moment:} Brian Berger, a former business executive for
WebMD, saw how Lululemon had revolutionized athleisure wear and wondered
why the same had not been done for men's underwear. So he took
gym-friendly fabrics (breathable, antimicrobial and moisture wicking)
and applied them to boxers and briefs.

\textbf{Target Guy:} Tech bros who care more about performance than
fashion.

\textbf{Sales Twist:} Satisfaction guaranteed for
\href{https://help.mackweldon.com/hc/en-us/articles/360000864934-What-is-your-Try-On-Guarantee-}{first
pair}. ``Loyalty'' \href{https://www.mackweldon.com/loyalty}{members}
whose spending reaches \$200 get free shipping, 20 percent discount and
gifts. Send back old pairs for
\href{https://www.mackweldon.com/recycle}{recycling}.

\textbf{Test Drive:} The
\href{https://www.mackweldon.com/products/airknitx-boxer-brief}{Airknitx
boxer briefs} stayed dry and ventilated, even after 60 minutes of
treadmill and squats at Barry's Bootcamp. (\$24 to \$38)

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

\hypertarget{meundies}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\textbf{\href{https://meundies.com/}{MeUndies}}}{MeUndies}}\label{meundies}}

Image

Instagram savvy, socially woke and unabashedly cheeky, MeUndies is a
case study in millennial marketing. Based in Culver City, Calif., the
company specializes in zany and cartoonish designs that feels like
Underoos for adults.

\textbf{Aha Moment:} Jonathan Shokrian, an entrepreneur from Los
Angeles, got the idea for MeUndies while buying underwear for a European
vacation at the mall. He was dismayed by the experience, and a friend on
the trip,
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/04/04/fashion/mens-style/sweetgreens-jonathan-neman-on-ditching-his-car-and-phone.html}{Jonathan
Neman}, a founder of Sweetgreen, urged him to start his own company. Mr.
Shokrian did, as a subscription service to spare other men from the
mall.

\textbf{Target Guy:} Guys who want their underwear to reflect their
sparkly personalities.

\textbf{Sales Twist:} Get a fresh pair delivered every month. Also, free
shipping and returns.

\textbf{Test Drive:} Warning: if you wear a pair of boxer briefs with
fire-breathing dragons, it will invite conversation from strangers at
the gym, or wherever people can spy your underwear. (\$18 to \$24)

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

\hypertarget{nice-laundry}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\textbf{\href{https://www.nicelaundry.com/}{Nice
Laundry}}}{Nice Laundry}}\label{nice-laundry}}

Image

Nothing says preppy like monogrammed socks, except maybe monogrammed
underwear. That seems to be the thinking behind Nice Laundry, a New York
label that started with athletic, formal and no-show socks, before
adding boxer briefs to its lineup in 2016.

\textbf{Aha Moment:} Ricky Choi and Phil Moldavski were working at
LivingSocial, an online marketplace in Washington, D.C., when they
bonded over socks. Mr. Choi, who attended St. Albans School, a prep
school in Washington, liked how his friend dressed (slim jeans, nice
shirt, dark shoes) but was horrified by his ratty old gym socks. They
found their entrepreneurial calling.

\textbf{Target Guy:} Possessive prepsters who want to keep track of
their undies.

\textbf{Sales Twist:} Free shipping and returns. Old pairs can be sent
back for
\href{https://www.nicelaundry.com/pages/refresh-recycle}{recycling}.

\textbf{Test Drive:} Soft and lounge-y, like that perfectly worn pair of
underwear you love, minus the fraying and holes. (\$22 to \$34)

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

\hypertarget{cdlp}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\textbf{\href{https://cdlp.com/}{CDLP}}}{CDLP}}\label{cdlp}}

Image

Designed in Stockholm, made in Portugal and marketed as earth-friendly,
CDLP started three years ago and became a fashion favorite. The brand is
sold through its website and is carried by influential retailers like
Selfridges, Mr Porter and Barneys New York.

\textbf{Aha Moment:} CDLP was founded by two fashionable Swedes ---
Christian Larson, a filmmaker and music video director; and Andreas
Palm, founder of a branding agency --- who thought that the men's
underwear market lacked something elegant and eco-friendly.

\textbf{Target Guy:} Nordic hipsters with six-pack abs, and effortlessly
cool creative types from Brooklyn.

\textbf{Sales Twist:} Free shipping on orders above \$69.

\textbf{Test Drive:} Silky and sexy, not unlike women's lingerie, though
geared for men with swagger (not to mention flat stomachs). (\$29 to
\$39; nine-packs start at \$195)

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

\hypertarget{saxx-underwear}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\textbf{\href{https://www.saxxunderwear.com/}{SAXX
Underwear}}}{SAXX Underwear}}\label{saxx-underwear}}

Image

Inspired by the shape of catcher's mitt,
\href{https://re-invented.saxxunderwear.com/}{SAXX Underwear} features a
hammock-like compartment that offers extra support and cradles and
breathes. The brand appeals to outdoorsy types and is carried by REI and
LL Bean.

\textbf{Aha Moment:} During a fishing trip in Alaska, Trent Kitsch, a
former college baseball player living in Vancouver, British Columbia,
spent four days getting chafed by his clammy underwear. He seized on the
idea of an athletic cup and, while still in college, secured a \$20,000
student loan and hired a seamstress to create a dozen prototypes.

\textbf{Target Guy:} Active bros prone to chafing and discomfort.

\textbf{Sales Twist:} 30-day satisfaction
\href{https://www.saxxunderwear.com/pages/comfort-guarantee}{guarantee}.

\textbf{Test Drive:} Having fabric flaps cradle your nether region is
both strange and comforting. (\$24 to \$40)

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
