Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/news-event/coronavirus}{The Coronavirus
Outbreak}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  live\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/04/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html}{Latest
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html}{Maps
  and Cases}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html}{Vaccine
  Tracker}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/02/us/covid-college-reopening.html}{College
  Reopening}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/live/2020/08/03/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus}{Economy}
\end{itemize}

Last Updated

July 29, 2020, 6:42 a.m. ET

July 29, 2020, 6:42 a.m. ET

\hypertarget{universal-and-amc-reach-deal-on-movie-release-window}{%
\section{Universal and AMC Reach Deal on Movie Release
Window}\label{universal-and-amc-reach-deal-on-movie-release-window}}

This briefing is no longer being updated. Follow the latest developments
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/live/2020/07/29/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus}{here}.

\hypertarget{heres-what-you-need-to-know}{%
\subsubsection{Here's what you need to
know:}\label{heres-what-you-need-to-know}}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{universal-and-amc-agree-to-shorten-the-window-between-theaters-and-streaming}{}

  Universal and AMC agree to shorten the window between theaters and
  streaming.
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{the-united-states-will-lend-kodak-765-million-to-make-drug-components}{}

  The United States will lend Kodak \$765 million to make drug
  components.
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{the-owner-of-victorias-secret-will-cut-15-percent-of-its-staff-at-its-headquarters}{}

  The owner of Victoria's Secret will cut 15 percent of its staff at its
  headquarters.
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{thieves-are-targeting-small-business-relief-programs-a-watchdog-says}{}

  Thieves are targeting small-business relief programs, a watchdog says.
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{wall-street-slips-as-investors-look-anxiously-at-washington}{}

  Wall Street slips as investors look anxiously at Washington.
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{universal-and-amc-agree-to-shorten-the-window-between-theaters-and-streaming}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{universal-and-amc-agree-to-shorten-the-window-between-theaters-and-streaming}{Universal
and AMC agree to shorten the window between theaters and
streaming.}}{Universal and AMC agree to shorten the window between theaters and streaming.}}\label{universal-and-amc-agree-to-shorten-the-window-between-theaters-and-streaming}}

Copied to clipboard.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/07/28/business/28markets-brf-amc/merlin_172431798_c3595c6e-cabf-408d-859b-3bfd7eb52852-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

LOS ANGELES --- \textbf{Universal Pictures} and \textbf{AMC
Entertainment}, the No. 1 movie chain in the world, have reached a deal
to allow movies to move to homes after a mere three weeks in theaters in
the United States, almost certainly changing the way that Hollywood does
business.

The deal, announced on Tuesday, gives AMC the exclusive right to show
movies from Universal and its Focus Features division for just 17 days
in the United States --- down from roughly 90 days, long the industry
norm. After that, the studio has the option to make its movies available
in homes through premium video-on-demand services. Universal may opt to
let big-ticket sellers play exclusively in theaters for longer than 17
days. The studio controls the ``Fast and Furious,'' ``Jurassic World''
and ``Despicable Me'' franchises.

``The theatrical experience continues to be the cornerstone of our
business,'' Donna Langley, chairman of the Universal Filmed
Entertainment Group, said in a statement. ``The partnership we've forged
with AMC is driven by our collective desire to ensure a thriving future
for the film distribution ecosystem and to meet consumer demand with
flexibility and optionality.''

No firm start date for the deal was set because theaters remain closed
because of the pandemic. AMC has said that it hoped to begin reopening
in ``mid to late August,'' but has pushed that time line back several
times as virus cases have surged in the country. Universal has cleared
its schedule until October, when it will release ``Candyman,'' a remake
of the horror classic, directed by Nia DaCosta and co-written and
produced by Jordan Peele.

AMC and Universal said they would start negotiations for international
releases in the coming weeks. AMC has major operations in Europe and the
Middle East.

--- \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/brooks-barnes}{Brooks Barnes} and
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/nicole-sperling}{Nicole Sperling}

\hypertarget{the-united-states-will-lend-kodak-765-million-to-make-drug-components}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{the-united-states-will-lend-kodak-765-million-to-make-drug-components}{The
United States will lend Kodak \$765 million to make drug
components.}}{The United States will lend Kodak \$765 million to make drug components.}}\label{the-united-states-will-lend-kodak-765-million-to-make-drug-components}}

Copied to clipboard.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/07/28/business/28markets-brf-kodak/merlin_73006943_71a1d69f-f6a8-4dc0-bf6e-7177dec4be77-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

The Trump administration said on Tuesday that it would extend a \$765
million loan to Eastman Kodak Company to begin producing critical
pharmaceutical components, in an effort to allay American dependence on
foreign countries for essential medicines.

The project relies on funding by the Defense Department, which will be
channeled to the film giant through the U.S. International Development
Finance Corporation, a development bank set up by the Trump
administration to replace the Overseas Private Investment Corporation.

The unusual arrangement leverages the Defense Production Act, a Korean
War-era law that gives the government vast powers and resources to
direct certain kinds of production in the interest of national security.
In
\href{https://slack-redir.net/link?url=https\%3A\%2F\%2Fwww.whitehouse.gov\%2Fpresidential-actions\%2Feo-delegating-authority-dpa-ceo-u-s-international-development-finance-corporation-respond-covid-19-outbreak\%2F}{an
executive order in May}, President Trump gave the International
Development Finance Corporation, which typically funds projects in
poorer countries, the authority to use the Defense Production Act to
help in the response to the coronavirus pandemic.

The investment is ``the beginning of American independence from our
pharmaceutical dependence on foreign countries,'' Peter Navarro, the
director of the White House Office of Trade and Manufacturing policy,
said in an interview with Maria Bartiromo on Fox Business Network. He
said that the facility and a companion factory in Minnesota would
eventually produce a quarter of the active pharmaceutical ingredients
for generics needed in the United States.

The project will be set up in the Eastman Business Park in Rochester,
N.Y., and will support 360 direct jobs, the company said.

The pandemic has revealed the extent to which domestic companies rely on
foreign suppliers, which may be risky in industries like
pharmaceuticals, said Kaitlin Wowak, a professor at Notre Dame's Mendoza
College of Business.

``Having domestic companies such as Kodak start producing key
ingredients for generic drugs allows domestic pharmaceutical companies
significantly more control over the supply chain,'' she said.

--- \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/ana-swanson}{Ana Swanson}

\hypertarget{advertisement}{%
\subsubsection{Advertisement}\label{advertisement}}

\protect\hyperlink{after-dfp-ad-mid1}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{starbucks-sales-plunge-40-percent-even-as-stores-reopen}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{starbucks-sales-plunge-40-percent-even-as-stores-reopen}{Starbucks
sales plunge 40 percent even as stores
reopen.}}{Starbucks sales plunge 40 percent even as stores reopen.}}\label{starbucks-sales-plunge-40-percent-even-as-stores-reopen}}

Copied to clipboard.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/07/28/business/28markets-brf-bux/merlin_174171621_d79db2e8-bb0b-478c-aad5-42c747290abd-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Global same-store sales at \textbf{Starbucks} plunged 40 percent in the
three months that ended in June from the same period last year because
of store closures, shortened operating hours and fewer customers owing
to the coronavirus pandemic.

In a quarterly earnings update Tuesday,
\href{https://investor.starbucks.com/press-releases/financial-releases/press-release-details/2020/Starbucks-Reports-Q3-Fiscal-2020-Results/default.aspx}{Starbucks
reported} that total revenue was \$4.2 billion, down 38 percent from the
same period last year. It lost about \$678 million in the period.

The company said that 97 percent of its stores worldwide were now open,
with the largest percentage in Canada, China, Japan and the United
States. In the United States, 96 percent of stores were open, up from 44
percent in April.

Starbucks said it expected that the business would return to
profitability in the next quarter, when global same-store sales were
expected to fall 12 to 17 percent.

Correction: An earlier version of this article, and an accompanying
picture caption, referred incorrectly to the region where 44 percent of
Starbucks stores were open in April. They were stores in the United
States, not the brand's global stores.

--- Gillian Friedman

\hypertarget{the-owner-of-victorias-secret-will-cut-15-percent-of-its-staff-at-its-headquarters}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{the-owner-of-victorias-secret-will-cut-15-percent-of-its-staff-at-its-headquarters}{The
owner of Victoria's Secret will cut 15 percent of its staff at its
headquarters.}}{The owner of Victoria's Secret will cut 15 percent of its staff at its headquarters.}}\label{the-owner-of-victorias-secret-will-cut-15-percent-of-its-staff-at-its-headquarters}}

Copied to clipboard.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/07/28/business/28markets-brf-lbrands/merlin_172221879_7ac2836d-6184-49be-999a-ff2a7f244fdf-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\textbf{L Brands}, the owner of \textbf{Victoria's Secret} and
\textbf{Bath \& Body Works},
\href{http://investors.lb.com/news-releases/news-release-details/l-brands-provides-update-progress-executing-go-forward-strategy}{said
on Tuesday} that it would lay off 850 associates at its headquarters in
Columbus, Ohio, or 15 percent of staff there, as it works to separate
the brands into two stand-alone companies and manage sales drops tied to
the coronavirus outbreak.

The company, which oversees more than 2,000 stores in North America,
announced the layoffs as part of a broader set of measures that it said
would cut costs by \$400 million on an annualized basis, as it faces an
overall sales decline of 20 percent in the second quarter. L Brands
already\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/05/20/business/coronavirus-economy-stock-market.html}{reported
a} net sales plunge of 37 percent in the three months that ended May 2.

L Brands said it was tightly managing its merchandise, and it expected
fall inventory receipts at Victoria's Secret to be down 50 percent
compared with last year. The brand said it would also execute a
previously announced plan to close 250 Victoria's Secret stores this
year and is negotiating with landlords for rent relief, while working to
cut operating losses in Britain and China, where it closed its
unprofitable Hong Kong flagship store. L Brands said that it planned to
slash Victoria's Secret store costs through ``changes in management
structure and the labor model.''

The retailer said it remained committed to separating the
better-performing Bath \& Body Works from Victoria's Secret while
improving the lingerie giant's profitability.

L Brands is recovering from
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/05/04/business/coronavirus-victorias-secret-sale-falls-apart.html}{the
termination} in May of a deal to sell Victoria's Secret to Sycamore
Partners, a private equity firm. The acquisition was announced after
serious questions were raised about the leadership of Leslie H. Wexner,
a storied retail magnate who recently stepped down as the chief
executive of L Brands. In the past year, Mr. Wexner had faced scrutiny
tied to
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/02/01/business/victorias-secret-razek-harassment.html}{Victoria's
Secret's internal culture} and
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/07/25/business/jeffrey-epstein-wexner-victorias-secret.html}{his
relationship with} the disgraced financier Jeffrey Epstein, a convicted
sex offender.

--- \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/sapna-maheshwari}{Sapna Maheshwari}

\hypertarget{thieves-are-targeting-small-business-relief-programs-a-watchdog-says}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{thieves-are-targeting-small-business-relief-programs-a-watchdog-says}{Thieves
are targeting small-business relief programs, a watchdog
says.}}{Thieves are targeting small-business relief programs, a watchdog says.}}\label{thieves-are-targeting-small-business-relief-programs-a-watchdog-says}}

Copied to clipboard.

Fraudsters may have obtained hundreds of millions of dollars in loans
from a disaster loan program meant to help small businesses devastated
by the coronavirus pandemic, the Small Business Administration's
internal watchdog said on Tuesday.

Hannibal Ware, the agency's inspector general, said banks and financial
institutions had fielded more than 5,000 complaints about possible
suspicious transactions. An initial review found signs of ``pervasive
fraudulent activity,'' he said.

Some \$250 million has already gone to potentially ineligible borrowers,
Mr. Ware said
\href{https://int.nyt.com/data/documenttools/sba-inspector-general-report-on-eidl-fraud-concerns/dc62cc6f7385acef/full.pdf}{in
a report}. An additional \$46 million was spent on what may have been
duplicate payments.

The relief effort, known as the Economic Injury Disaster Loan program,
offers eligible companies low-interest loans and small grants. Unlike
the more prominent Paycheck Protection Program --- which
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/27/us/lamborghini-ppp-covid-19.html}{has
had its own problems with scammers} --- the disaster program does not
rely on banks to vet applicants and issue loans. Instead, the S.B.A.
makes loans directly from the government's coffers; so far, it has lent
\$160 billion to 2.8 million businesses.

Organized fraud rings have used social media posts advertising ``free
money'' to recruit applicants, Mr. Ware said, while other thieves have
used stolen identities to obtain loans. One credit union that received
\$15 million in disaster loan deposits audited 60 of the transactions
and found that 59 were fraudulent, he said.

Mr. Ware recommended ``immediate action and attention'' to prevent
further losses. He identified one especially glaring shortfall: The
S.B.A. has no formal process for working with financial institutions to
review possible fraud cases.

In a written response to Mr. Ware, the S.B.A. said his findings were
``unexpected.'' The agency said it was working with three large banks
--- it did not name them --- to investigate their concerns about ``a
high amount of suspicious activity'' related to the disaster-loan
program, and said that it planned to convene a task force to create a
system for responding to banks' reports.

--- \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/stacy-cowley}{Stacy Cowley}

\hypertarget{advertisement-1}{%
\subsubsection{Advertisement}\label{advertisement-1}}

\protect\hyperlink{after-dfp-ad-mid2}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{wall-street-slips-as-investors-look-anxiously-at-washington}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{wall-street-slips-as-investors-look-anxiously-at-washington}{Wall
Street slips as investors look anxiously at
Washington.}}{Wall Street slips as investors look anxiously at Washington.}}\label{wall-street-slips-as-investors-look-anxiously-at-washington}}

Copied to clipboard.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/07/28/business/28markets-brf-markets/merlin_174645222_8f8734a1-5f23-41fa-a30d-42eaf462238f-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

U.S. stocks fell on Tuesday as investors awaited a batch of corporate
earnings results and the details of a new federal stimulus bill in
Congress.

The S\&P 500 closed nearly 1 percent lower. European stocks were mostly
lower, after Asian markets closed mostly higher.

The
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/27/business/gold-prices-record-high.html}{price
of gold} briefly hit a record of \$1,980 an ounce before dropping lower.
In Turkey,
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/live/2020/07/28/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus/turkey-faces-currency-crisis-as-lira-nears-record-lows}{the
lira fell} and the country's central bank appeared to be running out of
ammunition to stop its decline toward record lows.

In industry news, a global airline group said airline revenues were not
expected to recover to last year's levels until 2024.

The
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/live/2020/07/28/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus\#the-fed-will-extend-its-emergency-programs-through-2020}{Federal
Reserve announced Tuesday} that it would extend its emergency lending
programs through the end of 2020 as the coronavirus continues to surge
across the nation. Many of the
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/23/business/economy/coronavirus-fed-bond-buying.html}{Fed's
nine programs}, which are meant to keep credit flowing through the
financial system during times of stress, were originally set to expire
on or around the end of September.

Meanwhile, coronavirus cases continue to surge in parts of the United
States. On Monday, Texas became the fourth state (after California, New
York and Florida) to report more than 400,000 cases. Investors are
watching Washington lawmakers try to negotiate
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/28/us/politics/coronavirus-relief-bills-house-senate.html}{another
round of stimulus payments} for businesses and individuals, with current
enhanced unemployment benefits set to expire on Friday. Democrats and
Republicans still need to reconcile their vastly different proposals.

\hypertarget{mcdonalds-reports-a-68-percent-drop-in-profit-as-pandemic-costs-rise}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{mcdonalds-reports-a-68-percent-drop-in-profit-as-pandemic-costs-rise}{McDonald's
reports a 68 percent drop in profit as pandemic costs
rise.}}{McDonald's reports a 68 percent drop in profit as pandemic costs rise.}}\label{mcdonalds-reports-a-68-percent-drop-in-profit-as-pandemic-costs-rise}}

Copied to clipboard.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/07/28/business/28-markets-brf-mcdonalds/merlin_173876295_d96a755e-0adf-4da7-bd11-a45525f785a9-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\textbf{McDonald's} said Tuesday that it continued to suffer the impact
of the global coronavirus pandemic, reporting that net income fell 68
percent to \$483.8 million in the second quarter compared to a year ago.

McDonald's said global same-store revenues fell 24 percent in the
quarter, an improvement as restrictions eased in parts of the world and
restaurants were able to reopen.

Fast-food chains with drive-through operations like McDonald's have
fared generally better than other restaurants during the pandemic. But
executives said on Tuesday that the company had spent \$200 million
since the beginning of the pandemic supporting its franchisees,
including on advertising to boost sales.

``Our strong drive-through presence and the investments we've made in
delivery and digital over the past few years have served us well through
these uncertain times,'' said Chris Kempczinski, the president and chief
executive.

McDonald's has reopened 2,000 restaurant dining rooms with limited
seating capacity in the United States.

--- \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/julie-creswell}{Julie Creswell}

\hypertarget{nissan-expects-45-billion-loss-in-year-ahead}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{nissan-expects-4-5-billion-loss-in-year-ahead}{Nissan
expects \$4.5 billion loss in year
ahead.}}{Nissan expects \$4.5 billion loss in year ahead.}}\label{nissan-expects-45-billion-loss-in-year-ahead}}

Copied to clipboard.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/05/28/world/28virus-markets-briefing-nissan/merlin_172231152_b44e2de4-9a22-4d26-a428-fac0be73de62-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\textbf{Nissan} said on Tuesday that it expected to make an annual
operating loss of \$4.5 billion in fiscal year 2020 as the coronavirus
pandemic puts pressure on its attempts to reboot its struggling
business.

The
\href{https://global.nissannews.com/en/releases/200728-03-e}{announcement}came
as the Japanese automaker reported its results for the three-month
period that ended in June. Operating profit during the period, when much
of the world's economies were in lockdown to prevent the spread of the
virus, plunged \$1.46 billion compared with the same period a year ago,
with automobile sales dropping by nearly 48 percent.

The results followed an annual loss of \$385 million in fiscal year
2019.

If Nissan's projections for the fiscal year prove accurate, the 2020
annual loss would be the largest for the company since it was pulled
from the edge of bankruptcy by its former chief executive and chairman,
Carlos Ghosn, nearly two decades ago.

Nissan has been struggling to reinvent itself since the 2018 arrest of
Mr. Ghosn on charges of financial wrongdoing. He has maintained his
innocence and fled Japan late last year, saying he would not be able to
find justice there.

Mr. Ghosn's era was marked by an attempt to increase market share at the
cost of profits and quality, executives say. Now Nissan has said it
plans to retrench and rebuild its business by focusing on its alliance
with French automaker \textbf{Renault}, cutting costs, producing fewer
cars and focusing on introducing new vehicles to a lineup that has long
been criticized as stale.

--- \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/ben-dooley}{Ben Dooley}

\hypertarget{advertisement-2}{%
\subsubsection{Advertisement}\label{advertisement-2}}

\protect\hyperlink{after-dfp-ad-mid3}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{the-ad-giant-omnicom-takes-a-25-percent-revenue-hit}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{the-ad-giant-omnicom-takes-a-25-percent-revenue-hit}{The
ad giant Omnicom takes a 25 percent revenue
hit.}}{The ad giant Omnicom takes a 25 percent revenue hit.}}\label{the-ad-giant-omnicom-takes-a-25-percent-revenue-hit}}

Copied to clipboard.

\textbf{Omnicom Group}, one of the world's largest marketing
conglomerates, made ``very difficult and permanent'' changes during the
pandemic as companies slashed advertising spending and events were
canceled, its chief executive, John Wren, said Tuesday.

Omnicom's revenue sank nearly 25 percent to \$2.8 billion in its second
quarter. The decline ``is expected to continue for the remainder of the
year,'' according to the company, which suffered a loss of \$24.2
million; a year ago, it recorded \$370.7 million in net income in the
quarter.

To adapt to the pandemic, Omnicom laid off 6,100 employees, shed more
than 1 million square feet of office space and dropped several smaller
businesses. It also tapped wage subsidy programs from several
governments, froze hiring and salary increases, scaled back its use of
freelancers and implemented some pay cuts.

Similar streamlining is happening
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/28/business/media/a-big-correction-pandemic-brings-change-to-bloated-ad-industry.html}{throughout
the advertising industry}, as brands and agencies weigh years of
wasteful traditions and bloated bureaucracies against uncertain budgets.
``Old habits die hard, but people are being forced out of necessity to
adapt faster,'' said Marcelo Pascoa, the vice president for marketing
for the beer brand Coors.

Mr. Wren said on an investor call on Tuesday that Omnicom's future could
be affected by a second wave of coronavirus cases, the timing and
content of government stimulus packages, and shifting consumer
sentiment. But he was optimistic: ``We think the worst is behind us.''

--- \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/tiffany-hsu}{Tiffany Hsu}

\hypertarget{more-news-avis-reports-a-steep-drop-in-revenue}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{more-news-avis-reports-a-steep-drop-in-revenue}{More
news: Avis reports a steep drop in
revenue.}}{More news: Avis reports a steep drop in revenue.}}\label{more-news-avis-reports-a-steep-drop-in-revenue}}

Copied to clipboard.

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \textbf{Avis Budget Group} reported a steep 67 percent decline in
  revenue in the second quarter compared with a year earlier, but said
  that the drop was uneven across its network. Revenue at its
  non-airport locations have nearly recovered, it said, a sign that many
  people are still renting cars even as they shun other modes of
  transportation like public transit and airplanes.
\item
  \textbf{Best Buy}
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/live/2020/07/27/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus/target-thanksgiving}{followed}
  \textbf{Walmart}, \textbf{Target} and \textbf{Dick's Sporting Goods}
  by saying on Tuesday that it will close its stores on Thanksgiving Day
  this year. The chain said that it would start offering its holiday
  deals earlier and enhance the way it fulfilled orders ``to meet our
  customers' changing lives this holiday.'' Best Buy said that it
  started opening on Thanksgiving Day in 2013, after opening at midnight
  on Black Friday in 2012.
\item
  A global airline industry group says it expects the recovery to take
  longer than expected as a rise in infections around the world slows
  the reopening of borders. Airline revenues are not expected to recover
  to last year's levels until 2024, according to the group, the
  \textbf{International Air Transport Association}.
\item
  \textbf{Selfridges}, a British chain of high-end department stores,
  said Tuesday it would cut about 450 jobs, 14 percent of its work
  force. The flagship store, which opened in 1909 and includes several
  restaurants and a cinema, is in central London's main shopping
  district, where foot traffic has plummeted because of the pandemic.
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
