Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2018/briefing/global-morning-briefing-newsletter-signup.html}{Briefing}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/interactive/2018/briefing/global-morning-briefing-newsletter-signup.html}{Briefing}\textbar{}Your
Wednesday Briefing

\url{https://nyti.ms/30XBJ3e}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{your-wednesday-briefing}{%
\section{Your Wednesday Briefing}\label{your-wednesday-briefing}}

Russian propaganda, U.K. quarantine, van Gogh: Here's what you need to
know.

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/isabella-kwai}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2019/09/17/reader-center/author-isabella-kwai/author-isabella-kwai-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/isabella-kwai}{Isabella Kwai}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  July 29, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

\begin{quote}
Good morning.

We're covering evidence that \textbf{Russia is spreading virus
misinformation}, Spanish anger over a \textbf{British quarantine order}
and a clue about \textbf{Vincent van Gogh's final days}.
\end{quote}

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/07/27/world/29ambriefing-euro-russia/merlin_174995703_0bcc4bf2-5058-4c07-bb9c-d8963c57e499-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\hypertarget{moscow-is-accused-of-spreading-pandemic-disinformation}{%
\subsection{Moscow is accused of spreading pandemic
disinformation}\label{moscow-is-accused-of-spreading-pandemic-disinformation}}

Newly declassified U.S. intelligence accuses Russia of
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/28/us/politics/russia-disinformation-coronavirus.html}{spreading
misinformation about the coronavirus pandemic}, as it tries to influence
Americans with the November election approaching.

The English-language propaganda and disinformation pushed by the G.R.U.,
Russia's military intelligence agency, includes the amplification of
false Chinese arguments that the virus was created by the American
military, as well as articles that say Russian medical assistance could
bring about a new détente with Washington.

Many of the pieces were published on InfoRos, a site controlled by the
Russian government, and OneWorld.Press, a nominally independent site
that American officials said had ties to the G.R.U.

\textbf{What this means:} The campaign is a refinement of what Russia
tried to do during the 2016 presidential campaign. The fake social media
accounts and bots it used then are relatively easy to stamp out. It's
far harder to stop the dissemination of propaganda on websites that seem
legitimate, experts say.

\textbf{Russian protests:} As antigovernment rallies swell in the city
of Khabarovsk, 4,000 miles from Moscow, apolitical residents
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/28/world/europe/russias-far-east-protests-putin.html}{have
turned into activists}.

\textbf{In other news:}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \textbf{China} recorded 68 new coronavirus infections on Monday, its
  National Health Commission said --- 57 in the northwestern region of
  Xinjiang, where a flare-up since mid-July has shown little sign of
  abating.
\item
  Data released by the \textbf{United Nations World Tourism
  Organization} on Tuesday showed that leisure travel fell by 98 percent
  during the first five months of the year, compared with the same
  period in 2019.
\item
  President Alexander Lukashenko of \textbf{Belarus} said on Tuesday
  that he had had an asymptomatic case of coronavirus but had since
  recovered. He has been accused of downplaying the virus's dangers.

  Here are
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/28/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html}{the
  latest updates} and
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/world/coronavirus-maps.html}{maps
  of the pandemic}.
\end{itemize}

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

Image

Passengers at Madrid's international airport checked in for a British
Airways flight on Sunday.Credit...Manu Fernandez/Associated Press

\hypertarget{spain-is-unhappy-about-britains-blanket-quarantine}{%
\subsection{Spain is unhappy about Britain's blanket
quarantine}\label{spain-is-unhappy-about-britains-blanket-quarantine}}

Spain's prime minister has called Britain's
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/28/world/europe/spain-britain-quarantine-order.html}{quarantine
order for all arrivals} from his country ``an error.'' The decision
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/26/world/europe/Spain-quarantine-UK-travel.html}{blindsided
British holidaymakers} and dealt a blow to Spain's crippled tourism
industry.

Prime Minister Pedro Sánchez argued that because the coronavirus had
spared some regions of Spain, it was actually safer for tourists to
visit those areas than to stay in Britain.

``We don't agree with that assessment,'' said Simon Clarke, a junior
minister in the British government, adding that the travel advice was
guided by science.

More countries have issued travel warnings for Spain. The German foreign
ministry warned on Tuesday against going to three northeastern regions
where cases have spiked, and the Dutch government has told citizens to
avoid nonessential travel to Barcelona.

\textbf{Context:} Spain's coronavirus caseload
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/23/world/europe/spain-coronavirus-reopening.html}{has
grown significantly in the last week}, with 11,000 new infections
putting it back among the worst in Europe.

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

Image

Workers cleaned in front of the Kaaba at the Grand Mosque in Mecca on
Monday.Credit...Saudi Ministry Of Media, via Reuters

\hypertarget{this-year-a-very-different-hajj}{%
\subsection{This year, a very different
hajj}\label{this-year-a-very-different-hajj}}

In any other year, Muslims undertaking the annual pilgrimage to Mecca
would drink from a holy well and kiss the Kaaba's Black Stone as they
thronged the Grand Mosque. Before they left Mecca, they would collect
pebbles to ritually stone the devil.

During the coronavirus edition of the hajj, which begins today, the
Black Stone is off limits. The authorities in Saudi Arabia are issuing
bottled water from the Zamzam well instead of letting people drink from
the source. The pebbles hurled at the devil will be sterilized. And far
fewer pilgrims will be there.

It's another example of
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/28/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html\#link-3fa8e195}{a
major gathering drastically scaled back} to ensure safety. Across the
Middle East, celebrations for Eid al-Adha, the festival that marks the
end of the hajj this weekend, will likewise be toned down.

\textbf{Numbers:} Last year, 2.5 million Muslims performed the hajj.
This year, Saudi Arabia said it would allow only 1,000 pilgrims, all
from within the kingdom.

\hypertarget{if-you-have-5-minutes-this-is-worth-it}{%
\subsubsection{If you have 5 minutes, this is worth
it}\label{if-you-have-5-minutes-this-is-worth-it}}

\hypertarget{van-goghs-last-days}{%
\subsection{Van Gogh's last days}\label{van-goghs-last-days}}

Image

Credit...Elliott Verdier for The New York Times

Scholars have speculated about how Vincent van Gogh, who died from a
gunshot wound in 1890,
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/28/arts/design/vincent-van-gogh-tree-roots.html}{spent
his last day of work}. Now, thanks to a historical postcard, above, a
researcher appears to have found a significant clue: the precise
location where the artist painted ``Tree Roots,'' which is believed to
be his last piece.

``Tree Roots'' was painted on a main road in Auvers-sur-Oise, north of
Paris, about 500 feet from the inn where van Gogh spent his final weeks,
says the researcher, Wouter van der Veen. He stumbled across the
postcard and saw the similarities to the tangled, gnarled roots and
stumps of ``Tree Roots.'' The painting, he said, ``is a farewell note in
colors.''

\hypertarget{heres-what-else-is-happening}{%
\subsubsection{Here's what else is
happening}\label{heres-what-else-is-happening}}

\textbf{Taliban cease-fire:} The insurgent group said it would observe a
three-day cease-fire this week for Eid al-Adha, as President Ashraf
Ghani of Afghanistan suggested that
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/28/world/asia/afghanistan-cease-fire-taliban.html}{long-delayed
talks between his government and the militants could soon begin}.

\textbf{North Korea:} Kim Geum-hyok, the defector who swam back to the
North this week --- leading to a coronavirus lockdown --- was wanted in
South Korea, where he had been accused of rape. **** Our correspondent
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/28/world/asia/north-korea-defector-coronavirus.html}{looked
into his life}.

\textbf{Iran prisoner:} A British-Australian academic,
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/28/world/europe/british-australian-academic-jail-iran-qarchak.html}{Kylie
Moore-Gilbert}, who is serving a 10-year sentence for espionage, has
been moved to a prison that is said to be riddled with coronavirus
cases, according to rights activists.

Image

Credit...Dmitry Kostyukov for The New York Times

\textbf{Snapshot:} France will ban
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/28/world/europe/france-heated-terraces-coronavirus.html}{heaters
used by cafes and restaurants on outdoor terraces}, like the one above
--- part of a series of measures to reduce energy consumption.

\textbf{Venice Film Festival:} The 77th edition in September promises to
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/28/movies/venice-film-festival-2020-coronavirus.html}{help
reopen the movie business}, even with a reduced schedule, distancing
measures and outdoor screening sites.

\textbf{What we're reading:} This
\href{https://www.theatlantic.com/family/archive/2020/07/what-pandemic-doing-work-friendships/614407/}{article
in The Atlantic} on how the pandemic is changing work friendships. It's
a bit of nostalgia for hallway chats and occasional long lunch breaks
with work friends, writes Carole Landry of the Briefings team.

\hypertarget{now-a-break-from-the-news}{%
\subsubsection{Now, a break from the
news}\label{now-a-break-from-the-news}}

Image

Credit...Andrew Purcell for The New York Times. Food Stylist: Barrett
Washburne.

\textbf{Cook:} This
\href{https://cooking.nytimes.com/recipes/1020364-farro-risotto-with-sweet-corn-and-tomatoes}{farro
risotto with sweet corn and tomatoes} doesn't require as much attention
or stirring as traditional risotto and is a heartier, whole-grain
alternative.

\textbf{Dining:} Our restaurant critic wrote about
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/28/dining/melbourne-restaurants-coronavirus.html}{dining
out in Melbourne}, where chefs are getting creative during reopening but
dinners are getting more expensive.

\textbf{Watch:} Olivia de Havilland, who died on Sunday at the age of
104, won two Oscars and took on risky parts. Here are
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/26/arts/olivia-de-havilland-movies-stream.html}{nine
films that show off her dramatic chops}.

\textbf{Do:} Many people are struggling financially in new and
conflicting ways. But a
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/25/style/how-to-talk-to-friends-about-money.html?action=click\&module=RelatedLinks\&pgtype=collection}{conversation
about money} doesn't have to be awkward.

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/spotlight/at-home}{\emph{At Home has our
full collection of ideas}} \emph{on what to read, cook, watch and do.}

\hypertarget{and-now-for-the-back-story-on-}{%
\subsubsection{And now for the Back Story on
\ldots{}}\label{and-now-for-the-back-story-on-}}

\hypertarget{mars-is-great-but-theres-lots-more-out-there}{%
\subsection{Mars is great, but there's lots more out
there}\label{mars-is-great-but-theres-lots-more-out-there}}

\emph{China and the United Arab Emirates have recently launched missions
to Mars, and the United States plans to send its fifth NASA rover,
Perseverance, to the red planet on Thursday.}

\emph{Scientists are cheering these missions, but many are asking why
we're going back to Mars yet again. Our Science team invited Rebecca
Boyle and David W. Brown, two space journalists, to}
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/28/science/mars-nasa-science.html}{\emph{discuss
the state of space exploration.}} \emph{Here's an excerpt.}

\textbf{Rebecca Boyle:} So we're going back to Mars. Again, with another
rover. Two, perhaps, if both NASA and China's space agency succeed.
Sigh.

It's not that this is disappointing. But there's a certain level of déjà
vu with NASA's Perseverance mission, modeled so closely after the
successful Curiosity rover in 2011. I have written a lot about the value
of exploring Mars and the particularly Earthlike qualities that endear
it to us. But even I can't help but wonder what's next in our quest to
explore the solar system, and whether so many journeys to Mars are
blocking other important science.

Image

\textbf{David W. Brown:} There's an entire solar system waiting to be
explored. Since 2001, NASA has flown eight consecutive successful
missions to Mars, including five landers. Humanity now has a library of
Mars data sitting on servers that no one has had a chance to study. Data
collected from brief encounters by spacecraft with the moons of Jupiter,
on the other hand, or the ice giants, Uranus and Neptune, have been
squeezed dry.

\textbf{Rebecca:} Meanwhile, as planetary scientists debated how to pay
for their missions, some geologists salivate for a second look at Venus,
the second planet from the sun. Venus is about the same size as Earth,
it's rocky, it has an atmosphere. And it orbits the sun in a zone where
temperatures are just right for liquid water --- and maybe life.

We know Mars had water at some point in its past, but it's long gone. By
contrast, Venus might have had oceans more recently and for longer
periods, and may have been comfortably livable for billions of years.

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

\begin{quote}
That's it for this briefing. See you next time.

--- Isabella
\end{quote}

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

\textbf{Thank you}\\
To Theodore Kim and Jahaan Singh for the break from the news. You can
reach the team at
\href{mailto:briefing+midnight@nytimes.com?subject=Briefing\%20Feedback}{briefing@nytimes.com}.

\textbf{P.S.}\\
• We're listening to ``\href{https://www.nytimes.com/thedaily}{The
Daily}.'' Our latest episode is about the battle over unemployment
benefits in the U.S. Congress.\\
• Here's today's
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/crosswords/game/mini}{Mini Crossword
puzzle}, and a clue: Trail behind a boat (four letters).
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/crosswords}{You can find all our puzzles
here}.\\
• Abrahm Lustgarten
\href{https://podcasts.apple.com/us/podcast/july-24-2020-global-warming-is-forcing-people-to-move/id1370171105?i=1000486012549}{recently
spoke with KGO} about his Times Magazine article on climate migration.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
