Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/opinion}{Opinion}\textbar{}Can Dems Dispatch Mitch?

\url{https://nyti.ms/3eo20Nm}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

\href{/section/opinion}{Opinion}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{can-dems-dispatch-mitch}{%
\section{Can Dems Dispatch Mitch?}\label{can-dems-dispatch-mitch}}

Sending McConnell back to his old Kentucky home.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/gail-collins}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/04/03/opinion/gail-collins/gail-collins-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/gail-collins}{Gail
Collins}

Opinion Columnist

\begin{itemize}
\item
  June 17, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/06/17/opinion/17collins1/merlin_172650015_d200fb89-91df-4ffe-9ccf-ed60c3e5b0db-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/23/us/politics/mitch-mcconnell-kentucky-primary.html}{Mitch
McConnell} is up for re-election this year, and the idea of him losing
is as seductive as --- oh, I don't know. Dinner in a real restaurant?

Obviously, it's hard to pay attention to anything but the presidential
race when
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/17/us/politics/bolton-book-trump-impeached.html}{John
Bolton is revealing} that Donald Trump did not seem to know Britain was
a nuclear power and wondered if Finland was part of Russia.

But next week Democrats are going to pick a nominee to run against
McConnell, and it's a real contest, full of all the same battles we went
through over Biden versus Bernie. I think it would be a good idea for us
to take a look at what's going on.

Really, your friends know you pay attention to this stuff and they are
going to expect you to be able to give them a quick briefing over
cocktails, if we ever reinvent cocktail parties.

Kentucky went for Trump by 30 points in 2016. But last year voters
elected a Democratic governor, Andy Beshear, who had the advantage of
running against a truly terrible incumbent, Matt Bevin. (After Bevin
lost, he famously rewarded big donors by
\href{https://www.courier-journal.com/story/news/politics/2019/12/11/bevin-issued-hundreds-pardons-and-commutations-final-day/4399770002/}{issuing
428 pardons and commutations} to folks who had been convicted of
everything from raping a child to murdering a parent.)

Details, details.

The Democratic Party leaders feel they have a Senate winner in
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/22/us/politics/charles-booker-amy-mcgrath-kentucky-adverstising.html}{Amy
McGrath}, a moderate former Marine fighter pilot. In passing we'll
mention that McConnell dodged military service on a medical issue ---
something called optic neuritis.

``Those things used to matter,'' said
\href{https://www.berea.edu/psc/faculty-and-staff/dr-john-heyrman/}{John
Heyrman}, a political-science professor at Berea College. But now, he
said, it never comes up. And optic neuritis certainly doesn't sound any
more questionable than bone spurs.

Still, McGrath has run some
\href{https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CcjG2fK7kNk}{terrific ads} about
her youthful dream to ``fly fighter jets,'' her discovery that girls
couldn't get those kinds of jobs, and the letter she sent seeking help
from her senator (guess who), which was never answered.

Her campaign started with a splash, drawing in tons of donations from
hopeful Democrats around the country. But the follow-up was a bit mixed.

For instance, when Brett Kavanaugh was up for Supreme Court nomination,
McGrath first told a local paper that she would have supported him if
she was in the Senate. Hours later she
\href{https://www.politico.com/story/2019/07/10/amy-mcgrath-brett-kavanaugh-1405832}{changed
her tune} ``upon further reflection.''

``Talking to her, she's pretty good one-on-one,'' said
\href{https://www.wkyufm.org/people/ryland-barton\#stream/0}{Ryland
Barton}, the state capitol bureau chief for Kentucky Public Radio
Network. But, he added, ``she kind of seems consulted to death.''

Meanwhile, up popped ---
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/22/us/politics/charles-booker-amy-mcgrath-kentucky-adverstising.html}{Charles
Booker}, a 35-year-old African-American state legislator. Candidate of
the Bernie Bros and
\href{https://www.courier-journal.com/story/news/politics/elections/kentucky/2020/06/09/bernie-sanders-endorses-charles-booker-kentucky-senate-primary/5326417002/}{endorsed
by A.O.C}. He's been running a more exciting campaign, and Kentucky's
two largest newspapers have endorsed him, mainly on the basis of his
being \ldots{} not boring. But it's hard to know how Kentucky will take
to Medicare for All and a Green New Deal.

``It's certainly gotten a lot more interesting,'' said Barton.

Can a black progressive rally a huge turnout of liberals and minorities
that compensates for any fallout in the middle? If there's a moment, it
might be now. Kentucky is another state with a hideous racial incident
in its recent past ---
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/breonna-taylor-police.html}{Breonna
Taylor}, a 26-year-old black emergency medical technician, was shot
eight times by the police who broke into her home while she slept,
searching for a drug suspect who wasn't there.

Either candidate could certainly run a smart campaign, and it's hard to
know how all the national trauma is affecting voters' attitudes.
``There's been no polling. Nobody really knows what the state of the
race is,'' said Heyrman.

Here we have the classic dilemma for the 2020 Democrats. Who would you
want nominated for this difficult race in a purple-to-red state?

A) Moderate with a really good résumé.

B) Exciting newcomer who might be able to move the public left.

C) Anybody who can beat Mitch McConnell and I don't care if it's
\href{https://www.instagram.com/mr.pokee/?hl=en}{Mr. Pokee} the
Instagram Hedgehog.

OK, you're right. Mr. Pokee would be an improvement. McConnell is, of
course, the guy who brags about having refused to schedule even a
hearing for almost any judicial nominees during the Obama
administration. Whose race to fill up the vacant court seats with Trump
appointees should climax this week when he makes his Republicans
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/04/us/judge-justin-walker-nomination-senate.html}{vote
to confirm Justin Walker}, a 38-year-old family friend with minimal
experience, to the second-highest court in the land.

McConnell, whose wife, a member of a family that controls a massive
shipping organization, was conveniently named Trump's secretary of
transportation.

This is hardly the only Senate race you're going to want to pay
attention to this year. The Democrats have a bunch of exciting
candidates. (And, as usual, a few accidents they'll just ignore. I'm
thinking of
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/16/us/politics/chris-janicek-nebraska-senate.html}{the
nominee they're trying to get rid of} in Nebraska --- the owner of a
cupcake bakery who sent out a group text to his team describing how he
imagined one of the staffers would behave during group sex.)

So, who can maul Mitch? I know you're focused on the presidential race
--- who isn't? But this will give you something to think about once
you've exhausted your contemplation of Donald Trump's sense of
geography.

\emph{The Times is committed to publishing}
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/01/31/opinion/letters/letters-to-editor-new-york-times-women.html}{\emph{a
diversity of letters}} \emph{to the editor. We'd like to hear what you
think about this or any of our articles. Here are some}
\href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014925288-How-to-submit-a-letter-to-the-editor}{\emph{tips}}\emph{.
And here's our email:}
\href{mailto:letters@NYTimes.com}{\emph{letters@NYTimes.com}}\emph{.}

\emph{Follow The New York Times Opinion section on}
\href{https://www.facebookcorewwwi.onion/nytopinion}{\emph{Facebook}}\emph{,}
\href{http://twitter.com/NYTOpinion}{\emph{Twitter (@NYTopinion)}}
\emph{and}
\href{https://www.instagram.com/nytopinion/}{\emph{Instagram}}\emph{.}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
