Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/opinion}{Opinion}\textbar{}The Revenge of the Trump
Tattletales

\url{https://nyti.ms/2BjLEXr}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

\href{/section/opinion}{Opinion}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{the-revenge-of-the-trump-tattletales}{%
\section{The Revenge of the Trump
Tattletales}\label{the-revenge-of-the-trump-tattletales}}

Keep your friends close and your enemies away from book publishers.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/frank-bruni}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/04/03/opinion/frank-bruni/frank-bruni-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/frank-bruni}{Frank Bruni}

Opinion Columnist

\begin{itemize}
\item
  June 17, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/06/17/opinion/17bruninews/merlin_173591958_6d8b3259-bf06-4dd5-be5d-6d42be36355b-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://cn.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/opinion/20200622/trump-mary-book/}{阅读简体中文版}\href{https://cn.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/opinion/20200622/trump-mary-book/zh-hant/}{閱讀繁體中文版}

\hypertarget{listen-to-this-op-ed}{%
\subsubsection{Listen to This Op-Ed}\label{listen-to-this-op-ed}}

Audio Recording by Audm

\emph{To hear more audio stories from publishers like The New York
Times,
download}\href{https://www.audm.com/?utm_source=nytmag\&utm_medium=embed\&utm_campaign=left_behind_draper}{**}\href{https://www.audm.com/?utm_source=nytopinion\&utm_medium=embed\&utm_campaign=revenge_trump_tattletales}{\emph{Audm
for iPhone or Android}}\emph{.}

\emph{This article is part of Frank Bruni's free newsletter. You can}
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/frank-bruni}{\emph{sign
up here}} \emph{to receive it every Wednesday.}

Beware the number of enemies you make, and pray to God they don't have
literary agents.

That's a lesson President Trump never learned. But he'll be schooled
anew in late July, the scheduled publication date for a book by his
niece,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/01/us/politics/mary-trump-book-lawsuit.html}{Mary
Trump}. Spoiler alert: She's not defending the honor of a misunderstood
uncle. She's reportedly plunging a dagger into him, though its
lethalness is unclear. It's not as if she had an Ivanka-grade seat to
the circus of his life.

John Bolton had an excellent, if briefly occupied, perch as the third of
Trump's four national security advisers so far. That's surely why he
makes the president so nervous. Trump and his flunkies are raging about
and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/16/us/politics/john-bolton-book-publication.html}{suing
to delay} distribution of Bolton's book,
``\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/17/books/review-room-where-it-happened-john-bolton-memoir.html}{The
Room Where It Happened},'' set for release early next week. (``He's
broken the law,'' Trump
\href{https://abcnews.go.com/Politics/note-trumps-threats-boost-boltons-book/story?id=71259356}{fumed
on Monday}, referring to the administration's claims that Bolton is
trafficking in classified information. ``I would think that he would
have criminal problems.'') But Martha Raddatz of ABC News has
\href{https://deadline.com/2020/06/john-bolton-abc-news-donald-trump-martha-raddatz-1202959216/}{done
a long interview} with Bolton to be aired on Sunday. One way or another,
the truth will come out.

Then again, the truth was never in. While most presidential
administrations leak like kitchen faucets --- or at worst, garden hoses
--- Trump's leaks like Niagara Falls, as many unflattering books and
much unsparing journalism have already shown. And while most
presidential administrations have a few embittered exiles, Trump's has a
teeming diaspora of disgusted refugees, many of whom tattled as soon as
they fled, either on the record or in whispers to reporters.

But many others have yet to spill the beans, at least not every last
lima, pinto and garbanzo, and I think we're on the cusp of a bean
buffet. As Trump grows even meaner and more erratic and as the election
nears, the impulse to expose him will intensify. It could be what
topples him.

In addition to the books I mentioned and
\href{https://www.thedailybeast.com/michael-cohen-is-writing-a-secret-tell-all-to-spill-the-beans-on-trump}{a
rumored tell-all} by the Trump fixer Michael Cohen, there's the
\href{https://www.theatlantic.com/politics/archive/2020/06/james-mattis-denounces-trump-protests-militarization/612640/}{recent
denunciation} of the president in The Atlantic by Gen. James Mattis, his
former defense secretary, who had previously taken such pride in holding
his tongue.

It
\href{https://www.cbsnews.com/news/john-kelly-trump-military-force-agrees-with-mattis/}{was
seconded} --- sort of --- by Gen. John Kelly, Trump's former chief of
staff, who clearly has more to say and may well say it between now and
November. As I noted
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/15/opinion/trump-military.html}{in
a previous column}, the two belong to an array of current and former
military leaders who, in an extraordinary break with tradition, have
taken public issue with a sitting president, venting their disapproval
of Trump.

But there's no reason to believe that this revolt will be confined to
men and women in uniform. Trump has incensed and alarmed officials and
staffers in all kinds of institutions and all corners of the government.
He has burned through personnel like a pyromaniac.

And that's just over the three and a half years of his presidency. His
path to it is strewn with
\href{https://www.wsj.com/articles/donald-trumps-business-plan-left-a-trail-of-unpaid-bills-1465504454}{betrayed
business associates}, duped clients, ditched friends and estranged
family members. Their reticence, to the extent that they practiced it,
has always existed in proportion to his potency. The weaker he seems to
become, the chattier they're likely to be. Revenge is a dish best served
on CNN.

I'm wondering if there's another Anthony Scaramucci out there, a
post-Mooch snitch. I'm wondering about diplomats who might jettison
their last scraps of discretion.

I'm wondering what H.R. McMaster, Trump's second national security
adviser, has to say. I'm wondering what Rex Tillerson, his first
secretary of state, hasn't said yet. Neither strikes me as a figure so
partisan that he feels compelled to prop up whoever happens to be
leading the Republican Party, including a twisted tyrant like Trump.
Neither has
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/10/05/opinion/sunday/pompeo-trump.html}{the
Faustian stench} of a Bill Barr, a Mike Pompeo, a Nikki Haley.

But those are just the names we recognize, the associates who are on our
radar. Trump's niece wasn't. At this point his detractors are so legion
that there's no way for him and his unscrupulous sentries to head all of
them off at the pass. They're like a zombie apocalypse, lurching
straight for the White House.

Yes, I know, Trump has survived the display of piles of his dirty
laundry before, readily recasts unethical behavior as boldness and
blithely dismisses horror over his antics as the last gasps of a
faltering establishment. In the context of his brand,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/15/books/mary-trump-book.html}{the
title of Mary Trump's book}, ``Too Much and Never Enough,'' is less
affront than affirmation. It sounds like a James Bond movie. (The
subtitle, ``How My Family Created the World's Most Dangerous Man,''
sounds more like a ``Frankenstein'' remake.)

But there comes a tipping point when the people who saw you up close and
cringe at the memory cannot be shrugged off. And for Uncle Donald, it
may fast be arriving.

\emph{I invite you to sign up for my free}
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/frank-bruni}{\emph{weekly
email newsletter}}\emph{. You can follow me on Twitter
(}\href{https://twitter.com/FrankBruni}{\emph{@FrankBruni}}\emph{).}

\emph{Listen to}
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/column/the-argument}{\emph{``The
Argument'' podcast}} \emph{every Thursday morning, with Ross Douthat,
Michelle Goldberg and me.}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
