Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}16 States Have Postponed
Primaries During the Pandemic. Here's a List.

\url{https://nyti.ms/2vkwU8a}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Election
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/biden-vice-president-2020.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Biden's
  V.P. Search}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/07/24/us/politics/trump-biden-campaign-donors.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Map
  of Donations}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/elections/delegate-count-primary-results.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Delegate
  Count}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2019/us/politics/2020-presidential-candidates.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{The
  Candidates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Politics
  Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{16-states-have-postponed-primaries-during-the-pandemic-heres-a-list}{%
\section{16 States Have Postponed Primaries During the Pandemic. Here's
a
List.}\label{16-states-have-postponed-primaries-during-the-pandemic-heres-a-list}}

In New York, officials canceled the state's Democratic presidential
primary, but a federal judge ordered that the election be held in June.
Fifteen other states have rescheduled their contests because of the
coronavirus.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/03/14/us/politics/00virus-campaigncalendar/merlin_170490123_39d81d68-b61e-4992-9440-8bc68abc6020-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/nick-corasaniti}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/06/13/multimedia/author-nick-corasaniti/author-nick-corasaniti-thumbLarge-v2.png}}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/stephanie-saul}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/02/06/reader-center/author-stephanie-saul/author-stephanie-saul-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/nick-corasaniti}{Nick Corasaniti}
and \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/stephanie-saul}{Stephanie Saul}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  May 27, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

\textbf{The Latest:} Delaware has postponed its presidential primary
election for a second time, moving it to July 7.

As the coronavirus pandemic
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/12/us/politics/coronavirus-2020-campaign.html}{upends
the presidential campaign}, states across the country have postponed
primary elections and expanded vote-by-mail options, citing the
difficulty of holding elections during the outbreak.

One state,
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/30/nyregion/ny-house-primaries.html}{New
York}, attempted to cancel its already-postponed presidential primary
after the Democratic presidential race was settled, but a federal judge
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/05/05/us/politics/ny-presidential-primary.html}{ordered
that the election go forward} in June.

Fifteen other states and two territories --- Alaska, Connecticut,
Delaware, Georgia, Hawaii, Indiana, Kentucky, Louisiana, Maryland, New
Jersey, Ohio, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, West Virginia and Wyoming, and
Guam and Puerto Rico --- have either pushed back their presidential
primaries or switched to voting by mail with extended deadlines.

Some states have even postponed their primaries multiple times.

Several states have now conducted contests during stay-at-home orders,
with many voters casting ballots by mail but some participating in
person. Wisconsin
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/04/07/us/politics/wisconsin-election-coronavirus.html}{forged
ahead with its elections} on April 7 after state Republicans blocked
efforts to postpone voting there.

The remaining presidential primaries have been rendered largely
irrelevant since Bernie Sanders
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/04/08/us/politics/bernie-sanders-drops-out.html}{dropped
out of the Democratic race} on April 8, establishing Joseph R. Biden Jr.
as the presumptive nominee. But Mr. Sanders still wants to collect
delegates to the national convention, which was
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/04/02/us/politics/milwaukee-democratic-convention-delayed.html}{rescheduled}
from mid-July to mid-August. Some states also have local elections
coming up.

Here's a running update of major changes in an election transformed,
including rescheduled primaries and caucuses and a few other key races.
You can also track our
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2019/us/elections/2020-presidential-election-calendar.html}{full
primary election calendar}.

\subsubsection{}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-54e5a12a}{March 17: Arizona, Florida, Illinois
  (voted)}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-53d2eb6b}{April 7: Wisconsin (voted)}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-611af931}{April 10: Alaska (voted by mail)}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-27600fb1}{April 17: Wyoming (voted by mail)}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-35cbf62}{April 28: Ohio (voted by mail)}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-7ae4eb1f}{May 2: Kansas (voted by mail)}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-6ccca692}{May 12: Nebraska (voted)}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-12c4f77c}{May 19: Oregon (voted by mail)}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-29810690}{May 22: Hawaii (now voting by mail)}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-4b49a960}{June 2: D.C., Indiana (new date),
  Maryland (new date), Montana, New Mexico, Pennsylvania (new date),
  Rhode Island (new date), South Dakota}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-47225d41}{June 6: Virgin Islands (caucuses)}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-4b1438e3}{June 9: Georgia (new date), West
  Virginia (new date)}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-28cf57c0}{June 23: Kentucky (new date), New
  York (new date), Virginia congressional primaries (new date)}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-62106c5c}{July 7: Delaware (new date), New
  Jersey (new date)}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-5ded54e1}{July 11: Louisiana (postponed from
  April 4)}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-6b280e85}{July 12: Puerto Rico (postponed from
  March 29)}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-3565fd4e}{July 14: Alabama Republican primary
  runoff for U.S. Senate seat (postponed from March 31)}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-41fbae3b}{Aug. 11: Connecticut primary
  (postponed from April 28)}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-4c95eb7}{T.B.D.: Guam (postponed from May 2)}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-35e4b0be}{Week of Aug. 17: Democratic National
  Convention (postponed from July 13-16)}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-2c279805}{Aug. 24-27: Republican National
  Convention}
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{march-17-arizona-florida-illinois-voted}{%
\subsection{March 17: Arizona, Florida, Illinois
(voted)}\label{march-17-arizona-florida-illinois-voted}}

The three states held their primaries as scheduled (and
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/17/us/politics/biden-florida-illinois-primary.html}{Joseph
R. Biden Jr. won all of them}).

Voting in major cities in Illinois was
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/17/us/politics/primary-voter-turnout-2020.html}{rife
with confusion} and turnout in many areas was significantly lower than
expected, leading to complaints from poll workers and clashes between
Chicago officials and the statehouse.

But Florida and Arizona
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/17/us/politics/march-17-democratic-primary.html\#link-2e84c23f}{exceeded
turnout levels} seen in the 2016 Democratic primary, despite the
coronavirus outbreak. Both states had invested heavily in early voting
systems, and they encouraged early voting and voting by mail as the
outbreak worsened, in order to help reduce crowds at polling places on
Primary Day.

\hypertarget{april-7-wisconsin-voted}{%
\subsection{April 7: Wisconsin (voted)}\label{april-7-wisconsin-voted}}

Long lines, health jitters, flaring tempers and a dose of chaos and
confusion marked Wisconsin's presidential primary and local elections on
April 7, as
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/04/07/us/politics/wisconsin-election-coronavirus.html}{voters
were forced to choose} between staying safe during a pandemic and
exercising their civic duty.

Wisconsin Democrats wanted to extend absentee voting and even postpone
the election altogether, but
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/04/07/us/politics/wisconsin-pandemic-primary-republicans.html}{Republicans
successfully blocked both in court}. Democrats feared that their voters
would be most affected, yet they got the result they wanted: A liberal
challenger
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/04/13/us/politics/wisconsin-primary-results.html}{scored
a shocking upset} in a State Supreme Court race, unseating a
Trump-backed incumbent.

(The election was also the last competitive contest of the Democratic
presidential primary, with Mr. Biden easily beating Mr. Sanders, who had
dropped out of the race before the results were announced.)

Gov. Tony Evers of Wisconsin, a Democrat, had issued an executive order
postponing in-person voting and extending to June the deadline for
absentee ballots. But Republican leaders succeeded in getting
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/04/06/us/politics/wisconsin-primary-voting-coronavirus.html}{the
state's top court to stay the decree}.

In a separate decision, the U.S. Supreme Court's conservative-leaning
majority
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/04/06/us/politics/supreme-court-voting-wisconsin-virus.html}{ruled
against extending the deadline for absentee voting} by six days, saying
such a change ``fundamentally alters the nature of the election.'' The
court's liberals dissented, with Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg writing
that ``the court's order, I fear, will result in massive
disenfranchisement.''
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/04/13/us/wisconsin-election-voting-rights.html}{Final
tallies showed} that thousands of Wisconsinites lost their chance to
vote.

\hypertarget{april-10-alaska-voted-by-mail}{%
\subsection{April 10: Alaska (voted by
mail)}\label{april-10-alaska-voted-by-mail}}

The Alaska Democratic Party canceled in-person voting in its
presidential primary, originally scheduled for April 4, and mounted an
effort to expand voting by mail. It also extended the deadline for the
party to receive ballots by more than two weeks, to April 10 from March
24.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-2020-election}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: 2020
Election}}{Latest Updates: 2020 Election}}\label{latest-updates-2020-election}}

Updated 2020-08-01T01:26:45.732Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-29fdff45}{Kamala
  Harris, a top vice-presidential contender, confronts double
  standards.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-13ec3d9c}{Karen
  Bass and Susan Rice are rising on Biden's vice-presidential
  shortlist.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-49e9a016}{Trump
  says Russian bounties to kill U.S. troops `never took place.'}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/04/11/us/politics/alaska-primary.html}{Mr.
Biden won.}

\hypertarget{april-17-wyoming-voted-by-mail}{%
\subsection{April 17: Wyoming (voted by
mail)}\label{april-17-wyoming-voted-by-mail}}

Wyoming Democrats \href{https://www.wyodems.org/2020caucus}{suspended
the in-person portion of their caucuses}, scheduled for April 4. The
party counted ballots received by April 17.

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/04/19/us/elections/results-wyoming-president-democrat-caucus-election.html}{Mr.
Biden won.}

\hypertarget{april-28-ohio-voted-by-mail}{%
\subsection{April 28: Ohio (voted by
mail)}\label{april-28-ohio-voted-by-mail}}

Ohio moved its presidential primary election to late April and conducted
it almost entirely by mail. The governor and top state health officials
had
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/16/us/politics/virus-primary-2020-ohio.html}{ordered
the polls closed} on the original Primary Day, March 17, citing an
unacceptable health risk posed by crowded voting locations.

While Gov. Mike DeWine had initially proposed a June 2 primary as a
substitute, the Ohio legislature moved the official date to April 28.
Ballots postmarked by April 27 were counted. Only those voters who are
disabled or who do not have a permanent address were encouraged to vote
in person by appearing at their local elections boards.

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/04/28/us/elections/results-ohio-primary-elections.html}{Mr.
Biden won.}

\hypertarget{may-2-kansas-voted-by-mail}{%
\subsection{May 2: Kansas (voted by
mail)}\label{may-2-kansas-voted-by-mail}}

Democrats in Kansas voted entirely by mail using a ranked-choice system.
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/05/02/us/elections/results-kansas-president-democrat-primary-election.html}{Mr.
Biden won.}

\hypertarget{may-12-nebraska-voted}{%
\subsection{May 12: Nebraska (voted)}\label{may-12-nebraska-voted}}

Nebraska opened polling places with extra safety measures, and many
voters cast ballots early.
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/05/12/us/elections/results-nebraska-president-democrat-primary-election.html}{Mr.
Biden won.}

\hypertarget{may-19-oregon-voted-by-mail}{%
\subsection{May 19: Oregon (voted by
mail)}\label{may-19-oregon-voted-by-mail}}

Oregon conducts its elections almost entirely by mail.
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/05/19/us/elections/results-oregon-primary-elections.html}{Mr.
Biden won.}

\hypertarget{may-22-hawaii-now-voting-by-mail}{%
\subsection{May 22: Hawaii (now voting by
mail)}\label{may-22-hawaii-now-voting-by-mail}}

Hawaii Democrats announced they were canceling in-person voting for the
presidential primary in response to the coronavirus outbreak. The state
party will be mailing out a ``third round'' of ballots and is
encouraging voters to register before April 4, with the deadline for
returning ballots May 22.

\hypertarget{june-2-dc-indiana-new-date-maryland-new-date-montana-new-mexico-pennsylvania-new-date-rhode-island-new-date-south-dakota}{%
\subsection{June 2: D.C., Indiana (new date), Maryland (new date),
Montana, New Mexico, Pennsylvania (new date), Rhode Island (new date),
South
Dakota}\label{june-2-dc-indiana-new-date-maryland-new-date-montana-new-mexico-pennsylvania-new-date-rhode-island-new-date-south-dakota}}

\hypertarget{indiana-primary-postponed-from-may-5}{%
\subsubsection{Indiana primary (postponed from May
5)}\label{indiana-primary-postponed-from-may-5}}

Gov. Eric J. Holcomb of Indiana signed an executive order suspending the
state's primary elections until June 2. The presidential primary was
originally scheduled for May 5.

The governor announced the postponement of the primary with members of
the Indiana Democratic and Republican parties.

``The right of citizens to elect their leaders in a free and open
election is one of the cornerstones of America,'' Mr. Holcomb said. ``In
order to balance that right with the safety of county employees, poll
workers and voters, delaying Indiana's primary election is the right
move as we continue to do all we can to protect Hoosiers' health.''

Officials also announced that the state would expand the option to vote
by mail to all voters for the upcoming primary election, and that any
mail-in ballots previously printed with a May 5 date on them would still
be valid.

\hypertarget{maryland-primary-postponed-from-april-28}{%
\subsubsection{Maryland primary (postponed from April
28)}\label{maryland-primary-postponed-from-april-28}}

Gov. Larry Hogan announced that the April 28 primary would instead be
held on June 2. Limited polling places will be open to accommodate
disabled voters and those without permanent addresses. Gov. Hogan urged
all others to vote by mail.

``Like other states have done, all the primary elections will be
postponed until June, which gives everyone time to prepare,'' Mr. Hogan
said. ``Free and fair elections are the very foundation of American
democracy, and while there are many valid reasons for unease and
uncertainty right now, ensuring that the voices of Maryland citizens are
heard shouldn't be one of them.''

Mr. Hogan said that a special election in Maryland's Seventh
Congressional District to replace the late Representative Elijah E.
Cummings would not be rescheduled from April 28. That election also will
be run mostly by mail.

\hypertarget{pennsylvania-primary-postponed-from-april-28}{%
\subsubsection{Pennsylvania primary (postponed from April
28)}\label{pennsylvania-primary-postponed-from-april-28}}

Gov. Tom Wolf signed a bill postponing the state's presidential primary
election from April 28 to June 2.

State lawmakers had unanimously approved the delay, citing the pleas of
county elections officials, who said the uncertainty surrounding the
outbreak made it impossible to gear up for an election by the end of
April.

The delay also affects a number of other elections in Pennsylvania,
including congressional primaries.

The Pennsylvania secretary of state has
\href{https://www.media.pa.gov/Pages/State-Details.aspx?newsid=374}{reminded
voters of the state's mail-in ballot option}, which permits any voter to
request a ballot.

\hypertarget{rhode-island-primary-postponed-from-april-28}{%
\subsubsection{Rhode Island primary (postponed from April
28)}\label{rhode-island-primary-postponed-from-april-28}}

Gov. Gina Raimondo signed an executive order to move the state's
presidential primary election from April to June.

``Last week, the Board of Elections requested that the presidential
primary election be postponed from April 28 to June 2 and that the
election take place primarily by mail ballot,''
\href{https://twitter.com/GovRaimondo/status/1242146911945216009}{Ms.
Raimondo said on Twitter}. ``I am following the advice of the Board of
Elections, and will sign an executive order to do this.''

Nellie M. Gorbea, the Rhode Island secretary of state, said the state
would ``send all registered voters a mail ballot application with a
postage-paid return envelope.''

\hypertarget{june-6-virgin-islands-caucuses}{%
\subsection{June 6: Virgin Islands
(caucuses)}\label{june-6-virgin-islands-caucuses}}

\hypertarget{june-9-georgia-new-date-west-virginia-new-date}{%
\subsection{June 9: Georgia (new date), West Virginia (new
date)}\label{june-9-georgia-new-date-west-virginia-new-date}}

\hypertarget{georgia-postponed-from-march-24}{%
\subsubsection{Georgia (postponed from March
24)}\label{georgia-postponed-from-march-24}}

Georgia's secretary of state has postponed the presidential primary
election for a second time in an effort to protect the public from
possible coronavirus exposure.

The secretary, Brad Raffensperger,
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/14/us/politics/georgia-primary-virus-2020.html}{had
first moved the primary from March 24 to May 19}. After Gov. Brian Kemp
extended the state's public health state of emergency, Mr. Raffensperger
delayed the primary again, to June 9. He said it was the latest it could
be rescheduled.

Mr. Raffensperger said in-person voting would proceed on June 9, but he
has also
\href{https://www.ajc.com/news/state--regional-govt--politics/georgia-mail-absentee-ballot-request-forms-all-active-voters/s1ZcJ57g8qqIwyG6LNWfIM/}{mailed
absentee ballot request forms} to 6.9 million active voters. ``I
certainly realize that every difficulty will not be completely solved by
the time in-person voting begins for the June 9 election, but elections
must happen even in less than ideal circumstances,'' he said.

\hypertarget{west-virginia-postponed-from-may-12}{%
\subsubsection{West Virginia (postponed from May
12)}\label{west-virginia-postponed-from-may-12}}

Gov. Jim Justice, a Republican, announced at a news briefing that West
Virginia would postpone its election for 27 days, from May 12 to June 9.

``We have voted in wartime and in peace and in absolute tough
situations,'' Mr. Justice said, adding that older voters, especially,
``value the treasure of being able to vote. We often take it for
granted.''

Mr. Justice said he was hopeful that the June 9 election would see a
large turnout at polling places, but added that he was extending the
deadline to obtain an absentee ballot for those who are unable to make
it to the polls.

\hypertarget{june-23-kentucky-new-date-new-york-new-date-virginia-congressional-primaries-new-date}{%
\subsection{June 23: Kentucky (new date), New York (new date), Virginia
congressional primaries (new
date)}\label{june-23-kentucky-new-date-new-york-new-date-virginia-congressional-primaries-new-date}}

\hypertarget{kentucky-postponed-from-may-19}{%
\subsubsection{Kentucky (postponed from May
19)}\label{kentucky-postponed-from-may-19}}

Kentucky's secretary of state, Michael G. Adams, announced the state
would delay its primary election to June 23
\href{https://twitter.com/KYSecState/status/1239657695520739328}{in a
video on Twitter}.

``Postponing the primary was not an easy decision, but the Republican
secretary of state and Democratic governor agreed, and so do county
clerks from both parties,'' Mr. Adams said. ``My hope is that this delay
will allow us to have a normal election. Even if not, this delay will
allow me, the State Board of Elections and our county clerks time to
assess what changes we must make to ensure a successful primary
election.''

\hypertarget{new-york-postponed-from-april-28-then-canceled-then-reinstated-by-a-federal-judge}{%
\subsubsection{New York (postponed from April 28, then canceled, then
reinstated by a federal
judge)}\label{new-york-postponed-from-april-28-then-canceled-then-reinstated-by-a-federal-judge}}

A federal judge on May 5 ordered elections officials in New York State
to hold its Democratic primary election on June 23 and reinstate all
qualifying candidates on the ballot. The ruling came after the
presidential primary had been
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/04/27/us/politics/democratic-primary-canceled-coronavirus.html}{canceled}
over concerns about the coronavirus.

The order, filed by Judge Analisa Torres of United States District
Court, came in response to a lawsuit filed by the former Democratic
presidential candidate Andrew Yang. He sought to undo the New York State
Board of Elections' decision to cancel the contest. (The primary was
originally scheduled for April 28, but had been postponed to June 23.)

An appeals court upheld the ruling, and the state does not plan to
appeal further, so the election will be held.

Mr. Yang said in
\href{https://twitter.com/AndrewYang/status/1257826412851011584}{a
statement on Twitter} that he was ``glad that a federal judge agreed
that depriving millions of New Yorkers of the right to vote was wrong.''

The move to cancel the presidential primary also drew a backlash from
the campaign of Mr. Sanders, who is seeking to amass delegates to the
Democratic National Convention to influence the party's platform.

\hypertarget{virginia-congressional-primaries-postponed-from-june-9}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\textbf{Virginia congressional primaries
(postponed from June
9)}}{Virginia congressional primaries (postponed from June 9)}}\label{virginia-congressional-primaries-postponed-from-june-9}}

Virginia's elections scheduled for June 9 have been postponed until June
23, Gov. Ralph Northam announced. The state's presidential primary was
held March 3, before the risk of coronavirus became widely realized in
the United States. The remaining elections include House of
Representatives primaries and a Republican primary to pick the candidate
who will compete against Senator Mark Warner in the fall.

\hypertarget{july-7-delaware-new-date-new-jersey-new-date}{%
\subsection{July 7: Delaware (new date), New Jersey (new
date)}\label{july-7-delaware-new-date-new-jersey-new-date}}

\hypertarget{delaware-primary-postponed-from-april-28}{%
\subsubsection{Delaware primary (postponed from April
28)}\label{delaware-primary-postponed-from-april-28}}

\href{https://news.delaware.gov/2020/05/07/governor-carney-reschedules-presidential-primary-for-july-7/}{Using
a state of emergency declaration}, Gov. John Carney has postponed the
Delaware presidential primary election for a second time, to July 7,
after first moving it to June 2.

The state will mail absentee ballot applications to all registered
Democrats and Republicans. Normally, Delaware voters must have a valid
excuse to request an absentee ballot, but the governor's order permits
all voters to select the ``sick'' option on their applications, even if
they are not exhibiting symptoms of Covid-19.

``Delawareans have a basic, fundamental right to vote, and these changes
will allow all Delaware voters to safely exercise that right,'' Mr.
Carney said in a statement.

\hypertarget{new-jersey-postponed-from-june-2}{%
\subsubsection{New Jersey (postponed from June
2)}\label{new-jersey-postponed-from-june-2}}

New Jersey has postponed its presidential primary from June 2 to July 7,
extending the Democrats' primary calendar deeper into the summer amid
the coronavirus outbreak.

The decision by Gov. Philip D. Murphy to delay the primary is a signal
from a major Democratic state that in-person voting may not be safe by
June. The rescheduled election would be the first time in the modern
history of the primary system that a state contest is held in July.

After the D.N.C. announced that it would postpone the party's convention
from July to August, officials in New Jersey saw the move as a way to
give states some breathing room to put off their primaries further.

Mr. Murphy is announced an executive order postponing the primary and
extending deadlines for voting by mail to line up with the new date. He
signed an expansive vote-by-mail law in 2018, and
\href{https://www.nj.com/politics/2020/01/murphy-approves-fix-to-law-encouraging-voting-by-mail-after-it-was-killed-by-powerful-board.html}{updated
it in January}, to automatically send mail ballots to any voter who had
requested one during the previous election. The state has allowed voters
to request mail ballots for any reason for years.

\hypertarget{july-11-louisiana-postponed-from-april-4}{%
\subsection{July 11: Louisiana (postponed from April
4)}\label{july-11-louisiana-postponed-from-april-4}}

Louisiana has postponed its April 4 primary twice: first to June 20, and
then even further, to July 11, buying more time in hopes the coronavirus
pandemic will dissipate. Officials said they were working on a plan that
would broaden the use of early voting and mail ballots.

When Louisiana rescheduled its primary for the first time, in mid-March,
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/13/us/politics/primary-voting-coronavirus.html}{it
was the first state} to adjust its election calendar in response to the
disease's spread.

\hypertarget{july-12-puerto-rico-postponed-from-march-29}{%
\subsection{July 12: Puerto Rico (postponed from March
29)}\label{july-12-puerto-rico-postponed-from-march-29}}

The Democratic presidential primary will be held July 12, according to
Charles Rodríguez, the chairman of the Puerto Rico Democratic Party.

Puerto Rico officials had first postponed the presidential primary
election from March 29 to April 26, and had then delayed it indefinitely
as they monitored the virus's spread.

\hypertarget{july-14-alabama-republican-primary-runoff-for-us-senate-seat-postponed-from-march-31}{%
\subsection{July 14: Alabama Republican primary runoff for U.S. Senate
seat (postponed from March
31)}\label{july-14-alabama-republican-primary-runoff-for-us-senate-seat-postponed-from-march-31}}

Gov. Kay Ivey postponed the Republican runoff battle for a U.S. Senate
seat, which pits former Attorney General Jeff Sessions against Tommy
Tuberville, a former college football coach and ESPN analyst. The new
date for the runoff is July 14.

The winner will face Senator Doug Jones, a Democrat, in a race that is
closely watched because it could be a chance for Republicans to pick up
a Senate seat in a red state.

President Trump has endorsed Mr. Tuberville against his onetime attorney
general, Mr. Sessions, a longtime politician in
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/02/us/supreme-court-alabama-voting-restrictions.html}{Alabama}
who served in the U.S. Senate from 1997 to 2017.

\hypertarget{aug-11-connecticut-primary-postponed-from-april-28}{%
\subsection{Aug. 11: Connecticut primary (postponed from April
28)}\label{aug-11-connecticut-primary-postponed-from-april-28}}

Gov. Ned Lamont announced that Connecticut was postponing its
presidential primary for a second time, this time to Aug. 11 --- the
Tuesday before the Democrats' rescheduled national convention. The state
already has primaries scheduled that day for other federal, state and
local races.

By the time of Mr. Lamont's decision, New Jersey had already extended
the Democrats' calendar deeper into the summer than ever before, pushing
its primary to July. Connecticut would be the first state to hold its
nominating contest in August in the history of the modern primary
system.

``To protect the health and safety of voters, poll workers, and the most
vulnerable populations, it just makes most sense to extend the date out
to August,'' Mr. Lamont said in a statement. He had previously pushed
the primary to early June from its original date, April 28.

\hypertarget{tbd-guam-postponed-from-may-2}{%
\subsection{T.B.D.: Guam (postponed from May
2)}\label{tbd-guam-postponed-from-may-2}}

A new date has not been set for Guam's Democratic caucus.

\hypertarget{week-of-aug-17-democratic-national-convention-postponed-from-july-13-16}{%
\subsection{Week of Aug. 17: Democratic National Convention (postponed
from July
13-16)}\label{week-of-aug-17-democratic-national-convention-postponed-from-july-13-16}}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/04/02/us/politics/milwaukee-democratic-convention-delayed.html}{The
Democratic National Committee postponed its national convention} because
of the coronavirus, moving it from mid-July to mid-August. The
convention will still be held in Milwaukee, as planned, officials said.

An August convention is likely to be smaller than the planned July
event. One senior Democratic official said the event would probably be a
``bare minimum'' convention, with scores of people who had planned to
come staying away either because of health concerns or because they had
other plans for mid-August.

\hypertarget{aug-24-27-republican-national-convention}{%
\subsection{Aug. 24-27: Republican National
Convention}\label{aug-24-27-republican-national-convention}}

Republicans still plan to gather in Charlotte, N.C., to renominate
President Trump.

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

\emph{Are we missing something? Let us know at}
\href{mailto:onpolitics@nytimes.com}{\emph{onpolitics@nytimes.com}}\emph{.}

Reporting was contributed by Maggie Astor, Reid J. Epstein, Shane
Goldmacher, Astead W. Herndon, Patricia Mazzei and Matt Stevens.

\hypertarget{our-2020-election-guide}{%
\section{Our 2020 Election Guide}\label{our-2020-election-guide}}

Updated July 31, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{the-latest}{%
  \subsection{The Latest}\label{the-latest}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    President Trump's assault on the Postal Service is intersecting with
    his attacks on mail-in voting.
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/politics/trump-usps-mail-delays.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Voting
    rights groups say it is a recipe for disaster.}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{bidens-vp-search}{%
  \subsection{Biden's V.P. Search}\label{bidens-vp-search}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/biden-vice-president-2020.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Here
    are 13 women} who have been under consideration to be Joe Biden's
    running mate, and why each might be chosen --- and might not be.
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{keep-up-with-our-coverage}{%
  \subsection{Keep Up With Our
  Coverage}\label{keep-up-with-our-coverage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Get an
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{email}
    recapping the day's news
  \end{itemize}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Download our mobile app on
    \href{https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nytimes/id284862083?ls=1\&mat_click_id=5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\&referrer=mat_click_id\%3D5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\%26link_click_id\%3D722930677036718082}{iOS}
    and
    \href{http://a.localytics.com/android?id=com.nytimes.android\&referrer=utm_source\%3Dother_nyt_mobile_web\%26utm_medium\%3DWeb\%2520page\%26utm_term\%3DGeneral\%2520Mobile\%2520Page\%26utm_campaign\%3DNYT\%2520Mobile\%2520General\%2520Page}{Android}
    and turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
