Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/us}{U.S.}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/us}{U.S.}\textbar{}When Is California Reopening?

\url{https://nyti.ms/2XaVBOu}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/news-event/coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{The
Coronavirus Outbreak}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  live\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/04/world/coronavirus-cases.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Latest
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Maps
  and Cases}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Vaccine
  Tracker}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/02/us/covid-college-reopening.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{College
  Reopening}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/live/2020/08/04/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Economy}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{when-is-california-reopening}{%
\section{When Is California
Reopening?}\label{when-is-california-reopening}}

Here's what you need to know about the state's plan to reopen for
business during the coronavirus pandemic.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/05/19/us/california-reopening-explainer-1/merlin_172628508_63bcdc96-b607-4c75-a6fa-2fa8963d4841-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By Sona Patel

\begin{itemize}
\item
  July 24, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

California was
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/states-reopen-map-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&module=styln-coronavirus\&variant=show\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{the
first state} to
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/16/us/california-newsom-bars-home-isolation.html}{order
all residents to stay home} to slow the spread of the coronavirus. On
May 18, Gov. Gavin Newsom announced that state health officials would
\href{https://www.sfchronicle.com/politics/article/Gov-Gavin-Newsom-eases-reopening-requirements-15278477.php}{relax
their criteria} for counties that wanted to reopen their economies
faster, provided that they
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/05/19/us/california-reopening.html}{met
public health guidelines}.

With cases surging, Mr. Newsom announced one of the most sweeping
\href{https://twitter.com/GavinNewsom/status/1282752861835649024?s=20}{rollbacks
of any state's reopening plans}, closing indoor operations statewide for
restaurants, wineries, movie theaters, and requiring card rooms and bars
to close all operations, effective July 13.

And in at least 30 of the hardest hit counties, some businesses will be
forced to close indoor operations.

Things are changing quickly.

\hypertarget{heres-what-you-need-to-know}{%
\subsubsection{Here's what you need to
know:}\label{heres-what-you-need-to-know}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-62d4b749}{Which California counties are
  reopening?}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-6647996c}{When can California gyms reopen?}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-6a93b96c}{What are the phases for reopening?}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-5261ebea}{When will California's beaches
  reopen?}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-545ba980}{When can California nail salons
  reopen?}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-46722957}{When can California churches
  reopen?}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-d8be7ad}{When will California's hair salons
  reopen?}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-7ecf25e0}{When will California casinos
  reopen?}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-5ee6204a}{Will California colleges reopen in
  fall 2020?}
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{which-california-counties-are-reopening}{%
\subsection{Which California counties are
reopening?}\label{which-california-counties-are-reopening}}

Each county will have to file documentation showing that it qualifies
for a variance from the statewide order, including by instituting
sufficient testing for communities and by proving that hospitals can
accommodate a 35 percent increase in Covid-19 cases.

On July 13, Mr. Newsom ordered indoor operations for fitness centers,
places of worship, noncritical offices, hair salons and barbershops, and
malls to close in 36 of the state's hardest-hit counties, including Los
Angeles, Orange and San Diego.

A list of all 36 counties
\href{https://covid19.ca.gov/roadmap-counties/}{can be found here}.

\emph{{[}See our}
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/california-coronavirus-cases.html}{\emph{map
of coronavirus cases}} \emph{in California by county.{]}}

\hypertarget{latest-updates-global-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/04/world/coronavirus-cases.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: Global Coronavirus
Outbreak}}{Latest Updates: Global Coronavirus Outbreak}}\label{latest-updates-global-coronavirus-outbreak}}

Updated 2020-08-04T20:57:54.346Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/04/world/coronavirus-cases.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-1228a480}{Novavax
  sees encouraging results from two studies of its experimental
  vaccine.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/04/world/coronavirus-cases.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-4825b93}{Public
  and private schools in Maryland and elsewhere are divided over
  in-person instruction.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/04/world/coronavirus-cases.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-50f7386d}{The
  United Nations calls on policymakers to `plan thoroughly for school
  reopenings.'}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/04/world/coronavirus-cases.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

More live coverage:
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/live/2020/08/04/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Markets}

\hypertarget{when-can-california-gyms-reopen}{%
\subsection{When can California gyms
reopen?}\label{when-can-california-gyms-reopen}}

State officials had directed local officials to decide
\href{http://www.oesnews.com/california-public-health-officials-provide-covid-19-update/}{when
the time was right to reopen gyms}. The state had also released
\href{https://files.covid19.ca.gov/pdf/guidance-fitness.pdf}{guidelines
for reopening}. However on July 13, Mr. Newsom ordered fitness centers
in 30 counties to close indoor operations.

\hypertarget{what-are-the-phases-for-reopening}{%
\subsection{What are the phases for
reopening?}\label{what-are-the-phases-for-reopening}}

In April, state leaders unveiled a timeline for how California plans to
reopen schools, businesses and public spaces. The framework, which
consists of four phases, lays out how the state will inch toward those
goals. Counties that were approved for a variance from the statewide
order can
\href{https://www.cdph.ca.gov/Programs/CID/DCDC/Pages/COVID-19/County_Variance_Attestation_Form.aspx}{move
further into Stage 3}, including opening hair salons, casinos and gyms,
with strict modifications.

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \textbf{Stage 1,} which the state has passed, means government and
  private organizations are working to make it consistently safer for
  essential workers, like grocery employees or nurses. Those workers
  need more protective equipment and a more robust testing and tracing
  system.
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \textbf{Stage 2,} which California entered in early May, is when some
  lower-risk businesses and public spaces can reopen, with strict
  modifications that allow for social distancing.
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \textbf{Stage 3} will be when higher-risk businesses may reopen, with
  modifications.
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \textbf{Stage 4} will be the end of the state's stay-at-home order.
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/04/29/us/california-reopen-coronavirus.html}{Read
more} about each phase, including what will remain closed.\emph{{[}Sign
up for our}
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/california-today}{\emph{California
Today newsletter}}\emph{, for top news and features from across one of
America's largest and most dynamic states.{]}}

\hypertarget{when-will-californias-beaches-reopen}{%
\subsection{When will California's beaches
reopen?}\label{when-will-californias-beaches-reopen}}

In L.A. County, where the outbreak has been among the most severe in the
state, the public health department announced the closure of all
``public beaches, piers, public beach parking lots, beach bike paths
that traverse that sanded portion of the beach, and beach access
points.''

Currently,
\href{https://www.latimes.com/projects/california-coronavirus-cases-tracking-outbreak/beach-closures/}{beaches
in 11 counties} are open for some activities. There are four counties
whose beaches are fully open.

Pismo Beach, on the Central Coast, is open,
\href{http://pismobeach.org/938/CovidResponse}{except} for the Pier.

\emph{{[}Read more:}
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/05/20/us/coronavirus-reopening-50-states.html}{\emph{All
50 states are now reopening. But at what cost?}}\emph{{]}}

\hypertarget{when-can-california-nail-salons-reopen}{%
\subsection{When can California nail salons
reopen?}\label{when-can-california-nail-salons-reopen}}

Nail salons got the go-ahead from Mr. Newsom to reopen on June 19 under
\href{https://covid19.ca.gov/pdf/expanded-personal-services.pdf}{strict
guidelines}. The guidance also applied to other personal care services
including aesthetician, skin care and cosmetology services. On July 13,
he ordered businesses that offer personal care services, including nail
salons, to close in 30 of the hardest-hit counties.

\hypertarget{when-can-california-churches-reopen}{%
\subsection{When can California churches
reopen?}\label{when-can-california-churches-reopen}}

The state
\href{https://covid19.ca.gov/pdf/guidance-places-of-worship.pdf}{released
new guidelines for how houses of worship could begin to reopen}. Houses
of worship must get the approval of their county public health
department
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/05/25/world/coronavirus-news-cases-deaths.html\#link-8d1a66e}{to
reopen}, and then limit attendance to 25 percent of their building
capacity, or a maximum of 100 attendees, whichever is lower. On July 13,
Mr. Newsom ordered places of worship in 30 counties to close indoor
operations.

\hypertarget{when-will-californias-hair-salons-reopen}{%
\subsection{When will California's hair salons
reopen?}\label{when-will-californias-hair-salons-reopen}}

Mr. Newsom released safety rules that he said would allow hair salons
and barbershops in most of the state to reopen while mitigating the
spread of coronavirus. The new rules direct hair cutters and customers
to wear face masks,
\href{https://covid19.ca.gov/pdf/guidance-hair-salons.pdf}{among other
precautions}. On July 13, Mr. Newsom ordered hair salons and barbershops
in 30 counties to close all indoor operations.

\hypertarget{when-will-california-casinos-reopen}{%
\subsection{When will California casinos
reopen?}\label{when-will-california-casinos-reopen}}

Some Native American tribal casinos have forged ahead with reopening,
including three in San Diego County.

On May 15, Mr. Newsom
\href{https://www.latimes.com/california/story/2020-05-15/california-tribal-casinos-urged-by-newsom-to-remain-closed-with-current-coronavirus-fears}{urged}
a group of tribal leaders in the state to reconsider reopening their
casinos in the coming days.

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/news-event/coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{}

\hypertarget{the-coronavirus-outbreak-}{%
\subsubsection{The Coronavirus Outbreak
›}\label{the-coronavirus-outbreak-}}

\hypertarget{frequently-asked-questions}{%
\paragraph{Frequently Asked
Questions}\label{frequently-asked-questions}}

Updated August 4, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{i-have-antibodies-am-i-now-immune}{%
  \paragraph{I have antibodies. Am I now
  immune?}\label{i-have-antibodies-am-i-now-immune}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    As of right
    now,\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/22/health/covid-antibodies-herd-immunity.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{that
    seems likely, for at least several months.} There have been
    frightening accounts of people suffering what seems to be a second
    bout of Covid-19. But experts say these patients may have a
    drawn-out course of infection, with the virus taking a slow toll
    weeks to months after initial exposure. People infected with the
    coronavirus typically
    \href{https://www.nature.com/articles/s41586-020-2456-9}{produce}
    immune molecules called antibodies, which are
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/05/07/health/coronavirus-antibody-prevalence.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{protective
    proteins made in response to an
    infection}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/05/07/health/coronavirus-antibody-prevalence.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{.
    These antibodies may} last in the body
    \href{https://www.nature.com/articles/s41591-020-0965-6}{only two to
    three months}, which may seem worrisome, but that's perfectly normal
    after an acute infection subsides, said Dr. Michael Mina, an
    immunologist at Harvard University. It may be possible to get the
    coronavirus again, but it's highly unlikely that it would be
    possible in a short window of time from initial infection or make
    people sicker the second time.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{im-a-small-business-owner-can-i-get-relief}{%
  \paragraph{I'm a small-business owner. Can I get
  relief?}\label{im-a-small-business-owner-can-i-get-relief}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    The
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/small-business-loans-stimulus-grants-freelancers-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{stimulus
    bills enacted in March} offer help for the millions of American
    small businesses. Those eligible for aid are businesses and
    nonprofit organizations with fewer than 500 workers, including sole
    proprietorships, independent contractors and freelancers. Some
    larger companies in some industries are also eligible. The help
    being offered, which is being managed by the Small Business
    Administration, includes the Paycheck Protection Program and the
    Economic Injury Disaster Loan program. But lots of folks have
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/05/07/business/small-business-loans-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{not
    yet seen payouts.} Even those who have received help are confused:
    The rules are draconian, and some are stuck sitting on
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/05/02/business/economy/loans-coronavirus-small-business.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{money
    they don't know how to use.} Many small-business owners are getting
    less than they expected or
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/10/business/Small-business-loans-ppp.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{not
    hearing anything at all.}
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{what-are-my-rights-if-i-am-worried-about-going-back-to-work}{%
  \paragraph{What are my rights if I am worried about going back to
  work?}\label{what-are-my-rights-if-i-am-worried-about-going-back-to-work}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Employers have to provide
    \href{https://www.osha.gov/SLTC/covid-19/standards.html}{a safe
    workplace} with policies that protect everyone equally.
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/coronavirus-money-unemployment.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{And
    if one of your co-workers tests positive for the coronavirus, the
    C.D.C.} has said that
    \href{https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/community/guidance-business-response.html}{employers
    should tell their employees} -\/- without giving you the sick
    employee's name -\/- that they may have been exposed to the virus.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{should-i-refinance-my-mortgage}{%
  \paragraph{Should I refinance my
  mortgage?}\label{should-i-refinance-my-mortgage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/coronavirus-money-unemployment.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{It
    could be a good idea,} because mortgage rates have
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/16/business/mortgage-rates-below-3-percent.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{never
    been lower.} Refinancing requests have pushed mortgage applications
    to some of the highest levels since 2008, so be prepared to get in
    line. But defaults are also up, so if you're thinking about buying a
    home, be aware that some lenders have tightened their standards.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{what-is-school-going-to-look-like-in-september}{%
  \paragraph{What is school going to look like in
  September?}\label{what-is-school-going-to-look-like-in-september}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    It is unlikely that many schools will return to a normal schedule
    this fall, requiring the grind of
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/05/us/coronavirus-education-lost-learning.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{online
    learning},
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/05/29/us/coronavirus-child-care-centers.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{makeshift
    child care} and
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/03/business/economy/coronavirus-working-women.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{stunted
    workdays} to continue. California's two largest public school
    districts --- Los Angeles and San Diego --- said on July 13, that
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/13/us/lausd-san-diego-school-reopening.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{instruction
    will be remote-only in the fall}, citing concerns that surging
    coronavirus infections in their areas pose too dire a risk for
    students and teachers. Together, the two districts enroll some
    825,000 students. They are the largest in the country so far to
    abandon plans for even a partial physical return to classrooms when
    they reopen in August. For other districts, the solution won't be an
    all-or-nothing approach.
    \href{https://bioethics.jhu.edu/research-and-outreach/projects/eschool-initiative/school-policy-tracker/}{Many
    systems}, including the nation's largest, New York City, are
    devising
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/26/us/coronavirus-schools-reopen-fall.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{hybrid
    plans} that involve spending some days in classrooms and other days
    online. There's no national policy on this yet, so check with your
    municipal school system regularly to see what is happening in your
    community.
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

``I understand that some tribal governments are planning on reopening
casinos on their lands,'' Mr. Newsom wrote. ``This deeply concerns me,
and I urge tribal governments to reconsider and instead make those
determinations based on how they align with the current local public
health conditions and the statewide stage of reopening.''

One of the state's largest tribal casinos,
\href{https://viejas.com/}{Viejas Casino \& Resort}, reopened with
stricter cleaning procedures.
\href{https://www.sycuan.com/about-us/covid-19-updates/}{Sycuan}
announced a Phase 1 reopening for May 20, with limited capacity and
select gaming machines, and
\href{https://www.valleyviewcasino.com/}{Valley View Casino \& Hotel}
opened its doors on May 22.

Pechanga Resort Casino, one of the largest casinos in America,
\href{https://www.pechanga.com/}{reopened June 1}.

Casinos that recently opened: Thunder Valley Casino Resort in Placer
County; Cache Creek Casino in Yolo County; Tachi Palace Casino Resort in
Kings County and Morongo Casino Resort in Riverside County; San Manuel
Casino in San Bernardino County.

Tribes are sovereign authorities and
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/05/28/us/california-virus-casinos.html}{not
subject to state and local restrictions} on operations during the
pandemic.

On July 13, Mr. Newsom ordered all card rooms in the state to close
indoor operations.

\hypertarget{will-california-colleges-reopen-in-fall-2020}{%
\subsection{Will California colleges reopen in fall
2020?}\label{will-california-colleges-reopen-in-fall-2020}}

California State University, the country's largest four-year public
university system,
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/05/12/us/cal-state-online-classes.html}{said}
that in-person classes at its 23 campuses would be scrapped for the fall
semester, with instruction taking place almost entirely online.

Individual campsues in the state's other four-year university system,
the University of California, with nearly 300,000 students on 10
campuses, have started announcing plans for fall. U.C. Berkeley
announced on July 21 that it will
\href{https://news.berkeley.edu/2020/07/21/uc-berkeley-to-begin-fall-semester-with-remote-instruction/}{begin
the fall semester} with fully remote instruction.
\href{https://www.universityofcalifornia.edu/coronavirus}{Plans for
other campuses} can be found on the University's website.

The Chronicle of Higher Education is tracking individual colleges' plans
for the fall. You can search for individual plans
\href{https://www.chronicle.com/article/Here-s-a-List-of-Colleges-/248626}{here}.

\hypertarget{what-are-the-cdcs-guidelines-for-reopening}{%
\subsection{What are the C.D.C.'s guidelines for
reopening?}\label{what-are-the-cdcs-guidelines-for-reopening}}

The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention released more detailed
guidance for schools, businesses, transit systems and other industries
hoping to reopen safely amid the pandemic after
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/05/07/us/politics/trump-cdc.html}{fear
that the White House had shelved the guidelines}.

\href{https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/downloads/php/CDC-Activities-Initiatives-for-COVID-19-Response.pdf}{The
60-page document}, which a C.D.C. spokesman said was uploaded over the
weekend, adds great detail to
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/05/15/us/cdc-coronavirus-checklists-decision-trees.html}{six
charts that the C.D.C. had released last week}.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
