Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}Trump Adds Roger Stone to
His List of Pardons and Commutations

\url{https://nyti.ms/38LC2kZ}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Election
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/biden-vice-president-2020.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Biden's
  V.P. Search}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/07/24/us/politics/trump-biden-campaign-donors.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Map
  of Donations}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/elections/delegate-count-primary-results.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Delegate
  Count}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2019/us/politics/2020-presidential-candidates.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{The
  Candidates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Politics
  Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{trump-adds-roger-stone-to-his-list-of-pardons-and-commutations}{%
\section{Trump Adds Roger Stone to His List of Pardons and
Commutations}\label{trump-adds-roger-stone-to-his-list-of-pardons-and-commutations}}

The president's decision to commute Mr. Stone's sentence continues a
pattern of his presidency: granting clemency to friends whose cases
resonate with him personally.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/07/10/us/politics/10dc-pardonlist/merlin_169214826_b1db798c-1ac5-4e8b-832d-982fe71b8b04-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/katie-rogers}{Katie Rogers},
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/derrick-bryson-taylor}{Derrick Bryson
Taylor} and \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/heather-murphy}{Heather
Murphy}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  July 11, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

President Trump on Friday
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/10/us/politics/trump-roger-stone-clemency.html}{commuted
the sentence of Roger J. Stone Jr.}, a longtime friend and former
campaign adviser who had openly expressed loyalty to him throughout a
congressional investigation into ties between Mr. Trump's 2016 campaign
and Russia.

``The simple fact is that if the special counsel had not been pursuing
an absolutely baseless investigation, Mr. Stone would not be facing time
in prison,'' the White House
\href{https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefings-statements/statement-press-secretary-regarding-executive-grant-clemency-roger-stone-jr/}{said
in a statement on Friday evening}.

Mr. Stone had been days away from reporting to a federal prison to serve
a 40-month sentence for seven felonies, including lying to federal
investigators, tampering with a witness and impeding a congressional
inquiry. He had
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/26/us/politics/roger-stone-prison.html}{aggressively
lobbied} for clemency, both in the courts and on social media.

The commutation, which was immediately criticized by Democrats, adds Mr.
Stone to a list of beneficiaries of Mr. Trump's clemency in cases that
resonate with him personally --- or with people who have a direct line
to him through friends or family --- over thousands of other cases
awaiting his review.

According to the Justice Department, Mr. Trump has commuted the
sentences of
\href{https://www.justice.gov/pardon/commutations-granted-president-donald-trump-2017-present}{10
people}, not including Mr. Stone, but he has received 7,786 petitions
for commutation. This puts him far behind his most recent predecessor,
President Barack Obama, who
\href{https://www.justice.gov/pardon/clemency-statistics\#obama}{commuted}
the sentences of 1,715 people, but closer to President George W. Bush,
who commuted the sentences of 11 people.

The Supreme Court has ruled that the Constitution gives presidents
unlimited authority to grant pardons, which excuse or forgive a federal
crime. A commutation,
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2007/07/03/washington/03commute.html}{by
contrast}, makes a punishment milder without wiping out the underlying
conviction --- in Mr. Stone's case, the White House did not argue that
he was innocent. Both are forms of presidential clemency.

Here are some of the pardons and commutations issued by Mr. Trump:

Pardon: Aug. 25, 2017

\hypertarget{joe-arpaio}{%
\subsection{Joe Arpaio}\label{joe-arpaio}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/04/30/us/politics/00dc-pardonlist-arpaio/merlin_169654206_ea5ad79b-00b2-448f-8df3-078b4efe4f62-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Joe Arpaio, an anti-immigration crusader who enjoyed calling himself
``America's toughest sheriff,''
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2017/08/27/us/joe-arpaio-sheriff-pardon.html}{was
the first pardon} of Mr. Trump's presidency.

Once one of the most popular --- and divisive --- figures in Arizona,
Mr. Arpaio was elected sheriff of Maricopa County five times before he
was
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2017/07/31/us/sheriff-joe-arpaio-convicted-arizona.html}{ultimately
charged with criminal contempt} for defying a court order to stop
detaining people solely on the suspicion that they were undocumented
immigrants.

In a move that drew outrage from Democrats and immigration advocates,
Mr. Trump, who has staked much of his political capital around
zero-tolerance immigration policies, pardoned Mr. Arpaio less than a
month after he was found guilty.

Pardon: May 15, 2019

\hypertarget{conrad-m-black}{%
\subsection{Conrad M. Black}\label{conrad-m-black}}

Conrad M. Black, a former press baron and friend of Mr. Trump's, was
granted a full pardon 12 years after his sentencing for fraud and
obstruction of justice.

Mr. Black, who once owned The Chicago Sun-Times, The Jerusalem Post and
The Daily Telegraph of London, among other newspapers, was convicted of
fraud in 2007 with three other former executives of Hollinger
International. They had been accused of skimming millions of dollars
from the media company.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-2020-election}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: 2020
Election}}{Latest Updates: 2020 Election}}\label{latest-updates-2020-election}}

Updated 2020-08-01T01:26:45.732Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-29fdff45}{Kamala
  Harris, a top vice-presidential contender, confronts double
  standards.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-13ec3d9c}{Karen
  Bass and Susan Rice are rising on Biden's vice-presidential
  shortlist.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-49e9a016}{Trump
  says Russian bounties to kill U.S. troops `never took place.'}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

Mr. Black, who was
\href{https://dealbook.nytimes.com/2012/05/04/conrad-black-is-freed/}{released
from prison in 2012}, is the author of several pro-Trump opinion
articles as well as a flattering book, ``Donald J. Trump: A President
Like No Other.''

COMMUTATION: Feb. 18, 2020

\hypertarget{rod-r-blagojevich}{%
\subsection{Rod R. Blagojevich}\label{rod-r-blagojevich}}

Image

Former Gov. Rod R. Blagojevich of Illinois outside his home in Chicago
in February after being released from prison in Colorado.Credit...Laura
McDermott for The New York Times

Former Gov. Rod R. Blagojevich of Illinois was
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2011/12/08/us/blagojevich-expresses-remorse-in-courtroom-speech.html}{sentenced
in 2011 to 14 years in prison} for trying to sell or trade to the
highest bidder the Senate seat that Mr. Obama vacated after he was
elected president. Mr. Blagojevich's expletive-filled remarks about his
role in choosing a new senator --- ``I'm just not giving it up for
nothing'' --- were caught on government recordings of his phone calls
and became punchlines on late-night television.

In 2010, while Mr. Blagojevich was awaiting trial,
\href{https://www.washingtonpost.com/history/2019/08/11/that-time-trump-fired-rod-blagojevich-celebrity-apprentice-harry-potter-incompetence/}{he
was a contestant on ``The Celebrity Apprentice,''} a reality TV series
hosted by Mr. Trump. Mr. Blagojevich was fired at the end of that
season's fourth episode.

Pardon: May 31, 2018

\hypertarget{dinesh-dsouza}{%
\subsection{Dinesh D'Souza}\label{dinesh-dsouza}}

Dinesh D'Souza received a presidential pardon after pleading guilty to
making illegal campaign contributions in 2014. Mr. D'Souza, a filmmaker
and author whose subjects often dabble in conspiracy theories, had long
blamed his conviction on his political opposition to Mr. Obama.

``What happened here is Obama and his team --- Eric Holder, Preet
Bharara in New York --- these guys decided to make an example of me, and
I think that the reason for this was Obama's anger over my movie that I
made about him,'' Mr. D'Souza said on ``Fox and Friends,'' one of Mr.
Trump's favorite shows.

His reasoning seemed to strike a nerve with the president: In issuing
his pardon, Mr. Trump said that Mr. D'Souza had been ``treated very
unfairly by our government,'' echoing a claim the commentator has often
made himself.

Pardon: Feb. 18, 2020

\hypertarget{edward-j-debartolo-jr}{%
\subsection{Edward J. DeBartolo Jr.}\label{edward-j-debartolo-jr}}

Image

Edward DeBartolo Jr., a former owner of the San Francisco 49ers, in
2016.Credit...Marcio Jose Sanchez/Associated Press

Edward J. DeBartolo Jr., a former owner of the San Francisco 49ers,
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/02/18/us/politics/trump-pardon-blagojevich-debartolo.html}{pleaded
guilty in 1998} to concealing an extortion plot. Mr. DeBartolo was
prosecuted after he gave Edwin W. Edwards, the influential former
governor of Louisiana, \$400,000 to secure a riverboat gambling license
for his gambling consortium.

The 49ers won five Super Bowl championships in a 14-year span while Mr.
DeBartolo was serving as the team's principal owner. Although Mr.
DeBartolo avoided prison, he was fined \$1 million and was suspended for
a year by the N.F.L.

commutation: June 6, 2018

\hypertarget{alice-marie-johnson}{%
\subsection{Alice Marie Johnson}\label{alice-marie-johnson}}

Image

Alice Johnson, center, was a guest of the First Lady at the State of the
Union address in 2019.Credit...Erin Schaff for The New York Times

Alice Marie Johnson was serving life in a federal prison for a
nonviolent drug conviction before her case was brought to Mr. Trump's
attention by the reality television star Kim Kardashian West.

The president's decision to commute her sentence freed Ms. Johnson, who
had been locked up in Alabama since 1996 on charges related to cocaine
distribution and money laundering.

Since her release, the Trump campaign
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/02/06/us/politics/alice-johnson-trump-super-bowl-ad.html}{has
used her as the face} of its outreach to Black voters: In February, Ms.
Johnson was featured in the campaign's Super Bowl ad, which was viewed
by about 102 million people during the game.

``I've been such a source of pride for him,'' Ms. Johnson said at the
time. ``Who doesn't want to show something they're proud of during an
election year? That's what all the candidates do. For him to highlight
me, it makes me know he's not only proud, he's super proud.''

Pardon: May 24, 2018

\hypertarget{jack-johnson}{%
\subsection{Jack Johnson}\label{jack-johnson}}

Jack Johnson, the first Black heavyweight boxing champion, was tarnished
by a racially tainted criminal conviction in 1913 --- for transporting a
white woman across state lines. It haunted him even well after his death
in 1946.

Politicians and celebrities alike tried for years to secure a pardon,
but in the end, Mr. Trump was swayed by a friendly phone call from
Rambo.

``Sylvester Stallone called me with the story of heavyweight boxing
champion
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/05/24/sports/jack-johnson-pardon-trump.html}{Jack
Johnson},'' Mr. Trump
\href{https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/987768453338673152}{wrote
on Twitter} just weeks before announcing his decision. ``His trials and
tribulations were great, his life complex and controversial. Others have
looked at this over the years, most thought it would be done, but yes, I
am considering a Full Pardon!''

Pardon: Feb. 18, 2020

\hypertarget{bernard-b-kerik}{%
\subsection{Bernard B. Kerik}\label{bernard-b-kerik}}

Image

Bernard B. Kerik, a former New York City police commissioner, in
2014.Credit...Tom Williams/CQ Roll Call, via Associated Press

Ten years ago, Bernard B. Kerik, a former New York City police
commissioner, was
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2010/02/19/nyregion/19kerik.html}{sentenced
to four years in prison} after pleading guilty to eight felony charges,
including tax fraud and lying to White House officials. Around the time
of his sentencing, federal prosecutors denounced Mr. Kerik as a corrupt
official who sought to trade his authority for lavish benefits.

Mr. Trump said he heard from more than a dozen people about pardoning
Mr. Kerik, including Rudolph W. Giuliani, the former New York mayor and
Mr. Trump's personal lawyer. Mr. Kerik's rise to prominence dates to the
1993 campaign for mayor in New York City, when he served as Mr.
Giuliani's bodyguard and chauffeur. After the pardon was announced, Mr.
Kerik
\href{https://twitter.com/BernardKerik/status/1229842151799959555}{expressed
his gratitude} to Mr. Trump on Twitter. ``With the exception of the
birth of my children,'' he wrote, ``today is one of the greatest days in
my life.''

Pardon: April 13, 2018

\hypertarget{i-lewis-scooter-libby-jr}{%
\subsection{I. Lewis ``Scooter'' Libby
Jr.}\label{i-lewis-scooter-libby-jr}}

I. Lewis Libby Jr. was Vice President Dick Cheney's top adviser before
Mr. Libby
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2007/03/07/washington/07libby.html}{was
convicted in 2007} of four felony counts, including perjury and
obstruction of justice, in connection with the disclosure of the
identity of a C.I.A. officer, Valerie Plame.

Mr. Libby had maintained his innocence for years, and his portrayal as a
victim of an unfair prosecution ultimately found favor with Mr. Trump.

``I don't know Mr. Libby,'' Mr. Trump said in a statement, ``but for
years I have heard that he has been treated unfairly. Hopefully, this
full pardon will help rectify a very sad portion of his life.''

Pardon: Nov. 15, 2019

\hypertarget{clint-lorance-maj-mathew-l-golsteyn-chief-petty-officer-edward-gallagher}{%
\subsection{Clint Lorance, Maj. Mathew L. Golsteyn, Chief Petty Officer
Edward
Gallagher}\label{clint-lorance-maj-mathew-l-golsteyn-chief-petty-officer-edward-gallagher}}

Mr. Trump's decision to clear three members of the armed services who
had been accused or convicted of war crimes signaled that the president
intended to use his power as the ultimate arbiter of military justice.

He ordered full pardons of Clint Lorance, a former Army lieutenant who
was serving a 19-year sentence for the murder of two civilians, and
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/12/14/us/politics/mathew-golsteyn-special-forces-murder-charges.html}{Maj.
Mathew L. Golsteyn}, an Army Special Forces officer who was facing
murder charges for killing an unarmed Afghan he believed was a Taliban
bomb maker.

The president also reversed the demotion of Chief Petty Officer
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/11/21/us/navy-seal-trident-insignia.html}{Edward
Gallagher}, a Navy SEAL who had been
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/07/02/us/navy-seal-trial-verdict.html}{acquitted
of murder charges} but convicted of a lesser offense in a high-profile
war crimes case.

All three had been championed by prominent conservatives who had
portrayed them as war heroes unfairly prosecuted for actions taken in
the heat and confusion of battle.

Pardon: Feb. 18, 2020

\hypertarget{michael-r-milken}{%
\subsection{Michael R. Milken}\label{michael-r-milken}}

Image

Michael R. Milken last year in Beverly Hills, Calif.Credit...Michael
Kovac/Getty Images

Michael R. Milken was the billionaire
``\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2008/04/29/business/29sorkin.html}{junk
bond king}'' and a well-known financier on Wall Street in the 1980s. In
1990, he
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/10/26/business/michael-milken-trump-opportunity-zones.html}{pleaded
guilty} to securities fraud and conspiracy charges and
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/1990/11/22/business/the-milken-sentence-milken-gets-10-years-for-wall-st-crimes.html}{was
sentenced to 10 years in prison}, though his sentence was later reduced
to two. He also agreed to pay \$600 million in fines and penalties.
After his release, Mr. Milken created the Milken Institute, a
nonpartisan think tank.

Mr. Milken did not have a pardon or commutation application pending at
the Justice Department's pardons office, meaning that the president made
that decision entirely without official department input. Among those
arguing for Mr. Milken to be pardoned were Mr. Giuliani, who as the U.S.
attorney for the Southern District of New York prosecuted Mr. Milken.

Pardon: Feb. 18, 2020

\hypertarget{david-h-safavian}{%
\subsection{David H. Safavian}\label{david-h-safavian}}

Image

David H. Safavian, the top federal procurement official under President
George W. Bush, in 2006 in Washington.Credit...Charles
Dharapak/Associated Press

David H. Safavian, the top federal procurement official under President
George W. Bush, was sentenced
\href{https://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/former-gsa-chief-staff-david-safavian-sentenced-obstruction-justice-and-making-false}{in
2009} to a year in prison for covering up his ties to Jack Abramoff, the
disgraced lobbyist whose corruption became a symbol of the excesses of
Washington influence peddling. Mr. Safavian was convicted of obstruction
of justice and making false statements.

``Having served time in prison and completed the process of rejoining
society with a felony conviction, Mr. Safavian is uniquely positioned to
identify problems with the criminal justice system and work to fix
them,'' the White House said in the statement announcing his pardon.

Pardon: Feb. 18, 2020

\hypertarget{angela-stanton}{%
\subsection{Angela Stanton}\label{angela-stanton}}

Image

Angela Stanton in 2018. She wrote~``Life of a Real Housewife,'' which
explores her difficult upbringing and her encounters with reality TV
stars.Credit...Roy Rochlin/Getty Images for SiriusXM

Angela Stanton --- an author, television personality and motivational
speaker --- served six months of home confinement in 2007 for her role
in a stolen-vehicle ring. Her book ``Life of a Real Housewife'' explores
her difficult upbringing and her encounters with reality TV stars.

Before her pardon, she
\href{https://waok.radio.com/blogs/on-point-with-juandolyn-stokes/angela-stanton-king-talks-adversity-and-support-for-trump}{gave
interviews} in which she declared her support for Mr. Trump. In
announcing her pardon, the White House credited her with working
``tirelessly to improve re-entry outcomes for people returning to their
communities upon release from prison.''

\hypertarget{our-2020-election-guide}{%
\section{Our 2020 Election Guide}\label{our-2020-election-guide}}

Updated July 31, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{the-latest}{%
  \subsection{The Latest}\label{the-latest}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    President Trump's assault on the Postal Service is intersecting with
    his attacks on mail-in voting.
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/politics/trump-usps-mail-delays.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Voting
    rights groups say it is a recipe for disaster.}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{bidens-vp-search}{%
  \subsection{Biden's V.P. Search}\label{bidens-vp-search}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/biden-vice-president-2020.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Here
    are 13 women} who have been under consideration to be Joe Biden's
    running mate, and why each might be chosen --- and might not be.
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{keep-up-with-our-coverage}{%
  \subsection{Keep Up With Our
  Coverage}\label{keep-up-with-our-coverage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Get an
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{email}
    recapping the day's news
  \end{itemize}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Download our mobile app on
    \href{https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nytimes/id284862083?ls=1\&mat_click_id=5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\&referrer=mat_click_id\%3D5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\%26link_click_id\%3D722930677036718082}{iOS}
    and
    \href{http://a.localytics.com/android?id=com.nytimes.android\&referrer=utm_source\%3Dother_nyt_mobile_web\%26utm_medium\%3DWeb\%2520page\%26utm_term\%3DGeneral\%2520Mobile\%2520Page\%26utm_campaign\%3DNYT\%2520Mobile\%2520General\%2520Page}{Android}
    and turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
