Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/us}{U.S.}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/us}{U.S.}\textbar{}What We Know About the Death of
Vanessa Guillen

\url{https://nyti.ms/2NSHzNb}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{what-we-know-about-the-death-of-vanessa-guillen}{%
\section{What We Know About the Death of Vanessa
Guillen}\label{what-we-know-about-the-death-of-vanessa-guillen}}

Specialist Guillen was reported missing from Fort Hood three months ago.
Her case has inspired protests and caught the attention of high-level
politicians, including the president.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/08/03/multimedia/03xp-guillen-update/merlin_174301419_9afa04bc-e09e-4c69-8e3d-0f538cbf5992-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/johnny-diaz}{Johnny Diaz},
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/maria-cramer}{Maria Cramer} and
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/christina-morales}{Christina Morales}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  July 31, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

In the weeks since the discovery of the dismembered and burned remains
of Vanessa Guillen, a Fort Hood soldier who disappeared on April 22,
outrage has spread from central Texas to Washington, where her family
met with President Trump and demonstrators have planned a march to
demand justice for her killing this week.

Specialist Guillen's case has captured the attention of celebrities,
lawmakers and other public figures, and drawn particular outrage from
women in the military and Latinos. Specialist Guillen's family has
raised allegations that before she was killed she had been sexually
harassed.

Activists have expressed outrage at the lack of answers and action from
the military when Specialist Guillen first disappeared and have called
for changes in how the military handles reports of sexual harassment and
assault and ramping up
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/11/us/politics/military-women-metoo-fort-hood.html}{the
military's own \#MeToo}moment.

Specialist Guillen's bones, hair and other remains were found at the end
of June. A federal complaint alleges that a soldier --- who fatally shot
himself with a pistol as the police approached him --- killed Specialist
Guillen at Fort Hood, hid her body in a large box and attempted to
dismember and burn her remains with his girlfriend.

Here is what we know about the case.

\hypertarget{who-was-specialist-guillen}{%
\subsection{Who was Specialist
Guillen?}\label{who-was-specialist-guillen}}

Specialist Guillen was born and raised in Houston with five siblings.
Her mother, Gloria Guillen, said she had
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/19/us/vanessa-guillen-fort-hood-disappearance.html}{an
interest in the military} since childhood, when she would play with her
brother's toy pistol. Despite her mother's reservations,
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/06/us/fort-hood-soldier-vanessa-guillen-remains-found.html}{she
decided to enlist at 18}.

Specialist Guillen was athletic. She enjoyed lifting weights, played
soccer, and ran on track and cross-country teams.

Specialist Guillen's mother said she had enjoyed attending church with
her daughter. A memorial at her home was surrounded by angels and
figures of the Virgin Mary, which Specialist Guillen wore on a gold
necklace that she never removed.

\hypertarget{one-person-has-been-charged}{%
\subsection{One person has been
charged.}\label{one-person-has-been-charged}}

Prosecutors announced a charge in the case on July 2, detailing for the
first time accusations that Specialist Guillen was killed by another
soldier who then tried to dispose of her remains.

In a federal complaint, the accused soldier was identified as U.S. Army
Specialist Aaron Robinson, 20. A few days before the charge was
announced, Specialist Robinson killed himself with a pistol as the
police approached.

The authorities also arrested his girlfriend, Cecily Aguilar, in
Killeen, Texas.
\href{https://www.justice.gov/usao-wdtx/pr/killeen-woman-faces-federal-charge-connection-disappearance-us-army-specialist-vanessa}{Justice
Department officials said} in court documents that Specialist Robinson
told Ms. Aguilar that he repeatedly struck Specialist Guillen on the
head with a hammer, killing her, and hid her body in a large box. The
couple then tried to dismember and burn the remains, according to the
complaint.

If Ms. Aguilar, a civilian, is convicted of the charge against her,
conspiracy to tamper with evidence, she faces a maximum sentence of 20
years. A lawyer for Ms. Aguilar did not immediately respond to a request
for comment on Tuesday.

\hypertarget{how-did-specialist-guillen-disappear}{%
\subsection{How did Specialist Guillen
disappear?}\label{how-did-specialist-guillen-disappear}}

Specialist Guillen was last seen around noon on April 22 in the parking
lot of her squadron's headquarters at Fort Hood. Investigators who
searched her phone found that the last person she texted was Specialist
Robinson.

Specialist Robinson worked in a building at Fort Hood that was adjacent
to where Specialist Guillen worked, according to Special Agent Damon
Phelps of the Criminal Investigation Command. He was not Specialist
Guillen's superior and was not in her chain of command, Mr. Phelps said
at a news conference.

A witness told investigators that Specialist Guillen left the arms room
where she had been working and went to the arms room controlled by
Specialist Robinson to confirm serial numbers for weapons and equipment,
the complaint said.

Specialist Robinson later said he read her the serial numbers and gave
her paperwork, according to court documents. He said he believed she
then left to go to the motor pool.

Two witnesses later said that on the same day, they saw Specialist
Robinson coming out of the arms room, pulling a large ``tough box'' with
wheels ``that appeared very heavy in weight,'' according to the
complaint.

\hypertarget{how-the-search-unfolded}{%
\subsection{How the search unfolded.}\label{how-the-search-unfolded}}

Specialist Guillen was reported missing on April 23. Her car keys, room
key, ID and wallet were found in the armory room where she had been
repairing small arms and artillery.

On April 24, the U.S. Army Criminal Investigation Command
\href{https://www.cid.army.mil/assets/docs/press-releases/Fort\%20Hood\%20Missing\%20Soldier.pdf}{posted
a news release} asking for the public's help in finding her. Thousands
of soldiers searched for Specialist Guillen in buildings, barracks,
fields, training areas, lakes and trails at Fort Hood.

On June 30, human remains were found near the Leon River in Bell County,
Texas. On July 3, the Army confirmed that the remains were Specialist
Guillen's.

\hypertarget{heres-the-latest-on-the-investigation}{%
\subsection{Here's the latest on the
investigation.}\label{heres-the-latest-on-the-investigation}}

Specialist Guillen told friends and fellow soldiers at her base that she
had been sexually harassed, Ms. Khawam said. Specialist Guillen did not
make an official report about sexual harassment, Fort Hood officials
have said.

Fort Hood officials said on July 6 that they would complete an
investigation into Specialist Guillen's accusations of sexual harassment
and would seek a review of their sexual harassment and sexual assault
response and prevention program to address any shortcomings.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/07/01/autossell/01vid-forthood/01vid-forthood-videoSixteenByNine3000.png}

\hypertarget{the-accusations-against-ms-aguilar}{%
\subsection{The accusations against Ms.
Aguilar.}\label{the-accusations-against-ms-aguilar}}

When Specialist Guillen disappeared, Ms. Aguilar, 22, was living with
Specialist Robinson, according to the complaint.

Prosecutors said in court documents that she initially lied to
investigators about what she knew but on June 30 confessed to playing a
role in the disposal of Specialist Guillen's body.

On July 14, Ms. Aguilar was indicted by a grand jury at the U.S.
District Court in Waco, Texas, on charges related to tampering with
documents or proceedings, including the body of Specialist Guillen. Ms.
Aguilar pleaded not guilty on all counts. A judge did not grant bail for
Ms. Aguilar.

Ms. Aguilar told investigators that Specialist Robinson had picked her
up late on April 22 or early on April 23 at the gas station where she
worked.

Ms. Aguilar said she helped Specialist Robinson dismember the body with
an ax or hatchet and a machete-style knife, according to the complaint.
The couple buried the remains near the Leon River, it said.

Investigators told her to call Specialist Robinson. During the
conversation, he denied doing anything to Specialist Guillen.

But he later texted Ms. Aguilar pictures of news articles about the
discovery of human remains near the river.

``Baby they found pieces,'' court documents quote him as saying during a
phone call with Ms. Aguilar, which investigators were monitoring. ``They
found pieces.''

\hypertarget{heres-what-comes-next}{%
\subsection{Here's what comes next.}\label{heres-what-comes-next}}

Members of Specialist Guillen's family met with President Trump on July
30 at the White House. At the meeting, her mother asked for his help in
finding the truth and justice.

Mr. Trump said that Specialist Guillen's story ``hit me very hard,'' and
that she was ``a spectacular person and respected and loved by
everybody, including in the military.''

He said the F.B.I. and Justice Department were now involved in addition
to officials at Fort Hood, he said. ``We'll get to the bottom of it,''
he said. ``Maybe things can come out that will help other people in a
situation like Vanessa.''

The bill, named ``\#IAmVanessaGuillen'' after a hashtag that encouraged
military members to talk about their own sexual harassment and sexual
assault experiences, is still in its early stages. If passed, it would
allow for the creation of a third-party agency to which active-duty
service members could report allegations of sexual harassment and sexual
assault. Separately, on July 10, the
\href{https://twitter.com/SecArmy/status/1281641910327824386?s=20}{secretary
of the Army} ordered an independent review of Fort Hood's command
culture.

At the White House meeting, Mr. Trump offered to help financially with
Specialist Guillen's funeral after he asked when and where it would take
place. A funeral has not been held because the family is awaiting the
remains. The family said it wanted to hold the funeral in Houston.

``And if I can help you out with the funeral, I'll help --- I'll help
you with that,'' Mr. Trump said. ``Financially, I'll help you.''

Among other politicians and lawmakers conveying their disappointment
with the case was former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr., the
presumptive Democratic nominee. ``We owe it to those who put on the
uniform, and to their families, to put an end to sexual harassment and
assault in the military, and hold perpetrators accountable,'' he said in
a statement on July 3.

Michael Levenson and Bryan Pietsch contributed reporting.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
