Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/world/asia}{Asia
Pacific}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/world/asia}{Asia Pacific}\textbar{}North Korea's Party
Congress Explained: A Coronation for Kim Jong-un

\url{https://nyti.ms/1q1MAnL}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{north-koreas-party-congress-explained-a-coronation-for-kim-jong-un}{%
\section{North Korea's Party Congress Explained: A Coronation for Kim
Jong-un}\label{north-koreas-party-congress-explained-a-coronation-for-kim-jong-un}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2016/05/06/world/06NORTHKOREAEXPLAINER-web2/06NORTHKOREAEXPLAINER-web2-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By \href{http://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/choe-sang-hun}{Choe
Sang-Hun}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  May 5, 2016
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Friday is the start of North Korea's most important political meeting in
36 years: the seventh congress of the ruling Workers' Party. Thousands
of delegates from around the country are in Pyongyang, the capital,
whose residents have been mobilized to welcome them. But beyond the
choreographed pageantry and fervor, there are reasons to watch the
proceedings closely.

\hypertarget{what-is-the-congress}{%
\subsection{What is the congress?}\label{what-is-the-congress}}

In theory, the Workers' Party rules North Korea, and the congress is
where its most important decisions are made. Delegates will elect the
party's central committee, which will choose the Politburo and the
party's top boss, the first secretary. (Kim Jong-un is, to say the
least, highly likely to retain that post.) The congress also reviews
past policies and adopts new party lines.

That's the theory. In reality, all decision-making power is concentrated
in one supreme leader, Mr. Kim, and
\href{http://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2016/05/05/world/asia/north-korea-congress-kim-jong-un.html}{all
political events} are dedicated to ensuring what the country calls his
``monolithic leadership.'' The charter of the Workers' Party commits it
to upholding Mr. Kim as its ``center'' while abiding by ``the Kim
Il-sung/Kim Jong-il ideology as its only leadership philosophy''
(referring to North Korea's two previous supreme leaders, Mr. Kim's
grandfather and his father).

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2016/05/06/world/06NORTHKOREAEXPLAINER-web3/06NORTHKOREAEXPLAINER-web3-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\_\_\_\_\_

\hypertarget{why-is-this-happening-now}{%
\subsection{Why is this happening
now?}\label{why-is-this-happening-now}}

It is not entirely clear. According to its charter, the Workers' Party
is supposed to hold its congress every five years. But this is
\href{http://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2016/04/28/world/asia/north-korea-party-congress.html}{only
the seventh} in the party's 70-year history; the last one was held in
1980, before Mr. Kim was even born. Kim Il-sung was in charge then.

By the time Kim Jong-il inherited power in the mid-1990s, the North's
economy had collapsed after decades of mismanagement, the disintegration
of the Soviet bloc and a series of droughts and floods. Famine is
believed to have killed more than two million citizens during the 1990s.
Kim Jong-il's response to the crisis was to rely on a military of 1.1
million to ensure internal security, and the army replaced the Workers'
Party as the main governing body. Kim Jong-il retained his party titles
as well as military ones, but he never convened a party congress, which
spared him from having to address the subject of the famine.

Though conditions in the North are far less dire now, Kim Jong-un has
done little to improve living standards since taking power a few years
ago. Nevertheless, he
\href{http://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2015/10/31/world/asia/north-korea-to-hold-convention-for-workers-party.html}{announced
in October} that a party congress would be held this month. He has been
billing himself as a leader who can protect the country's ``independence
and dignity'' with nuclear weapons, and
\href{http://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2016/04/29/world/asia/north-korea-missile-test.html}{three
recent (failed) attempts} to launch midrange ballistic missiles were
seen as efforts to bolster his image before the congress.

Image

At the sixth congress, in October 1980, Kim Jong-il grabbed crucial
party posts that cemented his status as his father's heir.Credit...Korea
News Service, via Associated Press

\_\_\_\_\_

\hypertarget{why-does-the-congress-matter}{%
\subsection{Why does the congress
matter?}\label{why-does-the-congress-matter}}

``With this party congress, Kim Jong-un is restoring the party as the
main governing agency,'' said Lim Eul-chul, an analyst at the Institute
for Far Eastern Studies in Seoul, South Korea. Under Mr. Kim, the
Workers' Party has regained powers and perks that it ceded to the army
under his father's rule, including the lucrative right to export coal.
The new party leadership he puts together --- approved by delegates who,
though technically chosen in local elections, are actually handpicked
loyalists --- will make the party truly his own. That is why some
analysts have likened the congress to Mr. Kim's coronation and called it
the official start of the Kim Jong-un era.

\_\_\_\_\_

\hypertarget{what-should-we-watch-for}{%
\subsection{What should we watch for?}\label{what-should-we-watch-for}}

In
\href{http://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2016/01/02/world/asia/kim-jong-un-new-year-speech-north-korea.html}{his
New Year's speech} in January, Mr. Kim said that he would present ``an
ambitious blueprint'' for the country during the congress, and he vowed
to treat improving the people's living conditions ``as the most
important of the numerous state affairs.'' Analysts are watching to see
if he introduces economic reforms.

Mr. Kim has shown some tolerance for private enterprise, giving rise to
a new moneyed class that has thrived on smuggling goods from China. He
has made improvements to his showpiece capital, opening water parks and
building high-rise apartments along the Taedong River, but most of the
country lives in misery, without enough food or electricity. In 2013,
Mr. Kim adopted his so-called byungjin policy, calling for rebuilding
the economy while expanding
\href{http://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2016/01/06/world/asia/north-korea-nuclear-bomb-test.html}{a
nuclear arsenal}. The idea is that nuclear weapons will provide security
that allows the country to focus on economic recovery.

Now that North Korea
\href{http://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2016/01/07/magazine/kim-jong-uns-generational-ambitions.html}{claims
to be a nuclear power}, some analysts expect Mr. Kim to shift more
attention to the economy. The United States and South Korea say the
byungjin policy will not work, and they have vowed to deepen
\href{http://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2015/06/10/world/asia/north-korea-photos-video.html}{the
North's isolation} until it abandons its nuclear weapons. But few expect
that to happen any time soon. Indeed, the party may amend its charter to
define the North as a nuclear power, South Korean analysts say. (The
North's Constitution was amended to that effect in 2012.)

Image

Delegates in Pyongyang, the capital, ahead of the congress, which begins
on Friday.Credit...Korean Central News Agency, via Agence France-Presse
--- Getty Images

\_\_\_\_\_

\hypertarget{what-else-might-happen}{%
\subsection{What else might happen?}\label{what-else-might-happen}}

It's hard to say. Kim Il-sung
\href{https://www.nknews.org/2016/05/what-happens-at-a-north-korean-party-conference-or-congress/}{used
past congresses} to help remove rival factions and tighten his family's
grip on power. At the sixth congress in 1980, Kim Jong-il grabbed
crucial party posts that cemented his status as his father's heir.
(During that meeting, North Korea presented a vision for a reunified
Korean Peninsula: a ``Democratic Confederal Republic of Koryo,'' in
which the South and North would exist in peace as autonomous regions
respecting each other's political systems.)

At that congress, North Korea also mobilized a million people in
Pyongyang for a rally. Nearly 120 countries sent delegates to the
capital that year, including senior officials from the Chinese and
Soviet Communist Parties. This time, as the North's circle of friendly
nations has shrunk considerably, the congress will be a domestic affair,
though some foreign journalists have been invited to cover it.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{Â©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
