Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/business/energy-environment}{Energy
\& Environment}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/business/energy-environment}{Energy \&
Environment}\textbar{}Oil and Gas Groups See `Some Common Ground' in
Biden Energy Plan

\href{https://nyti.ms/2X4AM8d}{https://nyti.ms/2X4AM8d}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Election
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/biden-vice-president-2020.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Biden's
  V.P. Search}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/07/24/us/politics/trump-biden-campaign-donors.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Map
  of Donations}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/delegate-count-primary-results.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Delegate
  Count}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/us/politics/2020-presidential-candidates.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{The
  Candidates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Politics
  Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{oil-and-gas-groups-see-some-common-ground-in-biden-energy-plan}{%
\section{Oil and Gas Groups See `Some Common Ground' in Biden Energy
Plan}\label{oil-and-gas-groups-see-some-common-ground-in-biden-energy-plan}}

Some energy executives are pleased that the former vice president is not
calling for a fracking ban and said they could work with him.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/07/28/business/00biden-energy1/merlin_174563181_3b83849d-bc99-4ef3-bc4d-3abdf1e58ff2-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/clifford-krauss}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/10/17/multimedia/author-clifford-krauss/author-clifford-krauss-thumbLarge.png}}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/ivan-penn}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/06/12/multimedia/author-ivan-penn/author-ivan-penn-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/clifford-krauss}{Clifford
Krauss} and \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/ivan-penn}{Ivan
Penn}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  July 28, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

HOUSTON ---
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/joe-biden.html}{Joseph
R. Biden Jr.} won over environmentalists and liberals when he announced
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/14/us/politics/biden-climate-plan.html}{a
\$2 trillion plan} to promote electric vehicles, energy efficiency and
other policies intended to address climate change.

But the plan released on July 14 has also earned a measure of support
from an unexpected source: the oil and gas industry that is closely
aligned with the Trump administration and is a big source of campaign
contributions to the president.

That might seem odd considering that the plan aims for ``net-zero''
greenhouse gas emissions by no later than 2050, in part by discouraging
the use of fossil fuels. Mr. Biden also wants to spend more on mass
transit, expand solar and wind farms and build thousands of electric
vehicle charging stations.

Yet the industry was relieved by what the plan did not include, chiefly
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/09/us/politics/biden-sanders-task-force.html}{a
ban on hydraulic fracturing}, the approach that has turbocharged
domestic production of oil and gas over the past dozen years.

``There is a lot of room in there for oil and gas,'' said Matt
Gallagher, president of Parsley Energy, a West Texas oil producer, about
the Biden plan.

Some executives were particularly enthusiastic that Mr. Biden wanted the
federal government to invest in
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/24/climate/carbon-capture-tax-break.html}{carbon
capture and sequestration}, which entails preventing emissions of
greenhouse gases from reaching the atmosphere and thus allowing industry
to continue burning fossil fuels for decades. In a sign of his
all-inclusive, eclectic approach to energy, Mr. Biden is also proposing
to use
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2016/01/20/science/advanced-nuclear-reactors-department-of-energy.html}{advanced
nuclear reactors} to produce electricity.

``There is some common ground,'' said Mike Sommers, president of the
American Petroleum Institute, which represents the industry in
Washington and is close to the Trump administration. ``We appreciate the
fact that they recognize that there is going to be
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/06/business/energy-environment/renewable-energy-natural-gas.html}{a
role for natural gas} and oil in our future. We share the broad goal of
reducing emissions and addressing climate change.''

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/07/28/business/00biden-energy2/merlin_149933016_3c3e3a63-a732-4f12-9dbe-9bfc8f575aab-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Oil and gas executives noted that they had worked productively with
Democratic administrations. During the Obama administration, oil
companies enjoyed handsome profits even as federal regulators put in
effect tougher environmental regulations.

Charif Souki, a Houston entrepreneur who pioneered the liquefied natural
gas export industry, expressed enthusiasm about the Biden plan.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-2020-election}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: 2020
Election}}{Latest Updates: 2020 Election}}\label{latest-updates-2020-election}}

Updated 2020-08-01T01:26:45.732Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-29fdff45}{Kamala
  Harris, a top vice-presidential contender, confronts double
  standards.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-13ec3d9c}{Karen
  Bass and Susan Rice are rising on Biden's vice-presidential
  shortlist.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-49e9a016}{Trump
  says Russian bounties to kill U.S. troops `never took place.'}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

``At first blush, the plan is a masterpiece because he gives something
to everybody,'' said Mr. Souki, executive chairman of Tellurian, a gas
producer that is planning a major export terminal in Louisiana.
``Investment in infrastructure is great, \$400 billion for research and
development is phenomenal and way overdue.''

Like almost all the fossil fuel executives, however, Mr. Souki had some
reservations. He described Mr. Biden's goal of eliminating carbon
emissions from the electricity sector by 2035 as ``unrealistic and
unachievable.'' He said Mr. Biden ought to strive for ``carbon
neutrality,'' in which emissions from power plants would be offset by
planting trees and using
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/04/07/business/energy-environment/climate-change-carbon-engineering.html}{new
technologies to suck carbon out of the air}.

Of course, most oil and gas executives would prefer President Trump be
re-elected because he has
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/15/climate/trump-biden-environment.html?action=click\&module=RelatedLinks\&pgtype=Article}{spent
the past three and a half years rolling back regulations}.

Fossil fuel interests have donated seven times more to the Trump
campaign than the Biden campaign through June, according to the Center
for Responsive Politics, a nonprofit research group. Those numbers are
skewed in part because Mr. Trump has been raising money since he took
office in 2017.

The president's most ardent supporters in the energy industry said Mr.
Biden's plan was craftily intended to appear moderate so he could
compete with Mr. Trump
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/31/business/energy-environment/pennsylvania-shale-gas-fracking.html}{in
states that produce oil and gas.}

``He
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/01/27/us/politics/pennsylvania-democrats-fracking.html}{wants
to win Pennsylvania}, so he toned down that rhetoric for obvious
reasons,'' said Kathleen Sgamma, president of the Western Energy
Alliance in Denver.

Coal executives are downright hostile toward Mr. Biden. ``Their overall
motive is to do away with coal miners and coal use in this country,''
said Bill Raney, president of the West Virginia Coal Association.

Image

The Shell Pennsylvania Petrochemicals Complex in Monaca, Pa. Critics of
Mr. Biden say his energy plan is intended to appear moderate to allow
him to win states that produce oil and gas like
Pennsylvania.Credit...Maddie McGarvey for The New York Times

Yet energy executives have complaints with the Trump administration,
too. Some natural gas executives privately grouse that
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/01/15/business/energy-environment/china-trade-deal-energy.html}{the
president's trade war has cost them dearly} because China, the world's
biggest gas importer, has bought only three cargoes of
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/11/business/energy-environment/natural-gas-exports-coronavirus.html}{liquefied
natural gas} from the United States over the past 22 months.

Other executives say Mr. Trump's decision to withdraw from the Paris
climate accord needlessly hurt the country's image abroad. And some
think that the administration's botched handling of
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus}{the
coronavirus pandemic} has dealt
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/25/business/economy/texas-economy-oil-coronavirus.html}{a
big blow to the economy and demand for energy}.

``Masks are good for the economy,'' Mr. Gallagher of Parsley Energy
said. ``Masks need to be an economic thing, not a political thing.''

To shore up his base in oil country, Mr. Trump plans to attend a
fund-raising lunch in Odessa, Texas, on Wednesday and tour an oil rig.

Stef Feldman, the Biden campaign's policy director, said it was not
surprising that some oil and gas executives were open to some of Mr.
Biden's ideas. ``More and more energy companies are realizing the
reality of climate change, the direction consumers are headed, the
direction other businesses are headed and they are making changes as a
result,'' she said.

When asked about fracking, Ms. Feldman said Mr. Biden would end new
leases for fracking on federal lands but that ``he does not support a
complete ban on fracking.''

Some executives said they were comfortable with Mr. Biden in part
because the Obama administration
\href{https://archive.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/gwire/2010/12/14/14greenwire-obama-admin-wants-study-but-backs-northeast-sh-25319.html}{did
not block fracking} and even approved drilling in Arctic waters in
Alaska. They say Mr. Biden understands the importance of limiting
reliance on foreign oil, and using energy exports to help allies like
Japan and undercut rivals like Russia.

``The policy of a Biden administration or a Trump administration might
not be so different in the sense of leveraging exports of gas and oil as
a foreign policy tool,'' said Charlie Riedl, executive director of the
Center for Liquefied Natural Gas, an industry group.

There is also growing recognition among some in the oil and gas business
that climate change is a problem that the industry has to help address.

``Everyone I know knows we have more carbon dioxide in the atmosphere
than we used to and it's common sense that it's probably not a good
thing and we have to do something about it,'' said Lawrence B. Dale,
chairman of Dale Operating Company, a Dallas-based company that has
investments in 5,000 oil and gas wells.

Mr. Dale said he was pleased that Mr. Biden had put forward an energy
plan that did not endorse
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/02/21/climate/green-new-deal-questions-answers.html}{the
Green New Deal}, a climate proposal embraced by many progressive
lawmakers.

Support for Mr. Biden's plan is clearly stronger among other parts of
the energy industry, including electric utilities and renewable energy
companies.

Image

A solar farm at Babcock Ranch, Fla. Solar and wind industry officials
are generally very supportive of the Biden energy plan.Credit...Zack
Wittman for The New York Times

The Edison Electric Institute, which represents investor-owned
utilities, said its members were generally aligned with Mr. Biden's plan
for a clean electricity grid.

Pedro J. Pizarro, president and chief executive officer of Edison
International, the parent company of Southern California Edison, said
the Biden plan's emphasis on clean energy jobs, energy efficiency and
transportation was smart. If anything, he said, the proposals for more
electric vehicle chargers would most likely need to be increased, as
emissions from cars and trucks remain a major contributor to climate
change.

``While the devil is in the details, we think the plan mostly gets it
right,'' Mr. Pizarro said.

The Biden plan would renew the federal government's efforts to improve
energy efficiency that the Trump administration has whittled away. The
proposal also calls for extending tax credits for solar and wind power,
which have become increasingly competitive against natural gas. Wind and
solar groups also endorse Mr. Biden's proposals to strengthen the
electricity transmission network to help their technologies.

At least some in the renewable energy business accept that the Biden
plan will keep fossil fuels in the energy mix.

``I don't want to minimize in the near term that natural gas is an
important partner,'' said Tom Kiernan, chief executive of the American
Wind Energy Association. ``What we're seeing is all kinds of
combinations.''

That oil and gas interests are OK with a potential Biden presidency
might scare some liberals, said Robert Shrum, the director of the
University of Southern California's Center for the Political Future who
has advised Al Gore, John Kerry and other Democrats. ``There would be
some people in the Democratic Party who would get upset that there are
oil people who are supporting Biden, but they ought to back off,'' Mr.
Shrum said. ``Don't we want to win Texas?''

Clifford Krauss reported from Houston, and Ivan Penn from Los Angeles.

\hypertarget{our-2020-election-guide}{%
\section{Our 2020 Election Guide}\label{our-2020-election-guide}}

Updated July 31, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{the-latest}{%
  \subsection{The Latest}\label{the-latest}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    President Trump's assault on the Postal Service is intersecting with
    his attacks on mail-in voting.
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/31/us/politics/trump-usps-mail-delays.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Voting
    rights groups say it is a recipe for disaster.}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{bidens-vp-search}{%
  \subsection{Biden's V.P. Search}\label{bidens-vp-search}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/biden-vice-president-2020.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Here
    are 13 women} who have been under consideration to be Joe Biden's
    running mate, and why each might be chosen --- and might not be.
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{keep-up-with-our-coverage}{%
  \subsection{Keep Up With Our
  Coverage}\label{keep-up-with-our-coverage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Get an
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{email}
    recapping the day's news
  \end{itemize}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Download our mobile app on
    \href{https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nytimes/id284862083?ls=1\&mat_click_id=5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\&referrer=mat_click_id\%3D5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\%26link_click_id\%3D722930677036718082}{iOS}
    and
    \href{http://a.localytics.com/android?id=com.nytimes.android\&referrer=utm_source\%3Dother_nyt_mobile_web\%26utm_medium\%3DWeb\%2520page\%26utm_term\%3DGeneral\%2520Mobile\%2520Page\%26utm_campaign\%3DNYT\%2520Mobile\%2520General\%2520Page}{Android}
    and turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
