Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/sports/golf}{Golf}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/sports/golf}{Golf}\textbar{}Inside the PGA Tour Bubble,
Silent Fairways and Mounting Cases

\url{https://nyti.ms/2YAw82H}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{inside-the-pga-tour-bubble-silent-fairways-and-mounting-cases}{%
\section{Inside the PGA Tour Bubble, Silent Fairways and Mounting
Cases}\label{inside-the-pga-tour-bubble-silent-fairways-and-mounting-cases}}

Tour officials sent golfers a health tracking device and expanded
testing protocols as eight golfers pulled out of the Travelers
Championship because of positive tests for the coronavirus.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/06/27/sports/26golf-bubble2-print/merlin_173888955_916b0f08-b080-4e0a-a08a-02fda274c601-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/bill-pennington}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/11/06/multimedia/author-bill-pennington/author-bill-pennington-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/bill-pennington}{Bill Pennington}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Published June 26, 2020Updated June 28, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

CROMWELL, Conn. --- When Sergio Garcia sank his final putt Thursday on
an 18th green enveloped by a natural amphitheater customarily filled
with thousands of fans, the golf ball's rattle around inside the hole
could be heard from 30 yards away. A minute later, as Garcia ascended a
hill, the only sound was his pencil scratching a last number on a
scorecard.

The PGA Tour's officials have said they are proud to be at the vanguard
of major American sports returning to competition after the coronavirus
shut down athletic events nationwide. But on Thursday at the Travelers
Championship --- the third fan-free event in the tour's comeback --- the
noiselessness was an eerie contrast to a growing chatter about how much
longer professional golf's traveling circus would keep hopscotching
around the country.

Golf's grand experiment to prove that an outdoor, noncontact sport
operating on a nomad's schedule could return safely during a pandemic
was showing signs of the stress that comes with attempting the
unprecedented.

Denny McCarthy tested positive on Friday after waking up feeling
``achy'' and withdrew from the Travelers event. A playing partner from
the first round, Bud Cauley, tested negative but withdrew from the
tournament for precautionary reasons. The third golfer in that group,
Matt Wallace, also tested negative and will continue to play.

On Wednesday, four golfers withdrew from the tournament because of
Covid-19 concerns, including Brooks Koepka and Webb Simpson, the fourth-
and fifth-ranked players in the world. Koepka departed after his caddie,
Ricky Elliott, tested positive for the virus as part of the PGA Tour's
multilayered testing system. Koepka's brother, Chase, who had also
qualified for the tournament, also withdrew after having played a
Tuesday practice round with Brooks and Elliott. Earlier in the day, the
former United States Open champion Graeme McDowell announced he would
not compete because his caddie, Ken Comboy, tested positive for the
coronavirus this week.

Simpson, who won last week's PGA Tour event in South Carolina, withdrew
and chose to isolate himself because a family member had recently tested
positive for the virus. Two other golfers,
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/20/sports/pga-tour-coronavirus-nick-watney.html}{Nick
Watney and Cameron Champ, had already withdrawn} from the tournament
after positive test results in the previous 10 days.

The departures sent a jolt through the golf community and had Jay
Monahan, the PGA Tour commissioner, warning players of ``serious
repercussions'' if they did not follow new, stricter safety protocols.
Shane Lowry, the reigning British Open champion, said when asked if the
withdrawals had jarred his colleagues: ``The first couple of weeks have
been kind of a kick in the backside to all of us.''

Scores of golfers Thursday went out of their way to praise the safety
measures imposed by the tour, including the world's top-ranked golfer,
Rory McIlroy.

``There's been almost 3,000 tests administered and the percentage of
positive tests is under a quarter of a percent,'' McIlroy said. ``I
think as a whole, it's been going really well.''

But McIlroy tellingly conceded there were ``loose ends'' that needed to
be tied up, which may be at the crux of the matter. Many top players
have been calling for their brethren to be far more diligent in adhering
to social-distancing recommendations on the golf course, because the
execution of those guidelines has been spotty at best. Players routinely
bump fists, talk face-to-face with their caddies and stand
shoulder-to-shoulder on tees and greens.

\hypertarget{the-games-resume}{%
\subsubsection{The Games Resume}\label{the-games-resume}}

\hypertarget{sports-and-the-virus}{%
\paragraph{Sports and the Virus}\label{sports-and-the-virus}}

Updated July 31, 2020

Here's what's happening as the world of sports slowly comes back to
life:

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    The
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/30/sports/basketball/clippers-lakers.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_2\&context=storylines_keepup}{N.B.A.
    returned}, and the Lakers held on to beat the Clippers in a
    thriller. Zion Williamson played in the first game of the night for
    the Pelicans.
  \item
    Players, coaches and analysts are watching this season's baseball
    games
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/sports/baseball/baseball-empty-stadiums-effects.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_2\&context=storylines_keepup}{to
    see what effect} the absence of fans has.
  \item
    With no summer tournaments to play in, top high school basketball
    stars are
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/30/sports/ncaabasketball/college-basketball-recruiting.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_2\&context=storylines_keepup}{committing
    to colleges earlier}. Villanova is one of the beneficiaries.
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Moreover, as other sports contemplate resuming competitive play within a
so-called bubble for the players, golf has patently experienced how
difficult it can be to maintain a safe zone once the athletes leave the
playing arena.

Many golfers have adhered to
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/05/13/sports/golf/pga-tour-resume.html}{tour
guidelines}, which require going to considerable lengths to avoid
contact with others. The tour chartered a plane to ferry golfers to
tournaments, disallowed family members at courses, and advised golfers
to sequester themselves in private, rented homes or tour-approved
hotels. Some golfers and caddies, however, have been seen eating
together at restaurants. And in other cases, with a field as deep as 148
players, the tour has no way to restrict what players are doing with
their evenings.

Since Wednesday's positive test results, leading players are trying to
send the message that dicey individual choices run the risk of putting
the entire tour back on hiatus.

``If we start doing whatever we want, all of us, then it probably will
be totally out of control and then it could get dangerous,'' said
Garcia, who said this week's positive test results were ``a wake-up
call.''

``It's not back to normal,'' he added. ``It's not what it used to be,
and we have to realize that. We have to be trying to be as careful as
possible.''

The tour has taken new steps in hopes of keeping the circuit moving
along on a weekly schedule that currently stretches throughout the year.
Earlier this week, the tour distributed to every player a Whoop band, a
device worn on the wrist or upper arm to monitor various medical data. A
Whoop band worn by Watney had alerted him to an elevated respiratory
rate and led to a second test for the coronavirus last week --- just
days after Watney had tested negative for the virus.

Monahan announced on Wednesday that players boarding the tour-sponsored
charter jet would be tested not only the day before the flight leaves
but also shortly after it lands. He said that fitness trainers would now
be on site to keep golfers from visiting local gyms and that players'
coaches were now part of the tour's testing protocol. In talking to
reporters, Monahan avoided specifically saying how many positive test
results it would take for the PGA Tour to shut down.

Keegan Bradley, who won the 2011 P.G.A. Championship, was asked Thursday
what might happen if 10, or 15, or 20 players tested positive for
Covid-19.

``If we get to that point, I think that none of us will be playing,''
Bradley answered.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{Â©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
