Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}Republicans, Deeply Divided
on Virus Aid, Near Agreement on an Opening Offer

\href{https://nyti.ms/32JB5Zt}{https://nyti.ms/32JB5Zt}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/news-event/coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{The
Coronavirus Outbreak}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  live\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/08/world/coronavirus-updates.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Latest
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Maps
  and Cases}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Vaccine
  Tracker}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/world/coronavirus-tips-advice.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{F.A.Q.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/live/2020/08/07/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Markets
  \& Economy}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{republicans-deeply-divided-on-virus-aid-near-agreement-on-an-opening-offer}{%
\section{Republicans, Deeply Divided on Virus Aid, Near Agreement on an
Opening
Offer}\label{republicans-deeply-divided-on-virus-aid-near-agreement-on-an-opening-offer}}

Republicans said they had reached an agreement in principle on their
opening bid for coronavirus relief, but they remain divided. They have
yet to even begin negotiating with Democrats.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/07/22/us/politics/22dc-virus-cong1/merlin_174810309_01dde5e5-bbea-41ad-ba65-f349aef71b82-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/emily-cochrane}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/11/28/multimedia/author-emily-cochrane/author-emily-cochrane-thumbLarge-v3.png}}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/nicholas-fandos}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/11/06/multimedia/author-nicholas-fandos/author-nicholas-fandos-thumbLarge-v2.png}}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/jim-tankersley}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/10/19/multimedia/author-jim-tankersley/author-jim-tankersley-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/emily-cochrane}{Emily Cochrane},
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/nicholas-fandos}{Nicholas Fandos} and
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/jim-tankersley}{Jim Tankersley}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Published July 22, 2020Updated July 23, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

WASHINGTON --- Conservatives are apoplectic about its \$1 trillion cost.
Embattled mainstream Republicans are desperate to act quickly and
aggressively to show voters they are doing something about the pandemic
and resulting recession. And President Trump keeps insisting on
proposals, like a costly payroll tax cut, that will do nothing to help
tens of millions of jobless Americans and that even members of his own
party do not support.

The debate over the next round of coronavirus relief has exposed deep
divisions among Republicans over spending and policy, leaving the fate
of a huge economic rescue package in limbo as the virus surges around
the country and posing an election-year dilemma for a party already
facing a grim political landscape.

After three marathon days of talks, Senate Republican leaders and White
House officials expressed confidence on Wednesday evening that they had
reached an agreement in principle on a proposal that would dole out more
than \$100 billion to schools, send additional checks directly to
Americans and provide \$16 billion for states to conduct testing and
contact tracing. But some of the biggest issues, including what to do
with enhanced unemployment insurance and Mr. Trump's payroll tax cut
idea, were not finalized.

In a sign of their differences, some Republican senators suggested at
one point Wednesday that they might pursue a short-term extension of the
enhanced unemployment benefits expiring next week to buy more time to
reach a final agreement. Even that idea sparked infighting:
Conservatives loathe the extra \$600-per-week benefit, regarding it as a
disincentive to work, and the White House chief of staff panned it.

And Republicans have not even begun to negotiate with Democrats, who are
pushing for a rescue package three times as large.

``Nobody's stabbed anybody or anything,'' said Senator John Kennedy,
Republican of Louisiana, describing the dynamic inside of his party as
lawmakers bicker over the bill. But, he said, ``I don't think you can
say there is a consensus.''

Democrats, who have hammered Republicans for not acting on a
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/05/15/us/politics/house-simulus-vote.html}{\$3
trillion recovery measure the House passed} in May, have refused to
budge from their starting position until Republicans produce an opening
bid.

``The Republican Party is so disorganized, chaotic and unprepared that
they can barely cobble together a partisan bill in their own
conference,'' said Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, the minority
leader.

Republicans had hoped not to find themselves here at all. After passing
the \$2.2 trillion
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/23/us/politics/republicans-stimulus-coronavirus.html}{stimulus}
law, they hit pause --- as Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the
majority leader, repeatedly said --- on another economic rescue package,
predicting that the virus would subside and a far less expansive measure
would be needed this summer.

Now, with the coronavirus surging, jobless aid set to expire in 10 days,
and their re-election races less than four months away, they are stuck
assembling a \$1 trillion measure that they privately concede will
probably grow substantially before their negotiations with Democrats
conclude, ideally before both chambers are scheduled to leave Washington
in August.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-the-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/07/world/covid-19-news.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: The Coronavirus
Outbreak}}{Latest Updates: The Coronavirus Outbreak}}\label{latest-updates-the-coronavirus-outbreak}}

Updated 2020-08-08T12:04:28.992Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/07/world/covid-19-news.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-1f86d03a}{As
  the U.S. relief talks falter again, Trump says he is prepared to act
  on his own.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/07/world/covid-19-news.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-3f64a70a}{Cuomo
  says N.Y. schools can reopen in-person but leaves it up to districts
  to determine if, when and how.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/07/world/covid-19-news.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-14e70066}{Thousands
  of cases went unreported in California when a computer server failed.}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/07/world/covid-19-news.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

More live coverage:
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/live/2020/08/07/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Markets}

``Everyone assumed months ago schools would be reopening, the economy
would be re-engaging. That is not necessarily true in many places,''
Senator James Lankford, Republican of Oklahoma, said Wednesday. ``So
while I understand `hey, you have had months and months of time,' every
week the ground shifts on us and you have to be careful with other
people's money.''

Republicans spent Wednesday trying to finalize their opening bid. In a
nod toward fiscal hawks, Senate leaders were discussing the possibility
of including deficit-reduction measures in the bill, such as a
bipartisan commission
\href{https://www.deseret.com/opinion/2020/7/18/21327388/senator-mitt-romney-utah-covid-19-relief-cares-package-stimulus-business-national-debt-unemployment}{championed
in a recent op-ed} by Senator Mitt Romney, Republican of Utah.

The measure is taking shape as Mr. Trump's unpopularity drags down
Republicans' electoral fortunes, putting their Senate majority in peril
and sharpening a debate over how the party should define itself.

In the House, too, Republicans have been feuding among themselves,
embittered by their political situation and competing to shape their
party's message. In a private meeting on Tuesday, a group of Trump
loyalists
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/21/us/politics/liz-cheney-house-republicans.html}{heaped
criticism on Representative Liz Cheney of Wyoming}, the No. 3 House
Republican, for being insufficiently supportive of the president. Ms.
Cheney, a staunch conservative, has questioned Mr. Trump's national
security policies and broken with him at times on his approach to the
coronavirus.

In the Senate, Republicans were discussing a rescue package that would
send additional checks directly to families, provide more assistance for
small businesses and allocate \$105 billion for schools. Of those funds,
\$70 billion would go to elementary and secondary schools, with half
reserved for schools that are holding in-person classes, and another
\$30 billion for colleges and universities.

The proposal, which is to be presented as soon as Thursday, is also
expected to include \$16 billion for states to conduct testing and
contact tracing, according to a person familiar with the discussion, as
well as \$4 billion to assist with the global distribution of a vaccine.
Republicans had initially proposed substantially more money for those
items, and the administration at first balked at including any.

At lunch on Tuesday with Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin and Mark
Meadows, the White House chief of staff, Senator Bill Cassidy,
Republican of Louisiana and a doctor, said he thought he was on acid
when he heard the administration's view, according to people familiar
with his remarks.

But on Wednesday, Mr. Mnuchin said there was broad agreement.

``We've now had three days of meetings, and we are now completely on the
same page,'' he said Wednesday evening as he and senior lawmakers
announced the contours of the agreement. ``We are all in good shape.''

They would not discuss how they planned to address the looming
expiration of the unemployment benefits and the administration's demand
for a payroll tax cut. Many lawmakers oppose including a payroll tax cut
because it is costly and would only help employed people at a time when
the pandemic has displaced millions of workers.

Mr. McConnell, who not only is battling to maintain his narrow Senate
majority but is on the ballot himself this fall in a state badly hit by
the virus, will shoulder most of the burden of trying to pull together
his fractious conference.

``We're hopeful we'll be able to get there,'' Mr. McConnell said earlier
Wednesday when asked about the political effects of a failure to reach
agreement. ``This discussion has just really begun in earnest.''

Mr. McConnell, whose meticulous maintenance of his majority has been a
hallmark of his time as leader, also has a keen sense of the political
stakes. Scott Jennings, a longtime adviser to Mr. McConnell, said
polling suggests the position of archconservatives arguing for Congress
to do nothing would not fly with voters.

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/news-event/coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{}

\hypertarget{the-coronavirus-outbreak-}{%
\subsubsection{The Coronavirus Outbreak
›}\label{the-coronavirus-outbreak-}}

\hypertarget{frequently-asked-questions}{%
\paragraph{Frequently Asked
Questions}\label{frequently-asked-questions}}

Updated August 6, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{why-are-bars-linked-to-outbreaks}{%
  \paragraph{Why are bars linked to
  outbreaks?}\label{why-are-bars-linked-to-outbreaks}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Think about a bar. Alcohol is flowing. It can be loud, but it's
    definitely intimate, and you often need to lean in close to hear
    your friend. And strangers have way, way fewer reservations about
    coming up to people in a bar. That's sort of the point of a bar.
    Feeling good and close to strangers. It's no surprise, then, that
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/02/us/coronavirus-bars.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{bars
    have been linked to outbreaks in several states.} Louisiana health
    officials have tied
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/22/us/new-coronavirus-phase.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{at
    least 100 coronavirus cases} to bars in the Tigerland nightlife
    district in Baton Rouge. Minnesota has traced 328 recent cases to
    bars across the state.
    \href{https://www.boisestatepublicradio.org/post/bars-large-venues-close-ada-county-after-surge-coronavirus-prompts-rollback\#stream/0}{In
    Idaho}, health officials shut down bars in Ada County after
    reporting clusters of infections among young adults who had visited
    several bars in downtown Boise. Governors in
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/01/us/california-coronavirus-reopening.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{California},
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/14/us/coronavirus-united-states.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{Texas
    and Arizona}, where coronavirus cases are soaring, have ordered
    hundreds of newly reopened bars to shut down. Less than two weeks
    after Colorado's bars reopened at limited capacity, Gov. Jared Polis
    \href{https://www.denverpost.com/2020/06/30/colorado-bars-closed-coronavirus/}{ordered
    them to close}.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{i-have-antibodies-am-i-now-immune}{%
  \paragraph{I have antibodies. Am I now
  immune?}\label{i-have-antibodies-am-i-now-immune}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    As of right now,
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/22/health/covid-antibodies-herd-immunity.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{that
    seems likely, for at least several months.} There have been
    frightening accounts of people suffering what seems to be a second
    bout of Covid-19. But experts say these patients may have a
    drawn-out course of infection, with the virus taking a slow toll
    weeks to months after initial exposure. People infected with the
    coronavirus typically
    \href{https://www.nature.com/articles/s41586-020-2456-9}{produce}
    immune molecules called antibodies, which are
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/05/07/health/coronavirus-antibody-prevalence.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{protective
    proteins made in response to an
    infection}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/05/07/health/coronavirus-antibody-prevalence.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{.
    These antibodies may} last in the body
    \href{https://www.nature.com/articles/s41591-020-0965-6}{only two to
    three months}, which may seem worrisome, but that's perfectly normal
    after an acute infection subsides, said Dr. Michael Mina, an
    immunologist at Harvard University. It may be possible to get the
    coronavirus again, but it's highly unlikely that it would be
    possible in a short window of time from initial infection or make
    people sicker the second time.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{im-a-small-business-owner-can-i-get-relief}{%
  \paragraph{I'm a small-business owner. Can I get
  relief?}\label{im-a-small-business-owner-can-i-get-relief}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    The
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/small-business-loans-stimulus-grants-freelancers-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{stimulus
    bills enacted in March} offer help for the millions of American
    small businesses. Those eligible for aid are businesses and
    nonprofit organizations with fewer than 500 workers, including sole
    proprietorships, independent contractors and freelancers. Some
    larger companies in some industries are also eligible. The help
    being offered, which is being managed by the Small Business
    Administration, includes the Paycheck Protection Program and the
    Economic Injury Disaster Loan program. But lots of folks have
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/05/07/business/small-business-loans-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{not
    yet seen payouts.} Even those who have received help are confused:
    The rules are draconian, and some are stuck sitting on
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/05/02/business/economy/loans-coronavirus-small-business.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{money
    they don't know how to use.} Many small-business owners are getting
    less than they expected or
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/10/business/Small-business-loans-ppp.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{not
    hearing anything at all.}
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{what-are-my-rights-if-i-am-worried-about-going-back-to-work}{%
  \paragraph{What are my rights if I am worried about going back to
  work?}\label{what-are-my-rights-if-i-am-worried-about-going-back-to-work}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Employers have to provide
    \href{https://www.osha.gov/SLTC/covid-19/standards.html}{a safe
    workplace} with policies that protect everyone equally.
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/coronavirus-money-unemployment.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{And
    if one of your co-workers tests positive for the coronavirus, the
    C.D.C.} has said that
    \href{https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/community/guidance-business-response.html}{employers
    should tell their employees} -\/- without giving you the sick
    employee's name -\/- that they may have been exposed to the virus.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{what-is-school-going-to-look-like-in-september}{%
  \paragraph{What is school going to look like in
  September?}\label{what-is-school-going-to-look-like-in-september}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    It is unlikely that many schools will return to a normal schedule
    this fall, requiring the grind of
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/05/us/coronavirus-education-lost-learning.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{online
    learning},
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/05/29/us/coronavirus-child-care-centers.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{makeshift
    child care} and
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/03/business/economy/coronavirus-working-women.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{stunted
    workdays} to continue. California's two largest public school
    districts --- Los Angeles and San Diego --- said on July 13, that
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/13/us/lausd-san-diego-school-reopening.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{instruction
    will be remote-only in the fall}, citing concerns that surging
    coronavirus infections in their areas pose too dire a risk for
    students and teachers. Together, the two districts enroll some
    825,000 students. They are the largest in the country so far to
    abandon plans for even a partial physical return to classrooms when
    they reopen in August. For other districts, the solution won't be an
    all-or-nothing approach.
    \href{https://bioethics.jhu.edu/research-and-outreach/projects/eschool-initiative/school-policy-tracker/}{Many
    systems}, including the nation's largest, New York City, are
    devising
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/26/us/coronavirus-schools-reopen-fall.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{hybrid
    plans} that involve spending some days in classrooms and other days
    online. There's no national policy on this yet, so check with your
    municipal school system regularly to see what is happening in your
    community.
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

``This isn't solved,'' Mr. Jennings said. ``The pandemic is still here.
The carnage is still real, and the voters are still keenly aware of what
their incumbents are doing.''

One of those vulnerable senators, Thom Tillis of North Carolina, said
Wednesday that he would support delaying the August break until
lawmakers pass something ``helping people that are hurting.''

Another, John Cornyn of Texas, downplayed concerns about the effect of
the package on the nation's deficit.

``People are concerned about that, but I also tell them in World War II,
while we were fighting Hitler, we weren't thinking about how much it
costs,'' he said. ``We were thinking about survival, and that's my first
priority here.''

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/07/22/us/politics/22dc-virus-cong2/merlin_174834762_5dfaa6b7-f6e8-4b14-8427-6027c0e27314-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

The risk to the nation's health and economy is real. Death counts are
again on the rise. And the economic rebound has stalled while infections
surged across the South and the West. After climbing rapidly in late
April and May, small-business openings and revenue plateaued in June and
have fallen in recent weeks. Improvements in hotel occupancy, air travel
and restaurant diners have also flatlined or turned negative.

Still, conservatives, including the party's most outspoken firebrands
like Senators Ted Cruz of Texas, Rand Paul of Kentucky and Mike Lee of
Utah, are threatening to lay themselves down on the tracks to stop any
bill they see as fiscally imprudent. They worry that if they get into a
spending war with Democrats, voters will give Republicans little credit
for supporting the aid while conservative voters will be furious with
them.

``I am not going to authorize a dime until I understand what we've
done,'' Senator Ron Johnson, Republican of Wisconsin, told reporters on
Wednesday.

Conservative activists, and some conservative economists, are
particularly focused on cutting off emergency federal economic
assistance like the expanded unemployment benefits. They argue that the
additional benefits discourage Americans from returning to work and are
sounding the alarms over the trillions of dollars in new federal
borrowing that have financed the crisis response.

Mr. Lee invited one such group, the Foundation for Government
Accountability, to share polling with Republican senators over lunch on
Wednesday.

Republicans have said they want to scale back the unemployment benefits,
which amount to more than some workers earn in wages. That would result
in a severe cut to the benefit received by millions of jobless
Americans.

Many Republicans feel that Mr. Trump has dispatched two flawed
negotiators in Mr. Mnuchin, whom they regard as a former Democrat
willing to spend vast sums of money, and Mr. Meadows, who spent his
years in Congress thwarting large spending deals of the kind now under
discussion.

``We're optimistic that we can continue to find a real solution,'' Mr.
Meadows told reporters at the Capitol on Wednesday, ``and hopefully,
reach a compromise with Democrats.''

Luke Broadwater contributed reporting.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
