Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}Trump's Remedy for Low Poll
Numbers: Reminding People Polls Can Be Wrong

\url{https://nyti.ms/30zd7xA}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Election
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/biden-vice-president-2020.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Biden's
  V.P. Search}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/07/24/us/politics/trump-biden-campaign-donors.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Map
  of Donations}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/elections/delegate-count-primary-results.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Delegate
  Count}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2019/us/politics/2020-presidential-candidates.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{The
  Candidates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Politics
  Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

Political Memo

\hypertarget{trumps-remedy-for-low-poll-numbers-reminding-people-polls-can-be-wrong}{%
\section{Trump's Remedy for Low Poll Numbers: Reminding People Polls Can
Be
Wrong}\label{trumps-remedy-for-low-poll-numbers-reminding-people-polls-can-be-wrong}}

And if surveys of likely voters don't look promising, turn to other
measures. Like boat parades.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/07/21/us/politics/21trump-polling/merlin_174765300_228d0e13-79e2-4530-85c3-d53aba98ce6c-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/annie-karni}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2019/02/05/multimedia/author-annie-karni/author-annie-karni-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/annie-karni}{Annie Karni}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  July 22, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

WASHINGTON --- ``I'm not losing,'' President Trump insisted in an
interview on Sunday with the Fox News anchor Chris Wallace after being
presented with the cable network's latest poll, which showed former Vice
President Joseph R. Biden Jr.
\href{https://www.foxnews.com/politics/fox-news-poll-biden-holds-lead-over-trump-as-coronavirus-concerns-grip-nation}{with
an eight-point advantage nationally}.

The president, who often promotes poll numbers when they are favorable
to him --- and even regularly advertises what he claims is a ``96\%
Approval Rating in the Republican Party'' without citing any source for
that questionable statistic --- said the public polls that showed him
losing were ``fake in 2016, and now they're even more fake.''

There aren't many campaign metrics out there these days to buoy a
president who loves to cite a record he has shattered. He hasn't been
able to pack a stadium with supporters since the beginning of the
coronavirus pandemic, and Mr. Biden has out-raised him for two months in
a row. Unlike Hillary Clinton's slim lead in national polls four years
ago,
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/20/upshot/biden-trump-poll.html?smid=tw-share}{Mr.
Biden has held a nearly double-digit lead in an average of polls for
more than a month}.

In response, the Trump campaign has highlighted the meaningless marker
of ``boat parades'' as a measure of voter enthusiasm. The most recent
shattered record Mr. Trump has touted online is a heat index. ``We may
have set a record for doing such an interview in the heat,''
\href{https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/1285520211593105413}{Mr.
Trump tweeted Tuesday}, referring to his outdoor interview with Mr.
Wallace. ``It was 100 degrees, making things very interesting!''

Meanwhile, his campaign and his top advisers have echoed his attempts to
discredit public polls, in an effort to treat them, dismissively, as an
extension of ``the media.'' The Trump team
\href{https://www.cnn.com/2020/06/10/politics/trump-campaign-cnn-poll/index.html}{sent
a cease-and-desist letter} to CNN after it published a June poll that
showed Mr. Trump losing to Mr. Biden. (The network said it stood by its
poll.) And in a recent
\href{https://www.newsweek.com/2020/07/24/exclusive-jared-kushner-gets-candid-about-struggling-trump-campaign-mideast-peace-more-1518952.html}{interview
with Newsweek}, the president's son-in-law Jared Kushner, who is
overseeing Mr. Trump's campaign, dismissed public polling as ``all
b.s.''

Privately, aides said, Mr. Trump knows things aren't looking good for
him --- he just thinks the public polls are overstating the situation.
His campaign does not conduct national polls, but aides have presented
him with internal data about battleground states that show a closer race
than the public polling numbers. His pollsters tell him regularly that
he is in a close race and that there is more polling bias in the news
media today than there was four years ago, a claim untethered to any
measurable metric. They assure him that his base is still
enthusiastically engaged and that the middle that might have been
planning to vote for him in March has moved away through no fault of his
own.

That has helped lead Mr. Trump to think that the public polls are
overstating Mr. Biden's advantage, advisers said, and that they offer
only a snapshot in time. But his internal numbers still show him
trailing Mr. Biden, and he is worried about his standing. He asks his
advisers with more regularity, ``What do we need to do?'' and grills his
friends about ``how is it looking?'' while making public course
corrections, the advisers said.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-2020-election}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: 2020
Election}}{Latest Updates: 2020 Election}}\label{latest-updates-2020-election}}

Updated 2020-08-01T01:26:45.732Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-29fdff45}{Kamala
  Harris, a top vice-presidential contender, confronts double
  standards.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-13ec3d9c}{Karen
  Bass and Susan Rice are rising on Biden's vice-presidential
  shortlist.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-49e9a016}{Trump
  says Russian bounties to kill U.S. troops `never took place.'}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

Over the past several weeks, he changed his stance on promoting masks,
claiming that it was ``patriotic'' to wear one, and resuscitated the
daily coronavirus news conference --- both an acknowledgment that he
needs to be seen as taking the virus seriously again.

On Tuesday evening, campaign aides circulated a news story from CNBC, in
which the host Jim Cramer said that Mr. Trump's belated endorsement of
face coverings had sparked a rally in recovery stocks.

The president also unceremoniously demoted his longtime campaign
manager, Brad Parscale, and his campaign has shifted the majority of its
advertising resources to a message of law and order, claiming
inaccurately in a new television ad spot that if Mr. Biden is elected,
the country's police departments will cease to exist.

His political opponents assume he knows he is losing, and badly, and
that his blanket dismissal of public polling as ``fake'' is part of a
strategy to sow doubt and confusion in November. ``Saying the polls are
fake helps in laying the predicate for claiming the election is
rigged,'' said William Kristol, the conservative writer and prominent
``Never Trump'' Republican. ``Because his brand going forward depends on
his being a victim of a rigged system, not accepting defeat. He has a
general interest in discrediting the truth, and this is part of an
assault on the truth.''

But aides said that even in private conversations, Mr. Trump has not let
the reality of his current political standing fully sink in.

``No one's ever come back from something like this,'' said Lee
Miringoff, director of the Marist College Institute for Public Opinion,
referring to Mr. Biden's polling lead over Mr. Trump. Indeed, it has
been almost 25 years since Bill Clinton sustained such a gaping
advantage over his opponent, Bob Dole, in 1996.

But when donors and outside allies have been blunt with Mr. Trump and
told him that he is, in fact, losing, the president has pushed back,
claiming that things are getting better and there's still plenty of time
for improvement, according to Republicans familiar with these
conversations who spoke on the condition of anonymity to disclose
private exchanges.

``My polls show we're getting real movement since Rushmore,'' Mr. Trump
has told multiple associates, referring to his Fourth of July address at
Mount Rushmore, in which he framed the campaign as a battle against a
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/03/us/politics/trump-coronavirus-mount-rushmore.html}{``new
far-left fascism'' seeking to wipe out the nation's values and history}.
White House advisers viewed the speech as a success, if a temporary one
that was quickly overtaken by Mr. Trump's
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/06/us/politics/trump-bubba-wallace-nascar.html}{defense
of the Confederate flag}. Yet the Biden campaign has not seen a real
improvement in how voters view Mr. Trump since the beginning of the
pandemic, according to a person who was familiar with the campaign's
data. Voters' impressions of Mr. Trump, the person said, have only grown
more negative.

In private conversations, Mr. Trump has also brought up the general
election debates as an opportunity for him to improve his standing in
the race, telling allies he expects his opponent to perform poorly in
that format.

Mr. Trump's view of his position in the race is partly belief in his own
myth after the 2016 victory --- the prognosticators were all wrong, and
he was right --- and partly the rosier-than-reality picture that he
hears from certain advisers about the state of the race.

A president who loves numbers --- the stock market when it's on the
rise, the monthly job report when it spells a positive story line for
him --- particularly loves polls, such as in the 2016 primary season,
when he was outpolling his Republican rivals. He also has a great out if
he doesn't like the polls: November 2016.

His sources for his poll numbers, beyond cable television and newspaper
articles, are his aides, some of whom willfully distort the electoral
landscape to avoid his wrath ---
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/02/us/politics/trump-2020-campaign-problems.html}{going
so far as to tell him he's winning in states like Maine, where he is
losing}. Aides said that even those advisers who are willing to bring
him bad news no longer deliver the full picture.

One of Mr. Trump's main pollsters, Tony Fabrizio, often had the most
dire predictions and was known not to shy away from a ``sky is falling''
briefing with the president. But aides said that everyone has tiptoed
around the president ever since June, when he threatened to sue Mr.
Parscale after he presented
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/04/29/us/politics/trump-campaign-reelection-polls.html}{polling
data that showed Mr. Trump trailing Mr. Biden in several crucial
states}.

Now, aides said, even the aides with more dire predictions will explain
away bad numbers by pointing to outside factors and will often blame
news coverage for Mr. Trump's slump.

The campaign disputed that there was anything terrible they even needed
to brief the president about.

``We track 17 states that will decide who the next president will be and
we trust the methodology,'' said Tim Murtaugh, the campaign's
communications director. ``In those states, our data shows that
President Trump remains strong against a defined Joe Biden and is well
positioned for re-election.''

\hypertarget{our-2020-election-guide}{%
\section{Our 2020 Election Guide}\label{our-2020-election-guide}}

Updated July 31, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{the-latest}{%
  \subsection{The Latest}\label{the-latest}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    President Trump's assault on the Postal Service is intersecting with
    his attacks on mail-in voting.
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/politics/trump-usps-mail-delays.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Voting
    rights groups say it is a recipe for disaster.}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{bidens-vp-search}{%
  \subsection{Biden's V.P. Search}\label{bidens-vp-search}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/biden-vice-president-2020.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Here
    are 13 women} who have been under consideration to be Joe Biden's
    running mate, and why each might be chosen --- and might not be.
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{keep-up-with-our-coverage}{%
  \subsection{Keep Up With Our
  Coverage}\label{keep-up-with-our-coverage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Get an
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{email}
    recapping the day's news
  \end{itemize}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Download our mobile app on
    \href{https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nytimes/id284862083?ls=1\&mat_click_id=5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\&referrer=mat_click_id\%3D5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\%26link_click_id\%3D722930677036718082}{iOS}
    and
    \href{http://a.localytics.com/android?id=com.nytimes.android\&referrer=utm_source\%3Dother_nyt_mobile_web\%26utm_medium\%3DWeb\%2520page\%26utm_term\%3DGeneral\%2520Mobile\%2520Page\%26utm_campaign\%3DNYT\%2520Mobile\%2520General\%2520Page}{Android}
    and turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
