Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}At Lewis Funeral, Obama
Calls Filibuster a `Jim Crow Relic'

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Election
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/biden-vice-president-2020.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Biden's
  V.P. Search}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/07/24/us/politics/trump-biden-campaign-donors.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Map
  of Donations}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/elections/delegate-count-primary-results.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Delegate
  Count}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2019/us/politics/2020-presidential-candidates.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{The
  Candidates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Politics
  Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{at-lewis-funeral-obama-calls-filibuster-a-jim-crow-relic}{%
\section{At Lewis Funeral, Obama Calls Filibuster a `Jim Crow
Relic'}\label{at-lewis-funeral-obama-calls-filibuster-a-jim-crow-relic}}

The former president has sharp words for Trump --- and an increased
focus on 2020.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/07/30/us/politics/30obama-voting/merlin_175121154_02a69557-08fd-4853-b5ec-8dfa7ac43090-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/maggie-astor}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/07/18/multimedia/author-maggie-astor/author-maggie-astor-thumbLarge.png}}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/shane-goldmacher}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/07/27/multimedia/author-shane-goldmacher/author-shane-goldmacher-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/maggie-astor}{Maggie Astor} and
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/shane-goldmacher}{Shane Goldmacher}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  July 30, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Former President Barack Obama called for sweeping changes to voting laws
on Thursday, including making Election Day a national holiday and
implementing automatic voter registration, and he embraced eliminating
the filibuster if necessary to enact those changes, calling the
legislative tool a ``Jim Crow relic.''

In a 40-minute speech
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/30/us/obama-eulogy-john-lewis-full-transcript.html}{eulogizing
Representative John Lewis, Mr. Obama} drew parallels between the police
violence that Mr. Lewis endured as a civil-rights leader in the 1960s
and the recent wave of racial-justice protests and police clashes that
have spread across the nation.

``Bull Connor may be gone, but today we witness with our own eyes police
officers kneeling on the necks of Black Americans,'' Mr. Obama said,
speaking from the same pulpit once used by the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther
King Jr. ``George Wallace may be gone, but we can witness our federal
government sending agents to use tear gas and batons against peaceful
demonstrators.''

The speech was the latest and most public example of how Mr. Obama, who
had sought to avoid the political scrum early in his post-presidency,
has turned his focus to the 2020 election with greater intensity, even
as he races to finish writing a book. He helped bring about
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/04/14/us/politics/obama-biden-democratic-primary.html}{a
swifter end to the Democratic primary}; has raised
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/30/us/politics/obama-trump-biden.html}{more
than \$24 million} since June for his former vice president, Joseph R.
Biden Jr., the presumptive Democratic nominee; and has lent his name to
the party's and Mr. Biden's digital fund-raising and organizing efforts.

Mr. Obama lacerated his successor, though not by name, criticizing
President Trump's efforts to discourage voting, his push to undermine
trust in critical election institutions and his administration's actions
against peaceful protesters. In
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/30/us/politics/obama-trump-biden.html}{recent
private chats with Democratic donors}, Mr. Obama has hit Mr. Trump more
directly, accusing him of campaigning by stirring up ``nativist, racist,
sexist'' resentments, but his likening him to Wallace represented a
newly aggressive public posture.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-2020-election}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: 2020
Election}}{Latest Updates: 2020 Election}}\label{latest-updates-2020-election}}

Updated 2020-08-01T01:26:45.732Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-29fdff45}{Kamala
  Harris, a top vice-presidential contender, confronts double
  standards.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-13ec3d9c}{Karen
  Bass and Susan Rice are rising on Biden's vice-presidential
  shortlist.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-49e9a016}{Trump
  says Russian bounties to kill U.S. troops `never took place.'}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

On Thursday, he reserved some of his strongest words for his defense of
voting rights, which Mr. Lewis promoted throughout his career in
Congress and as a civil-rights leader.

``We may no longer have to guess the number of jelly beans in a jar in
order to cast a ballot,'' Mr. Obama said, ``but even as we sit here,
there are those in power who are doing their darnedest to discourage
people from voting by closing polling locations, and targeting
minorities and students with restrictive ID laws, and attacking our
voting rights with surgical precision --- even undermining the Postal
Service in the run-up to an election that's going to be dependent on
mail-in ballots so people don't get sick.''

Mr. Obama said that former inmates should have their voting rights
restored, that the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico should have
``equal representation in our government'' (``they're Americans,'' he
said) and that the Voting Rights Act must be renewed.

``If all this takes eliminating the filibuster, another Jim Crow relic,
in order to secure the God-given rights of every American, then that's
what we should do,'' he declared.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/07/30/us/politics/30elections-briefing-obama1/30elections-briefing-obama1-videoSixteenByNine3000-v2.jpg}

That is further than Mr. Biden has gone --- though Mr. Biden, who served
in the Senate for decades and is an avowed institutionalist, has
increasingly opened the door to eliminating the filibuster, which
requires 60 votes to pass legislation instead of a simple majority of
51.

Since Mr. Lewis's death on July 17, many of his supporters have called
on Congress to pass legislation updating the Voting Rights Act of 1965,
which the Supreme Court severely weakened in 2013. The
Democratic-controlled House did so last year, but Senator Mitch
McConnell of Kentucky, the majority leader, has not allowed the
Republican-controlled Senate to take it up.

``Want to honor John?'' Mr. Obama said. ``Let's honor him by
revitalizing the law that he was willing to die for. And by the way,
naming it the John Lewis Voting Rights Act, that is a fine tribute ---
but John wouldn't want us to stop there, just trying to get back to
where we already were.'' He called specifically for adding more polling
places and early voting options, automatic voter registration and a
national election holiday.

He called Mr. Lewis ``a man of pure joy and unbreakable perseverance''
and vividly laid out the stakes of the 2020 contest, framing it as a
part of Mr. Lewis's legacy.

``Democracy isn't automatic,'' Mr. Obama said. ``It has to be nurtured,
it has to be tended to, we have to work at it. If we want our children
to grow up in a democracy --- not just with elections, but a true
democracy, a representative democracy, a bighearted, tolerant, vibrant,
inclusive America --- then we're going to have to be more like John.''

It was a deeply political speech in a rare public appearance from the
former president during the ongoing pandemic. But as the election nears,
advisers to Mr. Obama and Mr. Biden know well that the former president
represents one of the most powerful voices in the Democratic Party to
mobilize voters, and Mr. Obama seems ready to engage more fully than he
has since he left office.

On Thursday, Mr. Obama addressed his decision to talk politics at a
moment of mourning and remembrance.

``I know this is a celebration of John's life,'' he said. ``There are
some who might say, `You shouldn't dwell on such things.' But that's why
I'm talking about it. John Lewis devoted his time on this earth to
fighting the very attempts on democracy and what's best in America. That
we're seeing circulate right now.''

Mr. Obama was one of three former presidents to memorialize Mr. Lewis,
with George W. Bush and Bill Clinton preceding him. Mr. Trump stayed at
the White House.

\hypertarget{our-2020-election-guide}{%
\section{Our 2020 Election Guide}\label{our-2020-election-guide}}

Updated July 31, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{the-latest}{%
  \subsection{The Latest}\label{the-latest}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    President Trump's assault on the Postal Service is intersecting with
    his attacks on mail-in voting.
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/politics/trump-usps-mail-delays.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Voting
    rights groups say it is a recipe for disaster.}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{bidens-vp-search}{%
  \subsection{Biden's V.P. Search}\label{bidens-vp-search}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/biden-vice-president-2020.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Here
    are 13 women} who have been under consideration to be Joe Biden's
    running mate, and why each might be chosen --- and might not be.
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{keep-up-with-our-coverage}{%
  \subsection{Keep Up With Our
  Coverage}\label{keep-up-with-our-coverage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Get an
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{email}
    recapping the day's news
  \end{itemize}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Download our mobile app on
    \href{https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nytimes/id284862083?ls=1\&mat_click_id=5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\&referrer=mat_click_id\%3D5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\%26link_click_id\%3D722930677036718082}{iOS}
    and
    \href{http://a.localytics.com/android?id=com.nytimes.android\&referrer=utm_source\%3Dother_nyt_mobile_web\%26utm_medium\%3DWeb\%2520page\%26utm_term\%3DGeneral\%2520Mobile\%2520Page\%26utm_campaign\%3DNYT\%2520Mobile\%2520General\%2520Page}{Android}
    and turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
