Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/opinion}{Opinion}\textbar{}The Wonderful World of Trump
Worsts

\url{https://nyti.ms/2XcvF6p}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

\href{/section/opinion}{Opinion}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{the-wonderful-world-of-trump-worsts}{%
\section{The Wonderful World of Trump
Worsts}\label{the-wonderful-world-of-trump-worsts}}

Just don't call him Tweety.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/gail-collins}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/04/03/opinion/gail-collins/gail-collins-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/gail-collins}{Gail
Collins}

Opinion Columnist

\begin{itemize}
\item
  May 27, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/05/27/opinion/27collinsWeb/merlin_172714623_736d517e-99fa-4a94-ad16-c0782fa9d9c9-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

So hey, summer's coming. Time for all Americans to get together and plan
how to stay apart.

And here's a seasonal question: When we get to Labor Day, who do you
think will get the award for Worst Political Person of the Summer?

Well, yeah, I knew you'd say him. So negative about our president ---
just because he doesn't understand science and recently
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/26/us/politics/klausutis-letter-jack-dorsey.html}{accused
one critic in the media} of murder.

But Donald Trump can't do everything awful by himself. How about backup
nominees? There's Mitch McConnell, of course. And Mike Pompeo, who was
slogging through a disastrous year even before
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/26/opinion/mike-pompeo.html}{Tom
Friedman suggested} he was the worst secretary of state in all of
American history.

Among the many Pompeo messes, the most memorable are
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/17/us/politics/pompeo-inspector-general-steve-linick.html}{the
allegations} that he used a government employee for personal services
that included dog-walking and picking up the dry cleaning. Hardly the
most significant, but an excellent reminder that this administration has
perhaps set a record for cabinet members prone to dumb disasters.
Remember the E.P.A. head who sent his aide
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/06/04/climate/pruitt-epa-apartment-aide.html}{shopping
for a mattress} at the Trump hotel?

I want to put a word in here for Education Secretary Betsy DeVos, who is
often unfairly overlooked when it comes to counting terrible people in
the current government. This is because of her general ineptitude, and
you should thank God every day this woman doesn't know how to get things
done.

DeVos has focused her career on attempts to direct government money to
private schools --- particularly, it seems, bad private schools.
Remember when she reformed the whole system in Michigan by making
everything worse? Right now, she's battling nefarious attempts to
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/15/us/politics/betsy-devos-coronavirus-religious-schools.html}{target
coronavirus relief funds} to the districts that actually need the money
most.

So many possible Worsts. There's Secretary of Health and Human Services
Alex (yes, he's still here) Azar. We've been so busy watching Azar fail
to deal with the coronavirus crisis that we totally lost track of the
fact that he never did do anything about prescription drug prices.

There's Ron DeSantis of Florida, who keeps claiming a Worst Governor
award for his out-of-control policy on beach access. We suspected
something like this was coming when he
\href{https://www.vox.com/2020/4/15/21221948/florida-wwe-essential-service-ron-desantis-vince-mcmahon-coronavirus}{declared
professional wrestling} was an essential state industry.

But it's sort of hard to focus on the supporting cast when the big boss
has been so off-the-wall. Do you think Trump's refusal to wear a mask is
an attempt to woo the political right, or deny the reality of our
current health crisis? Or just a sign he doesn't think it's attractive?

I'd go for the most superficial explanation. The president always
prioritizes the way things look, even though he personally winds up
making the worst possible choices in everything from tanning makeup to
leisure wear. And obviously none of his friends have hinted that those
golfing photos aren't all that flattering.

What about Joe Biden? He hasn't been the worst at much --- some
Democrats would be happy to see him do anything that aggressive. But he
did come up with what may turn out to be the Worst Political Nickname of
the Summer, when he announced
\href{https://nypost.com/2020/05/19/joe-biden-finally-makes-up-nickname-for-trump-president-tweety/}{he'd
refer to Donald Trump as ``President Tweety.''}

Does that sound like a good plan to you? When I think of ``Tweety'' I
think about that yellow canary in old cartoons who
\href{https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jHfpWqiU4ss}{kept saying} ``I tawt
I taw a puddy tat.'' Not exactly flattering, but a lot less damaging
than, say, President Pandemic.

Meanwhile, Trump keeps calling Biden ``Sleepy Joe.'' Now this is the
election that's going to have you awash in rage and terror for the next
five months. But if you think of it as Sleepy Joe versus a canary it
sounds pretty darned relaxing.

When all else fails, Republicans just claim Biden is best friends with
China. Waiting for news on the spaceship launch, the Republican National
Committee did manage to send out an attack on Biden for wanting to work
with what it called ``the United States' greatest space adversary,
China.''

Trump's new press secretary, Kayleigh
(\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/01/us/politics/kayleigh-mcenany-white-house-briefing.html}{``I
will never lie to you''}) McEnany, claimed the administration now has a
``relationship of disappointment and frustration'' with China that's
``put American lives at risk.'' She's only been on the job a few weeks,
but she's definitely a potential contender in Worst contests of the
future. The other day she volunteered that Trump was possibly ``the best
president this country will ever have.''

Just a quick break here. Do you think historians will rate Donald Trump
as better than Abraham Lincoln? Certainly Trump does. He's always
suggesting that. (``You know, a poll just came out that I am the most
popular person in the history of the Republican Party. \ldots{} I beat
our Honest Abe.'')

Of course, in the real world he's way closer to the race for the bottom
and he's edging out some tough competition. There was Warren Harding,
but Harding was pretty good on social issues like race. Richard Nixon
knew a lot about foreign affairs. Franklin Pierce failed to head off the
Civil War, but he definitely would have looked better on a golf course.

\emph{The Times is committed to publishing}
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/01/31/opinion/letters/letters-to-editor-new-york-times-women.html}{\emph{a
diversity of letters}} \emph{to the editor. We'd like to hear what you
think about this or any of our articles. Here are some}
\href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014925288-How-to-submit-a-letter-to-the-editor}{\emph{tips}}\emph{.
And here's our email:}
\href{mailto:letters@NYTimes.com}{\emph{letters@NYTimes.com}}\emph{.}

\emph{Follow The New York Times Opinion section on}
\href{https://www.facebookcorewwwi.onion/nytopinion}{\emph{Facebook}}\emph{,}
\href{http://twitter.com/NYTOpinion}{\emph{Twitter (@NYTopinion)}}
\emph{and}
\href{https://www.instagram.com/nytopinion/}{\emph{Instagram}}\emph{.}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{Â©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
