Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/climate}{Climate}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/climate}{Climate}\textbar{}Trump's Pick for Interior
Dept. Continued Lobbying After Officially Vowing to Stop, New Files Show

\url{https://nyti.ms/2ONEy0a}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/climate?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Climate
and Environment}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/30/climate/sea-level-inland-floods.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Rising
  Seas}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/climate/trump-environment-rollbacks.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Trump's
  Changes}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/04/19/climate/climate-crash-course-1.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Climate
  101}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2018/08/30/climate/how-much-hotter-is-your-hometown.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Is
  Your Hometown Hotter?}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/climate-change?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{trumps-pick-for-interior-dept-continued-lobbying-after-officially-vowing-to-stop-new-files-show}{%
\section{Trump's Pick for Interior Dept. Continued Lobbying After
Officially Vowing to Stop, New Files
Show}\label{trumps-pick-for-interior-dept-continued-lobbying-after-officially-vowing-to-stop-new-files-show}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2019/04/03/climate/03CLI-BERNHARDT1/merlin_152726043_4eee03d9-7c64-4cfd-995c-f71bcbeefb90-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/coral-davenport}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/10/03/multimedia/author-coral-davenport/author-coral-davenport-thumbLarge-v2.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/coral-davenport}{Coral Davenport}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  April 4, 2019
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

\emph{Want climate news in your inbox?}
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/climate-change}{\emph{Sign up
here
for}}\textbf{\href{https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/climate-change}{\emph{Climate
Fwd:}}}\emph{, our email newsletter.}

WASHINGTON --- A previously undisclosed invoice indicates that David
Bernhardt, President Trump's choice to lead the Interior Department,
continued to lobby for a major client several months after he filed
official papers saying that he had ended his lobbying activities.

The bill for Mr. Bernhardt's services, dated March 2017 and labeled
``Federal Lobbying,'' shows, along with other newly disclosed documents,
Mr. Bernhardt working closely with the Westlands Water District as late
as April 2017, the month Mr. Trump nominated him to his current job,
deputy interior secretary. In November 2016, Mr. Bernhardt had filed
legal notice with the federal government formally ending his status as a
lobbyist.

Westlands, a powerful California agribusiness group, was one of Mr.
Bernhardt's main lobbying and legal clients between 2011 and 2016.
During that time, Westlands paid Mr. Bernhardt's firm \$1.3 million for
lobbying services.

A
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/02/12/climate/david-bernhardt-endangered-species.html}{New
York Times investigation this year} revealed how Mr. Bernhardt made it a
priority at the Interior Department to promote policies long sought by
Westlands, including a weakening of Endangered Species Act protections
for a rare fish. Those changes would have led to the release of vast
amounts of water from the delicate ecosystem of the San Francisco Bay
Delta for irrigation of commercial farmland.

A spokeswoman for Mr. Bernhardt, Faith Vander Voort, said in an email
that the invoice had been labeled incorrectly and that the documents did
not describe lobbying activity.

``David Bernhardt did not engage in regulated lobbying activities for
Westlands Water District from the date he de-registered forward,'' she
wrote. ``Mr. Bernhardt engaged in various legal services that supported
the senior employees and Directors of the Board of Westlands Water
District, who are public officials, operating in their official
capacity. These efforts do not constitute regulated lobbying activity.''

Westlands Water District did not respond to a request for comment.

The Senate Energy Committee voted 14-6 on Thursday to send Mr.
Bernhardt's nomination as interior secretary to the full Senate for a
confirmation vote.

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/climate?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_keepup}{}

\hypertarget{climate-and-environment-}{%
\subsubsection{Climate and Environment
â€º}\label{climate-and-environment-}}

\hypertarget{keep-up-on-the-latest-climate-news}{%
\paragraph{Keep Up on the Latest Climate
News}\label{keep-up-on-the-latest-climate-news}}

Updated July 30, 2020

Here's what you need to know about the latest climate change news this
week:

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/30/climate/bangladesh-floods.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_keepup}{Floods
    in}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/30/climate/bangladesh-floods.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_keepup}{Bangladesh}
    are punishing the people least responsible for climate change.
  \item
    As climate change raises sea levels,
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/30/climate/sea-level-inland-floods.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_keepup}{storm
    surges and high tides} are likely to push farther inland.
  \item
    The E.P.A. inspector general plans to investigate whether a rollback
    of fuel efficiency standards
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/27/climate/trump-fuel-efficiency-rule.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_keepup}{violated
    government rules}.
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

In committee hearings, Democrats criticized Mr. Bernhardt as beholden to
industry while Republicans praised his depth of knowledge. Two
Democrats, Senator Joe Manchin of West Virginia and Senator Martin
Heinrich of New Mexico, and one independent, Senator Angus King of
Maine, voted with Republicans in favor of Mr. Bernhardt's confirmation.

Senator Lisa Murkowski, the Alaska Republican who leads the committee,
said of Mr. Bernhardt Thursday morning: ``There are accusations about
his ethics. I think it's very clear you've got some well-funded groups
that are working hard against him.''

She added: ``I am aware of no substantiation of them whatsoever. I would
be stunned if they would be substantiated. We have known about this
previous work he had at Westlands.''

The documents, including the March 2017 ``Federal Lobbying'' invoice
sent to Westlands by Mr. Bernhardt's former firm, were obtained under
California open-records law by the office of the California attorney
general, Xavier Becerra, and by the environmental advocacy group Pacific
Advocates. They were reviewed by The New York Times.

The invoice itemizes the costs of services described as ``Westlands
Trip,'' taken by Mr. Bernhardt in late January and early February 2017
from Washington through Denver, Sacramento and Chicago before heading
back to Washington.

It includes a charge of \$2,432.68 for Mr. Bernhardt's travel, as well
as a \$25,000 charge ``for professional services rendered'' in February
2017. During the previous year, a period when Mr. Bernhardt was an
official registered lobbyist, Westlands paid his firm a \$25,000 monthly
fee.

Lara Day, a spokeswoman for Mr. Bernhardt's former firm, Brownstein
Hyatt Farber Schreck, reiterated that the description of Mr. Bernhardt's
work in February 2017 as ``Federal Lobbying'' was an error. ``I can
confirm that David was not doing federal lobbying,'' she said.

Mr. Bernhardt's spokeswoman, Ms. Vander Voort, also said the work
performed by Mr. Bernhardt in 2017 did not constitute ``regulated
lobbying.''

Several experts who reviewed the documents offered a different
interpretation. They pointed out that the documents appear to show Mr.
Bernhardt meeting with, and communicating with, federal officials to
advocate for policy matters on behalf of a paying client, which is the
basic work of lobbying.

The action described by the documents ``raises ethical questions,'' said
Virginia Canter, the chief ethics counsel for Citizens for
Responsibility and Ethics in Washington, a watchdog group. ``He
obviously was engaged in some sort of federal lobbying activity on
behalf of Westlands even after he de-registered as a lobbyist.''

Mr. Bernhardt's activities, if they constituted lobbying, could violate
federal laws requiring lobbyists to disclose their activities, according
to four independent authorities on the rules.

The documents include several emails with Johnny Amaral and Thomas
Birmingham, the two officials at Westlands who worked closely on federal
lobbying matters with Mr. Bernhardt during the time he was a registered
lobbyist.

They include an email dated December 2016 from John Watts, an aide to
Senator Dianne Feinstein, a California Democrat who works on the state's
water-policy issues, to Mr. Bernhardt and Mr. Birmingham. The subject
line is ``Memo: Endangered Species Act consistency of California water
language.'' It addresses two issues, endangered species and water
rights, on which Mr. Bernhard had lobbied for Westlands.

On Jan. 2, 2017, Mr. Bernhardt emailed Mr. Amaral and Mr. Birmingham
with ``a short draft letter'' addressed to Representative David Valadao,
Republican of California, ``expressing appreciation'' for the lawmaker's
successful efforts to include legislative language related to a water
infrastructure bill on which Mr. Bernhardt had already officially
lobbied, and thanking the representative for his work on another bill
related to water policy in the Central Valley. The final letter sent by
Westlands to Mr. Valadao contained several passages identical to those
drafted by Mr. Bernhardt.

On Dec. 8, 2016, the water infrastructure bill passed the House and Mr.
Bernhardt emailed Mr. Amaral expressing optimism that the bill would
easily win in the Senate as well.

Mr. Amaral responded: ``You're winning all kinds of bets aren't you? We
should be going to Vegas!!!'' Mr. Bernhardt replied, ``There is no way
it will fail in the Senate.''

Over the course of the first half of 2017, Mr. Amaral sent several
emails to Mr. Bernhardt and a small group of Westlands officials
referring to the group's weekly ``team'' telephone calls.

Another email, dated April 19, 2017, from Mr. Amaral, asked Mr.
Bernhardt if he could make it to a ``team breakfast'' the following
Wednesday, April 25. Bernhardt responded, ``Yes.'' Three days later, Mr.
Trump nominated Mr. Bernhardt to be deputy secretary of the Interior
Department.

Mr. Amaral now works for another California water district, the Friant
Water Authority. He did not respond to voice mail or text messages sent
to his cellphone.

Ethics experts said the documents shed light on the close relationship
Mr. Bernhardt maintained with his former lobbying client.

``The fact that he is attending a `team breakfast' with Westlands just
days before he's nominated is a shocking level of connection with this
lobbying client at a moment he is about to enter government,'' said
Delaney Marsco, ethics counsel at the Campaign Legal Center, a
nonpartisan watchdog group. ``It goes to this deep, intertwined
relationship that he had.''

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2019/04/03/science/03CLI-BERNHARDT2/merlin_153026733_09ab1773-49b1-4a50-924f-28d3659aecf1-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Since his appointment to the Interior Department, Mr. Bernhardt has been
criticized for using his position to enact some of the policies he
pushed for as a lobbyist for Westlands Water District, a state-chartered
agribusiness organization representing about 700 almond, cotton and
tomato farms in the San Joaquin Valley.

As part of his May 2017 Senate confirmation hearing, Mr. Bernhardt
submitted a written statement to senators saying, ``I have not engaged
in regulated lobbying on behalf of Westlands Water District after
November 18th, 2016.''

For more news on climate and the environment,
\href{https://twitter.com/nytclimate}{follow @NYTClimate on Twitter}.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{Â©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
