Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}When Washington Helped Small
Business, Washington Was Helped

\url{https://nyti.ms/2Z7reuz}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Election
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/biden-vice-president-2020.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Biden's
  V.P. Search}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/07/24/us/politics/trump-biden-campaign-donors.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Map
  of Donations}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/elections/delegate-count-primary-results.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Delegate
  Count}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2019/us/politics/2020-presidential-candidates.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{The
  Candidates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Politics
  Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{when-washington-helped-small-business-washington-was-helped}{%
\section{When Washington Helped Small Business, Washington Was
Helped}\label{when-washington-helped-small-business-washington-was-helped}}

The loan program to help firms keep paying their workers had many
beneficiaries. Among them was the capital's permanent political class.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/07/07/us/politics/07dc-virus-loans/merlin_170583420_d1df68b6-42b5-49cd-98f4-eb2bd20ee821-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/kenneth-p-vogel}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/02/20/multimedia/author-kenneth-p-vogel/author-kenneth-p-vogel-thumbLarge-v3.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/kenneth-p-vogel}{Kenneth P. Vogel}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  July 7, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

WASHINGTON --- Car dealers and private schools, restaurants and doctors,
hotels and contractors all got money from the program established to
help small businesses survive the coronavirus. But a subset of the list
of recipients reads like a guide to a professional political class that
thrives in the nation's capital no matter what is happening elsewhere in
the country.

When the Trump administration on Monday
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/06/us/ppp-small-business-loans.html}{publicly
detailed} many of the beneficiaries of the \$660 billion forgivable loan
program, it showed money going to dozens of the lobbying and law firms,
political consulting shops and advocacy groups that make up the
political industrial complex.

Advertising and fund-raising firms assisting President Trump's
re-election campaign were listed alongside companies doing polling and
direct mail for his Democratic opponent, former Vice President Joseph R.
Biden Jr.

Donor-supported think tanks on both sides of the ideological divide
received money, as did lobbying firms that have had a
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/20/us/politics/coronavirus-stimulus-lobbying.html}{surge
in business related to the pandemic}.

There is no evidence of any string-pulling on behalf of politically
connected outfits, and recipients said they applied for the loans for
the same reason as other businesses around the country: to save jobs.

But the use of taxpayer funds to prop up Washington's permanent
political apparatus seemed especially discordant to some critics against
the backdrop of a pandemic that has shined a bright light on gaping
disparities between the haves and the have-nots.

``Every lobbying firm, political consultant and huge corporation that
received a loan is a reminder that this program was administered to
cater to the well-connected and powerful over small businesses,'' said
Austin Evers, the executive director of the liberal watchdog group
American Oversight.

The group has filed public records requests for communications between
the Small Business Administration, which administered the loan program,
and
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/06/us/politics/trump-lobbyists-swamp-campaign.html}{lobbyists
with connections to the Trump administration} who
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/05/01/business/economy/monty-bennett-small-business-loans-coronavirus.html}{represented
some applicants for assistance}.

As the program was being developed and put into action, there was an
effort to limit the aid going to some of the businesses most emblematic
of professional Washington: lobbying and political consulting firms.

The version of the stimulus bill originally passed by the House included
a provision that would have barred businesses from counting lobbyists'
salaries toward payroll calculations of how much money could be sought.
But after negotiations between the House, the Senate and the
administration, the restriction fell out of the final version of the
legislation
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/video/us/politics/100000007059089/trump-coronavirus-stimulus.html}{signed
into law by Mr. Trump} in March.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-2020-election}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: 2020
Election}}{Latest Updates: 2020 Election}}\label{latest-updates-2020-election}}

Updated 2020-08-01T01:26:45.732Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-29fdff45}{Kamala
  Harris, a top vice-presidential contender, confronts double
  standards.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-13ec3d9c}{Karen
  Bass and Susan Rice are rising on Biden's vice-presidential
  shortlist.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-49e9a016}{Trump
  says Russian bounties to kill U.S. troops `never took place.'}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

Yet the S.B.A. still made clear that applications would be subject to
agency regulations prohibiting loans to any business ``that derives over
50 percent of its gross annual revenue from political or lobbying''
activity.

The American Association of Political Consultants
\href{https://www.documentcloud.org/documents/6876481-The-S-B-A-Won-t-Issue-Loans-to-Political.html}{sued}
the S.B.A. in April seeking to overturn the ban as an infringement on
free speech rights. But a federal judge upheld the restriction.

Lawyers for politically oriented companies and nonprofit groups pointed
out that the S.B.A. did not clearly define political or lobbying
activity. They said they had advised their clients that they could still
apply for the loans as long as they could reasonably argue that less
than half of their revenue came from overtly partisan political activity
or direct lobbying of government.

``It's a very individualized determination based on the specific kinds
of work firms do for clients,'' said Jason Torchinsky, a leading
Republican political lawyer who argued the political consultants' case
against the S.B.A., and who represents a number of conservative
nonprofit groups.

Polling conducted by corporations or advocacy groups to assess public
attitudes on politically related issues might not be considered
political activity by the S.B.A. Nor would advertising and government
relations campaigns rallying support for issues without specifically
advocating a vote for or against a bill or candidate.

For instance, loans of \$350,000 to \$1 million went to a pair of firms
that have been paid a total of nearly \$600,000 to do polling for the
Biden campaign. But the firms --- Anzalone Research and Lake Research
Partners --- also both conduct research outside of campaigns.

Anzalone, which is based in Alabama, lists companies including Airbnb
and Volkswagen, as well as the Chicago Cubs and the Seattle Seahawks,
among its clients. Lake Research's founder and president, Celinda Lake,
said less than half of the firm's revenue was from ``electoral
politics.'' She said, ``We do a lot of different kinds of work ---
marketing, government, nonprofits, labor unions, corporate.''

Loans also went to three firms that have collectively been paid more
than \$3 million for direct mail by the Biden campaign ---
\href{https://www.fec.gov/data/disbursements/?cycle=2020\&data_type=processed\&committee_id=C00703975\&recipient_name=Belardi+Wong+\&two_year_transaction_period=2020\&line_number=F3P-23}{Belardi
Wong},
\href{https://www.fec.gov/data/disbursements/?cycle=2020\&data_type=processed\&committee_id=C00703975\&recipient_name=Chapman\%2C+Cubine\&two_year_transaction_period=2020\&line_number=F3P-23}{Chapman
Cubine and Hussey} and
\href{https://www.fec.gov/data/disbursements/?cycle=2020\&data_type=processed\&committee_id=C00703975\&recipient_name=RESONANCE+CAMPAIGNS\&two_year_transaction_period=2020\&line_number=F3P-23}{Resonance
Campaigns}.

A spokesman for Belardi Wong said that 99 percent of its work was for
consumer brands, mostly in high-end fashion and home goods. The firm
sought a loan in response to ``the downturn in demand for consumer goods
and its impact on their business,'' he said.

At least three firms or their affiliates received loans totaling at
least \$1.7 million while being paid millions by Mr. Trump's re-election
campaign and the committees supporting it.

FLS Connect, a Republican fund-raising firm, has been paid more than
\$22.6 million since the beginning of 2017 by Mr. Trump's campaign
committees and the Republican National Committee. Yet the firm received
\$1 million to \$2 million in loans.

Jamestown Associates, which received a loan of \$35,000 to \$1 million,
has been paid \$1.5 million from early 2017 to mid-May by Mr. Trump's
re-election campaign and a super PAC supporting it to produce videos and
advertisements.

And America Rising Corporation --- an opposition research vendor that
has been paid more than \$1.3 million since July 2017 by Mr. Trump's
campaign and allied committees --- received a loan worth \$350,000 to
\$1 million.

America Rising used the loan to keep employees on the payroll, said its
founder and chief executive, Joe Pounder. He said the company had
already completely paid back the loan ``with interest.''

Loans went to two nonprofit groups that had been in the
\href{https://www.politico.com/story/2014/08/david-brock-citizens-for-responsibility-and-ethics-in-washington-110003}{constellation
of outfits} associated with David Brock, a longtime ally of Hillary
Clinton, that are training their sights on Mr. Trump and his allies.

The watchdog group Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics in Washington,
where Mr. Brock had served on the board until stepping down a few years
ago, has filed complaints and public records requests about Mr. Trump
and his allies. It received a loan valued at \$350,000 to \$1 million.
And Mr. Brock's flagship group, Media Matters for America, which tracks
the conservative news media and Mr. Trump's allies in it, received \$1
million to \$2 million.

About \$350,000 to \$1 million went to the Center for a New American
Security, a think tank founded in part by Michèle Flournoy, a former
Defense Department official under President Barack Obama who has
\href{https://www.defenseone.com/ideas/2020/06/we-need-joe-biden/166033/}{supported}
Mr. Biden's campaign.

Conservative think tanks and policy advocacy groups, some that
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/04/24/us/politics/coronavirus-bailouts-conservative-liberal.html}{espoused
a small-government ideology}, also availed themselves of the loans.

The foundation arm of Americans for Tax Reform, which supported Mr.
Trump's signature tax cuts, received a loan of \$150,000 to \$350,000.

While the group has been a vocal critic of government spending, it said
in a statement that it did not oppose the stimulus loans because it
considered the money to be compensation for the government depriving it
of funds by ordering shutdowns to slow the spread of the virus.

Liberty Counsel, a conservative legal group that led a
\href{https://lc.org/reopenchurch}{campaign championing Mr. Trump's push
to reopen churches}, received \$350,000 to \$1 million.

Millions of dollars in loans went to K Street, home to many lobbying
firms whose fees have increased during the pandemic as businesses have
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/28/us/politics/coronavirus-money-lobbyists.html}{paid
handsomely for help} navigating various government assistance programs.

The lobbying firm Van Scoyoc Associates received \$1 million to \$2
million.

Loans of \$350,000 to \$1 million went to lobbying firms headed by
William S. Cohen, a Republican former senator from Maine who also served
as defense secretary in the Clinton administration, and Michael
Chertoff, a former homeland security secretary in the George W. Bush
administration.

One staple of Washington's political economy that has been especially
hard hit by the shutdowns --- power lunch spots --- was well represented
in the loan lists.

The Prime Rib, a K Street steakhouse, obtained a loan of \$2 million to
\$5 million; BLT Steak, a nearby
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2017/09/19/us/politics/isnt-that-the-trump-lawyer-a-reporters-accidental-scoop.html}{see-and-be-seen
restaurant}, received \$350,000 to \$1 million; so did Charlie Palmer
Steak, a popular destination for political fund-raisers near the
Capitol, and the esteemed Georgetown watering hole Martin's Tavern,
which had been
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2013/09/22/travel/a-presidential-pub-crawl.html}{visited
by every United States president} since Harry S. Truman until Mr. Obama
broke the streak.

Eric Lipton contributed reporting.

\hypertarget{our-2020-election-guide}{%
\section{Our 2020 Election Guide}\label{our-2020-election-guide}}

Updated July 31, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{the-latest}{%
  \subsection{The Latest}\label{the-latest}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    President Trump's assault on the Postal Service is intersecting with
    his attacks on mail-in voting.
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/politics/trump-usps-mail-delays.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Voting
    rights groups say it is a recipe for disaster.}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{bidens-vp-search}{%
  \subsection{Biden's V.P. Search}\label{bidens-vp-search}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/biden-vice-president-2020.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Here
    are 13 women} who have been under consideration to be Joe Biden's
    running mate, and why each might be chosen --- and might not be.
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{keep-up-with-our-coverage}{%
  \subsection{Keep Up With Our
  Coverage}\label{keep-up-with-our-coverage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Get an
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{email}
    recapping the day's news
  \end{itemize}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Download our mobile app on
    \href{https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nytimes/id284862083?ls=1\&mat_click_id=5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\&referrer=mat_click_id\%3D5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\%26link_click_id\%3D722930677036718082}{iOS}
    and
    \href{http://a.localytics.com/android?id=com.nytimes.android\&referrer=utm_source\%3Dother_nyt_mobile_web\%26utm_medium\%3DWeb\%2520page\%26utm_term\%3DGeneral\%2520Mobile\%2520Page\%26utm_campaign\%3DNYT\%2520Mobile\%2520General\%2520Page}{Android}
    and turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
