Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/us}{U.S.}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/us}{U.S.}\textbar{}As the Virus Surges in South Florida,
a Trump Resort Joins the Rush to Reopen

\url{https://nyti.ms/3etZ7uG}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{the-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=1b9820e0-f4c9-11ea-96c6-737460281ea1\&variant=undefined}{The
Coronavirus
Outbreak}}{The Coronavirus Outbreak}}\label{the-coronavirus-outbreak}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  live\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/11/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=1b9847f0-f4c9-11ea-96c6-737460281ea1\&variant=undefined}{Latest
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=1b9847f1-f4c9-11ea-96c6-737460281ea1\&variant=undefined}{Maps
  and Cases}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=1b9847f2-f4c9-11ea-96c6-737460281ea1\&variant=undefined}{Vaccine
  Tracker}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/10/us/politics/fda-coronavirus-vaccine.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=1b9847f3-f4c9-11ea-96c6-737460281ea1\&variant=undefined}{F.D.A.
  Regulators' Self-Defense}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/09/upshot/coronavirus-surprise-test-fees.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=1b989610-f4c9-11ea-96c6-737460281ea1\&variant=undefined}{Surprise
  Test Fees}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{as-the-virus-surges-in-south-florida-a-trump-resort-joins-the-rush-to-reopen}{%
\section{As the Virus Surges in South Florida, a Trump Resort Joins the
Rush to
Reopen}\label{as-the-virus-surges-in-south-florida-a-trump-resort-joins-the-rush-to-reopen}}

Miami-Dade County has been hit with about a quarter of the state's
cases. The Doral hotel and golf club there is taking steps to prevent
infection, even as many visitors and some workers do not wear masks.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/06/23/multimedia/23virus-trumporg-open-1/merlin_173849997_2f7b2190-0375-48ed-b45f-abcff4ddcffb-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/eric-lipton}{Eric
Lipton}, Neil Reisner,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/steve-eder}{Steve Eder} and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/ben-protess}{Ben Protess}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  June 23, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Poolside at President Trump's resort near Miami, dozens of guests sunned
last weekend on lounge chairs and chatted in cabanas. Golfers fanned out
across multiple courses, and the hotel lobby hummed with activity for
the first time in months.

But the reopening of Trump National Doral, the most important source of
revenue for the president's strained family business, came as new cases
of the coronavirus spiked in surrounding Miami-Dade County and public
health officials urged caution about resuming normal activity.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/26/nyregion/florida-coronavirus-ny.html}{Virus
cases in Florida}
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/florida-coronavirus-cases.html}{exceeded
100,000} on Monday, with more than 3,100 deaths. About one-quarter of
the cases have been in Miami-Dade County, a per capita rate twice the
number statewide. On Tuesday,
\href{http://www.miamidade.gov/information/library/2020-06-23-new-normal-dashboard.pdf}{the
county reported} an average positive test rate of 12.4 percent in recent
weeks. The latest single-day positive rate rose to 25.9 percent.

``We don't really have too much good news going on countywide, said Mary
Jo Trepka, chair of the epidemiology department at Florida International
University. ``We have to assume that people are going to be at some
level of risk when they encounter other people.''

At the Doral resort last weekend, steps were being taken to prevent
infections, even as many visitors and some staff members did not wear
masks --- something the president himself has been reluctant to do in
public.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/06/23/multimedia/23virus-trumporg-open-2/merlin_173849970_bea89f33-8297-4721-a197-f2fd17a5e434-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Ordering a meal at the poolside restaurant required a cellphone, as no
menus were given out. Tables and chaise longues were disinfected between
guests. On the golf courses, there were no ball-washers, coolers, or ice
and water machines,
\href{https://www.trumphotels.com/miami/golf/procedures}{among other
changes}.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-the-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/11/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: The Coronavirus
Outbreak}}{Latest Updates: The Coronavirus Outbreak}}\label{latest-updates-the-coronavirus-outbreak}}

Updated 2020-09-12T07:09:04.082Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/11/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-dfb8a16}{Fauci
  cautions the virus could disrupt life in the U.S. until `maybe even
  towards the end of 2021.'}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/11/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-7104d154}{From
  Asia to Africa, China promotes its vaccine candidates to win friends.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/11/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-393ad215}{The
  other way the virus will kill: hunger.}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/11/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

More live coverage:
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/11/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Markets}

Just as their father has, Eric Trump and Donald Trump Jr., who run the
family business, have eagerly awaited the lifting of shutdown mandates
in Florida and elsewhere. ``At some point you have to open back up our
country,'' Eric Trump
\href{https://www.msn.com/en-us/video/watch/eric-trump-on-tonights-tulsa-rally/vi-BB15LHTr}{told
Fox News on Saturday}, when he was in Oklahoma for his father's
re-election rally.

The financial strain of the shutdowns on the Trump Organization has been
real. The company's revenue from its hotel operations is way down this
year, and it recently requested a rent abatement from Palm Beach County,
where the Trumps operate two golf courses on county land. It also
negotiated with Deutsche Bank to reduce or delay its payments on loans
from the bank, including about \$125 million the Trump Organization
borrowed when it
\href{https://www.reuters.com/article/us-usa-florida-trump/trump-buys-miamis-doral-golf-resort-for-150-million-idUSTRE81R1C620120228\#:~:text=MIAMI\%20(Reuters)\%20\%2D\%20Real\%20estate,of\%20hotels\%20and\%20golf\%20resorts.}{was
buying Doral in 2012}, according to three people with knowledge of the
matter.

The bank agreed to a break, in line with those offered to other
borrowers, but the Trump Organization concluded that the offer was not
worth taking and turned it down, the people said.

Eric Trump, in an interview, said the company would ``come out as
strong'' because it had relatively little debt and steady revenue from
office buildings. The company also cut personnel and other costs at its
hotels.

Image

A worker wiping down a trash can at the Doral. The hotel, like much of
the industry, continues to face low occupancy.Credit...Scott McIntyre
for The New York Times

``I had to make some of the worst decisions hopefully that I'll ever
have to make in my life,'' he said, referring to furloughs and layoffs.

Nationally, the company and entities associated with it filed
notifications with state officials in March that it intended to lay off
or furlough at least 1,500
\href{https://www.documentcloud.org/documents/6955074-Warns-ALL.html}{employees}.
Notices were also sent to some of those employees, including at the
Trump International Hotel in Washington, that their health insurance was
being cut off.

Congress included language in a federal relief package that prohibited
the Trump family from taking part in assistance programs controlled by
Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin, and the company decided not to seek
loans from the Small Business Administration.

The four golf courses at Doral have been busy, with much of the play
from members who live in the Miami area. But the resort's 643-room
hotel, which had seen declines in sales after Mr. Trump was elected,
continues to face low room occupancy along with the broader hotel
industry.

Rooms can be booked for about \$100, less than the standard rate in the
summer off-season in recent years. Two thirds of Miami-area hotel rooms
were vacant as of the second week of June, according to STR, which
tracks industry performance.

With the reopening on Monday of the Trump Organization's Ferry Point
golf course in the Bronx, all of the 20 Trump properties in the United
States are up and running again, at least in part; even the tasting room
at the Trump Winery in Charlottesville, Va., is once again welcoming
visitors.

The president has done his part to raise the profile of his properties.
He returned in recent weeks to courses in New Jersey and Virginia after
two and a half months without playing golf,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2017/04/05/us/politics/tracking-trumps-visits-to-his-branded-properties.html}{the
longest break} since he became president. And last month, as his company
announced the reopening of its Los Angeles course, Mr. Trump celebrated
in a post on Twitter.

``So great to see our Country starting to open up again!'' he
\href{https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/1259449226465083394?ref_src=twsrc\%5Etfw\%7Ctwcamp\%5Etweetembed\%7Ctwterm\%5E1259449226465083394\&ref_url=https\%3A\%2F\%2Fwww.haaretz.com\%2Fscience-and-health\%2Ftrump-tweets-promo-for-his-la-golf-course-as-u-s-death-toll-passes-80-000-1.8837932}{wrote}.

Even so, the Trump family operations are only partly back in business.

In Washington, the lobby at the hotel that served as a magnet for
lobbyists and Trump administration officials remains closed, as does BLT
Prime, the high-end restaurant at the hotel. The main restaurants at
Trump hotels in New York, Hawaii, Miami and Chicago also are still
closed.

``Since the pandemic began, we have had to make many difficult
decisions,'' Mickael Damelincourt, the managing director of the
Washington hotel, said in a letter last month to employees.

Image

Credit...Erin Scott/Reuters

Internationally, the family's hotel in Vancouver remains closed. Trump
Doonbeg, the golf resort in Ireland, is also closed, and the hotel there
is not accepting reservations online until mid-July. Trump Dubai, a golf
club in the United Arab Emirates, is open, but players are required to
wear masks, \href{https://www.trumpgolfdubai.com/tee-times}{even when on
the golf course}, the website says.

As they reopen, some Trump properties have drawn people protesting
police brutality and the president's statements about demonstrators
after the killing of George Floyd in Minneapolis.

``We wanted to bring this to his doorstep because we see how he speaks
in discriminatory and inflammatory language,'' said Nathalie Polo, 23,
who led a
\href{https://www.kusi.com/i/the-latest-protesters-rally-at-trump-golf-resort-in-florida/}{protest}
outside the Doral property this month. ``I felt like it was important to
do something, and specifically, do something that might grab his
attention.''

On Saturday, a lawyer dressed as the grim reaper was outside the Doral
hotel. The lawyer, Daniel Uhlfelder, said he opposed the handling of the
pandemic by the president and the Florida governor, Ron DeSantis, who
has followed Mr. Trump's lead in pushing for a rapid return to
business-as-usual even as the virus continues to spread.

``He is the model messenger of misinformation,'' Mr. Uhlfelder said of
Mr. Trump. ``We have been fighting for several months to get Florida to
do the right thing.''

Experts say it is possible for businesses like Trump National Doral to
operate safely, but they also acknowledge that the president's
properties present a special case.

``The bottom line is, can a leader lead by example?'' said Dr. Aileen
Marty, an infectious disease expert with Florida International
University who helped design Miami-Dade County's safety protocols for
businesses. ``That's what needs to happen at every type of business ---
wear a mask, practice hygiene, social distance.''

When the president recently visited his golf club in Bedminster, N.J.,
while in the area to speak at the West Point graduation ceremony,
temperature checks were required, but only when he was on the property,
a person familiar with the situation said. There is no requirement that
golfers or guests at Bedminster wear masks, and almost no one has done
so, other than food service employees, the person said.

David Enrich contributed reporting.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
