Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/opinion/sunday}{Sunday Review}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/opinion/sunday}{Sunday Review}\textbar{}China's Man in
Washington, Named Trump

\href{https://nyti.ms/2YXAhg4}{https://nyti.ms/2YXAhg4}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

\href{/section/opinion}{Opinion}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{chinas-man-in-washington-named-trump}{%
\section{China's Man in Washington, Named
Trump}\label{chinas-man-in-washington-named-trump}}

Our president is bolstering a nation, but it's not the United States.

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/column/nicholas-kristof}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/04/03/opinion/nicholas-kristof/nicholas-kristof-thumbLarge-v2.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/column/nicholas-kristof}{Nicholas
Kristof}

Opinion Columnist

\begin{itemize}
\item
  June 20, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/06/23/opinion/sunday/21Kristof2/21Kristof2-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://cn.nytimes.com/opinion/20200623/trump-china-john-bolton-book/}{阅读简体中文版}\href{https://cn.nytimes.com/opinion/20200623/trump-china-john-bolton-book/zh-hant/}{閱讀繁體中文版}

``Nobody has been tougher on China than me,'' President Trump has
declared repeatedly, and he is trying to exploit anti-China feelings for
his re-election. He portrays Joe Biden as soft on China, and his backers
have run ads denouncing
\href{https://thehill.com/homenews/campaign/495649-pro-trump-group-releases-another-round-of-beijing-biden-ads-in-battleground}{``Beijing
Biden.''}

All that is preposterous, for it is Trump who has been China's stooge, a
sycophantic flatterer and enabler of President Xi Jinping. If that
wasn't already evident, John Bolton's new book, ``The Room Where It
Happened,'' portrays Trump as practically kowtowing to Xi.

The kowtow meant prostrating oneself before the emperor or a patriarch
and knocking one's head on the ground. Today it takes the form of a
fawning American president
\href{https://www.cnn.com/2020/04/21/politics/trump-china-praise-coronavirus-timeline/index.html}{publicly
declaring}, ``President Xi loves the people of China'' and hailing Xi's
``very capable'' handling of the coronavirus.

I've been gasping as I read an advance copy of Bolton's book,
particularly his chapter on relations with China, because China policy
perfectly captures Trump's soaring hypocrisy wrapped in venal
incompetence.

The passage in the book that got the most attention concerns a telephone
conversation between Trump and Xi last year.

``He {[}Trump{]} then, stunningly, turned the conversation to the coming
U.S. presidential election, alluding to China's economic capability to
affect the ongoing campaigns, pleading with Xi to ensure he'd win,''
Bolton writes.

The government clearance process redacted Trump's exact words, but
Vanity Fair
\href{https://www.vanityfair.com/news/2020/06/boltons-unredacted-book-shows-trump-trying-to-hide}{says}
he told Xi, ``Make sure I win.''

Yet perhaps what troubles me even more is Trump's kowtowing to China's
human rights abuses to win favor with Xi.

``On June 4, the 30th anniversary of the Tiananmen Square massacre,
Trump refused to issue a White House statement,'' Bolton writes, quoting
Trump as saying, ``Who cares about it?''

Xi has imprisoned some one million Muslims in modern concentration camps
in the Xinjiang region, in what may be the largest internment of people
based on religious categories since the Holocaust.

``Xi explained to Trump why he was basically building concentration
camps in Xinjiang,'' Bolton writes. ``According to our interpreter,
Trump said that Xi should go ahead with building the camps, which he
thought was exactly the right thing to do.''

Trump has also largely abandoned two Canadian citizens whom China has
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/19/world/asia/china-canada-kovrig-spavor.html}{imprisoned
as hostages} to try to prevent Canada from extraditing a prominent
businesswoman, Meng Wanzhou, to the United States. The United States
should stand with Canada to end such hostage-taking; instead, Trump has
validated it \href{https://www.bbc.com/news/world-us-canada-46533971}{by
suggesting} that he can interfere with the legal process to solve
problems.

Trump has
\href{https://www.wsj.com/articles/transcript-of-president-trumps-interview-with-the-wall-street-journal-11592501000}{denied}
making some of these comments, but then again Trump has made
\href{https://www.washingtonpost.com/graphics/politics/trump-claims-database/?itid=lk_inline_manual_3\&itid=lk_inline_manual_3}{more
than 19,000} false or misleading statements since assuming the
presidency, by the count of The Washington Post. Moreover, the White
House's main objection to Bolton's book is that it publishes classified
information --- and statements are considered classified only if
\href{https://www.businessinsider.com/trumps-claim-bolton-is-lying-contradicts-claim-book-is-classified-2020-6}{they
are true}. The White House thus provides backdoor confirmation of the
book's general truthfulness.

It has always been ludicrous for the Trump campaign to denounce
``Beijing Biden,'' when Trump publicly lavishes more affection on Xi
than on Melania. ``President Xi is extremely capable,'' is ``strong,
sharp and powerfully focused,'' is ``doing a very good job,'' and is ``a
man who truly loves his country,'' Trump has
\href{https://www.politico.com/news/2020/04/15/trump-china-coronavirus-188736}{said
on various occasions} this year alone.

My own view as a China-watcher who lived for years in Beijing is that we
should stand up to Xi where we need to --- while also negotiating on
trade and seeking ways to cooperate on climate change, pandemics and
more. Trump does the opposite: He bungles trade and achieves nothing
there, fails to cooperate on climate or health, damages America's
alliances and ignores Xi's worst abuses, all while flattering Xi in
apparent hopes of getting re-election help.

A joke in China suggests that Trump's
\href{https://www.whatsonweibo.com/trump-two-different-names-chinese/}{Chinese
name} is
\href{https://www.quora.com/Why-do-so-many-Chinese-people-call-Donald-Trump-Chuan-Jianguo-\%E5\%B7\%9D\%E5\%BB\%BA\%E5\%9B\%BD}{Chuan
Jianguo}, or ``Build-the-Country Trump.'' That's because
Build-the-Country is a common revolutionary name among Communist
patriots, and it's mockingly suggested that Trump's misrule of the
United States is actually bolstering Xi's regime.

In other words, Trump seems to be doing his utmost to make a country
great again. It's just not America.

\hypertarget{more-proof-that-i-have-the-best-readers}{%
\subsection{More proof that I have the best
readers.}\label{more-proof-that-i-have-the-best-readers}}

In April I
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/04/25/opinion/sunday/coronavirus-giving-guide.html}{used
my column} to announce an effort to raise funds for five great
organizations working at home and abroad to respond to the coronavirus,
and my readers have now donated a total of \$5.8 million to the effort.

Here's how the 10,200 donors have allocated the money: \$1.67 million to
Catalyst Kitchens, which provides meals for the hungry in the United
States; \$1.38 million to the Center for American Indian Health at Johns
Hopkins University, which supports the virus response in Native American
communities in the United States; \$1.1 million to Water for People,
which installs water systems at schools and clinics abroad so people can
wash their hands; \$826,000 to the International Rescue Committee,
supporting displaced people around the world; and \$788,000 to Save the
Children, helping out-of-school kids here in the United States.

And if you haven't donated yet, you still can at
\href{https://kristofc19impactinitiative.org/}{KristofC19ImpactInitiative.org}.

\emph{The Times is committed to publishing}
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/01/31/opinion/letters/letters-to-editor-new-york-times-women.html}{\emph{a
diversity of letters}} \emph{to the editor. We'd like to hear what you
think about this or any of our articles. Here are some}
\href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014925288-How-to-submit-a-letter-to-the-editor}{\emph{tips}}\emph{.
And here's our email:}
\href{mailto:letters@nytimes.com}{\emph{letters@nytimes.com}}\emph{.}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
