Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{/section/style}{Style}\textbar{}Hype House and the Los Angeles
TikTok Mansion Gold Rush

\href{https://nyti.ms/2SNxlkM}{https://nyti.ms/2SNxlkM}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/01/05/fashion/04HYPEHOUSE-2/merlin_166521084_8c88987d-f77c-47ea-ab2e-75fa742a1911-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\hypertarget{hype-house-and-the-los-angeles-tiktok-mansion-gold-rush}{%
\section{Hype House and the Los Angeles TikTok Mansion Gold
Rush}\label{hype-house-and-the-los-angeles-tiktok-mansion-gold-rush}}

The city is home to a land rush of ``collab houses,'' where the content
creators are getting younger and younger.

Hype House, a content creator collective, has 19 members, many of whom
are pictured here. Back row, from left: Calvin Goldby, Chase Hudson,
Avani Gregg, Ryland Storms, Wyatt Xavier, Dixie D'Amelio, Patrick
Huston, Daisy Keech and Charli D'Amelio. Front row, from left: Nick
Austin, Tony Lopez and Addison Rae.Credit...Michelle Groskopf for The
New York Times

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/taylor-lorenz}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/03/18/reader-center/author-taylor-lorenz/author-taylor-lorenz-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/taylor-lorenz}{Taylor
Lorenz}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Published Jan. 3, 2020Updated May 21, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

LOS ANGELES --- \href{https://vm.tiktok.com/CpHWv4/}{Hype House}, the
physical location of a new content creator collective, is a
Spanish-style mansion perched at the top of a hill on a gated street in
Los Angeles. It has a palatial backyard, a pool and enormous kitchen,
dining and living quarters.

Four of the group's 19 members live in the house full time; several
others keep rooms to crash in when they are in town. And all day long, a
stream of influential young internet stars come by to pay homage to the
new guard.

Hype House was formed in December by some of TikTok's most talked-about
stars. They introduced themselves with
\href{https://www.instagram.com/p/B6gMaDaldmf/}{a Backstreet
Boys-esque}photo shoot, and within minutes \#hypehouse began trending;
videos including the hashtag \#hypehouse have accrued nearly 100 million
views on TikTok.

The group handle that distributes their content surpassed three million
followers on TikTok in just over a week and a half. In the days leading
up to Christmas it was all anyone under the age of 18 on TikTok seemed
to be talking about.

So-called collab houses, also known as content houses, are an
established tradition in the influencer world. Over the last five years
they have formed a network of hubs across Los Angeles.

In 2014 members of an early collab channel called Our Second Life lived
and worked together in what they called the
\href{https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2aVoaohvQK8}{02L Mansion}. The
next year, nearly all the top talent on Vine moved into a large
apartment complex at
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2017/12/30/business/hollywood-apartment-social-media.html}{1600
Vine Street}.

Soon after, YouTuber mansions were popping up all over the city. The
Vlog Squad\href{https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=n1_PSUJCz5I}{shacked up}
\href{https://www.velvetropes.com/backstage/david-dobrik-house/}{in
Studio City}, while Team 10,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2017/09/08/fashion/jake-paul-team-10-youtube.html}{Jake
Paul}'s infamous YouTuber collective, rented a
\href{https://www.mic.com/articles/183081/meet-the-teens-and-parents-who-spend-hours-standing-in-the-hot-sun-outside-jake-pauls-house}{giant
house in West Hollywood} before eventually decamping to a mansion in
Calabasas.

Another
\href{https://www.wetheunicorns.com/features/clout-house-price-members-pictures/}{group}
of \href{https://www.vlogfund.com/en/blog/clout-house/}{YouTubers
rented} a \$12 million mansion in the Hollywood Hills and deemed it the
Clout House.

Now, the TikTokers have arrived --- and everything about TikTok happens
faster than it does anywhere else.

Image

Hype House is at the top of a hill on a suburban block in Los Angeles.
Its many porches provide stages for TikTok videos.Credit...Michelle
Groskopf for The New York Times

Image

Hype House has a large swimming pool, but because the group just moved
in, there is no pool furniture yet aside from a black
hammock.Credit...Michelle Groskopf for The New York Times

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/01/05/fashion/04HYPEHOUSE-1/merlin_166520937_40b97b31-9931-4f6c-aaf2-6661bf8a0804-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\hypertarget{collab-house-block-party}{%
\subsection{Collab House Block Party}\label{collab-house-block-party}}

Collab houses are beneficial to influencers in lots of ways. Living
together allows for more teamwork, which means faster growth, and
creators can provide emotional support for what can be a
\href{https://www.tubefilter.com/2019/05/31/burnout-influencers-social-media-solutions-treatment-who/}{grueling
career}.

``It's a brilliant move for power players on these platforms to lift
each other up,'' said Sam Sheffer, a YouTuber and technologist.
```Elevate others to elevate yourself' is a saying, and it really rings
true with this new generation of TikTokers.''

``From a management perspective, it's great,'' he added. ``It just means
all the kids will focus on content.''

Hype House was the brainchild of Chase Hudson, 17, a TikTok star with
more than eight million followers who is known online as Lilhuddy, and
Thomas Petrou, 21, a YouTube star.

The pair began plotting a move in November. Within 13 days they had
signed a lease on their current residence. Originally, Chase hoped to
name the group House of Olympus. He still thinks it sounds cooler, but
then Alex Warren, 19, suggested the name Hype House, and Chase was
outvoted.

Image

Thomas PetrouCredit...Michelle Groskopf for The New York Times

Image

Avani GreggCredit...Michelle Groskopf for The New York Times

Image

Addison Rae and Avani Gregg pose for a selfie in a Hype House
bathroom.Credit...Michelle Groskopf for The New York Times

Image

Alex Warren and Kouvr Annon cuddle in the movie room at Hype
House.Credit...Michelle Groskopf for The New York Times

Image

Nick Austin, Patrick Huston, Wyatt Xavier, Ryland Storms, Connor Yates,
Hootie Hurley, and Calvin Goldby.Credit...Michelle Groskopf for The New
York Times

Finding the right location for the house was key. A good collab house
has lots of natural light, open space and is far from prying neighbors.
A gated community is ideal, to prevent swarms of fans from showing up.

Brent Rivera, a YouTube star with more than 17 million followers on
TikTok who also runs a talent incubator, said the perfect collab house
``needs to be big, and the more amenities the better, like a pool, nice
bathroom, nice lighting, big back and front yard, room for activities
and fun stuff you can do inside or outside.''

Residents also must be able to film. Many influencers prefer the
short-term rental structure of Airbnb, in part because obtaining a lease
can be tough when you're young and have an unpredictable income.

But unfortunately many Airbnbs in Los Angeles have a no-filming rule.
(Homeowners worry about, among other things, tripods scratching the
floors and the potential property damage that comes with YouTube
stunts.)

The location Chase and Thomas found for Hype House checked all the boxes
and had some additional features that make it perfect for TikTok: plenty
of giant mirrors and a bathroom the size of a small apartment to film
in. Because everyone just moved in, Hype House is also nearly without
furniture, which makes shooting easier.

On Dec. 30, members clustered into the bathroom in rotating groups,
doing back flips in front of a phone propped up on a roll of toilet
paper supported by a Smartwater bottle. Fifteen-second clips of a DaBaby
song looped until everyone had memorized the agreed-upon choreography.

After one group finished filming, they headed downstairs to lounge on
three beanbag chairs. The house has a large glistening pool, but it's
too cold to swim in it right now. Hype House members prefer to hang out
on the stone porches overlooking it. The sweeping staircase is also a
popular backdrop.

Image

The perfect collab house ``needs to be big, and the more amenities the
better,'' said~Brent Rivera, a YouTube star with more than 17 million
followers on TikTok.Credit...Michelle Groskopf for The New York Times

Image

Daisy Keech and her dog, Harley, the unofficial Hype House
mascot.Credit...Michelle Groskopf for The New York Times

Alex, Thomas, Daisy Keech, 20, and Kouvr Annon, 19, live at the house
full time. As the oldest, Thomas acts as a default den mother. Though
Chase helped put money down for the house, Thomas manages schedules,
handles the house issues and resolves the inevitable conflicts. Unlike
Team 10 and other groups, Hype House doesn't take a cut of anyone's
revenue.

The house does have strict rules, however. Creators can have friends
over, but it is not a party house. If you break something, you have 15
days to replace it. And if you want to be a part of the group, you need
to churn out content daily.

``If someone slips up constantly, they'll not be a part of this team
anymore,'' Thomas said. ``You can't come and stay with us for a week and
not make any videos, it's not going to work. This whole house is
designed for productivity. If you want to party, there's hundreds of
houses that throw parties in L.A. every weekend. We don't want to be
that. It's not in line with anyone in this house's brand. This house is
about creating something big, and you can't do that if you're going out
on the weekends.''

In order to make a splash on the internet, you need the right people and
so Chase acts as Hype House's unofficial talent scout and a
behind-the-scenes operator. He has a knack for spotting influencers
early and knows what qualities it takes to get big online.

You have to be young, you have to ``have a lot of energy and personality
and honestly a little weird. The weird people get the furthest on the
internet,'' Chase said. ``You either have to be talented at something,
or a weird funny mix, or extremely good looking.''

Alex said, ``If you have all three, you're a TikTok god.''

Image

Charli D'Amelio and Addison Rae.Credit...Michelle Groskopf for The New
York Times

The undisputed star of the group is Charli D'Amelio, a 15-year-old from
Connecticut known as the reigning queen of TikTok. She and Chase appear
to be dating; the two most often speak of each other as best friends.

Charli has amassed more than 15 million followers since joining the app
this summer, and her fan base continues to grow at a wild rate. Her
dance routines spur thousands of copycat videos; her rise has been so
sharp and fast that she has become a meme.

Charli's sister, Dixie D'Amelio, is 18 and has five million followers.
Because they are still in school, both girls will continue to live with
their parents in Connecticut but come out to Los Angeles when their
schedules allow.

Charli is polite, thoughtful and soft-spoken in person. She is a trained
dancer and has ambitions to dance full time. In December she performed
with Bebe Rexha at a Jonas Brothers concert. Hype House has provided a
safe space to help her cope with the stress and attention that come with
overnight fame.

``The internet can be a little harsh,'' she said. ``Everyone here is
ready to bring positivity and kindness.'' Charli also credits the group
for expanding her creativity and helping her branch into new content
formats like vlogging.

``I'm trying things outside my comfort zone that I might not have done
if I was alone in my room,'' she said.

But her roots remain in dance. ``I grew up in the dance competition
world --- everyone's dream is to dance onstage. I've been a performer my
whole life,'' she said. ``I say all the time, this is a dream. I'm
living out everything I've ever wanted to do so early.''

\href{https://www.instagram.com/marc.damelio/?hl=en}{Marc D'Amelio}, who
is Charli and Dixie's father, said: ``As parents, one thing we say all
the time is that this is just about creating options for our kids. We
don't know where this is going, we don't have any plans for Charli or
Dixie to do this or that. We're just riding it and enjoying it, and
hopefully they can do things they love and most importantly be happy.''

Image

From left, Alex Warren, Kouvr Annon, Ondreaz Lopez, Tony Lopez, Dixie
D'Amelio, Charli D'Amelio and Addison Rae.Credit...Michelle Groskopf for
The New York Times

\hypertarget{los-angeles-city-of-the-moment}{%
\subsection{Los Angeles, City of the
Moment}\label{los-angeles-city-of-the-moment}}

The competition among young influencers in Los Angeles is fierce. Many
YouTubers who have felt secure in their status as internet elites are
now being threatened by the new wave of talent from TikTok that is
flooding the city.

And even since the arrival of Hype House, many other TikTok collectives
have been making plans to take on Los Angeles. Some TikTokers began
discussing a \href{https://vm.tiktok.com/CP5dyo/}{Melanin Mansion} for
black creators, noting that Hype House is predominately white.

\href{https://vm.tiktok.com/CPfU4x/}{Cabin Six}, an L.G.B.T.-focused
collective, held public auditions on TikTok last week, as did
\href{https://vm.tiktok.com/CP4edb/}{Diversity University}, another
TikTok group with plans to organize in Los Angeles in March.

``TikTok has brought a younger group of creators. That energy is kind of
pushing on a lot of older creators,'' said Josh Sadowski, 19, a TikToker
with nearly four million followers who lived in another TikTok collab
house. ``There's all these kids who want to move to L.A. and make
content, and TikTok is pushing their growth so much. Everybody is
really, really driven. They're bringing that energy to L.A., and it's
rubbing off on everyone else. No one wants to miss out.''

Evidence of this is all over the city. TikTok's primary United States
office --- the company is based in China --- is in Los Angeles. At
sunset on a recent Friday, six TikTok shoots were taking place
simultaneously on the Venice boardwalk.

Several TikTok creators began hosting twice-a-week collab days at the
Burbank Town Center in the fall; Josh was shocked at how many kids began
showing up.

Every influencer brings friends and ``the group just gets bigger and
bigger,'' he said. ``The energy is very different. I've been around
YouTubers, but the energy now, people are so motivated and you can feel
that motivation in these collabs. It creates a hype.''

TalentX Entertainment, a talent management incubator, has rented a giant
collab house in Bel Air called the Sway House, where six TikTokers, all
with millions of followers, will move in on Jan. 3. One member of
\href{https://vm.tiktok.com/CPQrX7/}{the Council House}, a group of
British and Irish TikTokers, visited Los Angeles this week and posted
about his plans to ``infiltrate America.''

Image

Charli D'Amelio and Chase Hudson.Credit...Michelle Groskopf for The New
York Times

Too much hype inevitably attracts drama, and Hype House members are
extremely wary of it. They are careful about who they film with, what
they wear, how they act and how things can be interpreted online.

If a Hype House member has a girlfriend, for instance, that member may
avoid filming with another girl alone, so as not to start rumors.

The house itself could bring drama someday. MaiLinh Nguyen, a former
videographer for Jake Paul, said money can play a huge role in trouble.

``I don't think it's sustainable to just be a collective forever,'' she
said. ``At some point if they want to do a pop-up shop, or release Hype
House merch, they need to figure out how to divvy things up financially
and they're going to have to legitimize it as a business.''

Michael Gruen, the vice president of talent at TalentX Entertainment,
said many of these collectives are creating valuable intellectual
property. A commission structure should be negotiated from the start, he
said, and thought should be given to incorporation and insurance and
everything else that comes along with running a business.

``As I've told many of these creator houses,'' Mr. Gruen said, ``before
you dig deep into raising the value of the I.P., make sure that you have
the splits organized so it doesn't come into play and ruin
friendships.''

Image

The group's favorite spot to film is a huge bathroom. It become known as
the ``TikTok bathroom'' to fans on the app.Credit...Michelle Groskopf
for The New York Times

Carson King, 20, a YouTuber who lives in a collab house with several
YouTuber friends, said that for him and many others, a looser
arrangement can work great, and creates less pressure.

``I think it's a dream for a lot of people to be able to move in with
friends and be able to work on whatever you want to work on,'' he said.
He and his housemates keep things like whiteboards around their collab
house so they can write down video ideas anytime.

``The big struggle creators have is that people around them don't
understand at all the culture of what they're doing,'' said Mitch
Moffit, 31, a YouTuber who lived in a collab house when he was starting
out.

This is the value for young people: If you want to immerse yourself in
influencer and internet culture, there's no better place to be. Chase,
Thomas, Charli and other members of Hype House are aware of how lucky
they are, how fleeting fame can be, and they don't want to squander the
opportunity.

``It's 24/7 here. Last night we posted at 2 a.m.,'' Thomas said.
``There's probably 100 TikToks made here per day. At minimum.''

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
