Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

From a Beloved Fashion Designer, Fabrics for the Home

\url{https://nyti.ms/2TYaymZ}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{from-a-beloved-fashion-designer-fabrics-for-the-home}{%
\section{From a Beloved Fashion Designer, Fabrics for the
Home}\label{from-a-beloved-fashion-designer-fabrics-for-the-home}}

Duro Olowu has turned his eye for richly patterned textiles to a new
collaboration with the furniture and housewares brand Soane Britain.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/01/30/t-magazine/24tmag-olowu-slide-VFRC-print/24tmag-olowu-slide-VFRC-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/aimee-farrell}{Aimee
Farrell}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Jan. 27, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

When the Nigerian-born fashion designer
\href{https://www.duroolowu.com/}{Duro Olowu} found himself with time to
spare between meetings one winter evening in London two years ago, he
decided to take a walk down the Pimlico Road. Nestled between the
residential districts of Chelsea and Belgravia, the charmingly
old-fashioned street, lined with Victorian-era galleries and
storefronts, is home to esteemed English interior design firms such as
Colefax \& Fowler, Rose Uniacke and Robert Kime. Along the way, Olowu,
who splits his time between London and New York, was stopped in his
tracks by an opulent window display at
\href{https://www.soane.co.uk/}{Soane Britain}, the 23-year-old
furniture, lighting and fabric maker that is particularly renowned for
reviving disappearing artisanal techniques such as
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2017/08/15/t-magazine/design/wicker-furniture-larsson-korgmakare-soane-bonacina.html}{rattan}.

``I was totally taken aback,'' he says of the lavish living room scene,
which featured matching linen curtains, wallpaper and the brand's
popular '40s-style armless Tuileries sofa, all patterned with the
lattice-like botanical swirls of Lotus Palmette, a Soane print inspired
by a 16th-century Safavid silk velvet panel. ``It spoke to me in the
same way that a museum or a gallery display would. At the same time,
everything just looked so warm and comfortable.'' When Olowu shared a
picture of the window on Instagram that night, his post caught the
attention of Lulu Lytle, Soane's co-founder and creative director. Lytle
had been an admirer of Olowu's own vividly colorful patterns since
buying a suit from his first boutique in Notting Hill, right **** around
the same time she helped to establish Soane in 1997. She wrote an
impassioned message to Olowu in reply, and so began a creative
relationship that will culminate, on March 2, with the debut of four
printed and woven interior fabrics that unite Soane's peerless
craftsmanship with Olowu's wide-ranging influences.

Image

The Regency Swirl print from Olowu's collection covers Soane's
'40s-inspired Tuileries sofa, which sits alongside the company's
signature rattan Ripple console.Credit...Alexander James

Image

Olowu's Timbuktu and Koro textiles cover Soane's Hurlingham
sofa.Credit...Alexander James

``We just talked and talked,'' says Lytle of the pair's meetings at both
her home in Bayswater and Olowu's store, a former gallery space in
London's St. James's neighborhood with walls and furnishings covered in
a colorful array of **** printed textiles, some designed by him and
others --- including the curtains from his sister's childhood bedroom
--- collected on his frequent trips to Africa. Olowu's clothes are
similarly **** vibrant; his line, which he founded in 2004, consists of
dresses and tailoring made from materials including vintage couture
fabrics, French furniture upholstery and textiles of his own design.
``We share very similar inspirations,'' Lytle says of Olowu, ``such as a
love of Egypt, right down to a fascination with scarab beetles.''

Accordingly, the collaboration was founded on a shared obsession with
antique textiles. Lytle, who as a teenager once blew her savings on a
large piece of appliquéd '20s-era Egyptian cloth she'd found at an
antiques store, established Soane's fabric division in 2011 and often
finds inspiration in her extensive personal archive, which includes
textiles ranging from 18th-century British shawls to Middle Eastern
prayer mats, Moroccan weavings to Syrian silks. Olowu is similarly
smitten. ``I've always loved textiles,'' he says. ``If I ever have spare
cloth from my collections, I'll use it to cover a chair or a cushion ---
people go crazy over it. I've made pieces on commission for homes in
Basel, New York and London.''

Image

``You want to walk into a room and feel that joie de vivre,'' says Olowu
of his textile designs, which include Stencil Leaf, shown here on
Soane's Rampart sofa.Credit...Alexander James

Image

A curtain in Olowu's geometric Koro pattern offsets Soane's Belvedere
table and Galia rattan lamp.Credit...Alexander James

Drawing on motifs from Persian, Nigerian and Senegalese textiles, Olowu
created a series of rough gouache sketches, layering them up, pattern on
pattern. Lytle had given him carte blanche, and so the real challenge
was whittling things **** down to just four designs. Eventually, they
landed on Timbuktu and Koro, a pair of patterns whose geometric shapes
were inspired by the jutting silhouettes of Malian mosques, as well as
two finely engraved rotary prints: Regency Swirl, which evokes the
curlicues of wrought-iron fencing, and Stencil Leaf, whose densely
packed fronds pay homage to the sprawling topiary at the Arts and
Crafts-style garden of Hidcote Manor in Gloucestershire, England, close
to where Lytle grew up.

``They're strong but subtle,'' says Lytle of the prints, which will be
available at Soane Britain stores in 11 colors and can be custom made in
even more hues. ``The great litmus test for textiles is to think of how
many interiors you could incorporate them into.'' It's an exercise that
underlines the pair's different creative domains: While Olowu pictures
the Stencil Leaf print on a bathrobe, Lytle imagines it enveloping an
entire room**,** from floor to ceiling. ``It's more a question,'' she
says, ``of where I won't use them.''

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
