Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}Kushner Is Said to Have
Discussed a Secret Channel to Talk to Russia

\url{https://nyti.ms/2r7tYaC}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{kushner-is-said-to-have-discussed-a-secret-channel-to-talk-to-russia}{%
\section{Kushner Is Said to Have Discussed a Secret Channel to Talk to
Russia}\label{kushner-is-said-to-have-discussed-a-secret-channel-to-talk-to-russia}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2017/05/26/us/27kushner/26kushner-articleInline.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By \href{http://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/maggie-haberman}{Maggie
Haberman},
\href{http://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/mark-mazzetti}{Mark Mazzetti}
and \href{http://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/matt-apuzzo}{Matt Apuzzo}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  May 26, 2017
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

WASHINGTON --- Jared Kushner, President Trump's son-in-law and senior
adviser, spoke in December with Russia's ambassador to the United States
about establishing a secret communications channel between the Trump
transition team and Moscow to discuss strategy in Syria and other policy
issues, according to three people with knowledge of the discussion.

The conversation between Mr. Kushner and the ambassador, Sergey I.
Kislyak, took place during a meeting at Trump Tower that Mr. Trump's
presidential transition team did not acknowledge at the time. Also
present at the meeting was Michael T. Flynn, the retired general who
would become Mr. Trump's short-lived national security adviser, the
three people said.

It is unclear who first proposed the communications channel, but the
people familiar with the meeting said the idea was to have Mr. Flynn
speak directly with a senior military official in Moscow to discuss
Syria and other security issues. The communications channel was never
set up, the people said.

The three people were not authorized to discuss the December meeting and
spoke on the condition of anonymity. The White House declined to comment
on Friday night.

News of the discussion was
\href{https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/national-security/russian-ambassador-told-moscow-that-kushner-wanted-secret-communications-channel-with-kremlin/2017/05/26/520a14b4-422d-11e7-9869-bac8b446820a_story.html?tid=sm_fb\&utm_term=.7fb4395f2b1a}{first
reported by The Washington Post}. The revelation has stoked new
questions about Mr. Kushner's connections to Russian officials at a time
when the F.B.I. is conducting a wide-ranging investigation into Russia's
attempts to disrupt last year's presidential election and whether any of
Mr. Trump's advisers assisted in the Russian campaign.

Current and former American officials said Mr. Kushner's activities,
like those of many others around Mr. Trump, are under scrutiny as part
of the investigation. But Mr. Kushner is not currently the subject of a
criminal investigation.

In the days after the meeting with Mr. Kislyak, Mr. Kushner had
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2017/04/06/us/politics/jared\%2Dkushner\%2Drussians\%2Dsecurity\%2Dclearance.html}{a
separate meeting with Sergey N. Gorkov}, a Russian banker with close
ties to Russia's president, Vladimir V. Putin.

The Post reported that the direct line between the transition team and
the Kremlin in concept would have been conducted through Russian
diplomatic facilities to avoid being monitored in American communication
systems. The Post also reported that Mr. Kushner had proposed the
communications channel and that it took Mr. Kislyak by surprise. The New
York Times could not immediately confirm these details.

Even if the proposal was designed primarily as a conduit to discuss
policy issues, it is unclear why such communications would have needed
to be carried out though a secret channel.

American intelligence agencies first learned about the discussion
several months ago, according to a senior American official who had been
briefed on intelligence reports. It is unclear whether they learned
about it from intercepted Russian communications or by other means.

Mr. Trump came into office promising improved relations with Russia on
numerous issues, including greater cooperation to try to end the civil
war in Syria. During the presidential campaign, he frequently criticized
the Obama administration's Syria policy as unnecessarily antagonistic
toward Russia.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2017/06/02/us/politics/02sanger-backchannels/01sanger-backchannels-videoSixteenByNine3000.jpg}

The idea behind the secret communications channel, the three people
said, was for Russian military officials to brief Mr. Flynn about the
Syrian war and to discuss ways to cooperate there. Neither side followed
up on it. And less than two weeks later, the idea was dropped when Mr.
Trump announced that Rex W. Tillerson, a former chief executive of Exxon
Mobil who had worked closely with Russian officials on energy deals, was
his choice to become secretary of state.

The interactions between Mr. Trump's advisers and Mr. Kislyak have been
a constant source of trouble for the new administration.

In February,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2017/02/13/us/politics/donald-trump-national-security-adviser-michael-flynn.html?_r=0}{Mr.
Flynn had to resign} as national security adviser for misleading Vice
President Pence about the nature of phone calls he had in late December
with the Russian ambassador. Mr. Flynn had told Mr. Pence that the two
men had merely exchanged holiday pleasantries, when in fact they had
discussed sanctions that the Obama administration had imposed on Russia
for its campaign to disrupt the election.

Weeks later,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2017/03/02/us/politics/jeff\%2Dsessions\%2Drussia\%2Dtrump\%2Dinvestigation\%2Ddemocrats.html}{Attorney
General Jeff Sessions was forced to recuse himself} from the Justice
Department's Russia investigation after it was revealed that he had not
disclosed during his confirmation process meetings he had with Mr.
Kislyak in 2016. Then,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2017/05/10/world/europe/trump-russia-foreign-minister-sergey-lavrov-meeting.html}{during
a May 10 Oval Office meeting} with Mr. Kislyak and the Russian foreign
minister, Sergey V. Lavrov,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2017/05/15/us/politics/trump-russia-classified-information-isis.html}{Mr.
Trump disclosed highly classified intelligence} about the Islamic State
to the Russians.

During that meeting, Mr. Trump also told the Russian officials that the
firing of the F.B.I. director, James B. Comey --- who was leading the
bureau's investigation into Moscow's activities during the campaign ---
had relieved ``great pressure'' on him, according to a document
summarizing the meeting.

On Friday,
\href{https://www.reuters.com/article/us-usa-trump-fbi-kushner-exclusive-idUSKBN18N018}{Reuters
reported} that Mr. Kushner had at least two previously undisclosed phone
calls with Mr. Kislyak between April 2016 and Election Day. The calls
focused on how to improve economic relations between the United States
and Russia, and how the two countries could better cooperate in the
fight against Islamist extremism, Reuters reported, citing six current
and former American officials.

That article said it was unclear whether Mr. Kushner spoke to Mr.
Kislyak on his own or with other advisers to Mr. Trump.

Jamie Gorelick, a lawyer for Mr. Kushner, said in a statement that her
client ``participated in thousands of calls in this time period.''

``He has no recollection of the calls as described,'' she said. ``We
have asked for the dates of such alleged calls so we may look into and
respond.''

``But we have not received such information,'' Ms. Gorelick added.

Two congressional intelligence committees are conducting parallel
investigations into Russian interference in the presidential campaign,
and in recent weeks, the panels have accelerated their efforts to obtain
documents from Mr. Trump's campaign advisers, sometimes using subpoenas.

This week, the Senate Intelligence Committee asked the Trump campaign's
treasurer to preserve and produce all documents --- including phone
records and emails --- dating to its official start in June 2015,
according to one person associated with the campaign. The person, who
spoke on the condition of anonymity to discuss the continuing
investigation, said former staff members had been instructed to
cooperate with the committee's inquiry.

The person said the request came from Senators Richard M. Burr,
Republican of North Carolina, and Mark Warner, Democrat of Virginia, the
committee's two senior members.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{Â©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
