Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/upshot}{The Upshot}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/upshot}{The Upshot}\textbar{}Monitoring the Coronavirus
Outbreak in Metro Areas Across the U.S.

\url{https://nyti.ms/2VuYJVw}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/news-event/coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{The
Coronavirus Outbreak}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  live\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/04/world/coronavirus-cases.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Latest
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Maps
  and Cases}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Vaccine
  Tracker}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/02/us/covid-college-reopening.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{College
  Reopening}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/live/2020/08/04/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Economy}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{comments}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{commentsContainer}{Comments}}{Comments}}\label{comments}}

\href{}{Monitoring the Coronavirus Outbreak in Metro Areas Across the
U.S.}\href{}{Skip to Comments}

The comments section is closed. To submit a letter to the editor for
publication, write to
\href{mailto:letters@nytimes.com}{\nolinkurl{letters@nytimes.com}}.

Upshot

\hypertarget{monitoring-the-coronavirus-outbreak-in-metro-areas-across-the-us}{%
\section{Monitoring the Coronavirus Outbreak in Metro Areas Across the
U.S.}\label{monitoring-the-coronavirus-outbreak-in-metro-areas-across-the-us}}

By The New York TimesUpdated Aug. 4, 2020, 11:15 A.M. E.T.

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
  \emph{238}
\end{itemize}

For the nation as a whole, cases and deaths appear to have peaked or are
starting to flatten. But there is a lot of regional variation.

\protect\hyperlink{big-picture}{The big
picture}\protect\hyperlink{hotspots}{Current hot
spots}\protect\hyperlink{good-news}{Potential good
news}\protect\hyperlink{cumulative}{Cumulative}

To help provide a detailed picture of the past, present and future of
the coronavirus pandemic in the United States, here are four ways of
thinking about it in hundreds of metro areas across the country, using
data
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/coronavirus-county-data-us.html}{compiled
by The New York Times}. This page will be updated regularly.

\hypertarget{1-the-big-picture-new-cases-and-deaths}{%
\subsection{1. The Big Picture: New Cases and
Deaths}\label{1-the-big-picture-new-cases-and-deaths}}

The simplest way to track the progress of an outbreak is by seeing how
many new cases and deaths are reported in a given area each day.

\hypertarget{new-cases-per-day}{%
\paragraph{New cases per day}\label{new-cases-per-day}}

United States

0

20,000

40,000

60,000 cases

March

April

May

June

July

Aug.

New cases

7-day average

\hypertarget{new-deaths-per-day}{%
\paragraph{New deaths per day}\label{new-deaths-per-day}}

United States

0

1,000

2,000 deaths

March

April

May

June

July

Aug.

Many deaths from unspecified days

New deaths

7-day average

These are days with a data reporting anomaly. Read more
\protect\hyperlink{anomaly-notes}{here}.

Use the search box below to see this relationship for any metropolitan
area in the U.S., here or in any of the tables below. (We've set it to
the New York City area by default.)

x

\hypertarget{new-cases-per-day-1}{%
\paragraph{New cases per day}\label{new-cases-per-day-1}}

New York City area

0

5,000

10,000

15,000 cases

March

April

May

June

July

Aug.

New cases

7-day average

\hypertarget{new-deaths-per-day-1}{%
\paragraph{New deaths per day}\label{new-deaths-per-day-1}}

New York City area

0

500

1,000

1,500 deaths

March

April

May

June

July

Aug.

New deaths

7-day average

These are days with a data reporting anomaly. Read more
\protect\hyperlink{anomaly-notes}{here}.

Metro and micropolitan areas are bigger than just the city limits of a
given place --- they often include the surrounding suburbs and exurbs.

\hypertarget{2-where-the-outbreak-is-worst-now}{%
\subsection{2. Where the Outbreak Is Worst
Now}\label{2-where-the-outbreak-is-worst-now}}

The metro areas with the greatest number of recently announced cases and
deaths, relative to their population, in the last two weeks:

\hypertarget{new-cases-last-two-weeks}{%
\paragraph{New cases, last two weeks}\label{new-cases-last-two-weeks}}

Metro or micro area

Growth in cases

Recent cases

Per 1,000

1

Brownsville-Harlingen, Texas

still growing

8,568

20.21

2

Lake City, Fla.

flat or decreasing

1,226

17.39

3

Rio Grande City, Texas

still growing

919

14.24

4

Bakersfield, Calif.

flat or decreasing

11,068

12.34

5

Eagle Pass, Texas

flat or decreasing

683

11.68

6

Miami

flat or decreasing

62,288

10.05

7

Lake Charles, La.

flat or decreasing

2,088

9.94

8

Corpus Christi, Texas

flat or decreasing

4,458

9.84

9

Victoria, Texas

flat or decreasing

907

9.10

10

Laredo, Texas

flat or decreasing

2,498

9.05

11

Panama City, Fla.

flat or decreasing

1,808

8.97

12

Yuma, Ariz.

flat or decreasing

1,832

8.64

13

Hermiston-Pendleton, Ore.

flat or decreasing

765

8.61

14

Opelousas, La.

flat or decreasing

699

8.45

15

Ocala, Fla.

flat or decreasing

2,736

7.60

530

New York City area

flat or decreasing

10,292

0.52

0.5

1

2.5

5

10

20

\hypertarget{new-deaths-last-two-weeks}{%
\paragraph{New deaths, last two weeks}\label{new-deaths-last-two-weeks}}

Metro or micro area

Growth in deaths

Recent deaths

Per 1,000

1

Brownsville-Harlingen, Texas

flattening

257

0.61

2

Rio Grande City, Texas

flattening

36

0.56

3

McAllen, Texas

flat or decreasing

364

0.42

4

Yuma, Ariz.

flat or decreasing

73

0.34

5

El Centro, Calif.

still growing

59

0.32

6

LaGrange, Ga.

still growing

20

0.29

7

Corpus Christi, Texas

flattening

129

0.28

8

Show Low, Ariz.

flat or decreasing

31

0.28

9

Lufkin, Texas

flattening

24

0.28

10

Gallup, N.M.

flat or decreasing

19

0.26

11

Gaffney, S.C.

flat or decreasing

15

0.26

12

Columbus, Miss.

still growing

15

0.25

13

Laredo, Texas

flattening

70

0.25

14

Orangeburg, S.C.

flat or decreasing

22

0.25

15

Payson, Ariz.

still growing

13

0.24

401

New York City area

flat or decreasing

211

0.01

0.025

0.05

0.1

0.2

0.3

0.4

Limited to areas with at least 50,000 people. Recent cases and deaths
are those announced in the last two weeks, but in some cases may have
taken place earlier because of delays in reporting. ``Flattening'' means
that the number of new cases is still increasing, but the rate of growth
is slowing.

Here, we've limited the window of cases to those within the last two
weeks. Scaling those cases by the population of the area can help give a
sense of the prevalence of the illness there and how strained a
community's health care system may be. Places with curves that are
``flattening'' or ``flat'' are likely to move down this list over time;
those where new cases and deaths continue to increase are on track to
move up. (Of course, case counts are subject to variable rates of
testing --- cases could fall in places simply because fewer tests are
being done --- so moderate changes in rankings on these tables may not
always be meaningful.)

\hypertarget{3-where-there-may-be-good-news-ahead}{%
\subsection{3. Where There May Be Good News
Ahead}\label{3-where-there-may-be-good-news-ahead}}

Here, the metro areas where new cases and deaths have decreased the
most, on a population-adjusted basis, in the last week:

\hypertarget{where-new-cases-are-decreasing-most}{%
\paragraph{Where new cases are decreasing
most}\label{where-new-cases-are-decreasing-most}}

Metro or micro area

A week ago

Now

Change per 100k

1

Lake City, Fla.

1,614

1,226

-550

2

San Angelo, Texas

1,295

866

-358

3

McAllen, Texas

7,552

4,964

-299

4

Victoria, Texas

1,204

907

-298

5

Waycross, Ga.

458

298

-291

6

San Antonio

17,967

10,891

-281

7

Huntsville, Texas

518

275

-279

8

Show Low, Ariz.

724

467

-233

9

Yakima, Wash.

1,532

989

-216

10

Mason City, Iowa

247

143

-208

11

Lafayette, La.

4,405

3,390

-207

12

Hammond, La.

981

712

-201

13

El Centro, Calif.

1,185

842

-189

14

Cape Coral-Ft.Myers, Fla.

4,196

2,893

-173

15

Lake Charles, La.

2,447

2,088

-171

314

New York City area

9,948

10,292

1.7

-500

-250

0

250

500

\hypertarget{where-new-deaths-are-decreasing-most}{%
\paragraph{Where new deaths are decreasing
most}\label{where-new-deaths-are-decreasing-most}}

Metro or micro area

A week ago

Now

Change per 100k

1

San Angelo, Texas

18

7

-9.2

2

Prescott, Ariz.

41

20

-9.1

3

Gallup, N.M.

24

19

-6.9

4

Russellville, Ark.

11

6

-5.8

5

St. George, Utah

12

3

-5.2

6

Eagle Pass, Texas

16

13

-5.1

7

Ocean City, N.J.

9

5

-4.3

8

Montgomery, Ala.

46

30

-4.3

9

Yakima, Wash.

20

10

-4.0

10

Show Low, Ariz.

35

31

-3.6

11

Huntsville, Texas

15

12

-3.4

12

Midland, Texas

13

7

-3.4

13

Odessa, Texas

23

18

-3.1

14

Harrisonburg, Va.

5

1

-3.0

15

East Stroudsburg, Pa.

11

6

-2.9

56

New York City area

357

211

-0.7

-5

-2.5

0

2.5

5

Limited to areas with at least 100 cases and 50,000 people. Figures are
sorted by the difference between the number of cases or deaths in the
two weeks ending seven days ago compared with the last two weeks. The
table showing the change in the number of deaths is limited to areas
with more than 20 deaths.

The places on this list are not necessarily those where the outbreak is
no longer severe. But sustained decreases in new cases and deaths are
signs that a place is going in the right direction.

\hypertarget{4-the-places-hit-hardest}{%
\subsection{4. The Places Hit Hardest}\label{4-the-places-hit-hardest}}

Below, the metro areas that have had the highest cumulative case and
death rates since the start of the outbreak:

\hypertarget{cumulative-confirmed-cases}{%
\paragraph{Cumulative confirmed
cases}\label{cumulative-confirmed-cases}}

Metro or micro area

Population

cases

Per 1,000

1

Gallup, N.M.

72,290

4,004

55.39

2

Yuma, Ariz.

212,128

11,210

52.85

3

El Centro, Calif.

181,827

9,448

51.96

4

Show Low, Ariz.

110,445

5,284

47.84

5

Marion, Ohio

65,256

2,884

44.20

6

Yakima, Wash.

251,446

10,599

42.15

7

Palestine, Texas

58,057

2,307

39.74

8

Sioux City, Iowa

169,045

6,250

36.97

9

Lake City, Fla.

70,503

2,598

36.85

10

Miami

6.2 mil.

216,722

34.96

11

Brownsville-Harlingen, Texas

423,908

14,781

34.87

12

Victoria, Texas

99,619

3,413

34.26

13

Huntsville, Texas

87,220

2,983

34.20

14

Rio Grande City, Texas

64,525

2,206

34.19

15

Lake Charles, La.

210,080

6,694

31.86

28

New York City area

20.0 mil.

533,497

26.70

0.5

1

2.5

5

10

20

\hypertarget{cumulative-confirmed-deaths}{%
\paragraph{Cumulative confirmed
deaths}\label{cumulative-confirmed-deaths}}

Metro or micro area

Population

deaths

Per 1,000

1

Gallup, N.M.

72,290

221

3.06

2

New York City area

20.0 mil.

43,689

2.19

3

Show Low, Ariz.

110,445

188

1.70

4

Trenton-Princeton, N.J.

369,811

619

1.67

5

Albany, Ga.

153,009

247

1.61

6

Fairfield County, Conn.

943,823

1,408

1.49

7

Farmington, N.M.

125,043

181

1.45

8

Hartford, Conn.

1.2 mil.

1,669

1.38

9

Milledgeville, Ga.

53,171

72

1.35

10

Springfield, Mass.

631,761

826

1.31

11

New Haven, Conn.

857,620

1,104

1.29

12

Meridian, Miss.

100,948

128

1.27

13

Yuma, Ariz.

212,128

265

1.25

14

Boston

4.9 mil.

6,041

1.24

15

El Centro, Calif.

181,827

221

1.22

0.025

0.05

0.1

0.2

0.3

0.4

Limited to areas with at least 50,000 people.

As the pandemic progresses, the number of cases and deaths per capita
can provide a good measure of the prevalence of coronavirus in a
community, even if the deadliest period of the outbreak has passed, as
it may have in places like Seattle, New York and New Orleans.

There are other measurements that would be helpful in understanding the
progress of the epidemic in different places, such as the number of new
hospitalizations, the number of tests administered or the number of
people showing any symptoms of respiratory illness. But confirmed
coronavirus cases and deaths, however incomplete, are the most useful
daily statistics currently available at a local level everywhere in the
country.

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/world/coronavirus-maps.html}{World}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/04/21/world/coronavirus-missing-deaths.html}{World
  Deaths}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/04/23/upshot/five-ways-to-monitor-coronavirus-outbreak-us.html}{U.S.
  Cities}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/05/05/us/coronavirus-death-toll-us.html}{U.S.
  Deaths}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-testing.html}{Testing}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-nursing-homes.html}{Nursing
  homes}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/nyregion/new-york-city-coronavirus-cases.html}{New
  York City}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/states-reopen-map-coronavirus.html}{Reopening}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html}{Vaccines}
\end{itemize}

Countries

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/world/americas/brazil-coronavirus-cases.html}{Brazil}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/world/canada/canada-coronavirus-cases.html}{Canada}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/world/europe/france-coronavirus-cases.html}{France}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/world/europe/germany-coronavirus-cases.html}{Germany}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/world/asia/india-coronavirus-cases.html}{India}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/world/europe/italy-coronavirus-cases.html}{Italy}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/world/americas/mexico-coronavirus-cases.html}{Mexico}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/world/europe/spain-coronavirus-cases.html}{Spain}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/world/europe/united-kingdom-coronavirus-cases.html}{U.K.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html}{United
  States}
\end{itemize}

State by state

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/alabama-coronavirus-cases.html}{Alabama}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/alaska-coronavirus-cases.html}{Alaska}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/arizona-coronavirus-cases.html}{Arizona}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/arkansas-coronavirus-cases.html}{Arkansas}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/california-coronavirus-cases.html}{California}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/colorado-coronavirus-cases.html}{Colorado}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/connecticut-coronavirus-cases.html}{Connecticut}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/delaware-coronavirus-cases.html}{Delaware}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/florida-coronavirus-cases.html}{Florida}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/georgia-coronavirus-cases.html}{Georgia}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/hawaii-coronavirus-cases.html}{Hawaii}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/idaho-coronavirus-cases.html}{Idaho}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/illinois-coronavirus-cases.html}{Illinois}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/indiana-coronavirus-cases.html}{Indiana}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/iowa-coronavirus-cases.html}{Iowa}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/kansas-coronavirus-cases.html}{Kansas}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/kentucky-coronavirus-cases.html}{Kentucky}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/louisiana-coronavirus-cases.html}{Louisiana}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/maine-coronavirus-cases.html}{Maine}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/maryland-coronavirus-cases.html}{Maryland}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/massachusetts-coronavirus-cases.html}{Massachusetts}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/michigan-coronavirus-cases.html}{Michigan}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/minnesota-coronavirus-cases.html}{Minnesota}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/mississippi-coronavirus-cases.html}{Mississippi}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/missouri-coronavirus-cases.html}{Missouri}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/montana-coronavirus-cases.html}{Montana}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/nebraska-coronavirus-cases.html}{Nebraska}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/nevada-coronavirus-cases.html}{Nevada}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/new-hampshire-coronavirus-cases.html}{New
  Hampshire}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/new-jersey-coronavirus-cases.html}{New
  Jersey}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/new-mexico-coronavirus-cases.html}{New
  Mexico}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/new-york-coronavirus-cases.html}{New
  York}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/north-carolina-coronavirus-cases.html}{North
  Carolina}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/north-dakota-coronavirus-cases.html}{North
  Dakota}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/ohio-coronavirus-cases.html}{Ohio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/oklahoma-coronavirus-cases.html}{Oklahoma}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/oregon-coronavirus-cases.html}{Oregon}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/pennsylvania-coronavirus-cases.html}{Pennsylvania}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/puerto-rico-coronavirus-cases.html}{Puerto
  Rico}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/rhode-island-coronavirus-cases.html}{Rhode
  Island}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/south-carolina-coronavirus-cases.html}{South
  Carolina}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/south-dakota-coronavirus-cases.html}{South
  Dakota}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/tennessee-coronavirus-cases.html}{Tennessee}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/texas-coronavirus-cases.html}{Texas}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/utah-coronavirus-cases.html}{Utah}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/vermont-coronavirus-cases.html}{Vermont}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/virginia-coronavirus-cases.html}{Virginia}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/washington-coronavirus-cases.html}{Washington}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/washington-dc-coronavirus-cases.html}{Washington,
  D.C.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/west-virginia-coronavirus-cases.html}{West
  Virginia}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/wisconsin-coronavirus-cases.html}{Wisconsin}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/wyoming-coronavirus-cases.html}{Wyoming}
\end{itemize}

Source: New York Times database of reports from state and local health
agencies and hospitals

Read 238 Comments

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
