Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}A Campaign Milestone: `I Was
Drugged and Raped,' Heard in a Candidate's Ad

\url{https://nyti.ms/3g7DNwp}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/12/us/politics/biden-trump-poll-wisconsin-minnesota.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{New
  York Times Poll}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/election-states-biden-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Paths
  to 270}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/us/elections/2020-presidential-election-calendar.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Voting
  Deadlines}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/31/us/politics/vote-by-mail-deadlines.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Voting
  by Mail}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Politics
  Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{a-campaign-milestone-i-was-drugged-and-raped-heard-in-a-candidates-ad}{%
\section{A Campaign Milestone: `I Was Drugged and Raped,' Heard in a
Candidate's
Ad}\label{a-campaign-milestone-i-was-drugged-and-raped-heard-in-a-candidates-ad}}

A Democratic congressional candidate in Virginia is releasing a TV spot
where she speaks candidly about assault, a new step in a political
landscape altered by the \#MeToo movement.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/05/21/us/politics/21assault-ad/21assault-ad-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/lisa-lerer}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/09/11/us/politics/author-lisa-lerer/lisa-lerer-headshot-thumbLarge.png}}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/giovanni-russonello}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2019/04/03/multimedia/author-giovanni-russonello/author-giovanni-russonello-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/lisa-lerer}{Lisa Lerer}
and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/giovanni-russonello}{Giovanni
Russonello}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  May 21, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

The photo could have been taken at any prom or sorority formal. Girls
with long hair and fancy dresses, their arms draped around one another's
shoulders, smiling wide.

Just five seconds into the
\href{https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pIWsBSGtDF8\&feature=emb_title}{campaign
ad}, a narrator makes clear that the image had not captured a
celebratory kind of night.

``It was 2004,'' says Claire Russo, 40, a former combat veteran running
for Congress in Virginia. ``I was attending the Marine Corps Ball when I
was drugged and raped by a superior.''

Ms. Russo, a Democrat, spent the next few years trying to get her day in
court, she says. After the Marine Corps decided not to charge her
superior and denied her request to transfer to another base, she took
her case to the San Diego district attorney's office. Her attacker
pleaded guilty to sodomy before his civilian trial began and was
sentenced to three years in prison. After serving about half of his jail
time, he received an honorable discharge from the Marines, according to
reports.

Now, Ms. Russo is placing her assault and the battle that followed at
the center of her campaign to be the Democratic candidate in a southern
Virginia congressional race. Her television ad is the first to feature a
candidate's personal recollection of rape, according to political
strategists and organizations that track political ads. Set to air on
broadcast and cable networks starting this week, the spot is expected to
make up a major portion of her advertising, according to her campaign.

``I have been someone whose voice has been silenced. I have been someone
who was denied justice,'' Ms. Russo said in an interview. ``It is
important to show the voters in this district that we can win and that
we can take power back.''

As she leans into her history as a survivor of sexual violence, Ms.
Russo is aligning herself with a powerful element of the Democratic
Party's identity in the \#MeToo era: that it is the party for women, by
women. Over the last three years, many Democrats expressed
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/02/03/us/politics/democrats-race-virginia.html}{a
zero-tolerance stand} on sexual misconduct.

Though occasionally divisive within the party, that position has allowed
Democrats to draw a clear contrast with
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/donald-trump.html}{President
Trump}. Frustration over Mr. Trump's history of misogynistic remarks and
allegations of sexual violence, as well as the treatment of Christine
Blasey Ford during Justice Brett M. Kavanaugh's confirmation hearings in
2018, helped
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/11/06/us/politics/women-midterms-historic.html}{Democrats
win control of the House in the midterm elections} --- largely on the
support of suburban women.

But the party's position grew far more complicated in March, when
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/joe-biden.html}{Joseph
R. Biden Jr.} was
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/12/us/politics/joe-biden-tara-reade-sexual-assault-complaint.html}{accused
of sexual assault by Tara Reade}, a former Senate aide. As Democrats
have rallied to the defense of their presumptive presidential nominee,
Republicans are seizing on the issue, slamming the party as hypocritical
for continuing to support Mr. Biden.

Public polling has found that a significant number of Americans of all
political stripes are uncertain about whom to believe regarding Ms.
Reade's allegations. Even so, some experts say, the charges of hypocrisy
could be weaponized to undermine the Democratic Party's credibility on
gender issues ---~particularly in swing suburban areas with independent
voters who are likely to be a key voting bloc in November.

In a
\href{https://www.prri.org/wp-content/uploads/2018/10/Partisan-Polarization-2018_AVS-C.pdf}{PRRI
poll} conducted just before the 2018 elections, political independents
were 10 percentage points more likely to say the Democratic Party was
doing a good job at confronting sexual harassment and assault than they
were to say the same about the Republican Party. Still, both parties got
negative marks from a majority of independents on these topics.

If in 2018, the political calculus around a discussion of sexual assault
seemed straightforward for many in the Democratic Party, this year is
quite different. Voters say they don't know what they believe on the
Reade allegation, which could have an impact if Republicans continue to
raise it. And, if she wins her competitive primary, Ms. Russo will be
testing the country's evolving attitudes in a challenging district for
Democrats.

Running from the North Carolina border to the outer reaches of the
Northern Virginia suburbs, Virginia's Fifth Congressional District was
last won by a Democrat in 2008. In 2016, President Trump won the area by
11 points and last year, Representative Denver Riggleman, a Republican,
won by nearly seven points even as other areas of the state flipped
blue.

Already, Republican Party committees have blasted Democratic members of
Congress regarding the Reade allegation, suggesting that they are
operating with a different standard than the one they used for
accusations of sexual assault against Justice Kavanaugh.
\href{https://poll.qu.edu/national/release-detail?ReleaseID=3661}{Polling
shows} that a majority of Republicans believe Ms. Reade's allegation.

The Republican strategist Mike Davis, who heads the Article III Project,
a group focused on defending conservative judges, said he planned to use
Ms. Reade's allegation to sway independent voters toward Republicans in
the presidential and congressional races.

``These \#MeToo mobsters have turned into contortionists,'' said Mr.
Davis**,** a former Republican aide who was a central figure in the
confirmations of Justices Neil M. Gorsuch and Kavanaugh. ****
``Democrats **** are more concerned about power than they are about
sexual assault survivors and that's always been the case.''

Ms. Russo said she was supporting Mr. Biden, pointing to the difference
between how the presumptive Democratic presidential nominee handled Ms.
Reade's allegation and how Mr. Trump has responded to claims of
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2017/01/17/us/former-apprentice-contestant-files-defamation-suit-against-trump.html}{sexual}
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/06/24/us/politics/jean-carroll-trump.html}{assault}
and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2016/10/13/us/politics/donald-trump-women.html}{misconduct}
from more than a dozen women. Mr. Biden has called for the release of
documents related to Ms. Reade's employment in his office and emphasized
that survivors ``have a right to be heard.''

``You can care about fixing our system and care about victims and
support Joe Biden,'' Ms. Russo said.

In a
\href{https://poll.qu.edu/national/release-detail?ReleaseID=3661}{Quinnipiac
University poll released this week}, only half of Democrats said they
believed Mr. Biden, with four in 10 saying they needed to hear more
about the accusation. Among independent voters, slightly more believe
Ms. Reade than Mr. Biden and nearly half said they needed to learn more.

In a
\href{https://www.monmouth.edu/polling-institute/reports/monmouthpoll_us_050620/}{Monmouth
University poll} this month, when asked to pick whom they believed more,
over a third of independent voters said they couldn't choose.

``The large numbers of `don't know,' especially if you have to volunteer
it, is huge,'' Fred Conrad, a public opinion expert at the University of
Michigan, said in an interview. ``That's a red flag --- that this is
just not something about which there's agreement, even within political
ideologies.''

Some recent surveys
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/15/us/politics/biden-trump-polls.html}{have
shown Mr. Biden's favorability slipping somewhat} --- though not
drastically --- in the months since Ms. Reade accused him of attacking
her during her time working for his Senate office in the 1990s.

Tresa Undem, a pollster who has studied the intersection of politics and
gender issues since before the \#MeToo movement, said her research
suggested that a charge of hypocrisy had the potential to taint not only
Mr. Biden but the Democratic Party in general ---~particularly among
independent female voters.

``If it keeps coming up, and in these down-ballot races if the
Republicans use it as an attack, yes, it's a big deal,'' Ms. Undem said.
``Among independent women, it has the potential to have a lasting
impact, not just in terms of enthusiasm toward Biden or motivation to
vote, but feelings toward the Democratic Party more broadly. What the
Democrats stand for.''

But in a primary campaign that's largely playing out on iPhones and TV
screens, with candidates competing in a crowded field amid a pandemic,
the advantage from a buzzy ad may outweigh possible political
vulnerabilities.

Ms. Russo's first political ad introduced her to the sprawling district,
and made passing reference to her sexual assault, sandwiching a
description of herself as a ``survivor'' between ``Democrat,'' ``mom''
and ``Marine.''

She said the assault and the fight that followed are not the reasons she
decided to run for Congress, pointing to her military service in Iraq
and Afghanistan, work in national security and her three young children
as all part of her motivation. The experience of battling a big
institution like the military to take her case seriously, though, isn't
far from her thoughts in this campaign.

``I saw that serving my country was as much about fighting for justice
and giving victims the strength to have their voices heard, as it was
about targeting insurgent networks in Falluja,'' she said.

Ms. Russo trails her major primary rivals in fund-raising dollars but,
in February, picked up the endorsement of Emily's List, which supports
female Democrats. She will face two men, including a fellow Marine
veteran, in the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/2020-campaign-primary-calendar-coronavirus.html}{party
primary on June 23.}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/05/21/us/politics/21assault-ad-mcsally/merlin_151710453_f1bcf07c-5840-4e6c-adf4-10e2e5eb1640-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Though Ms. Russo's ad is breaking new ground, women in politics have
begun speaking candidly about these subjects. In 2018, two Democratic
congressional candidates, one in Illinois and another in Florida,
produced ads about their experience with abuse and assault --- stories
of survival presented as **** part of the experience they would bring to
office. And elected officials have also shared painful parts of their
past.

In an emotional speech on the floor of the Michigan State Senate in
2013, Gov. Gretchen Whitmer, Democrat of Michigan, revealed that she had
been sexually assaulted several decades ago. Last year, Senator Joni
Ernst, a Republican from Iowa, said that she was raped in college after
court documents alleging physical and emotional abuse by her ex-husband
became public.

A few months later at an event at the U.S. Naval Academy focused on
campus sexual assault, Senator Martha McSally, a Republican from
Arizona, talked about her rape while in the Air Force.

The politicians recounting their own stories of sexual violence come
from both parties, a clear demonstration that assault is not partisan.

But whether people believe an assault claim usually has a lot to do with
politics. For instance, most Republicans generally told pollsters they
did not believe Dr. Blasey's allegations against a Trump nominee to the
Supreme Court. Today, they are far more likely to say that they believe
Ms. Reade's allegation against the presumptive Democratic nominee.

Independents --- including voters Ms. Russo might hope to pick up in
Virginia's open primary --- say they don't know what to believe.

\hypertarget{our-2020-election-guide}{%
\section{Our 2020 Election Guide}\label{our-2020-election-guide}}

Updated ~Sept. 12, 2020

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

\begin{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{the-latest}{%
  \subsection{The Latest}\label{the-latest}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    President Trump has failed to erase Joseph R. Biden Jr.'s lead
    across a set of key swing states,
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/12/us/politics/biden-trump-poll-wisconsin-minnesota.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{according
    to a poll}~conducted by The Times and Siena College.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{paths-to-270}{%
  \subsection{Paths to 270}\label{paths-to-270}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Joe Biden and Donald Trump need 270 electoral votes to reach the
    White House. Try building
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/election-states-biden-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{your
    own coalition of battleground states}~to see potential outcomes.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{voting-deadlines}{%
  \subsection{Voting Deadlines}\label{voting-deadlines}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Early voting for the presidential election starts in September~in
    some states. Take a look at
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/us/elections/2020-presidential-election-calendar.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{key
    dates}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/us/elections/2020-presidential-election-calendar.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{where
    you
    liv}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/us/elections/2020-presidential-election-calendar.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{e}.
    If you're voting by
    mail,~\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/31/us/politics/vote-by-mail-deadlines.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{it's
    risky to procrastinate}.
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/joe-biden.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{}

    \hypertarget{joe-biden}{%
    \section{Joe Biden}\label{joe-biden}}

    \hypertarget{democrat}{%
    \subsection{Democrat}\label{democrat}}

    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/donald-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{}

    \hypertarget{donald-trump}{%
    \section{Donald Trump}\label{donald-trump}}

    \hypertarget{republican}{%
    \subsection{Republican}\label{republican}}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \hypertarget{keep-up-with-our-coverage}{%
  \subsection{Keep Up With Our
  Coverage}\label{keep-up-with-our-coverage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Get an
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{email}~recapping
    the day's news
  \item
    Download our mobile app on
    \href{https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nytimes/id284862083?ls=1\&mat_click_id=5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\&referrer=mat_click_id\%3D5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\%26link_click_id\%3D722930677036718082}{iOS}~and
    \href{http://a.localytics.com/android?id=com.nytimes.android\&referrer=utm_source\%3Dother_nyt_mobile_web\%26utm_medium\%3DWeb\%2520page\%26utm_term\%3DGeneral\%2520Mobile\%2520Page\%26utm_campaign\%3DNYT\%2520Mobile\%2520General\%2520Page}{Android}~and
    turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
