\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}From Trump's Shadow, Mike
Pence Can See 2024

\url{https://nyti.ms/3gv2Yb4}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/09/us/trump-vs-biden?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Election
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/09/08/us/elections/results-new-hampshire-primary-elections.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{New
  Hampshire Results}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/election-states-biden-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Paths
  to 270}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/31/us/politics/vote-by-mail-deadlines.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Voting
  by Mail}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/us/elections/2020-presidential-election-calendar.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Key
  Dates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Politics
  Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/25/us/politics/25pence1/25pence1-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Sections

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\hypertarget{from-trumps-shadow-mike-pence-can-see-2024}{%
\section{From Trump's Shadow, Mike Pence Can See
2024}\label{from-trumps-shadow-mike-pence-can-see-2024}}

The vice president has grown accustomed to performing certain
acrobatics, maneuvering around in private what President Trump bellows
in public. It's one way he is tending to his future.

Vice President Mike Pence has grown accustomed to maneuvering around or
dialing back in private what President Trump bellows in
public.Credit...Anna Moneymaker/The New York Times

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/alexander-burns}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/09/25/multimedia/author-alexander-burns/author-alexander-burns-thumbLarge-v2.png}}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/maggie-haberman}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/07/12/multimedia/author-maggie-haberman/author-maggie-haberman-thumbLarge.png}}

By
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/alexander-burns}{Alexander
Burns} and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/maggie-haberman}{Maggie
Haberman}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Aug. 26, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Vice President
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/26/us/politics/mike-pence-rnc-speech.html}{Mike
Pence}, the head of the federal coronavirus task force, delivered a
clear message to governors about reopening schools. Help us help you,
Mr. Pence told the state executives during a virtual meeting in early
July, stressing that the administration wanted to see children back in
the classroom.

``You all build your plan, we'll work with you,'' Mr. Pence said,
according to a recording of the session. He added, ``We're here to
help.''

The next day, Mr. Pence's boss issued a different message to states. On
July 8,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/26/us/politics/trump-convention-night-2.html}{President
Trump} accused Democrats of trying to obstruct the reopening of schools
for political reasons and threatened retribution: ``May cut off funding
if not open!'' he tweeted.

If Mr. Pence felt embarrassed or undermined by the president's outburst,
he did not show it. Indeed, when he held another call with governors a
week later, Mr. Pence made no mention of the president's ultimatum,
instead reiterating his own more diplomatic plea that states make every
effort to reopen their education systems.

``Our bottom line is: We're with you,'' Mr. Pence said on July 13.

Over the past four years, that stark contrast in approach --- and the
ultimate, unquestioned supremacy of Mr. Trump --- has defined the
political partnership between the president and his running mate. Since
Mr. Trump plucked Mr. Pence from the governorship of Indiana to serve as
socially conservative ballast on a thrice-married real estate mogul's
ticket, Mr. Pence has grown accustomed to performing such acrobatics,
maneuvering around or dialing back in private what Mr. Trump bellows in
public.

The cumulative effect of Mr. Pence's conduct is to create around him a
kind of artificial bubble of relative normalcy, in which the vice
president avoids Mr. Trump's most explosive and divisive behavior mostly
by pretending it does not exist.

Mr. Pence never expresses overt disagreement with Mr. Trump --- not with
his bullying of states and cities, nor with his predictions that the
coronavirus will disappear, nor with his blunt appeals to racism, nor
with the use of his pardon power to shield his political allies from the
justice system.

Nor has Mr. Pence ever staked out a major policy position that set him
at odds with the president, as Joseph R. Biden Jr. --- Mr. Pence's
predecessor, and Mr. Trump's adversary in the current campaign --- did
by endorsing same-sex marriage before former President Barack Obama did.

When Mr. Pence has diverged, he has done so without repudiating Mr.
Trump: Last week, after Mr. Trump said he welcomed support from
believers in the far-right conspiracy theories known as QAnon, Mr. Pence
said he dismissed the group ``out of hand.'' But he insisted that he had
not seen Mr. Trump as giving succor to an online network that has been
described as a domestic terror threat.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/25/us/politics/25pence2/merlin_174530622_1423eab4-3816-4281-8a36-3520fca9e934-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Former Representative Charlie Dent of Pennsylvania, a moderate
Republican who served in the House with Mr. Pence, said that he had seen
Mr. Pence go ``completely outside what I thought was the comfort zone''
for a man Mr. Dent recalled as fond of telling voters he identified as a
Christian more than as a Republican.

``I've been, frankly, more than a bit surprised by how accommodating and
acquiescent he's been,'' said Mr. Dent, who has broken with his party to
endorse Mr. Biden.

Yet if Mr. Pence, 61, does not defy Mr. Trump, he has delineated limits
to his role that separate him from the president, according to
interviews with more than a dozen associates of Mr. Trump and Mr. Pence,
a review of Mr. Pence's public comments and more than seven hours of
audio recordings of Mr. Pence's private meetings as head of the pandemic
task force.

Mr. Pence's role leading that task force has forced him to juggle the
competing demands of state leaders who have faced disastrous viral
outbreaks with the decrees of a president who long ago lost interest in
managing the spread of the disease.

When Mr. Trump handed him the role months ago, advisers to Mr. Pence
believed it could secure or shatter his political profile. At this
point, it is not clear that it has done either, because Mr. Pence has so
consistently been upstaged by his disruptive boss.

As it is, Mr. Pence's lone opportunity to stand out in the current
campaign may come in his October debate with Senator Kamala Harris of
California, Mr. Biden's running mate, whose mission of bringing more
vigorous energy and diversity to the Democratic ticket could scarcely
differ more from Mr. Pence's more staid political mandate.

In his address to the Republican convention on Wednesday night, the vice
president is expected to hew closely to a familiar, self-effacing
strategy --- one devised to keep Mr. Pence bonded tightly to the man he
hopes to succeed in four years while preserving at least a veneer of
normalcy for himself.

``I think the vice president is as loyal a vice president as he could
be,'' said Brian Ballard, a Republican lobbyist who is closely allied
with Mr. Trump. He likened the relationship between Mr. Trump and Mr.
Pence to the one between Ronald Reagan, another conservative
entertainer-turned-politician, and his deferential running mate, George
Bush.

It is a comparison Mr. Pence's camp embraces. Marc Short, Mr. Pence's
chief of staff, said Mr. Pence had studied previous vice presidents and
admired the Bush approach. Mr. Short said Mr. Pence ``exemplifies
servant leadership,'' more than anyone he's ever worked with.

The Reagan-Bush comparison might be instructive in another way, however:
Bush was largely sidelined for most of the Reagan years, toiling in
often-frustrating, often-unhappy obscurity while he waited his turn to
run for the top job. When he eventually did so, his boss of eight years
did little to help him navigate a hotly contested Republican primary.

Image

Mr. Pence avoids Mr. Trump's most explosive and divisive behavior mostly
by pretending it does not exist.Credit...Al Drago for The New York Times

\hypertarget{preparing-for-2020-and-beyond}{%
\subsection{Preparing for 2020 and
Beyond}\label{preparing-for-2020-and-beyond}}

Before the coronavirus halted most in-person campaign activities, Mr.
Pence routinely traveled Rust Belt states on a sleek bus with the
campaign's logo on the side. He would pop into diners unexpectedly,
asking to join patrons at their tables, posing for photos.

Last month, Mr. Pence tried to restart that kind of campaigning in
Pennsylvania, a state he and Mr. Trump carried in 2016 but where Mr.
Biden has deep political ties.

Visiting a closed corporate office in Malvern, Pa. Mr. Pence told the
small group seated at socially distant intervals around a U-shaped table
that between Mr. Trump and Mr. Biden, ``the choice has never been
clearer'' on the economy.

Then it was on to a Blue Lives Matter rally in Philadelphia, where a few
hundred mostly maskless people listened inside the Fraternal Order of
Police Lodge No. 5 as Mr. Pence excoriated activists and politicians who
have called to ``defund'' the police.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/2020-election}{Election
2020 ›}

\hypertarget{live-updates}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/09/us/trump-vs-biden}{Live
Updates}}{Live Updates}}\label{live-updates}}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/09/us/trump-vs-biden\#a-marist-poll-shows-biden-widening-his-lead-in-pennsylvania}{}

Sept. 9, 2020, 10:37 a.m. ET

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/09/us/trump-vs-biden\#a-marist-poll-shows-biden-widening-his-lead-in-pennsylvania}{A
Marist poll shows Biden widening his lead in
Pennsylvania.}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/09/us/trump-vs-biden\#texass-system-for-verifying-signatures-on-mail-in-ballots-is-unconstitutional-a-judge-ruled}{}

Sept. 9, 2020, 10:02 a.m. ET

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/09/us/trump-vs-biden\#texass-system-for-verifying-signatures-on-mail-in-ballots-is-unconstitutional-a-judge-ruled}{Texas's
system for verifying signatures on mail-in ballots is unconstitutional,
a judge
ruled.}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/09/us/trump-vs-biden\#democrats-worry-about-a-partisan-slant-at-the-postal-service-where-trump-allies-dominate-the-board}{}

Sept. 9, 2020, 8:51 a.m. ET

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/09/us/trump-vs-biden\#democrats-worry-about-a-partisan-slant-at-the-postal-service-where-trump-allies-dominate-the-board}{Democrats
worry about a partisan slant at the Postal Service, where Trump allies
dominate the board.}

For all his workmanlike competence as a surrogate for Mr. Trump, there
have still been periodic flashes of job insecurity for Mr. Pence. Two
years ago, Mr. Trump began asking allies and advisers inside and outside
the White House whether Mr. Pence was ``loyal.'' He raised the idea of
making a change on the ticket with a few advisers, including John
Bolton, the former national security adviser, who wrote about the
discussions in his recent book.

But people close to Mr. Trump saw those queries as emerging from the
kind of anxiety Mr. Trump attaches to nearly everyone outside his
family.

Yet Mr. Pence's political standing is middling at best, and he is not
widely seen as an heir apparent. He is less disliked than Mr. Trump, but
no more popular than the president, according to recent polling.

Image

Mr. Pence talks up the president's record when traveling through states
like Pennsylvania, which Mr. Trump won in 2016.Credit...Pool photo by
Tim Tai

Eyeing his political future, Mr. Pence has made a few tentative attempts
at self-promotion --- but perhaps so tentative as to render them
ineffectual. His aides, encouraged by Republican National Committee
officials, had hoped to send Mr. Pence for a grand tour of all 50 state
delegations at the 2020 convention, the kind of ritual outreach that can
forge friendships for a future campaign. But when the in-person
convention was scrapped, that broader plan went with it.

More recently, Mr. Pence has held a series of luncheons with Republican
political consultants, including some who do not work for the Trump
campaign, gathering them either at the Naval Observatory or the Trump
Hotel in downtown Washington for wide-ranging conversations about the
political landscape. People invited to participate have interpreted the
sessions as an effort by Mr. Pence to expand his brain trust ahead of
2024; Pence aides claimed they've been a chance to get feedback for the
Trump re-election campaign during a period when the president has been
shaking up his staff.

Scott Jennings, a Republican strategist close to the Senate majority
leader, Mitch McConnell, said he saw Mr. Pence as a ``good soldier'' but
not an overpowering force.

``I don't think people are going to get out of the way for him,'' Mr.
Jennings said of Mr. Pence. ``I don't think he can expect to be anointed
simply because he served as vice president.''

Like many other Republicans, Mr. Jennings could easily reel off a half
dozen or more names of other candidates he expected to run. Indeed, the
first night of the Republican convention this week stoked speculation
about the 2024 prospects not of Mr. Pence, but of Nikki Haley, the
former United Nations ambassador, and Senator Tim Scott of South
Carolina.

Image

Mr. Pence's role leading the coronavirus task force has tested his
reputation and personal relationship with Mr. Trump.Credit...Doug
Mills/The New York Times

\hypertarget{the-task-force}{%
\subsection{The Task Force}\label{the-task-force}}

When Mr. Trump asked Mr. Pence to lead the coronavirus task force at the
end of February, the president described the assignment to some advisers
as, at best, a short-term post of questionable significance. The idea
was to bring the task force inside the White House, at a time when
officials across the administration were beginning to sound alarms about
the threat the virus presented.

Initially, Mr. Pence's office moved to take over all communications
about the virus, which alarmed health experts and Democrats. Members of
the Pence team tried to prove they were being open with the public, and
the vice president began holding daily press briefings.

That lasted a few days, until Mr. Trump was urged by some of his own
advisers to join the briefings in mid-March: The president took over as
the administration's main mouthpiece on the virus, often spouting false
information and inflicting political damage on himself.

Mr. Pence has operated more gingerly than the president. In his weekly
sessions with governors, Mr. Pence beams by video into state capitals
around the country from the head seat in the White House Situation Room,
often flanked by Dr. Deborah Birx and Adm. Brett P. Giroir. He speaks
with fluency on the details of pandemic response and urges states to
follow public-health guidelines on mask-wearing and limiting indoor
gatherings.

Several of the Republican governors see Mr. Pence as trying to be
helpful, but ultimately only able to change Mr. Trump's behavior on the
margins, at best. Some Democratic governors have gradually stopped
participating in phone calls with the task force because they see an
exasperating gulf between Mr. Pence's private remarks and the public
edicts issued by the president.

Gov. Larry Hogan of Maryland, a Republican who has been critical of Mr.
Trump, wrote in a memoir published this summer that he had been struck
during a visit to the White House by how much Mr. Pence's approach
differed from his boss's on the pandemic.

``Without President Trump in the room, Pence was all business,'' Mr.
Hogan wrote. ``Sober. Methodical.''

Image

President Trump and Mr. Pence accepted the Republican nomination in
Charlotte, N.C., on Monday.~Mr. Pence has been photographed at recent
crowded campaign events with no mask.Credit...Travis Dove for The New
York Times

Mr. Pence has made some important commitments he was unable to keep. In
early July, Mr. Pence assured Gov. Gary Herbert of Utah, a fellow
Republican, that the administration would push a ``very consistent
message'' about the importance of wearing masks. That promise did not
come to fruition because of Mr. Trump's own inconsistency on the
subject.

Indeed, Mr. Pence has been photographed repeatedly in recent weeks at
crowded campaign events with no mask.

Mr. Pence has threaded praise for Mr. Trump through his comments to the
state executives, though aides to several governors who participate
regularly in the calls said there was a general recognition within the
group that Mr. Trump was scarcely involved.

In the July 28 session, Mr. Pence shared with the governors what he
described as an encouraging update on the ``historic pace on the
development of vaccines'' for the coronavirus. And while he hailed the
role of the Food and Drug Administration, Mr. Pence praised one person
above all.

``I give all credit,'' he said, ``to the president of the United
States.''

\hypertarget{our-2020-election-guide}{%
\section{Our 2020 Election Guide}\label{our-2020-election-guide}}

Updated ~Sept. 9, 2020

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

\begin{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{the-latest}{%
  \subsection{The Latest}\label{the-latest}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Joe Biden heads today to Michigan, a battleground state where
    President Trump has resumed advertising ahead of a visit there on
    Thursday.
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/09/us/trump-vs-biden?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Read
    live updates}.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{how-to-win-270}{%
  \subsection{How to Win 270}\label{how-to-win-270}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Joe Biden and Donald Trump need 270 electoral votes to reach the
    White House. Try building
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/election-states-biden-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{your
    own coalition of battleground states}~to see potential outcomes.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{voting-by-mail}{%
  \subsection{Voting by Mail}\label{voting-by-mail}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Will you have enough time to vote by mail in your state? Yes, but
    it's risky to procrastinate.
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/31/us/politics/vote-by-mail-deadlines.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Check
    your state's deadline.}
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/joe-biden.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{}

    \hypertarget{joe-biden}{%
    \section{Joe Biden}\label{joe-biden}}

    \hypertarget{democrat}{%
    \subsection{Democrat}\label{democrat}}

    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/donald-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{}

    \hypertarget{donald-trump}{%
    \section{Donald Trump}\label{donald-trump}}

    \hypertarget{republican}{%
    \subsection{Republican}\label{republican}}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \hypertarget{keep-up-with-our-coverage}{%
  \subsection{Keep Up With Our
  Coverage}\label{keep-up-with-our-coverage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Get an
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{email}~recapping
    the day's news
  \item
    Download our mobile app on
    \href{https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nytimes/id284862083?ls=1\&mat_click_id=5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\&referrer=mat_click_id\%3D5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\%26link_click_id\%3D722930677036718082}{iOS}~and
    \href{http://a.localytics.com/android?id=com.nytimes.android\&referrer=utm_source\%3Dother_nyt_mobile_web\%26utm_medium\%3DWeb\%2520page\%26utm_term\%3DGeneral\%2520Mobile\%2520Page\%26utm_campaign\%3DNYT\%2520Mobile\%2520General\%2520Page}{Android}~and
    turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
