Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}Trump Leverages Powers of
Office as He Seeks to Broaden Appeal

\url{https://nyti.ms/32nMEE8}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/09/08/us/elections/results-new-hampshire-primary-elections.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{New
  Hampshire Results}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/08/us/trump-vs-biden?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Election
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/election-states-biden-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Paths
  to 270}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/31/us/politics/vote-by-mail-deadlines.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Voting
  by Mail}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/us/elections/2020-presidential-election-calendar.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Key
  Dates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Politics
  Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{trump-leverages-powers-of-office-as-he-seeks-to-broaden-appeal}{%
\section{Trump Leverages Powers of Office as He Seeks to Broaden
Appeal}\label{trump-leverages-powers-of-office-as-he-seeks-to-broaden-appeal}}

In an abrupt swerve from the dire tone of the convention's first night,
President Trump staged a grab-bag of gauzy events and personal
testimonials aimed at female and minority voters. His program blurred
the lines between campaigning and governing.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/25/us/politics/25repubs-ledeall-top-copy/25repubs-ledeall-top-copy-videoSixteenByNine3000-v4.jpg}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/alexander-burns}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/09/25/multimedia/author-alexander-burns/author-alexander-burns-thumbLarge-v2.png}}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/jonathan-martin}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/11/06/multimedia/author-jonathan-martin/author-jonathan-martin-thumbLarge.png}}

By
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/alexander-burns}{Alexander
Burns} and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/jonathan-martin}{Jonathan
Martin}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Aug. 26, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

President Trump made a bid to sand down his divisive political image by
appropriating the resources of his office and the powers of the
presidency at the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/27/us/rnc-convention-election}{Republican
convention} on Tuesday, breaching the traditional boundaries between
campaigning and governing in an effort to broaden his appeal beyond his
conservative base.

In an abrupt swerve from the dire tone of the convention's first night,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/26/us/politics/rnc-trump-character.html}{Mr.
Trump} staged a grab-bag of gauzy events and personal testimonials aimed
in particular at female and minority voters. In videos recorded at the
White House, Mr. Trump pardoned a Nevada man convicted of bank robbery
and swore in five new American citizens, all of them people of color, in
a miniature naturalization ceremony.

Where the convention on Monday emphasized predictions of social and
economic desolation under a government led by Democrats, the second
night speakers --- including three from Mr. Trump's immediate family ---
hailed the president as a friend to women and a champion of criminal
justice reform. There was no effort to reconcile the dissonance between
the two nights' programs, particularly the shift from Monday's rhetoric
about a looming ``vengeful mob'' of dangerous criminals into Tuesday's
tributes to the power of personal redemption.

It was not clear whether this new appeal would change the minds of
women, people of color and others who had formed negative opinions of
Mr. Trump over the past five years, amid the allegations of sexual
assault against him, the appeals to racial bigotry and hard-line
policies like a border crackdown that separated migrant families.

The coronavirus pandemic was largely confined to parenthetical comments
within the speeches, until Melania Trump, the first lady, addressed it
directly in the final speech and extended her ``deepest sympathy'' to
people who had lost loved ones. Like her husband, Mrs. Trump enlisted
the trappings of the presidency for her remarks: She spoke from the
White House Rose Garden.

Speaking in careful terms, the first lady sought to reframe Mr. Trump's
inflammatory conduct on race, which has undermined his standing in the
polls. ``My husband's administration has worked to try and effect change
around race and religion in this country,'' she said. She also scolded
the news media for focusing too much on ``gossip'' and lamented the
abusive treatment of people on social media and the ``downside of
technology.''

Mrs. Trump said she did not want to use her speech to denounce her
husband's political adversaries, faulting Democrats for going on the
attack in their convention last week and making no reference to the
Republican convention's intensely negative kickoff.

``That kind of talk,'' she said, ``only serves to divide the country
further.''

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/25/us/politics/25repubs-ledeall-nat/merlin_176179689_96028098-d3c0-400f-948e-97da6d0c4e89-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

A notable echo of the first night's tone came from another Trump son,
Eric, who followed his elder brother's example to unleash biting attacks
on Mr. Trump's challenger, Joseph R. Biden Jr., and the Democratic
Party. Democrats, he said in prepared remarks, ``want to disrespect our
flag'' and ``disrespect our law enforcement'' --- staples of Monday's
overwhelmingly negative rhetoric that grew more muted on the
convention's second night.

If the messaging was generally less dark on Tuesday, it also veered
inconsistently across disparate topics.

In a sign of the last-minute nature of the planning, there were a jumble
of themes. Gov. Kim Reynolds of Iowa spoke about a recent powerful storm
system that struck her state, soon after Tiffany Trump flayed the news
media and cancel culture **** and immediately before Vice President Mike
Pence appeared in an upbeat segment from Abraham Lincoln's boyhood home.
That all took place after an anti-abortion activist spoke and a former
Florida attorney general took aim at the overseas work of Hunter Biden,
the son of Mr. Biden.

In addition to highlighting Mr. Trump's efforts to help minority groups,
some of the speakers, as they did on Monday, also highlighted Mr.
Biden's clumsy remarks on race. Recalling the former vice president's
claim that ``you ain't Black'' if you don't support him, which Mr. Biden
has apologized for, Attorney General Daniel Cameron of Kentucky spoke
directly at Mr. Biden: ``Look at me, I am Black, we are not all the
same.''

The gentler tenor of the proceedings was a departure not only from the
previous night, but also from Mr. Trump's own language earlier the same
day. On Twitter, Mr. Trump spent parts of the afternoon railing against
``anarchists and agitators'' in Portland, Ore., and predicting rampant
``fraud and abuse'' through mail-in voting.

The convention again put on display Mr. Trump's unchallenged grip on
Republican politics, with the proceedings unfolding as a showy pageant
led by members of the Trump family.

Early in the night, Mr. Trump issued a pardon for a Nevada man convicted
in a 2004 bank robbery, using one of his unrestricted presidential
powers in a video produced for the partisan event. Later in the program,
the country's top diplomat, Secretary of State Mike Pompeo, delivered a
speech promoting Mr. Trump's candidacy from the roof of the King David
Hotel in Jerusalem, flouting a norm that State Department officials
abstain from electoral politics.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/25/us/politics/25vid-rnc-pompeo/merlin_176181558_73ea3dad-4459-4a1e-93b5-507ff7a548cf-videoSixteenByNine3000.jpg}

The Trump family members' remarks further infused the gathering of a
166-year-old political party with an atmosphere of dynastic ambition,
after Mr. Trump's eldest son, Donald Trump Jr., and his girlfriend,
Kimberly Guilfoyle, both spoke in prime time on Monday night. Mr.
Trump's daughter Ivanka will introduce him on Thursday night when he
accepts the party's nomination.

Had there been any doubt about the dimensions of Mr. Trump's political
persona, and the license he is willing to take with his role as the
country's chief executive, the first two nights of the Republican
convention would have dispensed with it. Mr. Pompeo's appearance, the
pardon and the parade of family members who would pay tribute to the
president were stark reminders of Mr. Trump's ability to impose his will
on the party's signature event of the election cycle.

When reports were first published that Mr. Trump was considering hosting
part of the convention from the White House, a handful of Republican
lawmakers objected, pointing to potential ethics violations. But once it
became clear that the president intended to use his taxpayer-funded
residence for the convention, G.O.P. officials quickly muted their
criticism.

And in keeping with Mr. Trump's preferences, and not wanting to remind
viewers of the coronavirus, nobody who appeared during the course of the
evening wore a face mask.

There were, though, tacit acknowledgments from Republicans that they had
to reach out to undecided voters.

Senator Rand Paul of Kentucky, along with several other speakers,
trumpeted the legislation overhauling criminal justice that the
president signed. Tiffany Trump sought to portray her father as a
champion of women and working mothers.

A handful of figures took the stage to praise the president and to warn
blue-collar voters about Mr. Biden: a businessman and a dairy farmer
from Wisconsin, a small-town mayor from the Iron Range in Minnesota and
an eighth-generation Maine lobsterman, Jason Joyce. ``He'll be
controlled by the environmental extremists,'' Mr. Joyce, whose Down East
accent left little doubt of his roots, said of the former vice
president.

Soon after trying to broaden their appeal, though, Republicans quickly
returned to appeals targeted more to their base. Cissie Graham Lynch, a
granddaughter of Billy Graham, said Democrats were pushing schools to
``allow boys to compete in girls sports and use girls locker rooms,''
referring to transgender people, and the anti-abortion activist, Abby
Johnson, recalled that Margaret Sanger, an early abortion rights
pioneer,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/21/nyregion/planned-parenthood-margaret-sanger-eugenics.html}{believed
in eugenics}.

The night also featured perhaps the bluntest character attack so far on
Mr. Trump's challenger when Pam Bondi, the former attorney general of
Florida, delivered a litany of accusations --- some accurate, others
misleading or exaggerated --- against Mr. Biden and members of his
family, who she claimed had sought to profit from his political career.

She singled out Mr. Biden's son, Hunter, for having served on the board
of a Ukrainian gas company while his father was vice president and
deeply involved in Ukraine policy, an alleged conflict of interest that
has been widely covered in the news media.

``If they want to make this election between who's saving America and
who's swindling America, bring it on,'' Ms. Bondi said.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/25/us/politics/25vid-rnc-bondi/25vid-rnc-bondi-videoSixteenByNineJumbo1600.jpg}

A few of the speakers struck a more conventionally Republican tone,
relative to the rhetoric from the previous night. In a recorded video,
Larry Kudlow, the cable pundit turned presidential adviser, boasted of
the ``roaring success'' of Mr. Trump's economic policies before the
pandemic struck. Echoing the false narrative pushed by Mr. Trump's
supporters on Monday night, Mr. Kudlow said the president's firm
intervention had brought the coronavirus under control, and promised
that if Mr. Trump were re-elected, ``more tax cuts and regulatory
rollback will be in store.''

One young speaker, a Kentucky teenager named Nicholas Sandmann, last
year sued multiple news media outlets, including The New York Times, for
allegedly misrepresenting an encounter between him and a Native American
protester during demonstrations on the National Mall. He criticized the
news media for what he depicted as unfair treatment of the president,
and presented himself as an example of those who are ``silenced by the
far left.''

Much like the first night, the presentations veered between trumpeting
Mr. Trump's law-and-order mantra and promoting his support for some
criminal justice reforms. The recipient of Mr. Trump's pardon was Jon
Ponder, who served prison time for several crimes including bank
robbery. Mr. Ponder had already been granted clemency by a Nevada board
for his state-level crimes. After his release, he founded an
organization to help former prisoners re-enter society.

Mr. Trump dispensed the pardon in a recorded video that outlined Mr.
Ponder's biography and that featured him and the president discussing
criminal justice reform along with Richard Beasley, the federal agent
who arrested Mr. Ponder before becoming his friend.

``You have done incredible work,'' Mr. Trump said, adding,
``Congratulations.''

The staged naturalization ceremony showed Chad F. Wolf, the acting
secretary of homeland security, leading a small group of immigrants in
the oath of citizenship, followed by Mr. Trump, who has consistently
sought to restrict immigration, offering his congratulations to new
Americans from countries including India and Ghana.

The airing of the video coincided with Mr. Trump's announcement earlier
on Tuesday that he would nominate Mr. Wolf to serve as permanent
secretary; a government oversight report this month found that Mr.
Wolf's acting appointment had been improper. As the acting secretary,
Mr. Wolf has been the face of the attempted federal crackdown on cities
where protests have turned violent, notably Portland, Ore.

These belated appeals may find a skeptical audience among those not
already backing Mr. Trump. The television ratings released for the
Monday programming showed that the convention had drawn a smaller
audience --- about 17 million from 10 p.m. to 11 p.m., according to
Nielsen --- than the equivalent night of the Democratic convention last
week (19.7 million), and that a huge share of the viewership had been
concentrated on the conservative-leaning Fox News.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/25/us/politics/25vid-rnc-eric-trump/25vid-rnc-eric-trump-videoSixteenByNine3000.jpg}

Events overnight on Monday might further stoke Republicans' message that
Democrats would preside over a total breakdown of domestic security. In
the Wisconsin suburb of Kenosha, protests erupted in violence and arson
in response to the shooting on Sunday of Jacob Blake, a Black man, by a
white officer in an encounter that was captured on video. Such scenes of
destruction in a crucial swing state could play into Mr. Trump's hands,
even as polls show most voters disapprove of how the president has
handled race relations and matters of law enforcement.

Democrats have largely ignored the vandalism linked to the unrest, and
on Tuesday they kept hammering Mr. Trump on his response to the
coronavirus crisis, the issue on which they believe he is most
vulnerable.

``We haven't even regained half of the jobs lost during the pandemic,''
said Gov. Gretchen Whitmer of Michigan. ``The economy has lost more than
six million jobs since Trump took the wheel, including more than 250,000
factory jobs.''

Mr. Pompeo's appearance, from Jerusalem, raised eyebrows but was in
keeping with Mr. Trump's penchant for eliminating the lines between the
political and the official. Mr. Trump has made his support for Israel a
major selling point of his candidacy, though he has acknowledged that
some steps --- like relocating the American embassy to Jerusalem ---
have earned him more good will with conservative evangelical voters than
with American Jews.

Mr. Pompeo said that members of his own family ``are more safe, and
their freedoms more secure, because President Trump has put his America
First vision into action,'' asserting that it had not made him ``popular
in every foreign capital, but it's worked.''

\hypertarget{our-2020-election-guide}{%
\section{Our 2020 Election Guide}\label{our-2020-election-guide}}

Updated ~Sept. 8, 2020

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

\begin{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{the-latest}{%
  \subsection{The Latest}\label{the-latest}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    President Trump and his party are using a playbook that aims to
    alarm people about crime in their backyards. It didn't work in 2018,
    but
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/08/us/politics/trump-republicans-fear-strategy.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{both
    parties think it could resonate more this year}.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{how-to-win-270}{%
  \subsection{How to Win 270}\label{how-to-win-270}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Joe Biden and Donald Trump need 270 electoral votes to reach the
    White House. Try building
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/election-states-biden-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{your
    own coalition of battleground states}~to see potential outcomes.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{voting-by-mail}{%
  \subsection{Voting by Mail}\label{voting-by-mail}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Will you have enough time to vote by mail in your state? Yes, but
    it's risky to procrastinate.
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/31/us/politics/vote-by-mail-deadlines.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Check
    your state's deadline.}
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/joe-biden.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{}

    \hypertarget{joe-biden}{%
    \section{Joe Biden}\label{joe-biden}}

    \hypertarget{democrat}{%
    \subsection{Democrat}\label{democrat}}

    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/donald-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{}

    \hypertarget{donald-trump}{%
    \section{Donald Trump}\label{donald-trump}}

    \hypertarget{republican}{%
    \subsection{Republican}\label{republican}}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \hypertarget{keep-up-with-our-coverage}{%
  \subsection{Keep Up With Our
  Coverage}\label{keep-up-with-our-coverage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Get an
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{email}~recapping
    the day's news
  \item
    Download our mobile app on
    \href{https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nytimes/id284862083?ls=1\&mat_click_id=5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\&referrer=mat_click_id\%3D5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\%26link_click_id\%3D722930677036718082}{iOS}~and
    \href{http://a.localytics.com/android?id=com.nytimes.android\&referrer=utm_source\%3Dother_nyt_mobile_web\%26utm_medium\%3DWeb\%2520page\%26utm_term\%3DGeneral\%2520Mobile\%2520Page\%26utm_campaign\%3DNYT\%2520Mobile\%2520General\%2520Page}{Android}~and
    turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
