Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/sports/tennis}{Tennis}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/sports/tennis}{Tennis}\textbar{}Victoria Azarenka Beats
Serena Williams in Comeback to Reach U.S. Open Final

\url{https://nyti.ms/2ZpENVV}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{victoria-azarenka-beats-serena-williams-in-comeback-to-reach-us-open-final}{%
\section{Victoria Azarenka Beats Serena Williams in Comeback to Reach
U.S. Open
Final}\label{victoria-azarenka-beats-serena-williams-in-comeback-to-reach-us-open-final}}

Williams was hurt in the third set of a tight match. Azarenka will face
Naomi Osaka in the final.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/09/10/sports/10usopen-semis-14/merlin_176838264_529aee40-0a37-4590-b5e4-2edee2a79520-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/matthew-futterman}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/02/24/reader-center/author-matthew-futterman/author-matthew-futterman-thumbLarge.png}}

By
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/matthew-futterman}{Matthew
Futterman}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Sept. 10, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/09/sports/tennis/belarus-tennis-azarenka-lukashenko.html}{Victoria
Azarenka} and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/03/sports/naomi-osaka-is-steadfast-in-winning-and-her-message.html}{Naomi
Osaka} will meet in the United States Open final on Saturday in a nearly
empty, cavernous stadium in Queens --- and what a shame that will be for
fans.

On a brilliant night of tennis, Azarenka registered an improbable
comeback in a roller coaster of a match against Serena Williams that
ended soon after Williams injured her left Achilles' tendon early in the
third set. Osaka edged Jennifer Brady in an earlier singles semifinal on
Thursday night to set up an unlikely showdown that figures to be one of
the bright spots in the disjointed, bizarre sports year that 2020 has
become.

After a week of shaky play, Williams appeared to have found her form
against Azarenka, the rival and fellow mother she has dominated for the
past dozen years. Williams was dominant early before Azarenka flipped
the match on its head, pushing Williams to a decisive set. Azarenka won
1-6, 6-3, 6-3.

Osaka, seeded fourth, topped Brady, the 28th seed, 7-6 (1), 3-6, 6-3 in
the first semifinal, a tight battle of big serves and nearly as big
forehands.

Down 0-1 in the third set and serving at 40-30, Williams stretched to
reach for a passing shot, then stayed bent over for more than a minute
before limping to her chair to receive medical treatment. Williams
returned to the court, bouncing along the baseline as though trying to
convince herself that all was well, but she lost her serve and Azarenka
took control. Williams said the injury did not affect her play later in
the match.

``I started really strong and then she just kept fighting,'' said
Williams, who committed to being in Paris for the French Open at the end
of the month. ``Maybe I took a little too much off the gas pedal at some
point.''

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/09/10/sports/10usopen-semis-15/merlin_176839209_e555de1a-3a48-44ff-9b65-1e930c0c0f43-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

A 24th title to tie Margaret Court's Grand Slam singles record would
have certainly bolstered Williams's claim as the best tennis player ---
male or female --- of all time. But it has eluded her since she returned
in 2018 several months after giving birth to her daughter, Olympia.

Azarenka's journey to the final appeared even more improbable.

A two-time Grand Slam champion and former world No. 1 once considered
the next dominant player in the sport, Azarenka had a child in 2016 and
spent the much of the last two years embroiled in a custody fight.

Image

Azarenka was not seeded in this tournament.~Credit...Chang W. Lee/The
New York Times

She is unseeded in this tournament. At another event last month in
Lexington, Ky., she looked like a shadow of her former self, devoid of
the power and creativity that had once made her so special.

Since coming to New York for the Western \& Southern Open, which was
relocated from near Cincinnati to limit travel, Azarenka has shown every
sign of a resurgence at age 31. She won the Western \& Southern, and
played one of the most dominant matches of her career in the U.S. Open
quarterfinal, crushing Elise Mertens of Belgium, the No. 16 seed, 6-1,
6-0.

Azarenka has spent the swing in New York in a rented house on Long
Island, where she can spend the days playing with her son, Leo, and
where her mother has been cooking dinner each night.

``She has goals, big goals. She wants to win big titles again,'' said
Azarenka's coach, Dorian Descloix. ``When she's here, she's like
Victoria the tennis player. When she goes back at home to our house in
Long Island, she's like a mother. So it's totally different.''

Williams, seeded third in a tournament that is missing six of the top 10
players, broke Azarenka's serve twice before the match was 10 minutes
old. She finished off the first set in 34 minutes.

But Azarenka has never been known for going quietly. She came alive in
the second set as Williams struggled with her baseline game, pushing
backhands into the net and spraying forehands long and wide.

Up a break and serving at 4-3, Azarenka outslugged and outlasted
Williams on two long rallies, leaving Williams stretching helplessly as
she watched winners zip past. A blistering backhand sealed Azarenka's
second break of the set and evened the match.

During the final games, Williams and Azarenka grunted and screamed with
each shot and celebrated each point with fist pumps and cries of ``come
on!''

``There was no crowd to get the energy from,'' Azarenka said. ``I had to
bring it myself.''

Image

Naomi Osaka, the 2018 U.S. Open champion, reached the final again by
defeating Jennifer Brady.Credit...Chang W. Lee/The New York Times

As rain pounded on the roof of Ashe Stadium, Osaka and Brady did not
play a game of finesse, subtlety or spins. It was power tennis from
start to finish.

Brady struggled with Osaka's serve as Osaka aimed for the corners of the
service boxes with darts that kept Brady guessing. Brady matched up well
with Osaka when she could manage a return, but that was easier said than
done.

``Sometimes I think I have no choice but to play as hard as I can,
because my opponent isn't giving me any looks,'' Osaka said. ``For me,
normally if I focus that much, then the match potentially could be over
in two. But I felt like it just kept going on.''

Osaka is a prodigy who became one of the biggest stars in tennis after
beating Williams two years ago in the 2018 U.S. Open final. Brady turned
pro relatively late after spending two years at U.C.L.A., and was making
her debut in a Grand Slam semifinal.

Osaka has played with a medical bandage throughout the tournament around
her left leg to protect a sore hamstring. She has also been outspoken
throughout the summer about ending systemic racism and police violence
against Black people, especially as tennis has returned from the
pandemic.

Two weeks ago, after seeing the Milwaukee Bucks of the N.B.A. and teams
in several professional sports leagues decide to sit out their scheduled
games, Osaka announced that she would not play her semifinal match at
the Western \& Southern Open, a warm-up to the U.S. Open. Tournament
officials then postponed all play for a day, allowing Osaka to continue.
She advanced to the final but then conceded the match because of
lingering hamstring soreness, resulting in Azarenka winning in a
walkover.

During the U.S. Open, Osaka has worn Black Lives Matter T-shirts and
masks with the names of Black people who have been killed, some by
police. She said she began the U.S. Open with seven different masks, one
for each match, including the final.
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/09/10/sports/tennis/us-open-naomi-osaka-serena-williams.html}{Osaka's
breakout title in 2018} is mostly remembered for
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/09/09/sports/serena-osaka-us-open-penalty.html}{Serena
Williams's argument with an umpire} after she was given a code violation
for receiving coaching during the match, then a point penalty for
slamming her racket to the concrete. Osaka beat Williams that night in
straight sets --- and the fans were clearly on Williams's side.

It was hard not to imagine what this night might have been like in
another year, with 23,000 fans packed into Arthur Ashe Stadium, their
roars echoing off the closed roof. Instead, fans were not allowed to
attend because of the coronavirus pandemic.

The emptiness gave way to something else --- the culmination of more
than four hours of fearless, tight, solo competition, with a distinctive
purity. There was what was happening on the court and nothing else.

And when Azarenka finally finished it off, with one last ace on the
outside edge of the line, winning by a fraction of an inch so close that
Williams had challenged the call, it was too bad it had to end.
Especially for Williams, whose hunt for that 24th major goes on.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
