Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/business/media}{Media}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/business/media}{Media}\textbar{}Disney's Head of
Streaming Is New TikTok C.E.O.

\url{https://nyti.ms/2zaiHfV}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{disneys-head-of-streaming-is-new-tiktok-ceo}{%
\section{Disney's Head of Streaming Is New TikTok
C.E.O.}\label{disneys-head-of-streaming-is-new-tiktok-ceo}}

Kevin Mayer will lead the Chinese-owned app for making and sharing short
videos, which has exploded in popularity during the pandemic.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/05/18/business/18disney/merlin_164279103_8bc8def0-eea5-4495-865e-d7aaf910467c-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/brooks-barnes}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/02/16/multimedia/author-brooks-barnes/author-brooks-barnes-thumbLarge.jpg}}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/jack-nicas}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/11/26/multimedia/author-jack-nicas/author-jack-nicas-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/brooks-barnes}{Brooks
Barnes} and \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/jack-nicas}{Jack
Nicas}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  May 18, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

LOS ANGELES --- The Walt Disney Company's top streaming executive, Kevin
Mayer, resigned on Monday to become the chief executive of
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/10/19/style/high-school-tiktok-clubs.html?searchResultPosition=6}{TikTok},
the app for making and sharing short videos that has exploded in
popularity during the coronavirus pandemic.

Mr. Mayer, 58, will also serve as chief operating officer of
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/10/29/technology/bytedance-app-funding-china.html?searchResultPosition=8}{ByteDance},
the Chinese conglomerate that owns TikTok. ``I was happy with my job at
Disney,'' Mr. Mayer said by phone. ``The magnitude of this opportunity
was just something I couldn't pass up.'' He cited gaming and music as
two expansion possibilities. (He sounded considerably less eager to post
TikToks of himself.)

TikTok's app has been downloaded about 1.9 billion times worldwide,
including 172 million downloads in the United States, according to
Sensor Tower, an app data firm. And its surging popularity has increased
during the pandemic. In the first quarter of this year, it was
downloaded 307 million times, more than any other app in the world,
according to Sensor Tower data.

That popularity has made TikTok by far the biggest digital success for a
Chinese-owned company in the Western world. As a result, it has faced
deep distrust across the U.S. government. Several government agencies,
including nearly all branches of the military,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/01/04/us/tiktok-pentagon-military-ban.html}{have
barred employees} from downloading or using the app. In March, Senator
Josh Hawley, a Republican from Missouri,
\href{https://www.congress.gov/bill/116th-congress/senate-bill/3455?s=1\&r=1}{proposed
legislation} to bar any federal employee from using the app.

``.\href{https://twitter.com/tiktok_us}{@tiktok\_us} previously told me
they couldn't attend hearings and testify because executives were
located in
\href{https://twitter.com/hashtag/China?src=hashtag_click}{\#China},''
Mr. Hawley
\href{https://twitter.com/HawleyMO/status/1262498756555046913?s=20}{wrote
on Twitter} after Mr. Mayer's hiring was announced. ``But this new
executive lives in the USA. I look forward to hearing from him. Under
oath.''

Both Republicans and Democrats have questioned the Chinese government's
influence over the app. Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, the
Democratic minority leader, and Senator Tom Cotton, Republican from
Arkansas,
\href{https://www.democrats.senate.gov/imo/media/doc/10232019\%20TikTok\%20Letter\%20-\%20FINAL\%20PDF.pdf}{co-wrote
a letter} to the director of national intelligence in October,
requesting a review of the national-security implications of TikTok's
expanding influence.

TikTok has meanwhile hired a number of American executives and employees
to run its business and review content on its app. Vanessa Pappas, a
former YouTube executive who joined TikTok as one of its American chiefs
last year,
\href{https://newsroom.tiktok.com/en-us/explaining-tiktoks-approach-in-the-us}{said
in a November blog post} that the company's United States-based team
would call the shots on TikTok's U.S. business, including by setting
specific rules for American users.

Now Mr. Mayer will provide a clear link between TikTok and ByteDance's
leadership in Beijing, with his dual roles at the two companies.

Mr. Mayer's departure from Disney is not entirely a surprise. Disney's
board of directors passed over him this year when it was looking for a
successor for Robert A. Iger, who abruptly stepped down in February.
(Mr. Iger remains executive chairman, with a focus on the creative
process.) Many people in Hollywood and on Wall Street had viewed Mr.
Mayer as the logical internal candidate because the future of Disney
rests on its ability to transform itself into a streaming titan. The top
job, however, went to Bob Chapek, the lower-profile chairman of Disney's
theme parks and consumer products businesses.

``Kevin has had an extraordinary impact on our company over the years,''
Mr. Chapek said in a statement. ``Having worked alongside Kevin for many
years on the senior management team, I am enormously grateful to him for
his support and friendship.''

Despite being passed over, Mr. Mayer had indicated that he was in no
hurry to leave. There is no business more important to Disney than
streaming, and Mr. Mayer has relished working on services like
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/04/11/business/media/disney-plus-streaming.html?searchResultPosition=8}{Disney
Plus}, which rolled out in November and now has about 55 million
subscribers --- a runaway hit. Disney Plus will arrive in parts of Asia
and Latin America this year. Hulu, which has about 30 million
subscribers, and Hotstar, the leading streaming service in India, have
also been part of Mr. Mayer's portfolio.

Mr. Mayer is best known as Disney's longtime deals maven. Before running
the direct-to-consumer and international division for the past two
years, he served as Disney's chief strategy officer, helping to
orchestrate the purchases of Pixar, Marvel, Lucasfilm, most of 21st
Century Fox and BamTech, a technology company that specializes in
streaming video.

Mr. Mayer joined \href{javascript:void(0);}{Disney} in 1993 before
leaving in 2000 to run Playboy.com. He soon returned to
\href{javascript:void(0);}{Disney} to work on Go.com, a web portal that
eventually failed, and other \href{javascript:void(0);}{Disney}
websites, including ESPN.com, before moving to strategic planning.

Disney named Rebecca Campbell as Mr. Mayer's successor. She has been
ascending quickly. Just last year, she was named president of the
Disneyland Resort in Anaheim, Calif. Before that, Ms. Campbell had a
senior leadership role at Disney's Europe, Middle East and Africa
operation; she worked on the launch plan for Disney Plus. Disney also
named a new chairman for theme parks and consumer products: Josh
D'Amaro, who was president of Walt Disney World in Orlando, Fla.

ByteDance, founded in 2012, has quickly become a major player in the
global tech industry with a number of wildly popular apps, including
Douyin, in effect the Chinese version of TikTok, and Toutiao, a news
aggregator that
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/01/02/business/china-toutiao-censorship.html}{has
run afoul of Chinese regulators} for its sometimes racy content. Zhang
Yiming, 37, its secretive founder and chief executive, has quickly
become one of the richest and most influential people in China. While
scrutiny of ByteDance increases with its size,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/11/05/business/tiktok-china-bytedance.html}{his
comments have resembled} those of Mark Zuckerberg, Facebook's chief,
arguing that ByteDance is a tech company, not a media company.

A TikTok spokesman on Monday stressed that TikTok was not owned by a
Beijing-based company. Instead, its parent company, ByteDance Ltd., is
incorporated in the Cayman Islands, though he could not say how many
people are based there. That entity owns TikTok and all of the
businesses in China, he said.

Mr. Mayer will remain in his current home in Los Angeles, though he will
travel frequently to Bytedance's headquarters in Beijing, as well as
TikTok's major offices in New York, London, Japan and India, the
spokesman said.

Brooks Barnes reported from Los Angeles, and Jack Nicas from Oakland,
Calif.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{Â©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
