Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/travel}{Travel}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/travel}{Travel}\textbar{}The New Long Weekend

\url{https://nyti.ms/3270Y1m}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

Frugal Traveler

\hypertarget{the-new-long-weekend}{%
\section{The New Long Weekend}\label{the-new-long-weekend}}

Does a Saturday-to-Monday weekend mean savings and fewer crowds? We
tested the model in four cities.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2019/11/03/travel/03-Frugal-long-weekend/03-Frugal-long-weekend-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By Elaine Glusac

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Nov. 1, 2019
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

For most people, long weekends usually run from Friday to Sunday, a
surge that often means higher travel costs. But what if we tinkered with
the timing to reset the weekend as Saturday to Monday? Would we save
money?

Depending on where you go and stay, the answer is yes, from somewhat to
substantially.

The variability starts with your choice of accommodations. The new long
weekend takes advantage of a Sunday night hotel stay, generally the
lowest occupancy night of the week, which dictates lower rates. STR, a
global hospitality benchmarking firm, found that hotel occupancy in the
United States in 2018 was 53.2 percent on Sunday nights, the lowest of
the week; occupancy peaked on Saturday nights at 74.7 percent.

\href{https://www.hoteltonight.com/}{HotelTonight}, the last-minute
hotel booking app, notes that Sunday night hotel stays cost 30 percent
less on average than Friday or Saturday night rates.

``Friday and Saturday are traditional weekend leisure travel nights, and
Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday are business travel,'' Sam
Shank, the chief executive of HotelTonight, said. ``You're left with
orphan Sunday nights which are neither leisure nor business.''

Additionally, fliers can take advantage of lower fares on Saturday, a
less popular day to fly. The airfare prediction app
\href{https://www.hopper.com/}{Hopper} found that traveling Saturday to
Monday is 10 percent cheaper on average for travel within the United
States than traveling on Friday to Sunday, or \$255 for an economy
round-trip a ticket versus \$284. Hopper cautioned that consumers should
return on Monday when business travelers aren't in the air.

``There are more options for people traveling on a Monday when they're
not traveling on business,'' Hayley Berg, the economist at Hopper, said.
Early morning flights tend to fill with business travelers. ``A 6 a.m.
flight from New York to Chicago is going to be more expensive than a 3
p.m. on the same day,'' Ms. Berg said.

A lot also depends on the weekend in question. The travel search site
\href{https://www.kayak.com/}{Kayak} found that the combination of days
doesn't affect prices much, though booking a weekend trip after a major
holiday, such as the weekend following the Thanksgiving weekend, may
save 20 to 35 percent on airfare compared to holiday prices.

Gains and losses aren't always financial and the Sunday night hotel rule
doesn't always apply, especially in cities popular with conventions, as
indicated in the following analyses of four popular weekend destinations
weighing the value of the long weekend shift.

\hypertarget{las-vegas}{%
\subsection{Las Vegas}\label{las-vegas}}

Price-wise, long weekends in Las Vegas --- second only to Orlando in
convention business, according to the meetings technology provider
\href{https://www.cvent.com/en/press-release/cvent-unveils-lists-top-meeting-destinations-worldwide-2018}{Cvent}
--- are subject to the convention calendar.

Using Google.com/travel, I found average nightly rates from \$165 at the
\href{https://luxor.mgmresorts.com/en.html?ecid=GMB_Hotel_Luxor\#/}{Luxor
Hotel \& Casino} and \$121 at the \href{https://www.thed.com/}{D Las
Vegas} for a Friday-to-Sunday weekend in November on a non-convention
weekend. Shifting to a Saturday-to-Monday stay, I got nightly rates from
\$87 at the Luxor and \$92 at the D.

Advance booking makes a difference too; looking six weeks out, average
nightly rates at the Luxor and D drop to \$36 and \$47, respectively,
for Saturday to Monday nights in late November. On a convention weekend
in late November, I recently found average nightly rates from \$74 at
the Luxor and \$89 at the D for Friday and Saturday nights, and \$35 and
\$49, respectively, on Saturday and Sunday nights.

Staying over on a Sunday in Las Vegas, ``visitors would also avoid long
waits at restaurants or nightclubs,'' wrote Scott Roeben, the founder of
the blog \href{https://vitalvegas.com/}{VitalVegas.com}, in an email.
``They're hungrier for business on Sundays. Because Vegas is a 24/7 town
in many ways, I don't see much downside.''

\hypertarget{miami}{%
\subsection{Miami}\label{miami}}

In the Miami area, both Sunday and Monday are low occupancy nights,
hovering around 72 percent in 2018, versus nearly 85 percent on
Saturdays, the busiest day of the week, according to STR.

In addition to occupancy, advance booking may also affect prices. For
the traditional Friday-to-Sunday weekend in early November, the website
for the
\href{https://www.marriott.com/hotels/travel/miaba-aloft-miami-brickell/?scid=bb1a189a-fec3-4d19-a255-54ba596febe2}{Aloft
Miami --- Brickell} hotel showed average nightly rates from \$174 (or
\$165 if you join the free Marriott Bonvoy loyalty program). Shifting
Saturday to Monday saves \$20 a night. In a Google search for stays
during the last weekend of November, rates at the hotel dropped to \$135
a night for Friday and Saturday; they started at \$129 on Sunday.

``There's so much available to travelers on Sunday and Monday that
they'll likely only miss out on the crowds,'' Kayla Becker, a
Miami-based assistant editor at \href{http://www.fodors.com/}{Fodor's
Travel}, wrote in an email.

She points to a
\href{https://www.miamiandbeaches.com/things-to-do/arts-culture/free-museum-days}{list
of museums offering free admission} published by the local visitors
bureau, including the \href{https://icamiami.org/}{Institute of
Contemporary Art,}\href{https://icamiami.org/}{Miami,} which is always
free, and the \href{https://pamm.org/}{PÃ©rez Art Museum Miami,} which
offers free admission on the second Saturday of the month. There are
free flea markets at \href{https://metroflea.miami/}{Lummus Park} on
Saturdays and Sundays, and a
\href{https://lincolnroadmall.com/lincoln-road-farmers-market-takes-place-every-sunday/}{farmers
market on the Lincoln Road Mall} in South Beach on Sundays for bargain
food foraging.

If you're coming to see and be seen, you'll miss prime time on Friday
night, but ``there are way fewer people on the beach on a Monday
morning,'' Ms. Becker added.

\hypertarget{new-york-city}{%
\subsection{New York City}\label{new-york-city}}

Occupancy peaked in New York hotels in 2018 on Saturday nights at nearly
92 percent, a figure that fell to nearly 80 percent on Sunday.
HotelTonight found that over the past two years, New York City has had
the lowest Sunday night rates compared to other cities around the
country, starting at \$103 for the period between Oct. 11 and Nov. 24.
By comparison, New York's average daily rate in 2018 was \$262.32,
according to STR.

\href{https://www.arlohotels.com/}{Arlo Hotels}, which has two locations
in New York, recently priced a Friday and Saturday night at the
\href{https://www.arlohotels.com/arlo-nomad/}{Arlo NoMad} at \$306 a
night in mid-November. That rate held for a Saturday and Sunday stay,
though if I booked a single night on Sunday, the rate dropped to \$204.
On a recent search, HotelTonight listed the World Center Hotel in the
Financial District from \$175 a night for the traditional
Friday-to-Sunday weekend, versus an average of \$168 a night for
Saturday to Monday.

Subbing Sunday for Friday, visitors may be required to shift their
expectations. Instead of seeing ``Hadestown'' on Broadway at 8 p.m. on a
Friday, the show, \href{https://www.broadway.org/performance-times}{like
most on Broadway}, runs midafternoon matinees on Sundays.

``New York is a little quieter on a Sunday,'' said Christopher Heywood,
the executive vice president of global communications for NYC \&
Company, which promotes tourism in the city. He also noted that crowds
at attractions may be fewer and restaurant reservations easier to get.
\href{https://www.nycgo.com/maps-guides/free-in-nyc}{NYCgo.com}
maintains a list of free activities.

\hypertarget{san-francisco}{%
\subsection{San Francisco}\label{san-francisco}}

For all its leisure appeal, San Francisco is a business travel town,
hotel occupancy figures suggest. Occupancy peaked in 2018 on Wednesdays
at 88 percent, STR found, and fell to 73 percent on Sundays (Saturdays
stand at 83.8 percent).

The new \href{https://www.yotel.com/en/hotels/yotel-san-francisco}{Yotel
San Francisco} seemed like a good place to test rates. Yotel is known
for its tiny but well-designed rooms --- in San Francisco these
``cabins'' start at 86 square feet --- and commensurately affordable
prices. On Fridays and Saturdays in early November, rates started at
\$189 and on Sunday jumped to \$249, which management attributes to its
location near the Moscone Convention Center.

Looking for a property less subject to the business market, I found the
hostel
\href{https://www.hiusa.org/hostels/california/san-francisco/city-center}{HI
San Francisco City Center} had private double rooms at \$130.50 per
night on a November Friday, Saturday and Sunday.

For Rachael Levitt, the digital managing editor of
\href{http://www.fodors.com/}{Fodor's Travel} who lived in the city for
five years, the new long weekend saves money as well as time battling
peak traffic on Friday.

``I'd take a full day on Sunday over any evening of the week,'' Ms.
Levitt wrote in an email.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/travel/places-to-visit.html}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2019/01/07/travel/52-PROMO/52-PROMO-articleLarge.jpg}

\hypertarget{52-places-to-go-in-2019}{%
\subsection{52 Places to Go in 2019}\label{52-places-to-go-in-2019}}

A starter kit for escaping into the world.

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

\textbf{52 PLACES AND MUCH, MUCH MORE} \emph{Follow our}
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/travel/places-to-visit.html?action=click\&module=inline\&pgtype=Article}{\emph{52
Places}} \emph{traveler, Sebastian Modak, on}
\textbf{\href{https://www.instagram.com/nytimestravel/}{\emph{Instagram}}}
****** \emph{as he travels the world}***,*** \emph{and discover more
Travel coverage by following us on}
\href{https://twitter.com/nytimestravel}{\emph{Twitter}} \emph{and}
\href{https://www.facebookcorewwwi.onion/nytimestravel/}{\emph{Facebook}}\emph{.
And}
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/traveldispatch?action=click\&module=inline\&pgtype=Article}{\emph{sign
up for our}} **
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/traveldispatch}{\emph{Travel
Dispatch newsletter}}\emph{: Each week you'll receive tips on traveling
smarter, stories on hot destinations and access to photos from all over
the world.}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{Â©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
