Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}New York Board of Elections
Cancels Democratic Presidential Primary

\url{https://nyti.ms/2VET8fC}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/03/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Election
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/biden-vice-president-2020.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Biden's
  V.P. Search}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/07/24/us/politics/trump-biden-campaign-donors.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Map
  of Donations}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/elections/delegate-count-primary-results.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Delegate
  Count}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2019/us/politics/2020-presidential-candidates.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{The
  Candidates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Politics
  Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{new-york-board-of-elections-cancels-democratic-presidential-primary}{%
\section{New York Board of Elections Cancels Democratic Presidential
Primary}\label{new-york-board-of-elections-cancels-democratic-presidential-primary}}

The State Board of Elections scrapped the state's June 23 Democratic
nominating contest, citing the risk of spreading coronavirus, in a move
opposed by supporters of Bernie Sanders.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/04/21/us/politics/21ny-primary/merlin_143672937_47e1881f-e5c6-4020-9aeb-7674fed7e181-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/stephanie-saul}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/02/06/reader-center/author-stephanie-saul/author-stephanie-saul-thumbLarge.png}}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/nick-corasaniti}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/06/13/multimedia/author-nick-corasaniti/author-nick-corasaniti-thumbLarge-v2.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/stephanie-saul}{Stephanie Saul} and
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/nick-corasaniti}{Nick Corasaniti}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Published April 27, 2020Updated May 5, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/05/05/us/politics/ny-presidential-primary.html}{New
York} officials canceled the state's
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/22/nyregion/ny-primary-2020.html}{Democratic
presidential primary} on Monday, prompting an immediate backlash from
the campaign of Senator Bernie Sanders and his legion of progressive
supporters who had hoped to amass convention delegates and help shape
the party's platform in August.

In making the decision against holding a primary, which had been
scheduled for June 23, the Democratic chair of the New York State Board
of Elections called the primary ``essentially a beauty contest'' that
the state could ill-afford in the face of the coronavirus pandemic.

The vote followed a decision this month by Mr. Sanders
\href{https://slack-redir.net/link?url=https\%3A\%2F\%2Fwww.nytimes.com\%2F2020\%2F04\%2F08\%2Fus\%2Fpolitics\%2Fbernie-sanders-drops-out.html}{to
suspend his presidential campaign}, effectively conceding the Democratic
nomination to former Vice President
\href{https://slack-redir.net/link?url=https\%3A\%2F\%2Fwww.nytimes.com\%2Finteractive\%2F2020\%2Fus\%2Felections\%2Fjoe-biden.html}{Joseph
R. Biden Jr}.

Mr. Sanders had expressed a desire to remain on the ballot, however, and
his supporters had launched an email, phone and Twitter campaign to
persuade the elections board to go forward with the primary, calling its
cancellation an affront to Democracy.

On Monday, his campaign released a statement, calling the decision ``an
outrage, a blow to American democracy'' and accused the state party of
having a ``checkered pattern of voter disenfranchisement.''

``Today's decision by the State of New York Board of Elections is an
outrage, a blow to American democracy, and must be overturned by the
D.N.C.,'' said Jeff Weaver, a senior adviser to the Sanders campaign.
``Just last week Vice President Biden warned the American people that
President Trump could use the current crisis as an excuse to postpone
the November election. Well, he now has a precedent thanks to New York
state.''

Officials said they had struggled with the decision but they ultimately
concluded that the risk of spreading coronavirus was too great to
justify holding an election with no real meaning.

The Democratic primary will be held for other races, but because of the
board's decision,
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/05/29/us/politics/trump-coronavirus-polls.html}{voters}
in about 20 counties with no other contests will have no need to go to
the polls, and no choice for president will appear on ballots in the
remainder of the state's 62 counties. The board's Democratic
co-chairman, Douglas A. Kellner, said he had read thousands of emails
from Sanders supporters urging the board to go forward before making his
decision to vote against holding the primary, but ultimately decided
that it was time to acknowledge that the primary served no significant
purpose.

``What the Sanders campaign wanted is essentially a beauty contest that,
given the situation with the public health emergency, seems to be
unnecessary and, indeed, frivolous,'' Mr. Kellner said.

In a letter to the board on Sunday, Mr. Sanders's campaign had urged the
board to keep him on the ballot and hold a primary in the interest of
party unity. On Monday, the Sanders-aligned group Our Revolution said
they would challenge the decision.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-2020-election}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/03/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: 2020
Election}}{Latest Updates: 2020 Election}}\label{latest-updates-2020-election}}

Updated 2020-08-04T01:23:51.312Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/03/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-6494b448}{Trump
  assails mail-in voting anew, citing delays in declaring a winner in a
  New York congressional primary.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/03/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-3de249e6}{Obama
  issues his first slate of 2020 endorsements.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/03/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-54e34d20}{In
  a big shift, Trump is now encouraging mask-wearing in campaign
  emails.}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/03/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

``We will not stand by and allow New York Democrats to be denied the
opportunity to influence their party and its platform at the convention
in August,'' the group's chair, Larry Cohen, said in a statement on
Monday. ``We will be forced to go to the credentials committee and
challenge any delegates that New York sends to the convention.''

With the decision, made during a telephone meeting by the two Democrats
on the election board, New York became the first state to cancel its
presidential primary, only the latest major development in the shifting
national electoral landscape. In response to the coronavirus epidemic,
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/2020-campaign-primary-calendar-coronavirus.html}{16
states} have postponed their primaries and many have taken measures to
encourage voting by mail.

Despite arrangements to encourage absentee voting, polling places are
expected to remain open in about 42 counties for down-ballot races.

Andrew J. Spano, the other board member who voted in the unanimous
decision, said the chance a primary could spread coronavirus to both the
public and poll workers counterbalanced the wishes of Mr. Sanders's
supporters.

Mr. Spano, a former Westchester County executive, said he had only
reached a conclusion on how to vote on Monday morning, following what he
described as a roller coaster weekend, but ultimately concluded, ``We
should minimize the risk.''

Asked about the decision at his daily coronavirus briefing in Albany,
Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo said he would not ``second guess'' the board and
cited the safety of election employees. Later, in a radio interview, Mr.
Cuomo reiterated that it was the board's decision, but wondered why Mr.
Sanders would still want a full primary.

``I don't even understand the issue, to tell you the truth,'' Mr. Cuomo
said. ``I don't understand why his campaign would be upset if he's not
running.''

Some progressives had expressed worries that canceling the election
would reduce turnout, particularly among younger voters, and affect
down-ballot candidates running as challengers against sitting
incumbents.

One of them was Jamaal Bowman, a middle school principal in the Bronx
who is challenging Representative Eliot Engel in the
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/06/18/us/politics/jamaal-bowman-eliot-engel.html}{16th
congressional district race}. ``I'm worried that this could depress
turnout among younger voters in my primary challenge,'' Mr. Bowman said
in a statement Monday. ``This is terrible for our democracy and our
party. My heart goes out to all the organizers who were part of the
Bernie campaign and movement.''

Others, such as Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez of New York's
14th congressional district, criticized the decision to cancel the
presidential primary while still holding down-ballot elections without
an expansion of vote by mail.

``It is completely wrong for the B.O.E. to cancel New York's
presidential primary,'' Ms. Ocasio-Cortez
\href{https://twitter.com/AOC/status/1254829322352893955}{wrote on
Twitter}. She added: ``If N.Y. doesn't want to risk possibly millions of
people voting in-person, we need to mail everyone a ballot. Not an
application for one.''

Mr. Kellner said their decision was in keeping with a New York law
adopted on April 3 providing that candidates should be removed from
ballots if they suspend or terminate their campaigns.

``Obviously the intent of the legislature was not to have a primary
election where there is no real contest,'' said Mr. Kellner, a Manhattan
lawyer who voted in favor of scrapping the primary.

Elections officials had said it cost more than \$300,000 for a
medium-sized county to hold a primary --- an amount that does not
include sending pre-stamped absentee ballot applications to voters ---
estimating that the cost savings of not holding a primary would range in
the millions of dollars.

The chairman of the state Democratic Party, Jay Jacobs, had supported
the move, saying that he had actively pushed to cancel the presidential
primary in the state while still holding the congressional, State
Senate, assembly and other local races.

``The more we can do to reduce the risk factor of running the primary,
the smarter I think that it is,'' said Mr. Jacobs.

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2019/us/elections/2020-presidential-election-calendar.html}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2019/05/01/us/2020-election-calendar-promo-1556746196379/2020-election-calendar-promo-1556746196379-articleLarge-v5.png}

\hypertarget{2020-presidential-primary-election-calendar}{%
\subsection{2020 Presidential Primary Election
Calendar}\label{2020-presidential-primary-election-calendar}}

The 2020 presidential election may still be months away, but the primary
process is already underway. Here's a calendar of key dates.

Mr. Sanders's campaign argued that the law permitting the Board of
Elections to determine who had withdrawn from a campaign should not
apply to him because it was too new.

``Senator Sanders wishes to remain on the ballot, and is concerned that
his removal from the ballot would undermine efforts to unify the
Democratic Party in advance of the general election,'' said the letter,
written by Malcolm Seymour, a lawyer for the Sanders campaign.

Mr. Sanders had said he was suspending his campaign on April 8, and he
subsequently endorsed Mr. Biden. In doing so, however, he expressed a
desire to remain on ballots and collect delegates in an effort to
leverage his influence to push the party platform to better reflect his
progressive positions.

The Republican presidential primary in New York had already been called
off in February when no other candidates beside President Trump
qualified for the ballot.

Officials in Connecticut had also pushed for calling off that state's
primary, which has been rescheduled to Aug. 11.

Consequences for canceling the Democratic presidential primary in New
York, however, are uncertain at the moment.

David Bergstein, a spokesman from the D.N.C., said the rules committee
would review once the New York state party ``submits an updated delegate
selection plan.''

Mr. Jacobs said he was not sure what it would mean for the state's
delegate count at the convention.

``The D.N.C. has been very clear: the D.N.C. does not want to do
anything that looks like we're being unfair,'' said Mr. Jacobs. ``And
we're not being unfair, we're just reacting to a global pandemic which
happens to be centered in New York at the time.''

He added: ``In a situation like this, lives have to trump politics, no
pun intended.''

Sydney Ember and Thomas Kaplan contributed reporting.

\hypertarget{our-2020-election-guide}{%
\section{Our 2020 Election Guide}\label{our-2020-election-guide}}

Updated Aug. 3, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{the-latest}{%
  \subsection{The Latest}\label{the-latest}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    President Trump again assails mail-in voting,
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/03/us/politics/trump-mail-in-voting.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{claiming
    without evidence that the process is plagued by fraud}.
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{bidens-vp-search}{%
  \subsection{Biden's V.P. Search}\label{bidens-vp-search}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/biden-vice-president-2020.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Here
    are 13 women} who have been under consideration to be Joe Biden's
    running mate, and why each might be chosen --- and might not be.
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{keep-up-with-our-coverage}{%
  \subsection{Keep Up With Our
  Coverage}\label{keep-up-with-our-coverage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Get an
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{email}
    recapping the day's news
  \end{itemize}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Download our mobile app on
    \href{https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nytimes/id284862083?ls=1\&mat_click_id=5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\&referrer=mat_click_id\%3D5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\%26link_click_id\%3D722930677036718082}{iOS}
    and
    \href{http://a.localytics.com/android?id=com.nytimes.android\&referrer=utm_source\%3Dother_nyt_mobile_web\%26utm_medium\%3DWeb\%2520page\%26utm_term\%3DGeneral\%2520Mobile\%2520Page\%26utm_campaign\%3DNYT\%2520Mobile\%2520General\%2520Page}{Android}
    and turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
