Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2018/briefing/global-morning-briefing-newsletter-signup.html}{Briefing}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/interactive/2018/briefing/global-morning-briefing-newsletter-signup.html}{Briefing}\textbar{}Big
Tech Hearings, Germany, Vietnam Outbreak: Your Thursday Briefing

\url{https://nyti.ms/3geufPx}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{big-tech-hearings-germany-vietnam-outbreak-your-thursday-briefing}{%
\section{Big Tech Hearings, Germany, Vietnam Outbreak: Your Thursday
Briefing}\label{big-tech-hearings-germany-vietnam-outbreak-your-thursday-briefing}}

Here's what you need to know.

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/isabella-kwai}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2019/09/17/reader-center/author-isabella-kwai/author-isabella-kwai-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/isabella-kwai}{Isabella Kwai}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  July 30, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

(Want to get this briefing by email? Here's the
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/morning-briefing}{sign-up}.)

\begin{quote}
Good morning.

We're covering \textbf{tech moguls} getting grilled in **** Congress,
the U.S. pulling 12,000 \textbf{troops from Germany} and a surprising
virus surge in \textbf{Vietnam}.
\end{quote}

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/07/30/world/30asia-briefing/30asia-briefing-articleLarge-v3.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\hypertarget{big-tech-faces-big-questions}{%
\subsection{Big tech faces big
questions}\label{big-tech-faces-big-questions}}

The chief executives of Google, Apple, Facebook and Amazon
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/29/technology/big-tech-hearing-apple-amazon-facebook-google.html}{appeared
before Congress on Wednesday}, grilled for more than five hours by a
House of Representatives antitrust panel about the tactics that led to
their dominance of the digital economy.

Appearing via videoconference, the executives --- Jeff Bezos of Amazon,
Tim Cook of Apple, Mark Zuckerberg of Facebook and Sundar Pichai of
Google --- were asked whether their companies had
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/28/technology/amazon-apple-facebook-google-antitrust-hearing.html}{harmed
the economy, stifled rivals and left consumers} with few choices. All
denied those claims.

There were emotional speeches and technical issues. Democrats accused
the companies of unfairly using their data hoards to kill off
competitors, while Republicans questioned whether their platforms
suppressed conservative voices.

The panel opened an investigation into the companies last year, and
federal and state antitrust officials are also looking into them. But
while the hearing was ripe with theater, any impact will be limited by
century-old antitrust laws that are
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/09/07/technology/monopoly-antitrust-lina-khan-amazon.html}{imperfect
tools for corralling internet firms}.

We have
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/live/2020/07/29/technology/tech-ceos-hearing-testimony}{details
on the proceedings}, and you can
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/signup/OT}{sign up for our On
Tech newsletter} for more insights.

\textbf{Go deeper:} Mr. Bezos has been
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/27/business/jeff-bezos-amazon-congress.html}{cast
in a role he never wanted: Amazon's defender in Washington}. He has
taken an unusually hands-off approach with policymakers, our reporters
write.

\textbf{What they said:} We
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/live/2020/07/29/technology/tech-ceos-hearing-testimony/what-ceos-said}{tallied
how often the C.E.O.s repeated certain arguments} and catchphrases, like
``We are not that big'' and ``We are good for America.''

\textbf{Related:} Turkey passed legislation on Wednesday that gives the
government
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/29/world/europe/turkey-social-media-control.html}{sweeping
new powers to regulate social media content}, raising concern that they
might be used to stifle dissent.

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

Image

U.S. soldiers at a training area in southern Germany.Credit...Christof
Stache/Agence France-Presse --- Getty Images

\hypertarget{us-to-pull-12000-troops-from-germany}{%
\subsection{U.S. to pull 12,000 troops from
Germany}\label{us-to-pull-12000-troops-from-germany}}

The United States plans to
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/29/world/europe/us-troops-nato-germany.html}{reduce
its troop presence in Germany by nearly 12,000} and relocate some units
to Belgium and Italy, its defense secretary announced on Wednesday.
About 6,400 troops are to return to the United States.

The move is certain to rankle European leaders and anger American
lawmakers who see the country's military presence on the continent,
especially in Germany, as a cornerstone of the post-World War II order.

\textbf{What this means:} The Pentagon's decision, which will leave
about 24,000 troops in Germany, is in keeping with President Trump's
``America First'' philosophy. He has called Germany ``delinquent'' for
not meeting its NATO commitment to spend 2 percent of its gross domestic
product on defense.

\textbf{Quotable:} ``This is so clearly a punitive move against Germany
that it's hard to see any benefit from this,'' said Rachel Rizzo, the
director of programs at the Truman Center for National Policy, who
focuses on European security issues. She added that it ``will stick in
Europeans' mind well into the future.''

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

Image

President Aleksandr Lukashenko of Belarus led a security council meeting
in Minsk on Wednesday.Credit...Nikolai Petrov/Belta, via Reuters

\hypertarget{belarus-accuses-russia-of-election-meddling}{%
\subsection{Belarus accuses Russia of election
meddling}\label{belarus-accuses-russia-of-election-meddling}}

Belarus said on Wednesday that
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/29/world/europe/belarus-russian-mercenaries-lukashenko.html}{more
than 200 mercenaries from Russia, disguised as tourists}, had
infiltrated the country to disrupt its presidential election ---
drastically escalating a feud with its longtime ally.

Reports of a Russian mercenary force in Belarus could not be
independently confirmed. They followed months of increasingly tense
exchanges between Minsk and Moscow, whose leaders once bonded over their
wariness of the West. Now, President Aleksandr Lukashenko, who has a
record of blaming foreign powers for his troubles, is turning his
propaganda machine on Russia.

The country's state media said that 33 Russian fighters had been
arrested. The Russian Embassy said it had not received official
information about Russians being detained.

\textbf{Context:} Russia has long been Belarus's main benefactor, and
the nations are bound together by language, similar political systems
and a shared reverence for many aspects of the former Soviet Union. But
relations soured as
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/06/29/world/europe/russia-belarus-putin-lukashenko.html}{President
Vladimir Putin pushed Mr. Lukashenko} to form a ``union state.''

\hypertarget{if-you-have-7-minutes-this-is-worth-it}{%
\subsubsection{If you have 7 minutes, this is worth
it}\label{if-you-have-7-minutes-this-is-worth-it}}

\hypertarget{the-virus-chips-away-at-latin-american-democracy}{%
\subsection{The virus chips away at Latin American
democracy}\label{the-virus-chips-away-at-latin-american-democracy}}

Image

Credit...Adriana Loureiro Fernandez for The New York Times

Postponed elections. Sidelined courts. A persecuted opposition. Raids on
the homes of journalists.

As the coronavirus pandemic tears through Latin America and the
Caribbean, killing more than 180,000 to date and destroying livelihoods,
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/29/world/americas/latin-america-democracy-pandemic.html}{it
is also undermining democracy}. Leaders are using the crisis to do
things that would normally be seen as authoritarian, but which are now
characterized as lifesaving measures. Above, downtown Caracas,
Venezuela, during lockdown.

\hypertarget{heres-what-else-is-happening}{%
\subsubsection{Here's what else is
happening}\label{heres-what-else-is-happening}}

\textbf{Vietnam:} It seemed like a miracle: months without a single
coronavirus death, or even a local transmission. But over the weekend,
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/29/world/asia/coronavirus-vietnam.html}{the
country announced that the virus was lurking after all --- and
spreading}.

\textbf{Notre-Dame:} During the April 2019 fire that nearly destroyed
the cathedral, **** hundreds of tons of lead burned, ending up in
Parisian parks, buildings and playgrounds. Now some has
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/29/world/europe/honey-lead-notredame-fire-paris.html}{been
detected in the honey produced by urban beehives}, researchers say.

\textbf{Russian bounties:} When President Trump spoke with his Russian
counterpart Vladimir Putin last week, he did not bring up intelligence
that
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/26/us/politics/russia-afghanistan-bounties.html}{Russia
had offered bounties to kill American troops in Afghanistan}, Mr. Trump
said in an interview published on Wednesday.

\textbf{Vatican:} Chinese hackers
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/28/us/politics/china-vatican-hack.html}{infiltrated
the Vatican's computer networks}, a private monitoring group has
concluded, in an apparent espionage effort before talks over
Catholicism's status in China.

Image

Credit...Ricci Shryock for The New York Times

\textbf{Snapshot:} Above, a truck full of sheep crossing into Senegal
from Mali. With Tabaski, the Senegalese version of Eid al-Adha, drawing
near, the pandemic has put sacrificial sheep
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/29/world/africa/senegal-tabaski-sheep-eid-adha.html}{out
of many people's reach}.

\textbf{What we're listening to:}
\href{https://www.thisamericanlife.org/711/how-to-be-alone}{This episode
of ``This American Life''} --- which has a
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/22/business/media/new-york-times-serial.html}{new
partnership with The Times} --- on figuring out how to be apart. ``We're
all learning how to be alone during the pandemic, and the one thing we
can take comfort in is that everyone is in that same boat,'' writes Remy
Tumin, a journalist on the Briefings team.

\hypertarget{now-a-break-from-the-news}{%
\subsubsection{Now, a break from the
news}\label{now-a-break-from-the-news}}

Image

Credit...David Malosh for The New York Times

\textbf{Cook:} These
\href{https://cooking.nytimes.com/recipes/1020046-beef-short-rib-rice-bowls}{beef
short rib rice bowls} inspired by galbi, the Korean barbecued ribs, take
a sharp turn away from the sweet, fruity treatment and skew savory, with
warm spices like cumin, coriander and turmeric.

\textbf{Read}:
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/29/books/the-essential-tana-french.html}{Tana
French} has written seven novels, with an eighth due in October. All set
in Ireland, they pull you way down rabbit holes and are haunting
diversions, writes our literary critic, who has put together a guide to
reading Ms. French.

\textbf{Watch:} Even though they were made before the pandemic,
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/29/movies/horror-she-dies-tomorrow-relic-amulet.html}{three
new bold and chilling horror movies,} all directed by women, have a kind
of topical resonance now, with plots that deal with contagion and
isolation.

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/spotlight/at-home}{\emph{At Home has our
full collection of ideas}} \emph{on what to read, cook, watch and do.}

\hypertarget{and-now-for-the-back-story-on-}{%
\subsubsection{And now for the Back Story on
\ldots{}}\label{and-now-for-the-back-story-on-}}

\hypertarget{our-reporters-on-the-ufo-beat}{%
\subsection{Our reporters on the U.F.O.
beat}\label{our-reporters-on-the-ufo-beat}}

\emph{Ralph Blumenthal and Leslie Kean were part of a Times reporting
team that broke the story of the Advanced Aerospace Threat
Identification Program, a secret Pentagon unit investigating
unidentified flying objects, and they've been following it ever since.
Here are excerpts from what they recently wrote}
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/28/insider/UFO-reporting.html}{\emph{about
covering U.F.O.s.}}

We're often asked by well-meaning associates and readers, ``Do you
believe in U.F.O.s?'' The question sets us aback as being
inappropriately personal. But in this case we have no problem
responding, ``No, we don't **** believe in U.F.O.s.''

And to be clear: U.F.O.s don't mean aliens. Unidentified means we don't
know what they are, only that they demonstrate capabilities that do not
appear to be possible through currently available technology.

Image

Images from United States Navy pilots' interactions with ``unidentified
aerial phenomena.''Credit...Department of Defense, via Agence
France-Presse --- Getty Images

Our previous stories were relatively easy to document with Department of
Defense videos of U.F.O.s and pilot eyewitness accounts backed up by
Navy hazard reports of close encounters with small speeding objects.

But
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/23/us/politics/pentagon-ufo-harry-reid-navy.html?searchResultPosition=1}{our
latest article} provided a more daunting set of challenges, since we
dealt with the possible existence of retrieved materials from U.F.O.s.
We were provided a series of unclassified slides showing that the
program took this seriously enough to include it in numerous briefings.
One slide says one of the program's tasks was to ``arrange for access to
data/reports/materials from crash retrievals of A.A.V.'s,'' or advanced
aerospace vehicles.

Our sources told us that ``A.A.V.'' does not refer to vehicles made in
any country --- not Russian or Chinese --- but is used to mean
technology in the realm of the truly unexplained.

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

\begin{quote}
That's it for this briefing. See you next time.

--- Isabella
\end{quote}

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

\textbf{Thank you}\\
To Theodore Kim and Jahaan Singh for the break from the news. You can
reach the team at
\href{mailto:briefing+midnight@nytimes.com?subject=Briefing\%20Feedback}{briefing@nytimes.com}.

\textbf{P.S.}\\
• We're listening to ``\href{https://www.nytimes.com/thedaily}{The
Daily}.'' Our latest episode is about the Trump administration's
confrontation with China.\\
• Here's today's
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/crosswords/game/mini}{Mini Crossword
puzzle}, and a clue: Only mammal that can fly (five letters).
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/crosswords}{You can find all our puzzles
here}.\\
• Farah Stockman moves from the newsroom to the Opinion side as a writer
covering foreign policy and national affairs.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
