Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/nyregion}{New York}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/nyregion}{New York}\textbar{}On a Hot Day, 96,000 New
Yorkers Are Asked to Conserve Power

\url{https://nyti.ms/2PbJHjI}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

New York Today

\hypertarget{on-a-hot-day-96000-new-yorkers-are-asked-to-conserve-power}{%
\section{On a Hot Day, 96,000 New Yorkers Are Asked to Conserve
Power}\label{on-a-hot-day-96000-new-yorkers-are-asked-to-conserve-power}}

By Juliana Kim

\begin{itemize}
\item
  July 31, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

\emph{{[}Want to get New York Today by email?}
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/newyorktoday}{\emph{Here's the
sign-up}}\emph{.{]}}

\textbf{It's Friday.}

\textbf{Weather:} ** Showers likely today with a high around 80, turning
mostly sunny on Saturday. There is a chance of thunderstorms on Sunday.
**

\textbf{Alternate-side parking}: Suspended through Sunday.

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/07/31/nyregion/31nytoday/31nytoday-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Many New Yorkers are hunkered down in their apartments on scorching
summer days because of the pandemic. Their air-conditioners are
blasting, and that means electricity consumption is soaring, stressing
the city's power grid.

But over the past couple of weeks, residents in three boroughs have been
urged to conserve energy in an effort to prevent blackouts and
brownouts. Consolidated Edison --- the utility company that operates the
grid --- and the mayor have suggested that for several hours, tens of
thousands of people not run energy-intensive appliances, like washers,
dryers and microwaves, and limit the use of air-conditioners.

``We've got to protect our electricity supply for all New Yorkers,''
Mayor Bill de Blasio said on Thursday. ``We've got to make sure we avoid
any disruptions.''

Since late winter,
\href{https://www.coned.com/en/about-us/media-center/news/20200520/con-edison-invests-for-summer-2020-and-new-yorks-clean-energy-future}{Con
Edison has been preparing for an uptick} in use in certain residential
areas and a decrease in consumption in commercial districts like
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/26/nyregion/nyc-coronavirus-time-life-building.html}{Midtown,
which is virtually a ghost town} amid the pandemic.

On Wednesday and Thursday, three cables in Brooklyn overheated and
needed repairs because of the hot weather and increased demand for
electricity. That caused Con Edison to ask some residents to conserve
power. The company also reduced the voltage in the area enough that
customers might have noticed their lights were a bit dimmer.

It's not unusual for cables to break down in the summer, when
temperatures rise past 90 degrees and people run air-conditioners round
the clock. Cooling is the biggest energy drain in homes,
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/04/29/climate/nyt-climate-newsletter-energy-bill.html}{my
colleague Henry Fountain has reported}. It accounted for about one-sixth
of residential electricity use in 2019,
\href{https://www.eia.gov/tools/faqs/faq.php?id=96\&t=3}{according to
the U.S. Energy Information Administration}.

``Intense heat, humidity and the resulting increase in the demand for
power place stress on electric-delivery equipment,'' Allan Drury, a Con
Edison spokesman, said. ``Our goal is to keep outages short in duration
and geographically confined.''

The overheating of cables this week --- which affected
\href{https://www.coned.com/en/about-us/media-center/news/20200730/con-edison-asks-customers-in-area-of-brooklyn-to-conserve-energy}{96,000
customers} in Bay Ridge, Fort Hamilton, Park Slope, Sunset Park, Dyker
Heights, Borough Park and Gowanus --- was the third time this month that
the heat affected electricity delivery in the city. Last week, cables in
parts of Queens and the Bronx also needed to be repaired, and residents
there were also told to limit consumption.

``The equipment problems in these neighborhoods have no effect on the
rest of the Con Edison system,'' the company said in a statement on
Thursday.

Last July,
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/07/13/nyregion/nyc-power-outage.html}{a
power failure plunged the west side of Manhattan} into darkness,
stopping concerts, elevators and several subway lines for about five
hours. The failure happened on the 42nd anniversary of the infamous
blackout of 1977, and Con Edison said it was the result of ``a
significant electrical transmission disturbance.''

Just a week later, at least
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/07/21/nyregion/nyc-heat-wave.html}{50,000
customers were left without power} in New York City and Westchester
County on a dangerously hot day. Overhead lines had been in danger of
overloading because of the heat. So, as a precaution, power was turned
off to tens of thousands of customers so Con Edison could make repairs
to ``prevent a bigger outage,'' Mr. de Blasio said on Twitter at the
time.

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

\hypertarget{from-the-times}{%
\subsection{From The Times}\label{from-the-times}}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/30/nyregion/coronavirus-cases-nj.html}{Virus
Cases Are Rising in N.J., Spurred by Young Partygoers at the Shore}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/30/nyregion/michael-cohen-donald-trump-book.html}{U.S.
Backs Down, Allowing Michael Cohen to Write Trump Tell-All Book}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/30/nyregion/New-jersey-inmate-release-Covid.html}{About
20\% of N.J. Prisoners Could Be Freed to Avoid Virus}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/30/arts/design/american-museum-of-natural-history-reopen-covid.html}{American
Museum of Natural History Announces September Reopening}

Want more news? \href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/nyregion}{Check
out our full coverage}.

\textbf{The Mini Crossword:} Here is
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/crosswords/game/mini}{today's puzzle}.

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

\hypertarget{what-were-reading}{%
\subsection{What we're reading}\label{what-were-reading}}

New York beaches have seen \textbf{an uptick in shark sightings} this
week, including a 400-pound bull shark.
{[}\href{https://gothamist.com/news/400-pound-shark-caught-long-island-amid-uptick-shark-sightings-ny-beaches}{Gothamist}{]}

New Yorkers are eligible for up to \textbf{20 additional weeks of
unemployment benefits}, Mayor Bill de Blasio said.
{[}\href{https://nypost.com/2020/07/30/new-yorkers-eligible-for-20-extra-weeks-of-unemployment-de-blasio/}{New
York Post}{]}

\textbf{What we're watching:} Ashley Southall, The Times's New York
police bureau chief, discusses the increase in gun violence and the
criticism of the Police Department on ``The New York Times Close Up With
Sam Roberts.'' The show airs on Friday at 8 p.m., Saturday at 1:30 p.m.
and Sunday at 12:30 p.m.
{[}\href{https://tv.cuny.edu/show/nytcloseup}{CUNY TV}{]}

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

\hypertarget{and-finally-a-virtual-social-weekend}{%
\subsection{And finally: A virtual social
weekend}\label{and-finally-a-virtual-social-weekend}}

\emph{The Times's Melissa Guerrero writes:}

Although most performance spaces, museums and community centers are
closed, people are finding creative ways to connect through virtual
events and programs. Here are suggestions for maintaining a New York
social life this weekend while keeping a safe distance from other
people.

\hypertarget{drink-bitters}{%
\subsubsection{Drink bitters}\label{drink-bitters}}

On \textbf{Friday at 7 p.m.}, learn about bitters, the cocktail and
mocktail ingredient made from spices, flowers, barks, fruit peels and
more, in a Zoom class hosted by Brooklyn Brainery.

Buy tickets on the
\href{https://brooklynbrainery.com/courses/drink-bitters-online-class}{event
page}.

\hypertarget{armenians-in-film}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\textbf{Armenians in
film}}{Armenians in film}}\label{armenians-in-film}}

Starting on \textbf{Friday} \textbf{at midnight} and running through
Monday, watch three short Armenian films at your leisure, and
participate in a Q. and A. with the directors Ovsanna Gevorgyan, Eric
Shahinian and Michael Aloyan.

Learn more about the free event on this
\href{https://www.facebook.com/events/294771018623803/}{Facebook page}.

\hypertarget{simply-maruxeda-or-the-american-dream}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\textbf{`Simply María, or the American
Dream'}}{`Simply María, or the American Dream'}}\label{simply-maruxeda-or-the-american-dream}}

On \textbf{Sunday at 7 p.m.,} watch a reading of ``Simply María, or the
American Dream,'' a one-act play by Josefina López. Contributions to the
organizer, the Latinx Artists Collective, will benefit the
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/vanessa-guillen-fort-hood.html}{Vanessa
Guillén} GoFundMe.

Access the livestream on the
\href{https://www.eventbrite.com/e/lac-presents-a-zoom-play-reading-of-simply-maria-or-the-american-dream-registration-114761127622}{event
page}.

\emph{It's Friday --- cheers!}

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

\hypertarget{metropolitan-diary-try-being-nice}{%
\subsection{Metropolitan Diary: `Try being
nice'}\label{metropolitan-diary-try-being-nice}}

Image

Dear Diary:

I had a job at the local supermarket in Bay Ridge. Sal, the manager, and
I would open up every Saturday morning at 8 a.m. In between serving the
occasional customer at the deli or in the produce section, I brought in
and put away the milk. I also worked the register.

One of the regular customers, an older man, usually bought about five
items. He would place each one on the counter, watch me ring it up and
then go on to the next item.

After he paid, he would check each item against the receipt and then he
would take out a pencil and make sure it all added up correctly.

Sal sensed my frustration with this routine.

``Try being nice,'' he said. ``He is probably a lonely old man.''

For the next two weeks, whenever the man came in I would ring each item
up patiently, calling out the price as he placed it on the counter. Then
I would give him a pencil along with his receipt.

The first time he came in the week after that, he put everything on the
counter at once, and I rang him up.

``Sir,'' I said as he was leaving, ``you forgot your receipt.''

``I don't need it,'' he said.

\emph{--- Matt Morrone}

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

\emph{New York Today is published weekdays around 6 a.m.}
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/newyorktoday?module=inline}{\emph{Sign
up here}} \emph{to get it by email. You can also find it at}
\href{http://www.nytoday.com/}{\emph{nytoday.com}}\emph{.}

\emph{We're experimenting with the format of New York Today. What would
you like to see more (or less) of? Post a comment or email us:}
\href{mailto:nytoday@nytimes.com}{\emph{nytoday@nytimes.com}}\emph{.}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
