Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}Sanders Is Ready to Debate
Again. Biden Says `We've Had Enough Debates.'

\url{https://nyti.ms/2UuPcfq}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Election
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/biden-vice-president-2020.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Biden's
  V.P. Search}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/07/24/us/politics/trump-biden-campaign-donors.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Map
  of Donations}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/elections/delegate-count-primary-results.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Delegate
  Count}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2019/us/politics/2020-presidential-candidates.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{The
  Candidates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Politics
  Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{sanders-is-ready-to-debate-again-biden-says-weve-had-enough-debates}{%
\section{Sanders Is Ready to Debate Again. Biden Says `We've Had Enough
Debates.'}\label{sanders-is-ready-to-debate-again-biden-says-weve-had-enough-debates}}

``I think we should get on with this,'' Joe Biden said, dismissing the
idea that another debate is needed with his rival, Senator Bernie
Sanders.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/03/26/us/politics/25biden/25biden-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/katie-glueck}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/01/29/reader-center/author-katie-glueck/author-katie-glueck-thumbLarge.png}}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/thomas-kaplan}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2019/08/28/reader-center/author-thomas-kaplan/author-thomas-kaplan-thumbLarge-v2.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/katie-glueck}{Katie Glueck} and
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/thomas-kaplan}{Thomas Kaplan}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  March 25, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

A day after Senator
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/elections/bernie-sanders.html}{Bernie
Sanders}'s campaign indicated that
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/24/us/politics/biden-sanders-next-democratic-debate.html}{he
would participate in a presidential debate} next month if one is held,
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/elections/joe-biden.html}{Joseph
R. Biden Jr.} expressed impatience with the idea, saying that ``we've
had enough debates'' and adding that his focus was on combating the
coronavirus crisis.

Mr. Biden, the former vice president, has amassed a significant delegate
lead over Mr. Sanders, but has treaded carefully around the subject of
his rival's future, mindful of the risks of alienating the senator's
supporters should Mr. Biden clinch the nomination. But on Tuesday, Mr.
Sanders's campaign offered the clearest signal yet that the senator
intends to keep competing with Mr. Biden, when a spokesman confirmed his
intention to appear at the next debate, if one occurs.

``My focus is just dealing with this crisis right now,'' Mr. Biden said
on Wednesday, when asked if he wanted another debate next month, and if
he would participate. ``I haven't thought about any more debates. I
think we've had enough debates. I think we should get on with this.''

Like Mr. Sanders, Mr. Biden has been forced off the physical campaign
trail because of the coronavirus outbreak, and is grappling with new
ways to connect with voters and
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/23/us/politics/joe-biden-2020-virus.html}{break
through in the news media}. His comments came as part of a wide-ranging
set of remarks about engaging young people and confronting the virus
that he delivered to reporters and other viewers from his home studio in
Wilmington, Del.

Mr. Biden continued to press his argument that President Trump has been
too slow in responding to the crisis, and he took issue with the
president's stated desire to
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/24/us/politics/trump-coronavirus-easter.html}{reopen
the country by Easter}, on April 12. Mr. Biden warned against following
``some arbitrary or symbolic timeline.''

\hypertarget{latest-updates-2020-election}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: 2020
Election}}{Latest Updates: 2020 Election}}\label{latest-updates-2020-election}}

Updated 2020-08-01T01:26:45.732Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-29fdff45}{Kamala
  Harris, a top vice-presidential contender, confronts double
  standards.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-13ec3d9c}{Karen
  Bass and Susan Rice are rising on Biden's vice-presidential
  shortlist.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-49e9a016}{Trump
  says Russian bounties to kill U.S. troops `never took place.'}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

``It would be a catastrophic thing to do for our people and for our
economy if we sent people back to work just as we were beginning to see
the impact of social distancing take hold, only to unleash a second
spike in infections,'' he said. ``That would be far more devastating in
the long run than implementing a thorough strategy.''

Polls show that the former vice president has been struggling to connect
with young voters, an area of strength for Mr. Sanders. Before taking a
handful of questions via a video conference with reporters, Mr. Biden
aimed to empathize with the economic challenges facing younger Americans
in this moment of national upheaval --- and offered a reminder that
they, too, are at risk.

``Every day we're hearing heart-rending stories of deaths from people in
their twenties and their thirties,'' he said, urging adherence to public
safety guidelines about social distancing. ``But here's what we must not
do. We must not allow this pandemic to rob our young people of the
futures and the economic opportunities that they've been working so hard
to build.''

The nation, he said, is facing ``twin crises.''

``The public health crisis is hitting older Americans especially hard,''
he said. ``The economic crisis is hitting younger people. All those
hard-working young people in service industries, and in retail, that are
being decimated by layoffs. All those who are hustling to make a living
in the gig economy. They deserve the same benefits as everyone else
does. We have to make sure they get them.''

Later on Wednesday, Mr. Biden held an hourlong virtual roundtable with
younger supporters --- his team called it a happy hour, though Mr.
Biden, who does not drink alcohol, said he had Gatorade on hand ---
where the former vice president discussed a wide range of subjects
raised by young supporters.

He noted his early support for gay marriage --- as vice president he
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2014/04/20/magazine/how-the-president-got-to-i-do-on-same-sex-marriage.html}{spoke
out} on the subject before President Barack Obama did (Mr. Obama, he
said, ``gave me a big hug, and said: `You told me you weren't going to
be quiet. And you're right'''). He stressed his support for protecting
transgender people. He detailed his views on combating climate change
and promised that his administration, should he win the presidency,
would reflect the diversity of the nation. He also promised to campaign
in states that are traditionally challenging for Democrats, ``like North
Carolina, Texas, et cetera,'' saying that ``we haven't built up a
bench.''

``My responsibility is to bring along a new generation of leadership,''
he said. ``And I start that by the people I pick to serve in my
administration.''

And Mr. Biden, 77, twice described himself as something of a
transitional figure.

``You all are the answer for us,'' he said, a message aimed at younger
voters. ``And I hope I can just be one of those transition figures that
gets to the point where you guys are running the whole show.''

It echoed remarks he made this month in Michigan, where he described
himself as a ``bridge'' to the next generation of leadership.

``I really mean it,'' Mr. Biden said on Wednesday, referring to that
remark. ``That's why I've made the commitment, as I said, for an
administration that's going to look like the country, including choosing
a woman running mate. That's why I wanted to make sure we spent today
talking to you.''

Mr. Sanders has also been holding live stream events to talk about the
threat from the virus and make the case that his policies on health care
and income inequality have become more relevant amid a national health
crisis. And as a sitting senator from Vermont, he is part of the
Senate's effort to pass an economic stabilization package.

When the virus put a halt to in-person campaigning, Mr. Biden
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/23/us/politics/joe-biden-2020-virus.html}{faded
somewhat from public view}. But his campaign has now installed a
makeshift television studio in his house, and he has made use of the
studio several times in the past few days, including for appearances on
CNN, MSNBC and ABC's ``The View.''

Still, Mr. Biden, who served for 36 years in the Senate, acknowledged
the limitations of being confined to his house as a private citizen ---
albeit one who is likely to become a major party presidential nominee
--- as lawmakers scramble to respond to the crisis.

``I have to tell you, I find, I guess like anybody who cares about this,
I'm chomping at the bit,'' he said. ``I wish I were still in the Senate,
you know, being able to impact on some of these things. But I am where I
am. And I hope to be the nominee of the Democratic Party, and I hope I'm
able to get my message across as we go forward.''

\hypertarget{our-2020-election-guide}{%
\section{Our 2020 Election Guide}\label{our-2020-election-guide}}

Updated July 31, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{the-latest}{%
  \subsection{The Latest}\label{the-latest}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    President Trump's assault on the Postal Service is intersecting with
    his attacks on mail-in voting.
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/politics/trump-usps-mail-delays.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Voting
    rights groups say it is a recipe for disaster.}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{bidens-vp-search}{%
  \subsection{Biden's V.P. Search}\label{bidens-vp-search}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/biden-vice-president-2020.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Here
    are 13 women} who have been under consideration to be Joe Biden's
    running mate, and why each might be chosen --- and might not be.
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{keep-up-with-our-coverage}{%
  \subsection{Keep Up With Our
  Coverage}\label{keep-up-with-our-coverage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Get an
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{email}
    recapping the day's news
  \end{itemize}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Download our mobile app on
    \href{https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nytimes/id284862083?ls=1\&mat_click_id=5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\&referrer=mat_click_id\%3D5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\%26link_click_id\%3D722930677036718082}{iOS}
    and
    \href{http://a.localytics.com/android?id=com.nytimes.android\&referrer=utm_source\%3Dother_nyt_mobile_web\%26utm_medium\%3DWeb\%2520page\%26utm_term\%3DGeneral\%2520Mobile\%2520Page\%26utm_campaign\%3DNYT\%2520Mobile\%2520General\%2520Page}{Android}
    and turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
