Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}Trump Shows Up in Biden's
Home Region, and a Turf War Begins

\url{https://nyti.ms/2YmqEIx}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/20/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{D.N.C.
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/20/us/politics/biden-presidential-nomination-dnc.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Biden's
  Speech}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/us/elections/2020-presidential-election-calendar.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Election
  Calendar}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/11/us/politics/vote-by-mail-us-states.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Voting
  by Mail}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Politics
  Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{trump-shows-up-in-bidens-home-region-and-a-turf-war-begins}{%
\section{Trump Shows Up in Biden's Home Region, and a Turf War
Begins}\label{trump-shows-up-in-bidens-home-region-and-a-turf-war-begins}}

In a visit to Pennsylvania hours before Joe Biden's nomination speech,
President Trump sought to undermine the former vice president's Scranton
roots, saying he had ``abandoned'' the state.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/20/us/politics/20trump-scranton-01/merlin_174409251_6c41d66c-f5a8-4924-9761-70b9f54cf48d-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/trip-gabriel}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2019/12/13/reader-center/author-trip-gabriel/author-trip-gabriel-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/trip-gabriel}{Trip
Gabriel}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Published Aug. 20, 2020Updated Aug. 21, 2020, 12:44 a.m. ET
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

OLD FORGE, Pa. --- In the working-class county where Joseph R. Biden Jr.
spent his childhood, a river of yard signs were at war on Moosic Road:
Trump vs. Biden.

``I love what he's doing,'' Mary Vender, a hair stylist, said of the
president. She came to the door from her kitchen where she was baking
cannoli for a picnic on Thursday in honor of Mr. Trump, who was
scheduled to speak down the street at a building supply company. ``I
think he's really for the country, for our people,'' she said. ``He's
getting our jobs back.''

A neighbor, Sherri Hudson, complained that lawn signs for Mr. Biden,
whom she supports, were being snatched out of yards. ``Everybody is so
angry,'' said Ms. Hudson. ``I think it's because of the president. He
divides the country with his hostile remarks.''

To many strategists,
\href{https://priorities.org/wp-content/uploads/2019/02/2_21_battleground_deck2.pdf}{Pennsylvania
is the most crucial battleground} of 2020, and Northeast Pennsylvania,
with its density of white working-class voters, is especially pivotal.
It is set up for a turf war between the native son who calls himself
``middle-class Joe'' and the incumbent president who appeals to the
grievances of white voters over immigration, protests against police and
other culture-war issues.

Mr. Trump traveled here on Thursday, which just happened to be the day
Mr. Biden would later accept the presidential nomination. It was the
latest stop in the don't-forget-about-me-tour of battleground states the
president was conducting during the Democratic National Convention,
after trips to Arizona, Wisconsin and Iowa.

Mr. Trump's attempt at political taunting was a reminder that his
surprise victory in Pennsylvania in 2016 was made possible by the utter
collapse of the Democratic ticket in the region where Mr. Biden was born
and spent his childhood, once a party stronghold.

The president sought to undermine Mr. Biden's claim to Scranton roots
and values, since his family had moved to Delaware as a boy after his
father lost his job. ``The Scranton stuff,'' Mr. Trump scoffed, ``that's
why I figured I'd come here and explain to you one thing, but I think
you people know it better than I do: He left. He abandoned
Pennsylvania.''

Both Lackawanna County, home to Scranton, and neighboring Luzerne County
twice supported Barack Obama, then saw a 55,000-vote swing to Mr. Trump
in 2016, larger than his entire statewide winning margin.

If Mr. Biden is to win the state, Democrats say he can't just rely on
well-educated suburbanites defecting from the Republican Party and on
liberals in Philadelphia and Pittsburgh.

``That was what people like me thought was enough in 2016 and we were
wrong,'' said Senator Bob Casey Jr., a Democrat who is also a Scranton
native. ``We can't afford to be wrong again.''

\hypertarget{latest-updates-2020-election}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/19/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: 2020
Election}}{Latest Updates: 2020 Election}}\label{latest-updates-2020-election}}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/19/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#night-3-featured-more-policy-a-focus-on-women-and-a-full-throated-rejection-of-trump-by-his-predecessor}{7h
ago}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/19/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#night-3-featured-more-policy-a-focus-on-women-and-a-full-throated-rejection-of-trump-by-his-predecessor}{Night
3 featured more policy, a focus on women and a full-throated rejection
of Trump by his predecessor.}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/19/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#trump-live-tweeted-obamas-speech-tonight-hell-appear-on-fox-news-right-before-bidens-tomorrow}{9h
ago}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/19/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#trump-live-tweeted-obamas-speech-tonight-hell-appear-on-fox-news-right-before-bidens-tomorrow}{Trump
live-tweeted Obama's speech tonight. He'll appear on Fox News right
before Biden's tomorrow.}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/19/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#advocates-for-domestic-violence-survivors-praised-biden-in-a-video}{9h
ago}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/19/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#advocates-for-domestic-violence-survivors-praised-biden-in-a-video}{Advocates
for domestic violence survivors praised Biden in a video.}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/19/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

He and other Democrats said Mr. Biden must also make inroads into rural
and small-city counties where Mr. Trump is popular, especially in
Northeast Pennsylvania.

Mr. Casey said that in his view, the evidence was clear that Mr. Biden
would do better than Hillary Clinton had in 2016. He cited an internal
poll he conducted in June in which the former vice president was
strongly outperforming Mrs. Clinton in the 16-county Scranton media
market.

But Lance Stange, the chair of the Republican Party of Lackawanna
County, predicted Mr. Trump would do even better here this year, citing
the lack of a Biden field office in Scranton and more newly registered
Republicans than Democrats in the county.

``If Joe Biden doesn't even have an office in Scranton, do I think he's
going to pay any attention to the heartland of Pennsylvania?'' he said.
``There's zero enthusiasm for the Democrats or their candidates. They're
hemorrhaging voters.''

A
\href{https://www.mcall.com/news/elections/mc-nws-pa-presidential-election-trump-biden-muhlenberg-poll-20200820-erb3maqkvbgxljw2e5mv6pblkm-story.html}{new
Morning Call/Muhlenberg College poll of the state released Thursday
showed Northeast Pennsylvania was Mr. Trump's strongest region, where he
led Mr. Biden} 61 percent to 28 percent.

Statewide, Mr. Biden has an edge of 6.4 percentage points in
\href{https://www.realclearpolitics.com/epolls/2020/president/pa/pennsylvania_trump_vs_biden-6861.html}{an
average of public polls}, a tightening of the race since early summer.

One reason for his growing lead, the surveys suggested, is that Mr.
Biden is more well liked than Mrs. Clinton was by voters. Fifty percent
of Pennsylvania voters have a favorable view of Mr. Biden, according to
a
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/25/upshot/poll-2020-biden-battlegrounds.html}{New
York Times/Siena College Poll} in June. That is notably stronger than
the 42 percent of voters with a favorable view of Mrs. Clinton in exit
polls of the state four years ago.

It partly explains why Mr. Trump, who is doing little to grow support
beyond his fervid base, is trying to drive up enmity for Mr. Biden
through scorched-earth attacks, in order to depress turnout for him.

Old Forge, a town where Italian immigrants arrived a century ago to work
in coal mines, long since closed, is best known today for a style of
rectangular pizza. Mr. Trump's promise in 2016 to stop undocumented
immigration, restore factory jobs and to take on China resonated deeply
with the area's white voters, as it did across other industrial states.

Calling Mr. Biden ``no friend of Pennsylvania'' on Thursday, the
president charged that Mr. Biden's support for trade deals as a senator
had taken a disastrous toll, while he distorted Mr. Biden's climate plan
to claim it would end drilling for oil and gas.

Mr. Biden visited a metalworks factory near Scranton last month to lay
out
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/09/us/politics/biden-buy-american.html}{a
New Deal-style plan} for economic recovery from the virus, promising to
create five million manufacturing and innovation jobs across the
country. His advisers consider Mr. Trump's advantage with voters on jobs
and the economy to be Mr. Biden's greatest vulnerability.

Republicans have begun to narrow a historic gap with Democrats in
\href{https://www.dos.pa.gov/VotingElections/OtherServicesEvents/VotingElectionStatistics/Pages/VotingElectionStatistics.aspx}{registered
voters in Lackawanna Count}y. Since November of last year, Republicans
added 2,469 registered voters, versus 459 new registered Democrats. The
Democratic brand is so tarnished locally that Mayor Paige Gebhardt
Cognetti of Scranton, a former official in the Obama administration, ran
last November as an independent.

``It does surprise me that so many people have registered that way,''
said Ms. Cognetti, who endorsed Mr. Biden. Referring to the pandemic and
record unemployment of 15.3 percent in Lackawanna County, she added,
``To me the Democrats are the party that is going to get us through this
crisis.''

Back on Moosic Road, Anthony Spano had adorned a goose lawn ornament
with a patriotic outfit to welcome Mr. Trump. ``I love him,'' he said of
the president. Insisting he was not ``being a fanboy,'' he cited the
pre-Covid economy, when unemployment reached its lowest in 50 years, as
well as Mr. Trump's efforts to close the borders to undocumented
immigrants.

``I don't dislike immigrants,'' Mr. Spano, a 63-year-old disabled truck
mechanic, added. ``My parents were immigrants. My grandfather came over
in 1906 from Italy and went to World War I. These Mexicans coming in
here, they're not going to fight for this country. They don't even want
to speak English.''

Not far away, Marygrace Vadala had a small Biden sign at the home where
she had grown up, and where her mother, a Trump supporter, had lived
before her death in May, at 82, from Covid-19.

A registered nurse in Lackawanna County and a Republican, Ms. Vadala
said she had tried to convince her mother that the president was not a
good leader.

``As a nurse, when people first started getting Covid, I turned to the
president for leadership,'' she said. ``And after listening to him for
two or three days, I thought, `Oh my gosh.' His press conferences just
seemed like rallies to get him re-elected. Like, this isn't about you.
This is about the people that you're serving.''

She said her mother had gone to Zumba classes and walked three miles
every day before contracting the virus.

``The first thing I did after she passed away and we started cleaning up
the house was take the Trump sign and put it over my knee and throw it
out for garbage,'' she said.

Asked what she would say to Mr. Trump if she had the chance during his
visit, she choked up. While she composed herself, her husband, Joe
Vidala, a high school geography teacher sitting beside her on the
house's porch, jumped in.

``I know what I would say: `Can't you put your pride aside and listen to
other people?''' he said. ``That's what leaders do. They take it all in
and then make a decision. That's what Joe Biden is going to do.''

Ms. Vadala's cousin, Mary Grace McHale, was listening from behind a
screen door.

``Lackawanna County is going to go to the mattresses for Biden,'' she
said.

\hypertarget{our-2020-election-guide}{%
\section{Our 2020 Election Guide}\label{our-2020-election-guide}}

Updated Aug. 20, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{convention-recap}{%
  \subsection{Convention Recap}\label{convention-recap}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Joe Biden accepted the Democratic nomination, urging Americans to
    have faith that they could
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/20/us/politics/Joe-Biden-accepts-democratic-nomination.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{``overcome
    this season of darkness.''}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{news-analysis}{%
  \subsection{News Analysis}\label{news-analysis}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Looming over Mr. Biden's nomination was the ever-present shadow of
    another man who's poised to dominate the campaign:
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/20/us/politics/biden-dnc-speech-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Donald
    J. Trump}.
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{keep-up-with-our-coverage}{%
  \subsection{Keep Up With Our
  Coverage}\label{keep-up-with-our-coverage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Get an
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{email}
    recapping the day's news
  \end{itemize}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Download our mobile app on
    \href{https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nytimes/id284862083?ls=1\&mat_click_id=5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\&referrer=mat_click_id\%3D5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\%26link_click_id\%3D722930677036718082}{iOS}
    and
    \href{http://a.localytics.com/android?id=com.nytimes.android\&referrer=utm_source\%3Dother_nyt_mobile_web\%26utm_medium\%3DWeb\%2520page\%26utm_term\%3DGeneral\%2520Mobile\%2520Page\%26utm_campaign\%3DNYT\%2520Mobile\%2520General\%2520Page}{Android}
    and turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
