\href{/section/business}{Business}\textbar{}Young Adults, Burdened With
Debt, Are Now Facing an Economic Crisis

\url{https://nyti.ms/3bZ8Szr}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{The
Coronavirus Outbreak}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  live\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/03/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Latest
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Maps
  and Cases}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Vaccine
  Tracker}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/02/us/covid-college-reopening.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{College
  Reopening}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/03/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Economy}
\end{itemize}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/04/07/business/07virus-millenials1/merlin_171133422_0d96df17-fd79-4e02-9347-f5534a36ce52-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Sections

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\hypertarget{young-adults-burdened-with-debt-are-now-facing-an-economic-crisis}{%
\section{Young Adults, Burdened With Debt, Are Now Facing an Economic
Crisis}\label{young-adults-burdened-with-debt-are-now-facing-an-economic-crisis}}

Young people who entered this financial downturn with fewer resources
than previous generations are enduring pain.

Evan Schade, 26, and Kaitlyn Gardner, 23, lost their jobs in Kansas
City, Mo., and have just over \$1,000 between them.Credit...Shawn
Brackbill for The New York Times

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/nathaniel-popper}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/10/22/multimedia/author-nathaniel-popper/author-nathaniel-popper-thumbLarge.png}}

By
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/nathaniel-popper}{Nathaniel
Popper}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Published April 6, 2020Updated April 8, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

The last time a serious economic downturn hit in 2008, Evan Schade was
in high school and the crisis seemed like a news event that happened to
other people. This time, as
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&module=styln-coronavirus\&variant=show\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storyline_menu}{the
coronavirus} has brought the economy to its knees, it has become a
personal affair.

When nonessential businesses were closed last month in Kansas City, Mo.,
where he lives, Mr. Schade, 26,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/02/business/economy/coronavirus-unemployment-claims.html?action=click\&module=RelatedLinks\&pgtype=Article}{lost
his job} at a carpet store and almost all of the shifts in his second
job at a coffee shop. His girlfriend, Kaitlyn Gardner, 23, was laid off
from a different coffee shop.

The money they have in their bank accounts, just over \$1,000, is enough
to cover only April's \$800 rent check --- forget about his \$300
student loan payments or the health insurance he was hoping to finally
sign up for. The couple have spent their time at home applying for
unemployment and fruitlessly looking for new work.

``I know so many people my age who are going through the exact same
thing,'' Ms. Gardner said.

The youngest American adults are facing what is, for most of them, the
first serious economic crisis of their working lives. By most measures,
they are woefully unprepared.

While the last few years were largely good ones for the American
economy, that did little to help set millennials up with a solid
financial foundation. Overloaded with
\href{https://www.buzzfeednews.com/article/venessawong/credit-card-debt-what-people-buy}{credit
card} and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/07/11/your-money/student-loan-debt-parents.html}{student
debt}, and underrepresented in the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/05/25/business/how-student-debt-can-ruin-home-buying-dreams.html}{housing}
and stock markets, they entered this uncertain period with significant
obligations and few resources.

Their position looks doubly precarious when measured against older
generations today and relative to those generations when they were the
same age, from 23 to 35 years old.

Going into the financial crisis of 2008, Generation X was roughly the
same age as millennials today, but had on average twice the total assets
that millennials have now when all bank accounts, stocks and loans are
added together, according to an analysis done for The New York Times by
economists at the St. Louis Federal Reserve.

Now members of Generation X, who are from 40 to 55 years old, are in a
strong position relative to millennials, even after being battered by
the 2008 crisis. They have about four times the assets and more than
twice as much in savings as today's youngest American adults.

Those with college degrees, a minority of the youngest adults, are doing
better on average than previous generations when they were the same age.
But everyone else is doing significantly worse, according to
\href{https://www.pewsocialtrends.org/essay/millennial-life-how-young-adulthood-today-compares-with-prior-generations/}{a
Pew Research Center analysis}last year.

``Even going into this situation, young adults were in a very precarious
situation,'' said Reid Cramer, who led the
\href{https://www.newamerica.org/millennials/reports/emerging-millennial-wealth-gap/the-emerging-millennial-wealth-gap-opening-note/}{Millennials
Initiative} at New America, a left-of-center think tank. ``A sudden
shock is really going to have a pretty big impact on this generation.''

\hypertarget{latest-updates-economy}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/03/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates:
Economy}}{Latest Updates: Economy}}\label{latest-updates-economy}}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/03/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#the-chicago-fed-president-says-its-up-to-congress-to-save-the-economy}{11h
ago}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/03/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#the-chicago-fed-president-says-its-up-to-congress-to-save-the-economy}{The
Chicago Fed president says it's up to Congress to save the economy.}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/03/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#faa-says-boeing-has-effectively-mitigated-defects-in-the-737-max}{11h
ago}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/03/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#faa-says-boeing-has-effectively-mitigated-defects-in-the-737-max}{F.A.A.
says Boeing has `effectively mitigated' defects in the 737 Max.}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/03/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#small-businesses-got-emergency-loans-but-not-what-they-expected}{14h
ago}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/03/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#small-businesses-got-emergency-loans-but-not-what-they-expected}{Small
businesses got emergency loans, but not what they expected.}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/03/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

More live coverage:
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/03/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Global}

The turmoil caused by the coronavirus has already brought out other
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/18/world/europe/shutdowns-coronavirus-age.html}{generational
divisions}. College students partying on Florida beaches have earned the
ire of older Americans who face graver health risks when youthful
gatherings spread the virus.

But while young adults may face fewer health problems, they are more
vulnerable to the financial costs of the downturn. Millennials are much
more likely to be involved in part-time work and the gig economy,
according to
\href{https://www.federalreserve.gov/publications/files/2017-report-economic-well-being-us-households-201805.pdf}{government
reports}, and these have been hard hit. Such work generally provides few
benefits to cushion the blow of bad times.

The sudden disappearance of paychecks, combined with a wide array of
monthly debt payments and the declines in any investments, is forcing
some millennials to take desperate measures. Social media has been
\href{https://www.reddit.com/r/personalfinance/comments/fmtvej/can_i_make_a_hardship_withdrawal_from_my_401k/}{filled
with discussions} about how to best take money out of 401(k) retirement
accounts to pay for rent.

Dan Gamez, 22, who lives with his parents near Boston, has been selling
his video game consoles on eBay to make his upcoming car payment after
losing his job at an AT\&T store.

``I've just been staying at home and playing video games, so I'm kind of
upset I have to do this, but I have no choice,'' he said.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/04/01/business/00virus-millennial2-sub/merlin_171155727_b66bebd3-5719-469e-a45f-b6e635a6b058-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Andrew Lawson, 29, was making \$500 to \$600 a week delivering food for
DoorDash on Hawaii's big island. After the state shut down nonessential
businesses, most restaurants closed. In three days of work in one week,
Mr. Lawson made less than \$60, which wasn't enough to cover the gas to
get to Kona, the city with the work.

``Nowadays I might get a \$5 order from McDonald's after three hours of
waiting,'' he said.

Mr. Lawson has a 2-year-old and a pregnant wife, who does not work. They
were down to eating plain noodles until he visited a food bank and got a
bag of potatoes and some carrots. He has set up accounts on all the
social networks to broadcast his need for work --- any work.

``Give me something I could feed my family with,'' he said. ``I don't
care what it is.''

The inequality among millennials is even more evident when race is taken
into account. Young black families at all educational levels have fallen
further behind their white peers over the last two decades in measures
like household wealth and homeownership, according to
\href{https://www.newamerica.org/millennials/reports/emerging-millennial-wealth-gap/the-millennial-racial-wealth-gap/}{research
from New America}.

``Over time, it is becoming more difficult for young families to
accumulate wealth,'' said William R. Emmons, the lead economist at the
St. Louis Federal Reserve's Center for Household Financial Stability.
``We thought maybe they'd catch up later, but the current situation
doesn't give me much reason to believe that's going to happen.''

These disadvantages are already shaping the long-term prospects of young
Americans. They are
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/03/02/style/financial-independence-30s.html}{much
less likely} to be married, have children or own a house than Americans
of a similar age in decades past.

Ms. Gardner said that she and Mr. Schade eventually wanted to have a
family and a house. But she said, ``We're both going to be in debt for a
while, and having kids is just not feasible.''

While there is a chance the downturn will be short, economists are
assuming that the turmoil that has already happened will have long-term
consequences for young households.

The 2008 crisis made young Americans then more reluctant to invest in
the stock market. Millennials today have, on average, only a third of
the stock market holdings that Generation X did before the 2008
financial crisis, according to the data from the St. Louis Federal
Reserve.

That means that young households have not enjoyed the market gains that
came over the last decade. Today, the average member of Generation X has
10 times more wealth from the stock market than millennials.

Jack Ankenbruck, 25, who until last month made a living playing drums in
a band in Nashville, began putting money into an investment account with
the start-up Acorns last year and had gotten it up to \$2,000 by
February. The value of the account plunged by almost half in recent
weeks, making him question his decision to put it there in the first
place.

``I'm thinking, `What if I'd just kept that \$30 a week --- I'd still
have that money,' and I could use it now,'' said Mr. Ankenbruck, who has
been trying to make some money playing concerts online.

Image

``You compare it to the older generations --- they worked up and saved
money,'' said Jayci Cumberledge, 23, of Amherst,
Ohio.Credit...Da'Shaunae Marisa for The New York Times

Jayci Cumberledge, 23, in Amherst, Ohio, has no retirement accounts and
spent her last \$80 in savings to make her monthly car payment shortly
after the gastro pub where she worked closed in mid-March.

Ms. Cumberledge's parents have also lost their jobs in the last few
weeks --- her father at a Ford factory, her mother driving a van for
disabled children. That has made her aware of how much better prepared
they were for this, she said, with a house they own and no rent payments
to fall behind on.

To cover the utility bills for her mobile home, Ms. Cumberledge borrowed
\$200 from a friend. She has since made some money by selling pictures
of her feet to people with fetishes who found her online after she put a
joking post on Twitter.

``You compare it to the older generations --- they worked up and saved
money,'' Ms. Cumberledge said. ``It feels like I'm never going to have a
stable job that has benefits and health insurance.''

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
