Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}Louie Gohmert's Coronavirus
Case Reveals a Dangerous Reality in Congress

\url{https://nyti.ms/3gin1Kv}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/news-event/coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{The
Coronavirus Outbreak}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  live\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/01/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Latest
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Maps
  and Cases}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Vaccine
  Tracker}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/07/29/us/schools-reopening-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{What
  School May Look Like}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/live/2020/07/31/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Economy}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{louie-gohmerts-coronavirus-case-reveals-a-dangerous-reality-in-congress}{%
\section{Louie Gohmert's Coronavirus Case Reveals a Dangerous Reality in
Congress}\label{louie-gohmerts-coronavirus-case-reveals-a-dangerous-reality-in-congress}}

Congress, which is tasked with shepherding the nation through the
pandemic, itself lacks consistent procedures for protecting its members
and its work force.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/07/30/us/politics/30dc-virus-capitol1/30dc-virus-capitol1-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/nicholas-fandos}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/11/06/multimedia/author-nicholas-fandos/author-nicholas-fandos-thumbLarge-v2.png}}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/catie-edmondson}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2019/11/20/us/politics/catie-edmonson-twitter-chatblog/catie-edmonson-twitter-chatblog-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/nicholas-fandos}{Nicholas Fandos}
and \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/catie-edmondson}{Catie Edmondson}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  July 30, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Representative Louie Gohmert, a mask-shunning Republican from Texas,
might never have known he had the coronavirus had he not had a mandatory
rapid test at the White House in line with its strict protocols put in
place to protect President Trump.

So when he tested positive this week,
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/29/us/politics/louie-gohmert-positive-coronavirus-mask.html}{prompting
alarm and anger on Capitol Hill}, his case exposed a dangerous reality
that lawmakers, aides and other staff members have quietly fretted over
for months: that Congress, which is tasked with shepherding the nation
through the pandemic, itself lacks consistent procedures for protecting
its members and its work force.

Like everything else in Congress, arriving at a consensus on how to
guard against the spread of the virus in the halls of the Capitol has
become a partisan affair, leaving leaders unable or unwilling to adhere
to a common set of rules. Many conservative Republicans like Mr.
Gohmert, taking their cues from Mr. Trump, have refused to wear masks,
staffed their offices at near full capacity and freely glad-handed with
one another, their colleagues and top administration officials in close
quarters to show the country what getting back to work looks like.

Other Republicans and most Democrats, by contrast, have ordered a
majority of their aides to work remotely and asked those who do report
to the Capitol complex to wear masks and practice social distancing.

``The House by its nature is a hodgepodge, where all 435 offices have
their own policies, and Speaker Pelosi doesn't have the authority to
stop dumb members from doing dumb things,'' said Brendan Buck, a former
senior aide to Nancy Pelosi's most recent predecessor as speaker, former
Representative Paul D. Ryan, Republican of Wisconsin. But he argued the
speaker had failed to set up a reliable system of routine testing.

Mr. Gohmert's diagnosis --- which sent at least four lawmakers into
quarantine and dozens more aides, reporters and the attorney general
scrambling to get tested --- prompted Ms. Pelosi to put in place the
strictest restrictions yet late Wednesday. She announced that lawmakers
and their staff members would be required to wear masks when on the
House floor or moving through House office buildings, warning that
failure to do so would be considered a serious breach worthy of removal
from the premises.

But just hours later, the Republican-appointed sergeant-at-arms in the
Senate,
\href{https://www.senate.gov/reference/common/person/stenger_michael_c.htm}{Michael
C. Stenger}, put out guidance of his own saying that all employees on
that side of the Capitol were explicitly exempt from orders by the
District of Columbia to wear masks and quarantine when traveling in from
high-risk areas around the country.

With reporters and support staff members darting back and forth between
the two chambers, often through packed interior hallways, the
noncompliance of one chamber could easily undermine the other.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/07/30/us/politics/30dc-virus-capitol2/merlin_175125543_870e410c-916b-4439-8bee-a1dcae832458-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

In addition to the 10 or so lawmakers who have tested positive, the
virus has spread among the workers who quietly power the Capitol, with
27 Capitol Police employees, 33 contractors working on a construction
site and 25 employees of the Architect of the Capitol testing positive
and dozens more going into voluntary isolation because of exposure,
according to a tally from Republicans on the House Administration
Committee.

Leaders in the House and the Senate have repeatedly declined to put in
place a campuswide testing program for lawmakers and their aides. In
May, Republican aides with the House Administration Committee met with
Will Roper, the assistant secretary of the Air Force, who offered to
connect lawmakers to a Washington-based laboratory that could process up
to 6,000 tests a week at no cost to the House. The White House, too, has
offered to send rapid testing machines.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-global-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/01/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: Global Coronavirus
Outbreak}}{Latest Updates: Global Coronavirus Outbreak}}\label{latest-updates-global-coronavirus-outbreak}}

Updated 2020-08-02T06:58:18.835Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/01/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-34047410}{The
  U.S. reels as July cases more than double the total of any other
  month.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/01/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-780ec966}{Top
  U.S. officials work to break an impasse over the federal jobless
  benefit.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/01/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-2bc8948}{Its
  outbreak untamed, Melbourne goes into even greater lockdown.}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/01/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

More live coverage:
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/live/2020/07/31/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Markets}

Ms. Pelosi and Senator Mitch McConnell, Republican of Kentucky and the
majority leader, demurred, arguing publicly that members of Congress
should not receive special access to testing when supplies were still
scarce for the public. Privately, they questioned the feasibility of
testing thousands of people a day.

But the news of Mr. Gohmert's diagnosis --- and that he had returned to
the Capitol to tell his aides in person of his test results ---
unleashed a firestorm of terror and indignation across the House as
everyone from interns to lawmakers scrambled to try to retrace Mr.
Gohmert's steps.

Representative Rodney Davis of Illinois, the top Republican on the
Administration Committee, urged his colleagues on Thursday to follow the
House physician's recommendations. ``Failure to adhere to this guidance
is at your own risk,'' he wrote in a corresponding memo.

But without any uniform mandates, a patchwork of policies and practices
has emerged on Capitol Hill, where lawmakers are exempt from workplace
safety laws and their employees and interns do not have the benefit of a
traditional human resources department. Congressional offices are
exceedingly hierarchical, making raising concerns about safety or
discomfort exceedingly difficult.

``The real issue here is that Congress is mandating laws for us to all
live by and they're still not taking care of their own people,'' said
Audrey Henson, the founder of College to Congress, a nonprofit that
provides low-income students with the resources to take congressional
internships.

Image

A sign outside Representative Louie Gohmert's office on
Thursday.Credit...Anna Moneymaker for The New York Times

In Mr. Gohmert's office,
\href{https://twitter.com/JakeSherman/status/1288524502649966592?s=20}{staff
aides were reportedly encouraged to show up} in person to set an example
for the country.

His office is two doors down from that of Representative Adam B. Schiff,
Democrat of California, who has had all but a masked aide or two
occasionally working from home since March.

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/news-event/coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{}

\hypertarget{the-coronavirus-outbreak-}{%
\subsubsection{The Coronavirus Outbreak
›}\label{the-coronavirus-outbreak-}}

\hypertarget{frequently-asked-questions}{%
\paragraph{Frequently Asked
Questions}\label{frequently-asked-questions}}

Updated July 27, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{should-i-refinance-my-mortgage}{%
  \paragraph{Should I refinance my
  mortgage?}\label{should-i-refinance-my-mortgage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/coronavirus-money-unemployment.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{It
    could be a good idea,} because mortgage rates have
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/16/business/mortgage-rates-below-3-percent.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{never
    been lower.} Refinancing requests have pushed mortgage applications
    to some of the highest levels since 2008, so be prepared to get in
    line. But defaults are also up, so if you're thinking about buying a
    home, be aware that some lenders have tightened their standards.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{what-is-school-going-to-look-like-in-september}{%
  \paragraph{What is school going to look like in
  September?}\label{what-is-school-going-to-look-like-in-september}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    It is unlikely that many schools will return to a normal schedule
    this fall, requiring the grind of
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/05/us/coronavirus-education-lost-learning.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{online
    learning},
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/05/29/us/coronavirus-child-care-centers.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{makeshift
    child care} and
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/03/business/economy/coronavirus-working-women.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{stunted
    workdays} to continue. California's two largest public school
    districts --- Los Angeles and San Diego --- said on July 13, that
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/13/us/lausd-san-diego-school-reopening.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{instruction
    will be remote-only in the fall}, citing concerns that surging
    coronavirus infections in their areas pose too dire a risk for
    students and teachers. Together, the two districts enroll some
    825,000 students. They are the largest in the country so far to
    abandon plans for even a partial physical return to classrooms when
    they reopen in August. For other districts, the solution won't be an
    all-or-nothing approach.
    \href{https://bioethics.jhu.edu/research-and-outreach/projects/eschool-initiative/school-policy-tracker/}{Many
    systems}, including the nation's largest, New York City, are
    devising
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/26/us/coronavirus-schools-reopen-fall.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{hybrid
    plans} that involve spending some days in classrooms and other days
    online. There's no national policy on this yet, so check with your
    municipal school system regularly to see what is happening in your
    community.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{is-the-coronavirus-airborne}{%
  \paragraph{Is the coronavirus
  airborne?}\label{is-the-coronavirus-airborne}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    The coronavirus
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/04/health/239-experts-with-one-big-claim-the-coronavirus-is-airborne.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{can
    stay aloft for hours in tiny droplets in stagnant air}, infecting
    people as they inhale, mounting scientific evidence suggests. This
    risk is highest in crowded indoor spaces with poor ventilation, and
    may help explain super-spreading events reported in meatpacking
    plants, churches and restaurants.
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/06/health/coronavirus-airborne-aerosols.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{It's
    unclear how often the virus is spread} via these tiny droplets, or
    aerosols, compared with larger droplets that are expelled when a
    sick person coughs or sneezes, or transmitted through contact with
    contaminated surfaces, said Linsey Marr, an aerosol expert at
    Virginia Tech. Aerosols are released even when a person without
    symptoms exhales, talks or sings, according to Dr. Marr and more
    than 200 other experts, who
    \href{https://academic.oup.com/cid/article/doi/10.1093/cid/ciaa939/5867798}{have
    outlined the evidence in an open letter to the World Health
    Organization}.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{what-are-the-symptoms-of-coronavirus}{%
  \paragraph{What are the symptoms of
  coronavirus?}\label{what-are-the-symptoms-of-coronavirus}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Common symptoms
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/symptoms-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{include
    fever, a dry cough, fatigue and difficulty breathing or shortness of
    breath.} Some of these symptoms overlap with those of the flu,
    making detection difficult, but runny noses and stuffy sinuses are
    less common.
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/04/27/health/coronavirus-symptoms-cdc.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{The
    C.D.C. has also} added chills, muscle pain, sore throat, headache
    and a new loss of the sense of taste or smell as symptoms to look
    out for. Most people fall ill five to seven days after exposure, but
    symptoms may appear in as few as two days or as many as 14 days.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{does-asymptomatic-transmission-of-covid-19-happen}{%
  \paragraph{Does asymptomatic transmission of Covid-19
  happen?}\label{does-asymptomatic-transmission-of-covid-19-happen}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    So far, the evidence seems to show it does. A widely cited
    \href{https://www.nature.com/articles/s41591-020-0869-5}{paper}
    published in April suggests that people are most infectious about
    two days before the onset of coronavirus symptoms and estimated that
    44 percent of new infections were a result of transmission from
    people who were not yet showing symptoms. Recently, a top expert at
    the World Health Organization stated that transmission of the
    coronavirus by people who did not have symptoms was ``very rare,''
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/09/world/coronavirus-updates.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq\#link-1f302e21}{but
    she later walked back that statement.}
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Aides for Representative Clay Higgins, Republican of Louisiana, have
been allowed to ``exercise their individual preferences,'' including
wearing a mask or not. Mr. Higgins had been among those pointedly
refusing to wear a mask on the House floor,
\href{https://www.cnn.com/2020/05/28/politics/house-republicans-masks-debate-covid/index.html}{calling
them} ``part of the dehumanization of the children of God.''

On Wednesday, Mr. Higgins bowed to Ms. Pelosi's new order. ```Mask' is
not the hill to die on,'' he wrote in
\href{https://www.facebook.com/CongressmanClayHiggins/posts/1220219108326947}{a
Facebook post}. ``Freedom is the hill to die on. Fighting for your
freedoms in Congress is more important than my freedom to wear or not
wear a mask.''

The work of Congress is done in many cases out of tiny, poorly
ventilated offices that have been subdivided and subdivided again so
that staff members sit four or six to an office, and only the most
senior have a closing door. For the thousands of contractors and support
staff members who largely work out of the basements of the Capitol
complex, the situation is even more exaggerated and the options for
teleworking fewer.

Conditions in the Senate, a smaller body with 100 members spread out on
a similar-size campus, have generally been better and mask usage is
widespread. But a handful Republican senators have frequently left their
faces uncovered when moving through the Capitol and in March, one of
them, Rand Paul of Kentucky, forced several of his colleagues into
isolation
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/22/us/politics/coronavirus-rand-paul.html}{after
he tested positive}.

Mr. Davis tried to pin the blame back on Democrats in an interview
Thursday, insisting that a plan Republicans proposed in May to regularly
test lawmakers and congressional staff members could have kept the virus
under control and Congress safely at work. He noted that House Democrats
had already imposed a number of risk mitigation measures, like social
distancing during votes on the House floor.

Image

``Face coverings are recommended while using this elevator,'' a sign
warned.Credit...Anna Moneymaker for The New York Times

``I don't think the one diagnosis yesterday can reflect upon the entire
institution like we haven't made some changes already,'' Mr. Davis said.
``But the one change we have yet to get done because of Speaker Pelosi's
resistance is the same option that Americans have throughout our
communities.''

Ms. Pelosi's allies vigorously contest that characterization, noting
that lawmakers can get tested by the attending physician's office if
they have reason to believe they could have contracted the virus or are
showing symptoms.

Representative Zoe Lofgren, Democrat of California and the chairwoman of
the administration panel, said Republicans' proposal was simply
unworkable. The Abbott rapid testing machines offered by the Trump
administration have a high rate of false negatives, and it would take
multiple machines running around the clock to regularly test members of
the House and a small coterie of aides --- not to mention senators or
others coming to work every day.

``Stop fooling around. Stop trying to make this some political issue,''
Ms. Lofgren said. ``It's not. It's just a health issue.''

Democrats in May
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/05/15/us/politics/remote-voting-house-coronavirus.html}{adopted
a package of rules changes to allow committees to meet remotely} and
lawmakers to cast their votes on the floor from afar using a proxy, in
addition to other cleaning and social distancing guidelines.

But every Republican but one has outright refused to use the proxy
system, and party leaders
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/05/26/us/politics/house-lawsuit-proxy-voting-coronavirus.html}{sued
to deem it unconstitutional}.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
