Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}Herman Cain, Former C.E.O.
and Presidential Candidate, Dies at 74

\url{https://nyti.ms/3jUeJuC}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/news-event/coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{The
Coronavirus Outbreak}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  live\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/03/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Latest
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Maps
  and Cases}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Vaccine
  Tracker}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/02/us/covid-college-reopening.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{College
  Reopening}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/live/2020/08/03/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Economy}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

those we've lost

\hypertarget{herman-cain-former-ceo-and-presidential-candidate-dies-at-74}{%
\section{Herman Cain, Former C.E.O. and Presidential Candidate, Dies at
74}\label{herman-cain-former-ceo-and-presidential-candidate-dies-at-74}}

Mr. Cain sought the 2012 Republican nomination and became an early
supporter of Donald Trump's 2016 bid. He had been hospitalized with the
coronavirus.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/07/30/business/30virus-briefing-cain/merlin_153836223_144af59d-79bf-43a7-9ff7-70dfae6248b8-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/aimee-ortiz}{Aimee Ortiz} and
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/katharine-q-seelye}{Katharine Q.
Seelye}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Published July 30, 2020Updated Aug. 3, 2020, 12:12 p.m. ET
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Herman Cain, who rose from poverty in the segregated South to become
chief executive of a successful pizza chain and then thrust himself into
the national spotlight by seeking the 2012 Republican presidential
nomination, has died. He was 74.

His death was announced on Thursday
\href{https://hermancain.com/heartbroken-world-poorer-herman-cain-gone-lord/?utm_source=twitter\&utm_medium=thenewvoice\&utm_content=2020-07-30}{on
his website} and on social media accounts. It did not say precisely when
or where he died. Dan Calabrese, the website's editor, attributed the
death to the coronavirus, which President Trump, in a White House
briefing, later referred to as the ``China virus'' and a ``horrible
plague'' in affirming it as the cause.

Mr. Cain had been hospitalized in the Atlanta area this month after
testing positive for the virus on June 29.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/07/31/obituaries/30Cain10-print/30Cain10-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

``We knew when he was first hospitalized with Covid-19 that this was
going to be a rough fight,'' Mr. Calabrese said in the announcement,
adding, ``Although he was basically pretty healthy in recent years, he
was still in a high-risk group because of his history with cancer.'' Mr.
Cain had overcome colon and liver cancer in the mid-2000s.

Mr. Cain had attended President Trump's indoor rally in Tulsa, Okla., on
June 20 and had done ``a lot of traveling'' recently, Mr. Calabrese
said.

``I don't think there's any way to trace this to the one specific
contact that caused him to be infected,'' he said at the time. ``We'll
never know.''

In a video posted to his website after the Tulsa rally, Mr. Cain
\href{https://hermancain.com/trump-tulsa-rally-i-was-there/?utm_source=twitter\&utm_medium=thenewvoice\&utm_content=2020-06-22}{said
he had worn a mask} while he was in groups of people. But he also
\href{https://twitter.com/THEHermanCain/status/1274489632886075398?s=20}{posted
photographs} of himself on social media that showed him without a mask
and surrounded by people in the arena. Later, after Mr. Trump had
scheduled an event at Mount Rushmore in South Dakota, Mr. Cain wrote
approvingly on Twitter that masks would not be mandatory. ``PEOPLE ARE
FED UP!'' he wrote.

On the stump, Mr. Cain called himself an ABC candidate --- American
Black Conservative. He brought an irreverent style to the 2011 campaign
as he touted his by-the-bootstraps story in an appeal to Tea Party
conservatives.

Image

Mr. Cain in McClellan, Ala., in October 2011, early in his campaign for
the Republican presidential nomination.Credit...Rich Addicks for The New
York Times

He
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2011/12/04/us/politics/herman-cain-suspends-his-presidential-campaign.html}{dropped
out of the race} after he was accused of sexual misconduct, allegations
he denied. But his celebrity in conservative circles endured, and he
became an ardent ally of Mr. Trump.

Mr. Cain said he had become a Republican after a Black man at a
restaurant yelled out: ``Black Republicans? There's no such thing.''

\hypertarget{latest-updates-global-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/03/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: Global Coronavirus
Outbreak}}{Latest Updates: Global Coronavirus Outbreak}}\label{latest-updates-global-coronavirus-outbreak}}

Updated 2020-08-03T23:56:54.781Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/03/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-4e40df05}{Birx,
  criticized by Trump, is defended by Fauci on the pandemic's spread.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/03/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-15e7f995}{Trump
  derides Democrats as lawmakers and administration officials try to
  break stimulus impasse.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/03/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-4c85ed64}{As
  some students and teachers go back to school in the U.S., they're
  bringing the virus with them.}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/03/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

More live coverage:
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/live/2020/08/03/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Markets}

``When I got back to Omaha,'' where he was living at he time, ``I
registered as a Republican,''
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2011/07/03/magazine/herman-cain-talks-about-herman-cain.html}{he
told The New York Times Magazine} in 2011. ``It haunted me for three
days that someone would dare tell me what party affiliation I should
have.''

Mr. Cain's 2011 presidential campaign was
\href{https://www.theatlantic.com/politics/archive/2011/10/herman-cain-for-senate-the-inside-story-of-his-first-insurgent-campaign/246668/}{not
his first}foray into politics, but it catapulted him onto the national
stage. His platform was best known for
his\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2011/10/13/us/politics/herman-cains-tax-plan-changes-gop-primary-math.html}{9-9-9
tax plan}: a flat 9 percent individual income tax rate, a 9 percent
corporate tax rate and a 9 percent national sales tax.

Image

Mr. Cain at a Republican presidential debate in November 2011 with Mitt
Romney, left, and Newt Gingrich. The cornerstone of his campaign was a
tax plan he called ``9-9-9.''Credit...Philip Scott Andrews/The New York
Times

After his campaign ended, he continued to appear at political
conferences and in the conservative news media. Once Mr. Trump took
office, Mr. Cain's name was floated periodically as a potential addition
to the administration. President Trump considered naming him to a seat
on the
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/04/22/us/politics/trump-herman-cain-federal-reserve.html}{Federal
Reserve Board} last year, but several Republican senators indicated that
they would vote against his confirmation, partly because of the sexual
harassment accusations against him. He withdrew his name.

After the announcement of his death, Kayleigh McEnany, the White House
press secretary, wrote on Twitter that Mr. Cain had ``embodied the
American dream and represented the very best of the American spirit.''

Herman Cain was born on Dec. 13, 1945, in Memphis, to Lenora (Davis) and
Luther Cain. His mother was a cleaning woman and domestic worker; his
father, who grew up on a farm, worked as a janitor and a barber and as a
chauffeur for Robert W. Woodruff, president of the Coca-Cola Company,
which is based in Atlanta, where Herman was raised.

Herman graduated from historically Black Morehouse College in Atlanta in
1967 with a bachelor's degree in mathematics. He worked as a civilian
ballistics analyst for the Navy and earned his master's degree in
computer science at Purdue University in 1971.

He married Gloria Etchison in 1968. She survives him, as do their
children, Melanie and Vincent, and four grandchildren. Mr. Cain's
younger brother, Thurman L. Cain, died in 1999.

After finishing his education, Mr. Cain worked for Coca-Cola as a
computer systems analyst. He then moved to Minneapolis to work for
Pillsbury, and in 1978 he became an executive in the company's
restaurant and foods group.

Image

Mr. Cain after speaking at the Pennsylvania Leadership Conference in
Harrisburg in 2012.Credit...Monica Lopossay for The New York Times

At Pillsbury, Mr. Cain joined a training program at Burger King, a
company subsidiary, in which potential executives were trained from the
grill up, working as ``Whopper floppers'' and cleaning bathrooms. He
rose to oversee 400 Burger King franchises in the Philadelphia area, and
his success in improving their bottom line led Pillsbury to appoint him
to run its Godfather's Pizza chain.

He served as chairman and chief executive of the chain from 1986 to 1996
and lived in Omaha, where the company was headquartered.

Mr. Cain first gained wide attention in 1994, when he had the chance to
spar with President Bill Clinton during a
\href{http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-WP5dYfBBzU}{nationally televised
town hall-style} meeting on health care. Mr. Cain insisted that a broad
Clinton health care plan would cost jobs. ``If I'm forced to do this,''
he asked, ``what will I tell those people whose jobs I'm forced to
eliminate?''

Their polite, if pointed, back and forth --- Mr. Clinton pushed back
with calculations that Mr. Cain declared ``incorrect'' --- made the
pizza executive a minor celebrity, particularly among conservatives.

One was Jack Kemp, a leading Republican member of Congress, who shared
Mr. Cain's free-market views. In 1996, when Bob Dole, the Republican
nominee for president, chose Mr. Kemp as his running mate, Mr. Cain
became an adviser to their campaign.

He left the pizza company in 1996 and became president of the National
Restaurant Association, a once-sleepy trade group that he transformed
into a lobbying powerhouse.

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/news-event/coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{}

\hypertarget{the-coronavirus-outbreak-}{%
\subsubsection{The Coronavirus Outbreak
›}\label{the-coronavirus-outbreak-}}

\hypertarget{frequently-asked-questions}{%
\paragraph{Frequently Asked
Questions}\label{frequently-asked-questions}}

Updated August 3, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{im-a-small-business-owner-can-i-get-relief}{%
  \paragraph{I'm a small-business owner. Can I get
  relief?}\label{im-a-small-business-owner-can-i-get-relief}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    The
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/small-business-loans-stimulus-grants-freelancers-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{stimulus
    bills enacted in March} offer help for the millions of American
    small businesses. Those eligible for aid are businesses and
    nonprofit organizations with fewer than 500 workers, including sole
    proprietorships, independent contractors and freelancers. Some
    larger companies in some industries are also eligible. The help
    being offered, which is being managed by the Small Business
    Administration, includes the Paycheck Protection Program and the
    Economic Injury Disaster Loan program. But lots of folks have
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/05/07/business/small-business-loans-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{not
    yet seen payouts.} Even those who have received help are confused:
    The rules are draconian, and some are stuck sitting on
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/05/02/business/economy/loans-coronavirus-small-business.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{money
    they don't know how to use.} Many small-business owners are getting
    less than they expected or
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/10/business/Small-business-loans-ppp.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{not
    hearing anything at all.}
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{what-are-my-rights-if-i-am-worried-about-going-back-to-work}{%
  \paragraph{What are my rights if I am worried about going back to
  work?}\label{what-are-my-rights-if-i-am-worried-about-going-back-to-work}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Employers have to provide
    \href{https://www.osha.gov/SLTC/covid-19/standards.html}{a safe
    workplace} with policies that protect everyone equally.
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/coronavirus-money-unemployment.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{And
    if one of your co-workers tests positive for the coronavirus, the
    C.D.C.} has said that
    \href{https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/community/guidance-business-response.html}{employers
    should tell their employees} -\/- without giving you the sick
    employee's name -\/- that they may have been exposed to the virus.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{should-i-refinance-my-mortgage}{%
  \paragraph{Should I refinance my
  mortgage?}\label{should-i-refinance-my-mortgage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/coronavirus-money-unemployment.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{It
    could be a good idea,} because mortgage rates have
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/16/business/mortgage-rates-below-3-percent.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{never
    been lower.} Refinancing requests have pushed mortgage applications
    to some of the highest levels since 2008, so be prepared to get in
    line. But defaults are also up, so if you're thinking about buying a
    home, be aware that some lenders have tightened their standards.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{what-is-school-going-to-look-like-in-september}{%
  \paragraph{What is school going to look like in
  September?}\label{what-is-school-going-to-look-like-in-september}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    It is unlikely that many schools will return to a normal schedule
    this fall, requiring the grind of
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/05/us/coronavirus-education-lost-learning.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{online
    learning},
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/05/29/us/coronavirus-child-care-centers.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{makeshift
    child care} and
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/03/business/economy/coronavirus-working-women.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{stunted
    workdays} to continue. California's two largest public school
    districts --- Los Angeles and San Diego --- said on July 13, that
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/13/us/lausd-san-diego-school-reopening.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{instruction
    will be remote-only in the fall}, citing concerns that surging
    coronavirus infections in their areas pose too dire a risk for
    students and teachers. Together, the two districts enroll some
    825,000 students. They are the largest in the country so far to
    abandon plans for even a partial physical return to classrooms when
    they reopen in August. For other districts, the solution won't be an
    all-or-nothing approach.
    \href{https://bioethics.jhu.edu/research-and-outreach/projects/eschool-initiative/school-policy-tracker/}{Many
    systems}, including the nation's largest, New York City, are
    devising
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/26/us/coronavirus-schools-reopen-fall.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{hybrid
    plans} that involve spending some days in classrooms and other days
    online. There's no national policy on this yet, so check with your
    municipal school system regularly to see what is happening in your
    community.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{is-the-coronavirus-airborne}{%
  \paragraph{Is the coronavirus
  airborne?}\label{is-the-coronavirus-airborne}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    The coronavirus
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/04/health/239-experts-with-one-big-claim-the-coronavirus-is-airborne.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{can
    stay aloft for hours in tiny droplets in stagnant air}, infecting
    people as they inhale, mounting scientific evidence suggests. This
    risk is highest in crowded indoor spaces with poor ventilation, and
    may help explain super-spreading events reported in meatpacking
    plants, churches and restaurants.
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/06/health/coronavirus-airborne-aerosols.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{It's
    unclear how often the virus is spread} via these tiny droplets, or
    aerosols, compared with larger droplets that are expelled when a
    sick person coughs or sneezes, or transmitted through contact with
    contaminated surfaces, said Linsey Marr, an aerosol expert at
    Virginia Tech. Aerosols are released even when a person without
    symptoms exhales, talks or sings, according to Dr. Marr and more
    than 200 other experts, who
    \href{https://academic.oup.com/cid/article/doi/10.1093/cid/ciaa939/5867798}{have
    outlined the evidence in an open letter to the World Health
    Organization}.
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

At the time, anti-drunken-driving groups were trying to lower the legal
blood-alcohol limit to 0.08 percent from 0.10 percent, a change that
restaurant owners feared would hurt liquor sales. Mr. Cain called
instead for stiffer penalties for drunken driving. That argument drew a
pointed rebuke from Diane Riibe, a board member of Mothers Against Drunk
Driving.

``Mr. Cain and those he represents are in the business of selling
alcohol,'' Ms. Riibe wrote, ``not saving lives.''

The restaurant association gave Mr. Cain an intimate view of the way
Washington worked. And it helped him lay the groundwork for his first
entry into electoral politics, a short-lived bid for the White House in
2000.

After that, he became co-chairman of the businessman Steve Forbes's
unsuccessful presidential campaign. And that same year, he moved back to
Georgia to concentrate on his motivational speaking business and to
write books espousing his business and political philosophies.

They included ``Speak as a Leader: Develop the Better Speaker in You''
(1999), ``CEO of Self: You're in Charge'' (2001) and ``They Think You're
Stupid: Why Democrats Lost Your Vote and What Republicans Must Do to
Keep It'' (2005).

He sought the Republican nomination for the Senate from Georgia in 2004
but lost badly in the primary to Johnny Isakson, who went on to win the
general election.

Less than two years later, Mr. Cain received a diagnosis of late-stage
colon cancer, which had spread to his liver. He recovered, and he later
said he believed that his survival had shown that God had other plans
for him. He credited God with persuading him to run for president after
Barack Obama, a Democrat, took office in early 2009.

Mr. Cain published a memoir, ``This Is Herman Cain!,'' in 2011, just as
he was saddling up again for a presidential run. Some critics said he
was
\href{https://www.theatlantic.com/politics/archive/2011/10/herman-cain-skips-out-on-early-states-to-push-his-new-book/246260/}{running
for president to sell his book,} and his travel schedule, which rarely
took him to the early voting states of Iowa and New Hampshire, resembled
a book tour more than a serious campaign.

Still, he grabbed attention with his novel ``9-9-9'' plan. Thanks to the
strength of his debate performances and a
\href{http://thecaucus.blogs.nytimes.com/2011/09/24/herman-cain-wins-florida-straw-poll/}{surprise
victory} in a Florida straw poll in September, Mr. Cain did well in
early polling. He was essentially tied with Mitt Romney, the former
Massachusetts governor who had consistently led most polls and who
eventually became the Republican nominee.

Image

Mr. Cain campaigning in Birmingham, Ala., in 2011. He did well in early
polling but dropped out after allegations of sexual misconduct
surfaced.Credit...Rich Addicks for The New York Times

Mr. Cain's political downfall came as swiftly as his ascent, after
\href{https://www.politico.com/story/2011/10/exclusive-2-women-accused-cain-of-inappropriate-behavior-067194}{Politico
reported}that the National Restaurant Association had paid settlements
to two former employees who claimed Mr. Cain had sexually harassed them.

Other complaints piled up. He called them smears dreamed up by his
opponents and categorically denied them.

Then came a complaint by a woman named Ginger White, who contended
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2011/11/29/us/politics/cain-accused-of-affair-by-ginger-white.html}{that
she had had a 13-year extramarital affair} with Mr. Cain that ended
shortly before he announced his presidential bid. Ms. White produced
phone records to prove that they had called or texted each other
frequently, and Mr. Cain acknowledged giving her financial support. He
said his wife of 43 years had been unaware of what he insisted was only
a friendship.

With Ms. White's revelation, some of Mr. Cain's supporters and defenders
began backing away, and he eventually dropped out.

The flurry of attention he received in his presidential run helped him
land a job as a radio host in 2013. He also wrote columns for Newsmax
and appeared as a commentator on Fox News.

During the 2016 election season, Mr. Trump, running as a businessman and
a brash political outsider, drew early comparisons to Mr. Cain. At a
time when many Republicans were skittish about Mr. Trump, Mr. Cain came
to his defense, pushing back against accusations that Mr. Trump was a
racist.

After Mr. Cain's death was announced, Mr. Romney, now a senator from
Utah, took to Twitter to write: ``Saddened that Herman Cain --- a
formidable champion of business, politics and policy --- has lost his
battle with Covid. St. Peter will soon hear `999!' Keep up the fight, my
friend.''

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
