Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}Obama Unleashes on Trump
Privately as He Raises \$24 Million for Biden

\url{https://nyti.ms/3hHR3HY}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Election
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/biden-vice-president-2020.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Biden's
  V.P. Search}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/07/24/us/politics/trump-biden-campaign-donors.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Map
  of Donations}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/elections/delegate-count-primary-results.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Delegate
  Count}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2019/us/politics/2020-presidential-candidates.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{The
  Candidates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Politics
  Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{obama-unleashes-on-trump-privately-as-he-raises-24-million-for-biden}{%
\section{Obama Unleashes on Trump Privately as He Raises \$24 Million
for
Biden}\label{obama-unleashes-on-trump-privately-as-he-raises-24-million-for-biden}}

Barack Obama has spoken candidly about President Trump to party donors,
bringing up the sexual assault allegations against Mr. Trump and warning
of his efforts to push ``nativist, racist, sexist'' fears.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/07/30/us/politics/30obama/merlin_165889137_ea0f592f-e111-4e72-aa0c-9bcd34476a66-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/shane-goldmacher}{Shane Goldmacher}
and \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/glenn-thrush}{Glenn Thrush}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  July 30, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

At fund-raising events where he has pulled in more than \$24 million for
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/elections/joe-biden.html}{Joseph
R. Biden Jr.}'s campaign in the past two months, former President Barack
Obama has privately unleashed on
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/elections/donald-trump.html}{President
Trump} to party donors, bringing up past accusations of Mr. Trump's
``assaulting women'' and warning of his efforts to push ``nativist,
racist, sexist'' fears and resentments.

With less than 100 days until the
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/30/us/politics/trump-postpone-election.html}{presidential
election}, Mr. Obama has laid out the stakes of 2020 in forceful
fashion. He has urged support for Mr. Biden, his former vice president,
while worrying about the state of American democracy itself, even making
an oblique reference to Nazi Germany, according to notes made from
recordings of Mr. Obama's remarks, donors and others who have been on
the calls.

Even three years out of office, Mr. Obama remains one of the Democratic
Party's biggest draws for giant contributors and small donors alike. A
virtual conversation on Tuesday with the actor George Clooney sold out
of tickets that ranged from \$250 to as much as \$250,000. (The biggest
donors got access to a small ``virtual clutch'' with Mr. Obama.)

Donors who have paid six-figure sums to see Mr. Obama on Zoom --- he
held two other, more intimate, conversations for donors with Reid
Hoffman, the founder of LinkedIn and a major Democratic donor, and J.B.
Pritzker, the billionaire governor of Illinois --- have been privy to
wide-ranging Q. and A. sessions about the state of politics and
unvarnished analysis from the former president.

On Tuesday evening, during the event with Mr. Clooney, Mr. Obama was
asked what keeps him up at night these days. He cited fears of voter
suppression and an effort by Mr. Trump to question the election's
legitimacy.

Mr. Obama, who has
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/28/us/politics/obama-biden-trump.html}{carefully
calibrated his public statements} since leaving office to avoid being
pulled into one-on-one combat with a current president looking for a
foil, is considerably more caustic when the cameras are off, according
to people who have been on the calls and notes made from recordings.

During his conversation with Mr. Pritzker, Mr. Obama spoke about how Mr.
Trump has a core base that ``filters out any contradictory
information.''

``It's just glued to Fox News and Breitbart and Limbaugh and just this
conservative echo chamber --- and so, they're going to turn out to
vote,'' Mr. Obama said. ``What he has unleashed and what he continues to
try to tap into is the fears and anger and resentment of people who, in
some cases, really are having a tough time and have seen their
prospects, or communities where they left, declining. And Trump tries to
tap into that and redirect in nativist, racist, sexist ways.''

Mr. Obama's office did not dispute his private comments but declined to
comment further.

The former president dismissed Mr. Trump's
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/06/us/politics/trump-bubba-wallace-nascar.html}{continued
focus on the Confederate}monuments as a distraction amid the coronavirus
pandemic --- ``that's like his No. 1 priority'' --- but also
characterized it as a menace that ``gives you a sense of what this is
about.'' He then pivoted to what those ``darker impulses'' have wrought
in history.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/07/30/us/politics/30obama2/merlin_175049580_e3d9e04b-9ed4-40c7-bbd3-266730465e40-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

``The endpoint of that we saw in Europe 60 years ago, 70 years ago ---
what happens when those things get unleashed,'' Mr. Obama said,
according to the notes. ``You don't nip that in the bud, bad things can
happen. Among the most quote unquote civilized societies.''

\hypertarget{latest-updates-2020-election}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: 2020
Election}}{Latest Updates: 2020 Election}}\label{latest-updates-2020-election}}

Updated 2020-08-01T01:26:45.732Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-29fdff45}{Kamala
  Harris, a top vice-presidential contender, confronts double
  standards.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-13ec3d9c}{Karen
  Bass and Susan Rice are rising on Biden's vice-presidential
  shortlist.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-49e9a016}{Trump
  says Russian bounties to kill U.S. troops `never took place.'}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

During the event with Mr. Hoffman, Mr. Obama called out Mr. Trump for
stoking ``anti-Asian sentiment'' when talking about the virus,
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/18/us/politics/china-virus.html}{which
the president has called} the ``kung flu'' and ``Chinese virus.''

``That still shocks and pisses me off,'' Mr. Obama said. He went even
further as he told the virtual crowd that he hoped his seriousness of
purpose was emanating through the screen.

``We already saw this guy win once,'' he said. ``After he bragged about
physically assaulting women --- and that didn't seem to matter. So,
enough said. Let's get to work.''

Mr. Obama criticized Mr. Trump without naming him as he delivered the
eulogy at
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/30/us/john-lewis-live-funeral.html}{Representative
John Lewis's funeral} on Thursday, saying Republican efforts to curtail
voting rights had left the electoral system under attack.

``Even as we sit here, there are those in power who are doing their
darnedest to discourage people from voting by closing polling locations
and targeting minorities and students with restrictive ID laws, and
attacking our voting rights with surgical precision,'' Mr. Obama said.

``George Wallace may be gone,'' the former president said, ``but we can
witness our federal government sending agents to use tear gas and batons
against peaceful demonstrators.''

Mr. Obama
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/02/28/us/politics/obama-south-carolina-primary.html}{sat
firmly on the sidelines} during the Democratic primary race but has
mobilized to help his former vice president. In addition to the four
virtual events --- his joint appearance with Mr. Biden is still the
campaign's single biggest fund-raising event --- he has lent his name to
digital solicitations that are among the party's highest-performing
missives.

And Mr. Obama and Mr. Biden's ``socially distanced'' video released last
week not only earned airtime on television news, but was also an
organizing tool for the campaign, which tripled email sign-ups in the 24
hours after its initial release, compared with the day before.

At the Democratic National Committee, the times that Mr. Obama signs
emails have been known internally as ``Barack Obama days'' for the
influx of contributions and for a reactivating effect among supporters.

``He's obviously one of our most effective surrogates,'' said Tom Perez,
the D.N.C. chairman, who hailed the efficiency of virtual fund-raisers
and moderated the conversation between Mr. Obama and Mr. Hoffman.

``The virtual context means you don't have to put him and other
surrogates on a plane,'' Mr. Perez said. ``This just allows him to do
more events, more efficiently. That's been a surprise.''

Mr. Obama is still said to be concerned that appearing in too many
virtual fund-raisers will blunt his impact over time --- but he recently
told a former campaign aide that they were far easier than he expected,
taking only about an hour of his time, requiring no travel and providing
a cash return for the Biden team that exceeded his expectations.

Mr. Obama's first fund-raising appearances with Mr. Biden raised \$11
million, including \$7.6 million from smaller online contributors and
\$3.4 million from big donors who got a more private session with the
two men, according to the Biden campaign. The Hoffman event raised \$5.6
million and the Pritzker event more than \$3 million, according to
people familiar with the matter.

Image

Joseph R. Biden Jr. and Mr. Obama filmed a socially-distanced
conversation together that was released this month.Credit.../EPA, via
Shutterstock

In his private fund-raisers, Mr. Obama has praised Mr. Biden's character
and hailed him as a future ``great president,'' almost turning the
tables on donors and others who have tried to offer ``constructive
criticism'' to the Biden campaign given the stakes of the election.

``We have a worthy candidate and we have a worthy platform,'' Mr. Obama
said. ``But you know what, let's not be so sophisticated that we are
constantly finding reasons why this isn't good enough or the candidate's
not doing this or the campaign seems to not be getting that quite
right.''

D.N.C. officials and Biden campaign aides have tried, gingerly, to
enlist Michelle Obama to appear in her own online fund-raisers. But the
former first lady, who has been focusing her energy on other projects
like a new podcast, has told people in her orbit that she does not
consider herself a political player. She has committed to virtually
appearing at the Democratic National Convention but signaled she would
engage more in the campaign at a time and in a fashion of her choosing.

So far, Mrs. Obama has neither headlined high-dollar fund-raisers nor
signed messages to email lists for Mr. Biden and the D.N.C.

In a window into the Obamas' contrasting approaches, Mr. Obama
\href{https://twitter.com/BarackObama/status/1287417455447552002}{tweeted
a link} on Sunday to the Democratic Party's iwillvote.com voter
registration portal, noting that it was 100 days until the election.
That tweet, along with a link by the model Kendall Jenner to her 135
million Instagram followers, drove
\href{https://twitter.com/MegDiMartino/status/1287571323246583812}{more
than 100,000 visitors}.

That day --- within minutes of Mr. Obama's post --- Mrs. Obama also
\href{https://twitter.com/MichelleObama/status/1287419441320517633}{posted}
a video urging people to register to vote on Twitter. But she linked to
her own nonpartisan nonprofit, When We All Vote.

``Where we disagree is usually you just think things just have to get
super, super bad before folks figure stuff out,'' Mr. Obama told Mrs.
Obama on her podcast, which debuted on Wednesday.

``Well, I hope we're at that point,'' she said, before adding, ``We'll
figure it out before we crash into the sun.''

Mrs. Obama's office declined to comment.

Mr. Clooney, appearing on Tuesday in a blazer and an unbuttoned white
dress shirt, framed this year's election as a simple choice.

``Like, this is easy,'' he said. ``There's two candidates here. One
claims that our first Black president wasn't a citizen, and the other
was his vice president.''

\hypertarget{our-2020-election-guide}{%
\section{Our 2020 Election Guide}\label{our-2020-election-guide}}

Updated July 31, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{the-latest}{%
  \subsection{The Latest}\label{the-latest}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    President Trump's assault on the Postal Service is intersecting with
    his attacks on mail-in voting.
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/politics/trump-usps-mail-delays.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Voting
    rights groups say it is a recipe for disaster.}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{bidens-vp-search}{%
  \subsection{Biden's V.P. Search}\label{bidens-vp-search}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/biden-vice-president-2020.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Here
    are 13 women} who have been under consideration to be Joe Biden's
    running mate, and why each might be chosen --- and might not be.
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{keep-up-with-our-coverage}{%
  \subsection{Keep Up With Our
  Coverage}\label{keep-up-with-our-coverage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Get an
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{email}
    recapping the day's news
  \end{itemize}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Download our mobile app on
    \href{https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nytimes/id284862083?ls=1\&mat_click_id=5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\&referrer=mat_click_id\%3D5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\%26link_click_id\%3D722930677036718082}{iOS}
    and
    \href{http://a.localytics.com/android?id=com.nytimes.android\&referrer=utm_source\%3Dother_nyt_mobile_web\%26utm_medium\%3DWeb\%2520page\%26utm_term\%3DGeneral\%2520Mobile\%2520Page\%26utm_campaign\%3DNYT\%2520Mobile\%2520General\%2520Page}{Android}
    and turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
