Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}`Your Health or the Right to
Vote': A Battle in Wisconsin as Its Primary Nears

\url{https://nyti.ms/2UFwLoC}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/09/08/us/elections/results-new-hampshire-primary-elections.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{New
  Hampshire Results}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/08/us/trump-vs-biden?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Election
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/election-states-biden-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Paths
  to 270}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/31/us/politics/vote-by-mail-deadlines.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Voting
  by Mail}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/us/elections/2020-presidential-election-calendar.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Key
  Dates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Politics
  Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{your-health-or-the-right-to-vote-a-battle-in-wisconsin-as-its-primary-nears}{%
\section{`Your Health or the Right to Vote': A Battle in Wisconsin as
Its Primary
Nears}\label{your-health-or-the-right-to-vote-a-battle-in-wisconsin-as-its-primary-nears}}

As many states postpone primaries amid the coronavirus outbreak,
Wisconsin is plowing ahead with plans to vote on April 7. Now the
governor wants to send everyone an absentee ballot --- in under two
weeks.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/03/29/us/politics/29virus-wisconsin/merlin_170590395_7e288a6c-7050-41d9-a764-a79e932f4ffb-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/nick-corasaniti}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/06/13/multimedia/author-nick-corasaniti/author-nick-corasaniti-thumbLarge-v2.png}}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/stephanie-saul}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/02/06/reader-center/author-stephanie-saul/author-stephanie-saul-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/nick-corasaniti}{Nick
Corasaniti} and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/stephanie-saul}{Stephanie
Saul}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  March 27, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

With April elections rapidly approaching in Wisconsin, local officials
were issuing stark warnings about holding in-person voting amid the
escalating coronavirus outbreak, saying the state was forcing voters to
choose between their health and their constitutional right to vote.

For weeks, both the Democratic governor and Republican lawmakers
remained unmoved, pledging to keep the polls open even as other states
postponed elections. But on Friday, as the coronavirus cases in the
state topped 700, Gov. Tony Evers reversed his position, instead
requesting that absentee ballots be sent to every one of the state's 3.3
million registered voters ahead of its April 7 presidential primary.

The sudden request to print and mail millions of ballots in less than
two weeks, a task Republican leaders in the state immediately dismissed
as impossible, is the latest example of how the pandemic is roiling
democratic institutions as states across the country scramble to protect
voters and poll workers.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/2020-campaign-primary-calendar-coronavirus.html}{More
than a half-dozen states} that were scheduled to hold presidential
nominating contests in March and April have postponed them; Pennsylvania
became the latest on Friday, pushing its April 28 primary to June 2.
Wisconsin, if it holds firm on April 7, is poised to play a major role
in the Democratic race, and perhaps a bigger one than before the
changes.

It is a state that Senator
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/bernie-sanders.html}{Bernie
Sanders} won decisively in the 2016 Democratic primary, and, with 84
delegates up for grabs, one he would need to win again to lend some
validity to his remaining in the race this time. A significant victory
by former Vice President
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/joe-biden.html}{Joseph
R. Biden Jr.} would most likely lead to more calls for Mr. Sanders to
end his bid and consolidate the party's support around Mr. Biden.

In Wisconsin, the upheaval from the pandemic has set up a clash between
the Democratic governor and Democratic lawmakers on one side --- who
want to expand voting by mail, drop photo ID requirements for absentee
requests, extend deadlines for voters to return ballots and give clerks
more time to count them --- and the Republican majorities in the
Legislature on the other, who are largely intent on moving forward with
voting.

Mr. Evers cannot send the ballots on his own; he asked the Legislature
to convene and approve a measure to do so. But Scott Fitzgerald, the
State Senate majority leader, decried the request as a ``fantasy,'' and
Robin Vos, the speaker of the State Assembly, said Republicans in his
chamber were ``united as a caucus in rejecting the governor's request''
to mail the ballots.

``Governor Evers just proposed procuring, printing, verifying and
mandating the mailing of millions of ballots within 10 days. Even he
knows that's not logistically feasible,'' Mr. Fitzgerald said in a
statement on Friday. ``In pitching this idea, the governor is lying
directly to Wisconsinites about this even being remotely possible.
Acting like this is doable is a hoax.''

Indeed, it was not clear on Friday, even if the Legislature complied,
whether ballots could be mailed to millions of Wisconsin voters before
April 7. State officials said they were still preparing for in-person
voting at polling places by placing special orders for hand sanitizer
and calling for volunteer poll workers.

Asked during a news conference on Friday whether there would be enough
time to mail ballots to every voter, Mr. Evers said, ``It ain't gonna be
easy, but we're gonna do it.''

Mr. Evers issued a ``safer at home'' order earlier in the week that
shuttered nonessential businesses and prohibited nonessential travel in
the state, further raising questions about how the state would hold
in-person voting if its citizens were supposed to stay away from public
places.

``We need to recognize the impossible choice that we're forcing on
people, which is your health or the right to vote,'' said Mayor Eric
Genrich of Green Bay, Wisconsin's third-largest city, which had sued the
state to demand that the election be postponed. Referring to
recommendations made by public health officials, he added, ``There is no
way for us to abide by those guidelines and at the same time administer
an in-person election.''

The state is not just holding a presidential primary election on April
7, but also numerous state and local races, including a closely watched
State Supreme Court race.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/03/28/us/politics/28virus-wisconsin2/merlin_170701233_b73b46af-a492-48e3-a453-0f5b3bcebbbf-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

For the past week, local officials, particularly in some of the bigger
cities, have said that they simply would not have the staff to run an
in-person election because of workers' concerns about the spread of the
coronavirus. In Green Bay, 145 out of 270 poll workers have said they
will not be working this election, and 90 percent of poll workers are
over 60. In Madison, more than half of the workers said they would not
show up. In Milwaukee, there have not been enough workers to open the
city's three early voting locations, leaving in question how it could
operate 180 polling places on Election Day.

``I've got kids home from college, and I couldn't, in good conscience, I
would not ask them to sit in a room greeting dozens of people right
now,'' Tom Barrett, the mayor of Milwaukee, said in an interview. ``I
couldn't expect citizens to do that either.''

The possibility that the state's largest cities, which lean Democratic,
could be forced to shutter some polling locations and relocate others,
while suburban and rural Republican-leaning areas remain less
compromised by the virus, has led some to wonder about possible impacts
on the State Supreme Court race, one of vital importance to the state
parties and often a bellwether of November voter behavior.

As of Friday, more than 760,000 voters had requested absentee ballots in
Wisconsin, nearly five times the number requested during the 2018
midterm elections. The surge in requests has taxed already understaffed
election clerks' offices around the state, and has pushed a system that
has never topped 10 percent voting by mail to its limit.

Republicans in the state Legislature have pointed to the absentee ballot
numbers as evidence that the election can be held safely.

``I think that people are pretty smart in Wisconsin, and you hear the
numbers, they're asking for a lot of absentee ballots,'' said Luther
Olsen, a Republican state senator from central Wisconsin. ``So if you
really want to vote and vote absentee, you can do it. I would be real
surprised if we have any lines waiting to vote on Election Day.''

Even before Mr. Evers's announcement, national and state Democrats and
voting rights groups had filed lawsuits seeking a delay in the election,
and Democratic lawmakers were already pleading with their Republican
colleagues to convene a special emergency session to help extend voting
by mail.

``It just seems to me we are either sacrificing the health and lives of
the community or taking away people's right to vote,'' said Gordon
Hintz, the Democratic leader in the State Assembly. ``I just don't
believe that we can move forward with an Election Day that puts so many
people at risk.''

\hypertarget{our-2020-election-guide}{%
\section{Our 2020 Election Guide}\label{our-2020-election-guide}}

Updated ~Sept. 8, 2020

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

\begin{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{the-latest}{%
  \subsection{The Latest}\label{the-latest}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    President Trump and his party are using a playbook that aims to
    alarm people about crime in their backyards. It didn't work in 2018,
    but
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/08/us/politics/trump-republicans-fear-strategy.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{both
    parties think it could resonate more this year}.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{how-to-win-270}{%
  \subsection{How to Win 270}\label{how-to-win-270}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Joe Biden and Donald Trump need 270 electoral votes to reach the
    White House. Try building
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/election-states-biden-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{your
    own coalition of battleground states}~to see potential outcomes.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{voting-by-mail}{%
  \subsection{Voting by Mail}\label{voting-by-mail}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Will you have enough time to vote by mail in your state? Yes, but
    it's risky to procrastinate.
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/31/us/politics/vote-by-mail-deadlines.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Check
    your state's deadline.}
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/joe-biden.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{}

    \hypertarget{joe-biden}{%
    \section{Joe Biden}\label{joe-biden}}

    \hypertarget{democrat}{%
    \subsection{Democrat}\label{democrat}}

    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/donald-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{}

    \hypertarget{donald-trump}{%
    \section{Donald Trump}\label{donald-trump}}

    \hypertarget{republican}{%
    \subsection{Republican}\label{republican}}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \hypertarget{keep-up-with-our-coverage}{%
  \subsection{Keep Up With Our
  Coverage}\label{keep-up-with-our-coverage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Get an
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{email}~recapping
    the day's news
  \item
    Download our mobile app on
    \href{https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nytimes/id284862083?ls=1\&mat_click_id=5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\&referrer=mat_click_id\%3D5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\%26link_click_id\%3D722930677036718082}{iOS}~and
    \href{http://a.localytics.com/android?id=com.nytimes.android\&referrer=utm_source\%3Dother_nyt_mobile_web\%26utm_medium\%3DWeb\%2520page\%26utm_term\%3DGeneral\%2520Mobile\%2520Page\%26utm_campaign\%3DNYT\%2520Mobile\%2520General\%2520Page}{Android}~and
    turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
