Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/news-event/2020-election}{Elections}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/news-event/2020-election}{Elections}\textbar{}2020 Election Live
Updates: Trump Invokes Racist Fears About Affordable Housing

\url{https://nyti.ms/3hNdwDk}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/29/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Election
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/biden-vice-president-2020.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Biden's
  V.P. Search}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/07/24/us/politics/trump-biden-campaign-donors.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Map
  of Donations}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/elections/delegate-count-primary-results.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Delegate
  Count}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2019/us/politics/2020-presidential-candidates.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{The
  Candidates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Politics
  Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

LIVE UPDATES

Updated~

July 29, 2020, 2:24 p.m. ET

July 29, 2020, 2:24 p.m. ET

\hypertarget{2020-election-live-updates-trump-invokes-racist-fears-about-affordable-housing}{%
\section{2020 Election Live Updates: Trump Invokes Racist Fears About
Affordable
Housing}\label{2020-election-live-updates-trump-invokes-racist-fears-about-affordable-housing}}

President Trump said he and Vladimir Putin did not discuss reported
Russian bounties for killing American troops. A new poll shows Mr. Trump
and Joe Biden locked in a tight race in Georgia.

Right Now

President Trump sought to appeal to suburban voters in a tweet,
promising them that they would ``no longer be bothered or financially
hurt by having low income housing built in your neighborhood.''

\hypertarget{heres-what-you-need-to-know}{%
\subsubsection{Here's what you need to
know:}\label{heres-what-you-need-to-know}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-62c7451e}{Trump plays on racist fears in
  appeal to white suburban voters.}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-44f0348}{A new poll shows Biden tied with
  Trump in Georgia.}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-1550d1d7}{Asked about Russian bounties, Trump
  says his phone call with Putin focused on `other things.'}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-7eba6945}{The president floats the idea of
  giving his renomination speech in Washington, a likely Hatch Act
  violation.}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-64f2c322}{Representative Louie Gohmert, who
  refuses to wear masks in the Capitol, tests positive for the
  coronavirus.}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-389bb2b4}{Trump has quietly retreated from
  Michigan's airwaves.}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-3cd89811}{On Michelle Obama's new podcast, she
  and her husband warn against cynicism and apathy.}
\end{itemize}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/07/29/us/politics/29elections-briefing-suburbs/merlin_174387555_a81a394f-9b9a-4bfd-8dfd-dae963e10c8b-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\subsection{}

Trump plays on racist fears in appeal to white suburban voters.

President Trump vowed on Wednesday to protect suburbanites from
low-income housing being built where they live, continuing his efforts
to shore up the support of white suburban voters by stirring racist
fears about affordable housing.

\href{https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/1288509568578777088?s=20}{In
a tweet}, Mr. Trump appealed to ``people living their Suburban Lifestyle
Dream,'' promising them that they would ``no longer be bothered or
financially hurt by having low income housing built in your
neighborhood.''

He explicitly referenced his administration's
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/23/us/politics/trump-housing-discrimination-suburbs.html?searchResultPosition=1}{move
last week} to roll back an Obama-era program intended to combat racial
segregation in suburban housing. The program
\href{https://www.hud.gov/press/press_releases_media_advisories/HUD_No_20_109}{expanded
provisions} in the Fair Housing Act to encourage diversification and
``foster inclusive communities.''

``Your housing prices will go up based on the market, and crime will go
down,'' he wrote.

Mr. Trump and his father were sued by the Justice Department in the
1970s for their company's practice of
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2016/08/28/us/politics/donald-trump-housing-race.html}{discriminating
against Black tenants}.

His remarks on Wednesday were further evidence that he is deploying a
strategy rooted in racism, classism and fear-mongering as he courts
white suburban voters, particularly white suburban women, who were the
key to his victory in 2016 but are slipping away from him.

And his vision of the suburbs as white is outdated, as they become more
economically and racially diverse.

In 2018, support from suburban voters helped Democrats retake the House
of Representatives. The following year, voters in the suburbs helped
Democrats win governorships in reliably red states like Kentucky and
Louisiana.

Mr. Trump made similar remarks last week when he first announced his
administration's plans to eliminate the Obama-era rule.

``The Suburban Housewives of America must read this article,''
\href{https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/1286372175117791236?s=20}{Mr.
Trump said}, referring to an opinion piece in The New York Post that
attacked the housing rule and Joseph R. Biden Jr., Mr. Obama's vice
president and the presumptive Democratic nominee. ``Biden will destroy
your neighborhood and your American Dream. I will preserve it, and make
it even better!''

A spokesman for the Biden campaign said last week that Mr. Trump was
trying to distract from his handling of the coronavirus. Mr. Biden has
proposed a housing policy that would combat systemic racism, including
by ending redlining and other discriminatory practices in the housing
market and providing a tax credit of up to \$15,000 for first-time home
buyers.

On Tuesday,
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/28/us/politics/joe-biden-racial-justice-economy-plan.html}{Mr.
Biden unveiled wide-ranging plans} to address systemic racism in the
economy.

\hypertarget{-1}{%
\subsection{}\label{-1}}

A new poll shows Biden tied with Trump in Georgia.

Image

A Trump-Pence campaign sign in Baxley, Ga. Georgia is emerging as a
battleground state in the 2020 election.Credit...Audra Melton for The
New York Times

Mr. Trump and Mr. Biden are locked in a tight race for Georgia, while at
least one of the state's two Senate seats currently appears on track to
remain in Republican hands, according to a new poll of voters there
released Wednesday.

\href{https://www.monmouth.edu/polling-institute/reports/monmouthpoll_GA_072920/}{The
survey}, conducted by Monmouth University, shows Mr. Trump and Mr. Biden
tied with 47 percent support each and only three percent of registered
voters indicating that they were undecided.

It also shows Republicans ahead in both of the state's crucial Senate
races. In the tighter of the two contests, Senator David Perdue, the
Republican incumbent, currently leads Jon Ossoff, his Democratic
challenger, by six percentage points, according to the poll.

Senator Kelly Loeffler, who was appointed to her seat late last year by
Gov. Brian Kemp, must defend her seat in a special election in November
that will feature candidates from both parties; she leads the large
group with 26 percent support and is followed by another Republican,
Representative Doug Collins, who garnered 20 percent support. The
leading Democrat, Matt Lieberman, was the choice of just 14 percent of
voters, while another Democrat, the Rev. Dr. Raphael Warnock, had the
support of 9 percent.

The Monmouth poll of 402 registered voters comes as some
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/11/us/politics/trump-biden-2020-election.html}{Democrats
are pressing the Biden campaign to expand its ambitions} and compete
aggressively in states like Georgia, where a win could help solidify an
Electoral College victory and deal a damaging blow to Mr. Trump's brand
of politics. The Monmouth poll of Georgia voters was conducted by
telephone from July 23 to 27 and has a margin of error of +/- 5
percentage points.

Georgia has long been seen by Democrats as a fast-changing state where
electoral success could
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/09/us/politics/georgia-primary-election-senate-race-jon-ossoff.html}{help
carve a new path to the presidency}. Mr. Biden's campaign has mostly
focused on a handful of more traditional battleground states in the
months since he became the presumptive nominee.

On Tuesday, the Biden campaign announced a round of key staff hires in
Georgia, including a state director, a pair of senior advisers, and
other top positions.

But the campaign has yet to spend any money on advertising in the state
and the Trump campaign has invested only about \$150,000 there so far
--- a signal that, at least at this stage of the race, neither side is
ready to jump into what could be a costly contest.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-2020-election}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/29/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: 2020
Election}}{Latest Updates: 2020 Election}}\label{latest-updates-2020-election}}

Updated 2020-07-29T18:24:41.908Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/29/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-62c7451e}{Trump
  plays on racist fears in appeal to white suburban voters.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/29/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-44f0348}{A
  new poll shows Biden tied with Trump in Georgia.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/29/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-1550d1d7}{Asked
  about Russian bounties, Trump says his phone call with Putin focused
  on `other things.'}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/29/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

By comparison,
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/28/us/politics/campaign-ad-buys.html}{Mr.
Trump's campaign has spent far larger sums in more traditional
battleground states} like Florida, where his campaign has invested more
than \$17 million since the general election began in earnest in April,
according to Advertising Analytics, an ad tracking firm. Mr. Biden has
also spent heavily in Florida, spending roughly \$8 million on the
airways there.

\hypertarget{-2}{%
\subsection{}\label{-2}}

Asked about Russian bounties, Trump says his phone call with Putin
focused on `other things.'

Image

President Trump said he had not raised concerns with President Vladimir
V. Putin about intelligence suggesting that Russia paid the Taliban to
kill American troops.Credit...Al Drago for The New York Times

Mr. Trump said in a new interview that he had not raised concerns with
President Vladimir V. Putin about intelligence suggesting that Russia
covertly offered
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/03/world/europe/russia-bounties-putin-afghanistan.html}{bounties}
for killing U.S. and coalition troops in Afghanistan in a recent phone
call he had with the country's leader.

``I have never discussed it with him,'' Mr. Trump said in the interview,
conducted on Tuesday by
\href{https://www.axios.com/trump-russia-bounties-taliban-putin-call-4a0f6110-ab58-41c0-96fc-57b507462af1.html?utm_source=newsletter\&utm_medium=email\&utm_campaign=newsletter_axiosam\&stream=top}{``Axios
on HBO,''} which released excerpts Wednesday morning. The full interview
is scheduled to air next week.

Mr. Trump spoke with Mr. Putin by telephone
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/reuters/2020/07/23/world/europe/23reuters-russia-usa-putin-trump.html}{last
week}, but during a public appearance on Monday, he declined to say
whether he had raised the issue during the conversation. ``We don't talk
about what we discussed, but we had plenty of discussion,'' he told
reporters.

But Mr. Trump was more direct when pressed by the Axios reporter
Jonathan Swan on if he had confronted Mr. Putin about the intelligence,
which was
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/29/us/politics/russian-bounty-trump.html}{first
reported by The New York Times}.

``That was a phone call to discuss other things, and frankly that's an
issue that many people said was fake news,'' he said.

Mr. Trump said the purpose of the call was ``to discuss nuclear
proliferation,'' calling that issue ``a much bigger problem than global
warming.''

Although Mr. Trump cast the bounty allegation as a media fiction, U.S.
intelligence analysts found
\href{https://slack-redir.net/link?url=https\%3A\%2F\%2Fwww.nytimes.com\%2F2020\%2F06\%2F30\%2Fus\%2Fpolitics\%2Frussian-bounties-afghanistan-intelligence.html}{evidence}
of the scheme credible, although some intelligence officials have higher
confidence on the question than others. The intelligence was provided to
Mr. Trump in a
\href{https://slack-redir.net/link?url=https\%3A\%2F\%2Fwww.nytimes.com\%2F2020\%2F06\%2F29\%2Fus\%2Fpolitics\%2Frussian-bounty-trump.html}{written
briefing} in February, but it is unclear whether he read it.

Mr. Trump's comments to Axios were made public the morning after he held
a coronavirus briefing in which he lamented how his approval ratings
were lower than two top government medical experts and once again
defended the false claim that hydroxychloroquine was a ``cure'' for the
virus.

His dismissive remarks about the bounties, which amounted to a verbal
shrug, along with his wandering rhetoric at the briefing offered more
evidence that last week's brief foray into greater political discipline
had ended quickly, with polls showing him considerably behind former
Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. and many Americans unhappy with his
response to the pandemic.

On Tuesday, he faced fresh questions about why
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/28/technology/virus-video-trump.html}{he
had retweeted a viral video} the day before that included false claims
about hydroxychloroquine.

And
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/28/us/politics/trump-nobody-likes-me-walks-out-briefing.html}{he
devolved into self-pity}, at one point bemoaning the fact that Dr.
Anthony S. Fauci, the government's top infectious disease expert, and
Dr. Deborah L. Birx, his administration's top coronavirus coordinator,
have high approval ratings even as his own have sagged.

``They're highly thought of --- but nobody likes me,'' he said.

``It can only be my personality,'' he concluded.

\hypertarget{-3}{%
\subsection{}\label{-3}}

The president floats the idea of giving his renomination speech in
Washington, a likely Hatch Act violation.

Image

Mr. Trump said he may give his renomination speech in August from the
White House, an idea that took some of his advisers by
surprise.Credit...Erin Scott for The New York Times

Mr. Trump said Wednesday he may give his renomination speech in August
from the White House, an idea that took some of his advisers by surprise
and that many thought was an unlikely scenario that would be nixed by
the White House counsel's office.

``It's something we're thinking about,'' Mr. Trump told reporters as he
departed from the South Lawn of the White House for a day trip to Texas.
He said he would be announcing the location of his speech ``fairly
soon.''

Giving a political speech from the White House would be a violation of
the Hatch Act. While the president himself is technically exempt from
the act, which prohibits federal employees from engaging in political
activities while on the job, everyone who works for him is subject to
it.

``I suppose if he was determined to hold his iPhone to his face, he
could do it,'' said Norm Eisen, the former ethics czar in the Obama
administration. ``But from the speechwriters at the White House, to the
people setting up the lights and the teleprompters, to the staff
escorting people to be there for this event, it would be a wholesale
conspiracy to violate both our laws and norms.''

He added that it was important ``to comply with not only the strict
letter of the law, but the spirit.''

On Tuesday evening, a group of aides, including Ronna McDaniel,
chairwoman of the Republican National Committee, met with top campaign
advisers at the White House to discuss potential plans for the four
nights of the Republican National Convention, which Mr. Trump announced
last week he was canceling because of the pandemic.

The group did not settle on a location for Mr. Trump's renomination
speech, people familiar with the conversation said, but they discussed
having Mr. Trump speak from a critical battleground state.

Republican officials and campaign advisers have just under three weeks
to figure out a new location for the programming they had been set to
hold in Jacksonville, Fla., and to finalize a roster of speakers. Even
without a full convention, officials said, they are set on capitalizing
on a week of earned media highlighting what they see as Mr. Trump's
accomplishments and record.

On Monday, Mr. Trump announced he would visit Charlotte, N.C., the
original host city of the convention, on Aug. 24 to visit a few hundred
delegates who are still planning to convene there for a day of
convention business, and for the official roll call where the president
is renominated. Mr. Trump is not expected to give extended remarks
during the visit.

\hypertarget{-4}{%
\subsection{}\label{-4}}

Representative Louie Gohmert, who refuses to wear masks in the Capitol,
tests positive for the coronavirus.

Image

Representative Louie Gohmert, who questioned Attorney General William P.
Barr on Capitol Hill on Tuesday,~was later spotted speaking to Mr. Barr
in close proximity.Credit...for The New York Times

Representative Louie Gohmert, a Texas Republican who has frequently
refused to wear a mask in the Capitol, tested positive for the
coronavirus on Wednesday ahead of a planned trip with Mr. Trump on Air
Force One, officials familiar with the matter said.

The results immediately sent a shudder through the Capitol, where Mr.
Gohmert has actively participated in multiple congressional hearings
this week, including Tuesday's Judiciary Committee session with Attorney
General William P. Barr.

Lawmakers and Mr. Barr were seated more than six feet apart during the
hearing, but reporters spotted an unmasked Mr. Gohmert outside the
hearing room exchanging words with Mr. Barr and in close proximity to
him. He also participated in a hearing held by the Natural Resources
Committee on Tuesday, without wearing a mask, possibly spreading the
virus.

Mr. Gohmert is among a group of House Republicans who have pointedly
refused to wear masks in many instances while in the Capitol in recent
weeks despite warnings from public health experts and an outbreak in his
home state. He told CNN last month that he did not wear a mask because
he did not have coronavirus.

``But if I get it, you'll never see me without a mask,'' he said.

Democrats were furious at the news, and both parties spent Wednesday
morning scrambling to retrace Mr. Gohmert's steps. The House Judiciary
Committee was waiting for official guidance from Congress's attending
physician. It is a daunting task since Mr. Gohmert is a frequent
schmoozer who could have come into close contact with dozens of fellow
lawmakers and aides this week alone.

``I'm concerned about the irresponsible behavior of many of the
republicans who have chosen to consistently flout well established
public health guidance,'' said Representative Hakeem Jeffries, Democrat
of New York and a member of the Judiciary Committee. He pleaded with
Republicans like Mr. Gohmert to put on masks or go home.

Members of Congress have been flying between Washington and their home
states --- some of which are experiencing serious outbreaks --- weekly,
and they are not required to be tested. Mr. Gohmert only received a test
because he was scheduled to be in close proximity to the president.

\hypertarget{-5}{%
\subsection{}\label{-5}}

Trump has quietly retreated from Michigan's airwaves.

Image

Despite Joseph R. Biden Jr.'s advantage in national polls,
Representative Debbie Dingell of Michigan, a Democrat, has warned her
party about complacency in the state.Credit...Erin Schaff/The New York
Times

Michigan was expected to be one of the most intense battlegrounds in the
country, but
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/29/us/politics/michigan-trump-biden-2020.html}{Mr.
Trump's campaign has quietly receded from television airwaves} in the
state in recent weeks.

With Mr. Biden building a steady advantage in the polls, a state that
Mr. Trump won narrowly in 2016 threatens to move more firmly back into
the Democratic column in 2020.

Since the end of June, Mr. Trump has spent more money on ads in 10 other
states --- with Michigan falling behind even much smaller states like
Iowa and Nevada --- and in recent days Mr. Trump's campaign stopped
buying ads in Michigan entirely.

The Biden campaign has more than tripled what Mr. Trump spent on
television in Michigan in the last month, by far the most lopsided
advantage of any swing state where both are advertising. And in Detroit,
the state's largest media market, the Trump campaign last ran a
television ad, outside of national ad buys that include the state, on
July 3, according to data from Advertising Analytics.

Mr. Trump faces a trifecta of troubles in Michigan, according to
political strategists and state polling: reduced support among less
educated white voters in a contest against Mr. Biden compared with
Hillary Clinton; motivated Black voters in the state's urban centers;
and suburban voters who continue to flee Mr. Trump's divisive brand of
politics nationwide.

``Of all the states he won in 2016, Trump would be most hard-pressed to
keep Michigan in his column this time around,'' said Geoff Garin, a
Democratic pollster for Priorities USA, a Democratic super PAC.

\hypertarget{-6}{%
\subsection{}\label{-6}}

On Michelle Obama's new podcast, she and her husband warn against
cynicism and apathy.

Barack and Michelle Obama, the former president and first lady, in the
first episode of Mrs. Obama's
\href{https://open.spotify.com/episode/5JzuNYOm8p6u5WzU9VBWid?si=c7VOtFFySRKvf3Cl00VZxw}{new
podcast}, described what they saw as a change in American values among
the younger generation.

In a roughly 45-minute conversation released Wednesday, the Obamas
expressed concern about some younger Americans' apathy toward politics
and government and blamed parents like themselves for telling their
children to dream big without working to institutionalize the values
that they espoused around the dinner table.

``The danger for this generation is that they become too deeply cynical
in government, not understanding that all government is, is us
collectively making decisions together,'' Mr. Obama said.

``Young people are idealistic as they've ever been,'' he added later
with the caution: ``There are some things we just can't do by
ourselves.''

The Obamas shared intimate stories about their own upbringings, spoke
about the importance of community, and shared how their early careers
taught them that chasing individual success would bring only isolation
and loneliness.

``One of the reasons I fell in love with you, is because you are guided
by the principle that we are each other's brothers and sister's
keepers,'' Mrs. Obama said. ``And that's how I was raised.''

They expressed concern that Americans had become more focused on
material things than on relationships in a quest ``to have it all,'' as
Mrs. Obama put it. Mr. Obama argued that a sort of ``cutthroat
competition'' had emerged between anxious Americans constantly assessing
their place in a ``pecking order'' relative to everyone else.

``And that then reflects itself in our politics, right?'' he said.
``Because at a certain point, I am going to start thinking about
politics in terms of how do I protect me? Not how do I look after us.''

But he argued for a more inclusive view --- for Americans to embrace the
ideas that ``our tribe is everybody.'' And he said he was encouraged by
young people protesting systemic racism and police brutality, adding
that they have shown that their instinct was to ``lift all boats.''

\hypertarget{-7}{%
\subsection{}\label{-7}}

Democrats introduce a new group to attack congressional Republicans over
ethics issues.

Image

A congressional project designed to call out corruption and misconduct
in Congress is taking aim at Senator Ron Johnson of
Wisconsin.Credit...Tom Brenner/Reuters

Tired of watching Republicans with their own checkered ethics
backgrounds attack Mr. Biden over his son's business dealings in
Ukraine, a group of Democratic officials on Wednesday introduced an
organization intended to target corruption by congressional Republicans.

The group, the \href{https://congressionalintegrity.org/}{Congressional
Integrity Project}, released the first of what its organizers say will
be a series of reports called ``Covering for Corruption.''
\href{https://congressionalintegrity.org/wp-content/uploads/2020/07/CIP_Report_FINAL_07272020.pdf}{The
five-page document} aims to highlight what the group calls business
self-dealing by Senator Ron Johnson of Wisconsin, accusations of which
have been reported in the past but that Democrats largely did not
highlight during his 2016 re-election campaign or while pushing back
against Mr. Johnson's attempts to investigate the Bidens.

``For too long, members of Congress like Ron Johnson have put their own
personal interests before the needs of the American public, covering for
Trump's corruption and ignoring their oversight responsibilities,'' said
Kyle Herrig, the new group's executive director. ``While conservatives
try to distract the American people with baseless, partisan
investigations, we will use every tool at our disposal to stop officials
like Johnson from misleading and manipulating voters.''

Of course, few Washington politicians have used the federal government
to boost their personal business interests more than Mr. Trump has, so
it remains to be seen how effective the new organization will be in
damaging the political reputation of Mr. Johnson, who doesn't face
re-election until 2022, and other future targets.

\hypertarget{-8}{%
\subsection{}\label{-8}}

`Do not hold grudges': Photos emerge of Biden's talking points on Kamala
Harris.

Image

Mr. Biden held note cards at a campaign event in Wilmington, Del., on
Tuesday. One card had notes about Senator Kamala Harris, a potential
vice-presidential pick.Credit...Andrew Caballero-Reynolds/Agence
France-Presse --- Getty Images

For those wondering about whom
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/biden-vice-president-2020.html}{Mr.
Biden's running mate} will be, handwritten notes that he held at an
event on Tuesday, where he
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/28/us/politics/joe-biden-racial-justice-economy-plan.html}{laid
out his plan to address systemic racism} in the economy, offered a
tantalizing clue.

Written on top was the name of someone thought to be a top contender:
Senator Kamala Harris of California. Five talking points followed:

``Do not hold grudges.'' ``Campaigned with me \& Jill.'' ``Talented.''
``Great help to campaign.'' ``Great respect for her.''

The notes about Ms. Harris --- which were captured by photographers and
\href{https://apnews.com/d3fc8b88cde56bac9f1e7b5e494fb019}{reported by
The Associated Press} --- indicate that he was prepared to field
questions about her.

That may not mean anything about her likelihood (or not) of being
picked. Mr. Biden --- who is often quite fond of talking --- had
relatively little to say when asked on Tuesday about his
vice-presidential search. But he did tell reporters one thing: He will
make his selection next week.

\hypertarget{-9}{%
\subsection{}\label{-9}}

Are polls missing Republican voters?

Image

Voting in Florida's primary in March. Some Republican critics say recent
polls are understating the true extent of Republican
support.Credit...Scott McIntyre for The New York Times

With polls showing Mr. Biden holding a commanding lead, one question
keeps popping up:
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/29/upshot/polls-political-party-republicans.html}{Are
these polls missing Trump voters}?

Self-identified Democrats outnumber Republicans in most surveys,
sometimes by a wide margin. This might just mean that there are simply
more Democrats than Republicans. But to critics, the partisan makeup of
most public polls is self-evidently out of step with a closely divided
country.

There are many reasons the polls might ultimately prove wrong in
November, as they did four years ago, but there's no serious evidence
that the polls are systematically missing Republican voters. There's
more evidence to the contrary --- that the polls represent Republicans
just fine, and Mr. Trump still trails.

If it turned out that Democrats were far likelier to respond to
telephone surveys than Republicans, then the public polls could be
systematically biased --- and the critics would be vindicated at the
ballot box. But this does not appear to be the case. The polls that are
weighted by party registration or primary vote history offer nearly the
same picture as those that are not. Arguably, they offer a picture even
worse for Republicans.

Reporting was contributed by Nate Cohn, Nick Corasaniti, Michael
Crowley, Reid J. Epstein, Nicholas Fandos, Shane Goldmacher, Kathleen
Gray, Thomas Kaplan, Annie Karni and Matt Stevens.

\hypertarget{our-2020-election-guide}{%
\section{Our 2020 Election Guide}\label{our-2020-election-guide}}

Updated July 29, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{the-latest}{%
  \subsection{The Latest}\label{the-latest}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    President Trump has pulled back from television advertising in
    Michigan as he slips in polls there.
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/29/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Get
    the latest updates here.}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{bidens-vp-search}{%
  \subsection{Biden's V.P. Search}\label{bidens-vp-search}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/biden-vice-president-2020.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Here
    are 13 women} who have been under consideration to be Joe Biden's
    running mate, and why each might be chosen --- and might not be.
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{keep-up-with-our-coverage}{%
  \subsection{Keep Up With Our
  Coverage}\label{keep-up-with-our-coverage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Get an
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{email}
    recapping the day's news
  \end{itemize}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Download our mobile app on
    \href{https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nytimes/id284862083?ls=1\&mat_click_id=5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\&referrer=mat_click_id\%3D5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\%26link_click_id\%3D722930677036718082}{iOS}
    and
    \href{http://a.localytics.com/android?id=com.nytimes.android\&referrer=utm_source\%3Dother_nyt_mobile_web\%26utm_medium\%3DWeb\%2520page\%26utm_term\%3DGeneral\%2520Mobile\%2520Page\%26utm_campaign\%3DNYT\%2520Mobile\%2520General\%2520Page}{Android}
    and turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
