Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\hypertarget{the-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus?name=styln-coronavirus-markets\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=LegacyCollection\&impression_id=d33e2c30-e399-11ea-8b08-6ddcf202df60}{The
Coronavirus
Outbreak}}{The Coronavirus Outbreak}}\label{the-coronavirus-outbreak}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  live\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/21/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?name=styln-coronavirus-markets\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=LegacyCollection\&impression_id=d33e5340-e399-11ea-8b08-6ddcf202df60}{Latest
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html?name=styln-coronavirus-markets\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=LegacyCollection\&impression_id=d33e5341-e399-11ea-8b08-6ddcf202df60}{Maps
  and Cases}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html?name=styln-coronavirus-markets\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=LegacyCollection\&impression_id=d33e5342-e399-11ea-8b08-6ddcf202df60}{Vaccine
  Tracker}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/19/us/colleges-closing-covid.html?name=styln-coronavirus-markets\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=LegacyCollection\&impression_id=d33e5343-e399-11ea-8b08-6ddcf202df60}{Colleges
  Closing}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/20/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?name=styln-coronavirus-markets\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=LegacyCollection\&impression_id=d33e7a50-e399-11ea-8b08-6ddcf202df60}{Economy}
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{disney-to-allow-virus-testing-at-florida-resort}{%
\section{Disney to Allow Virus Testing at Florida
Resort}\label{disney-to-allow-virus-testing-at-florida-resort}}

Last Updated

Aug. 12, 2020, 10:02 p.m. ET

Aug. 12, 2020, 10:02 p.m. ET

\hypertarget{heres-what-you-need-to-know}{%
\subsubsection{Here's what you need to
know:}\label{heres-what-you-need-to-know}}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{disney-will-allow-virus-testing-at-its-florida-resort}{}

  Disney will allow virus testing at its Florida resort.
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{lyfts-revenue-falls-61-percent-as-customers-take-fewer-rides}{}

  Lyft's revenue falls 61 percent as customers take fewer rides.
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{the-us-deficit-ballooned-to-2-8-trillion-in-july-but-the-monthly-gap-fell}{}

  The U.S. deficit ballooned to \$2.8 trillion in July, but the monthly
  gap fell.
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{want-the-economy-to-rebound-wear-a-mask-federal-reserve-official-says}{}

  Want the economy to rebound? Wear a mask, Federal Reserve official
  says.
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{tencent-says-trumps-order-against-wechat-wont-affect-its-other-us-business}{}

  Tencent says Trump's order against WeChat won't affect its other U.S.
  business.
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{britains-recession-is-worse-than-in-europe-and-north-america}{}

  Britain's recession is worse than in Europe and North America.
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{disney-will-allow-virus-testing-at-its-florida-resort}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{disney-will-allow-virus-testing-at-its-florida-resort}{Disney
will allow virus testing at its Florida
resort.}}{Disney will allow virus testing at its Florida resort.}}\label{disney-will-allow-virus-testing-at-its-florida-resort}}

Copied to clipboard.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/12/business/12markets-brf-disney/merlin_174472326_2654c21a-41df-4f57-aa5e-1216784df180-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

A standoff between the \textbf{Walt Disney Company} and a union over the
company's handling of coronavirus testing at Walt Disney World in
Florida was resolved on Wednesday, according to the Actors' Equity
Association, which represents roughly 700 actors, dancers and stunt
workers at the theme park complex.

``I'm happy to announce that Equity's executive committee has signed a
memorandum of understanding with Disney for Equity performers to
return,'' Kate Shindle, president of Actors' Equity, said in a
statement.

The union had been sparring with Disney World over coronavirus testing
since late June, when the mega-resort started to call back
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/12/business/disney-furloughs-coronavirus.html}{43,000
furloughed workers}, who are represented by a number of unions, in
preparation for a
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/08/business/coronavirus-disney-world-reopening.html}{phased
reopening} that started on July 11. Actors' Equity, noting that its
members worked in jobs where they were unable to wear masks or stay six
feet from one another, demanded that Disney provide regular tests.
Disney declined, citing other safety measures, and announced on July 7
that its parks would reopen without Equity members. The union
\href{https://www.actorsequity.org/news/PR/DisneyGrievance/}{filed a
grievance} against Disney on July 9 for ``retaliation.''

Disney has not changed its stance on providing employee testing.
However, the union appeared to be satisfied with an offer that Disney
made to the Florida Division of Emergency Management to operate a public
testing facility on its property. Any Florida resident
\href{https://doineedacovid19test.com/Kissimmee_FL_1147.html}{can get a
test for free}, with a three-to-five-day turnaround for results. Disney
is allowing the government to use vacant office space known as Maingate
in the southwest corner of the 25,000-acre resort --- relatively far
away from the actual entrances of any Disney World park or hotel.

``We have offered the location to help with community testing, and any
suggestion that this has been done as a result of any one union is
unfounded,'' Disney said in a statement. ``Our actions support all cast
and our community at large.'' (Disney refers to park workers as ``cast
members.'')

The testing site will open to the public on Friday. Disney employees and
their immediate families \href{https://disneycovid19test.com/}{can get
in} starting on Thursday.

Disney declined to comment about when --- or if --- it would recall
Actors' Equity performers. Some shows at Disney World have not been
running as a result of their absence, including the popular ``Festival
of the Lion King'' at Disney's Animal Kingdom. In other instances,
Disney has reworked its entertainment offerings to avoid using Actors'
Equity performers.

--- \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/brooks-barnes}{Brooks
Barnes}

\hypertarget{rally-in-tech-stocks-leads-wall-street-higher}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{rally-in-tech-stocks-leads-wall-street-higher}{Rally
in tech stocks leads Wall Street
higher.}}{Rally in tech stocks leads Wall Street higher.}}\label{rally-in-tech-stocks-leads-wall-street-higher}}

Copied to clipboard.

Stocks rallied on Wednesday, with Wall Street coming ever closer to a
high that would seem to defy dire predictions of the economic damage
brought by the coronavirus pandemic.

The S\&P 500 rose nearly 1.5 percent, its biggest daily gain in weeks
and one that left it just six points short of a record of 3,386.15,
reached in February before the fast-spreading virus set off an enormous
decline in stock prices.

The index is up about 50 percent from its lowest point this year, gains
that have been fueled by a number of factors, including government
spending to prop up the economy and a rally in shares of big technology
companies.

Technology stocks again drove the rally on Wednesday, with the Nasdaq
composite jumping more than 2 percent and the information technology
sector of the S\&P 500 the best performing corner of the market.

Companies such as \textbf{Apple}, \textbf{Amazon} and \textbf{Microsoft}
have attracted investors despite the deep economic downturn in the
United States, with buyers betting that those companies are poised to
thrive in a stay-at-home economy and emerge from the crisis in an even
stronger competitive position.

Still, the march higher has also meant that investors have looked past a
number of risks that lie ahead. Most prominent among them this week is
the inability of lawmakers in Washington to reach any consensus about
another economic aid package. On Tuesday, stocks reversed their gains
after the Senate majority leader, Mitch McConnell, said that talks over
a new plan for unemployment benefits and other spending had ``stalled.''

The cost of the pandemic was on display in
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/12/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus/britains-lockdown-recession-is-the-deepest-in-europe-and-north-america}{Britain},
where the government released data showing the economy shrank by more
than 20 percent in the April to June quarter, when the economy was in
the grips of a lockdown to curb the virus's spread. That was not only
the steepest fall on record for Britain, but the worst second-quarter
collapse among European and North American countries.

--- Mohammed Hadi and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/matt-phillips}{Matt
Phillips}

\hypertarget{advertisement}{%
\subsubsection{Advertisement}\label{advertisement}}

\protect\hyperlink{after-dfp-ad-mid1}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{lyfts-revenue-falls-61-percent-as-customers-take-fewer-rides}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{lyfts-revenue-falls-61-percent-as-customers-take-fewer-rides}{Lyft's
revenue falls 61 percent as customers take fewer
rides.}}{Lyft's revenue falls 61 percent as customers take fewer rides.}}\label{lyfts-revenue-falls-61-percent-as-customers-take-fewer-rides}}

Copied to clipboard.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/12/business/12markets-brf-lyft/merlin_172035141_0d71b632-61c1-4578-a65b-9cb9d84f932b-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

The coronavirus pandemic has wiped out business for \textbf{Lyft}, which
said Wednesday in an earnings report that its second-quarter revenue was
down 61 percent from a year ago, to \$339.3 million. Its net loss was
\$437.1 million.

Travel restrictions and stay-at-home orders have dented the ride-hailing
industry, as passengers have avoided commutes, airport trips and social
events. Ridership was down 60 percent in the quarter than ended June 30
from the same period a year ago, Lyft said. In an
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/06/technology/uber-ride-hailing-delivery-coronavirus.html}{earnings
report} last week, Uber said its rides were also down 50 percent to 85
percent in many major U.S. cities.

Uber has accelerated its food delivery services to offset the impact of
the pandemic, but Lyft has remained focused on transportation. Despite
its losses, Lyft exceeded Wall Street expectations for the quarter,
sending its stock up more than 2 percent in after-hours trading.

--- \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/kate-conger}{Kate
Conger}

\hypertarget{the-us-deficit-ballooned-to-28-trillion-in-july-but-the-monthly-gap-fell}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{the-us-deficit-ballooned-to-2-8-trillion-in-july-but-the-monthly-gap-fell}{The
U.S. deficit ballooned to \$2.8 trillion in July, but the monthly gap
fell.}}{The U.S. deficit ballooned to \$2.8 trillion in July, but the monthly gap fell.}}\label{the-us-deficit-ballooned-to-28-trillion-in-july-but-the-monthly-gap-fell}}

Copied to clipboard.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/12/business/12markets-brf-deficit/merlin_174193032_38a3045b-afaf-42f8-b444-937430738369-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

The United States budget deficit grew to a record \$2.8 trillion for the
fiscal year to date as the federal government continued to pump money
into an economy coping with the coronavirus pandemic, the Treasury
Department said on Wednesday.

The monthly shortfall of \$63 billion for July was an improvement from
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/13/us/politics/budget-deficit-coronavirus.html}{the
prior month}, however, as tax payments that were delayed from April came
in and as government loans that were being supported through the \$660
billion Paycheck Protection Program slowed.

The ballooning deficit comes as Congress
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/11/us/politics/congress-coronavirus-relief-bill.html}{continues
to debate} another round of fiscal stimulus on top of the \$2.2 trillion
in economic relief that was approved in March. Republican lawmakers have
begun expressing concern about the size of the deficit --- which is the
gap between what the U.S. spends and what it takes in --- and have cited
that as a reason to slow future spending. But many economists say the
United States should be running a large deficit now, as millions remain
out of work and business activity remains depressed.

The Federal Reserve chair, Jerome H. Powell, has also cautioned that now
is ``not the time'' to act on concerns about the deficit.

Much of the spending in July came from the Department of Health and
Human Services and the Department of Labor, which has been paying out
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/07/24/business/economy/600-unemployment-benefits.html}{an
additional \$600 per week} in supplemental unemployment insurance
benefits. That extra money expired at the end of July.

Government receipts for the month were \$563 billion, up sharply from
the same month the previous year as tax dollars began to flow into the
Treasury. The Trump administration had delayed Tax Day by three months
to July 15 to help workers hit by the pandemic.

For the fiscal year, tax receipts are down by just 1 percent compared
with 2019.

Lawmakers in Congress and the Trump administration have been locked in
negotiations over how much to spend on another relief package as the
existing programs run dry. The White House and Republicans are willing
to spend slightly more than \$1 trillion while Democrats want to spend
more than \$3 trillion.

Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin said in an interview on the Fox
Business Network on Wednesday that about 20 percent of U.S. gross
domestic product has been pumped into the economy this year through
support measures and that it was important to be mindful about piling on
substantially more debt.

--- \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/alan-rappeport}{Alan
Rappeport}

\hypertarget{want-the-economy-to-rebound-wear-a-mask-federal-reserve-official-says}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{want-the-economy-to-rebound-wear-a-mask-federal-reserve-official-says}{Want
the economy to rebound? Wear a mask, Federal Reserve official
says.}}{Want the economy to rebound? Wear a mask, Federal Reserve official says.}}\label{want-the-economy-to-rebound-wear-a-mask-federal-reserve-official-says}}

Copied to clipboard.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/12/business/12markets-brf-fed/merlin_165028224_a536fb5f-10d1-4d26-a5d5-a0ed10e0c2a5-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

A Federal Reserve regional bank president warned that the country's
inability to control the spread of coronavirus is undermining its
economic rebound and risks delaying the return of full employment, as
nervous consumers stay home to avoid getting infected.

``We must get the virus under control in order for a sustainable
economic recovery to take hold,'' Eric Rosengren, president of the
\textbf{Federal Reserve Bank of Boston}, said on Wednesday. He added
later that ``states lifted protective measures too soon and in a manner
not calibrated for the true risks posed by the virus.''

Mr. Rosengren said that ``common sense precautions --- such as wearing
masks when around other people, maintaining safe social distance and
avoiding crowded indoor settings --- are much less costly than having to
shut down whole sectors of the economy again.'' It was important for
Americans to take such steps ``to avoid more tragic outcomes along with
further economic pain,'' he said.

Mr. Rosengren said that real-time data suggest the recovery may be
``losing steam,''
\href{https://www.rev.com/blog/transcripts/jerome-powell-fed-press-conference-speech-transcript-july-29}{echoing
remarks}the Fed chair, Jerome H. Powell, made at a news conference in
late July, when he suggested that a resurgence in virus cases might be
slowing the rebound.

The Boston Fed chief, whose central bank branch is running the Fed's
Main Street loan program for midsize businesses, said that the
government's program to provide funding to those companies will be
useful in the fall if activity slows and credit conditions worsen. Some
have
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/07/business/economy/federal-reserve-main-street-lending.html}{called
the program a failure} because it has supported relatively few loans so
far.

Mr. Rosengren said he ``completely'' disagrees with that assessment.

``The program can serve as a vital bridge to address cash-flow
interruption ushered in by the pandemic,'' Mr. Rosengren said, noting
that ``as borrowers and banks have become more familiar with the
program, we have seen a steady increase in banks submitting loans to our
portal.''

The program now has \$856 million in loans in some stage of the approval
process, he said, a pickup from the program's slow start, but still a
fraction of its \$600 billion capacity.

--- \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/jeanna-smialek}{Jeanna
Smialek}

\hypertarget{advertisement-1}{%
\subsubsection{Advertisement}\label{advertisement-1}}

\protect\hyperlink{after-dfp-ad-mid2}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{tencent-says-trumps-order-against-wechat-wont-affect-its-other-us-business}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{tencent-says-trumps-order-against-wechat-wont-affect-its-other-us-business}{Tencent
says Trump's order against WeChat won't affect its other U.S.
business.}}{Tencent says Trump's order against WeChat won't affect its other U.S. business.}}\label{tencent-says-trumps-order-against-wechat-wont-affect-its-other-us-business}}

Copied to clipboard.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/12/business/12markets-brf-tencent/merlin_175414410_e94301a9-febb-4c1a-ad15-d5c38aa3bcba-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

The Chinese internet giant \textbf{Tencent} on Wednesday said it
believed that
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/07/business/economy/trump-executive-order-tiktok-wechat.html}{President
Trump's recent executive order} targeting its messaging app
\textbf{WeChat} would not affect its other businesses in the United
States.

Tencent reported Wednesday that net profit
\href{https://cdc-tencent-com-1258344706.image.myqcloud.com/uploads/2020/08/12/00e999c23314aa085c0b48c533d4d393.pdf}{rose
37 percent} for the second quarter. Revenue from online games jumped 40
percent as the pandemic lockdowns kept people indoors.

The Aug. 6 order from the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/06/technology/trump-wechat-tiktok-china.html}{White
House}prohibits Americans from making transactions with Tencent that are
``related to WeChat'' starting late next month. But it does not specify
which transactions, saying only that the secretary of commerce would
identify them later.

The order sent Tencent's shares tumbling last week. In the United
States, the company has a sprawling but low-profile presence that
includes the video game, entertainment and tech industries.

``Based on our initial reading and subsequent press reports, the
executive order is focused on WeChat in the United States and not our
other businesses in the U.S.,'' John Lo, Tencent's chief financial
officer, said in a call with analysts. ``We are in the process of
seeking further clarification from relevant parties in the U.S.''

A ban on WeChat in the United States would cut off a key tool used
by\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/07/business/trump-china-wechat-tiktok.html}{Chinese
living abroad} to chat, swap videos and memes, and read the news. But
its financial impact on Tencent would be less significant, the company's
chief strategy officer, James Mitchell, said on Wednesday's call.

The United States represents less than 2 percent of Tencent's global
revenue, Mr. Mitchell said. He also said that Tencent did not believe
that the White House order prevented American companies from advertising
on the company's platforms in China. The order, he said, specifies that
it only affects transactions that are subject to the jurisdiction of the
United States.

--- \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/raymond-zhong}{Raymond
Zhong}

\hypertarget{britains-recession-is-worse-than-in-europe-and-north-america}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{britains-recession-is-worse-than-in-europe-and-north-america}{Britain's
recession is worse than in Europe and North
America.}}{Britain's recession is worse than in Europe and North America.}}\label{britains-recession-is-worse-than-in-europe-and-north-america}}

Copied to clipboard.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/12/world/12markets-brf-ukecon/merlin_174872742_e80d943d-a433-4056-a8d1-b11c8e7090da-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

The British economy sunk into its deepest recession on record in the
second quarter, taking it back to the size it was in 2003. Official
statistics showed
\href{https://www.ons.gov.uk/economy/grossdomesticproductgdp/bulletins/gdpfirstquarterlyestimateuk/apriltojune2020}{gross
domestic product dropped by 20.4 percent} between April and June,
compared with the previous quarter.

The pandemic-induced collapse was harsher in Britain than other large
economies in Europe and North America. The second-quarter fall in
economic output was twice as deep in Britain as in the United States.

Britain has the challenge of getting out of a much deeper hole because
of the length of the lockdown imposed to restrict the spread of the
coronavirus. The Office for National Statistics said lockdown measures
were in place in Britain for a larger part of this three-month period
than they were for other economies. Britain was relatively slow in
introducing a national lockdown
\href{https://www.politico.eu/article/europes-coronavirus-lockdown-measures-compared/}{compared
with most of its European neighbors}. It started in earnest in late
March and the government didn't begin lifting the broadest restrictions
until mid-June. Its lockdowns also affected a greater share of the
population for a longer period of time than the state-by-state shutdowns
in the United States.

A monthly breakdown showed
\href{https://www.ons.gov.uk/economy/grossdomesticproductgdp/bulletins/gdpmonthlyestimateuk/june2020}{the
British economy did pick up in June}, climbing 8.7 percent from May as
construction activity resumed and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/07/24/business/stock-market-updates-coronavirus\#british-retail-sales-see-a-v-shaped-recovery-but-it-may-not-last}{consumer
spending rebounded.} Still, the Bank of England said last week it didn't
expect the recovery to be
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/06/business/britains-economy-wont-fully-recover-till-end-of-2021-its-central-bankers-said.html}{complete
until the end of 2021}.

In an effort to keep the recovery from stalling, the government is
encouraging people to return to work in offices and it is planning for
schools to reopen next month. The Treasury also spent more than 53
million pounds (\$69 million) last week as part of a stimulus plan
paying for discounts for meals eaten in restaurants and pubs on Mondays,
Tuesdays and Wednesdays this month.

--- \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/eshe-nelson}{Eshe
Nelson}

\hypertarget{britain-is-paying-the-cost-for-a-late-and-long-lockdown}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{britain-is-paying-the-cost-for-a-late-and-long-lockdown}{Britain
is paying the cost for a late and long
lockdown.}}{Britain is paying the cost for a late and long lockdown.}}\label{britain-is-paying-the-cost-for-a-late-and-long-lockdown}}

Copied to clipboard.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/12/business/12markets-brf-uklockdown/merlin_175146618_ee0da17c-349c-4d29-b71b-3abc7da254d9-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

The cost of Britain's late and long lockdown in response to the pandemic
is
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/12/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus\#britains-lockdown-recession-is-the-deepest-in-europe-and-north-america}{an
economic recession deeper than any other} reported by a European and
North American country in the second quarter.

The British economy contracted by a fifth in the second quarter,
compared with the first three months of the year. It's the deepest
recession since the government started keeping such records, in 1955.

Some of the severity of Britain's recession can be explained by the
economy's high dependence on consumer spending, which was brought to a
near-standstill by the closure of shops, restaurants, and places like
movie theaters and hotels, according to Samuel Tombs, an economist at
Pantheon Macroeconomics.

But it was the government's slow response to the pandemic in March which
led to a longer lockdown in the second quarter, that was ``at the root
of the economy's underperformance,'' he wrote in a research note.

The nationwide lockdown began in late March and only started to be
lifted in mid-June.

By starting later --- Britain's pubs and restaurants were open a week or
more longer than those in other European countries --- the virus had
more time to spread around the country, and so the lockdown needed to be
tighter and last longer.
An\href{https://www.bsg.ox.ac.uk/research/research-projects/coronavirus-government-response-tracker}{Oxford
University index on the strictness of government responses}, including
school and workplace closures and travel bans, showed that Britain's
lockdown was more strict in the second quarter than in Italy, Germany,
Spain and the United States.

--- \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/eshe-nelson}{Eshe
Nelson}

\hypertarget{advertisement-2}{%
\subsubsection{Advertisement}\label{advertisement-2}}

\protect\hyperlink{after-dfp-ad-mid3}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{brooks-brothers-to-be-acquired-for-325-million}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{brooks-brothers-to-be-acquired-for-325-million}{Brooks
Brothers to be acquired for \$325
million.}}{Brooks Brothers to be acquired for \$325 million.}}\label{brooks-brothers-to-be-acquired-for-325-million}}

Copied to clipboard.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/12/world/12markets-brf-brooksbros/merlin_173047131_2fbf0276-5b2d-4997-8c2f-ce29d447f17f-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

A venture backed by the owner of \textbf{Barneys New York} has won a bid
to buy
\textbf{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/08/business/brooks-brothers-chapter-11-bankruptcy.html}{Brooks
Brothers}}, America's oldest apparel company, for \$325 million.

\textbf{Sparc Group}, a venture including \textbf{Authentic Brands}, the
new owner of
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/11/01/business/barneys-bankruptcy-authentic-brands.html}{Barneys},
and \textbf{Simon Property}, the biggest mall operator in the United
States, will save at least 125 Brooks Brothers stores as part of the
agreement. Brooks Brothers, a 200-year-old men's wear retailer, filed
for bankruptcy protection last month. It has struggled with declining
sales in recent years as many in the corporate world have opted for a
more casual look.

The brand was among several high-profile retailers, including
\textbf{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/15/business/jc-penney-bankruptcy-coronavirus.html}{J.C.
Penney}}, \textbf{Neiman Marcus} and \textbf{J. Crew}, whose businesses
were unable to weather the sales slump resulting from the coronavirus
pandemic.

A court hearing to approve the sale is scheduled for Friday, Brooks
Brothers in a statement on Tuesday, and the deal is expected to be
completed by the end of this month.

Authentic and Simon initially made a ``stalking horse'' offer of \$305
million, setting a price floor for bids in the bankruptcy auction.

--- Elaine Yu

\hypertarget{more-news-united-plans-new-winter-flights-to-florida}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{more-news-united-plans-new-winter-flights-to-florida}{More
News: United plans new winter flights to
Florida.}}{More News: United plans new winter flights to Florida.}}\label{more-news-united-plans-new-winter-flights-to-florida}}

Copied to clipboard.

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \textbf{United Airlines} said on Wednesday that it planned to add
  direct flights to Florida from seven U.S. cities this winter. Flights
  from Boston, New York and Cleveland are planned starting in November,
  with routes from Indianapolis, Milwaukee, Pittsburgh and Columbus,
  Ohio, to be added in December, though United noted that the plans were
  ``subject to change.'' Massachusetts and New York currently require,
  and several other states recommend, those returning from Florida to
  quarantine for two weeks.
\item
  \textbf{Tesla} shares rose Wednesday after the company announced that
  its board had approved a five-for-one split in its soaring stock. The
  company's share price has shot up more than 500 percent over the last
  year, making
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/11/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus\#states-and-companies-are-confused-by-the-unemployment-and-tax-holiday-declarations}{Tesla}
  one of the most highly valued car companies in the world, even though
  it sells far fewer vehicles than its industry peers.
\item
  The corporate restructuring at \textbf{WarnerMedia} continued with
  layoffs in its \textbf{DC Entertainment} division, home of DC Comics
  and the DC Universe streaming platform, part of an overhaul that will
  reduce head count by 600. Nearly 50 people at DC Comics were laid off,
  said two people with knowledge of the decision who spoke on condition
  of anonymity because it had not been announced publicly. DC Direct,
  the company's division devoted to collectibles, will be shuttered in
  November, these people said. The move comes after the
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/07/business/media/hbo-warnermedia-executive-departure.html}{ouster
  of three top executives} on Friday in a shake-up by WarnerMedia's new
  chief executive,
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/01/business/media/warner-media-jason-kilar-john-stankey.html}{Jason
  Kilar}, who is realigning the company to put a greater focus on
  \textbf{HBO Max}, its
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/26/business/media/hbo-max-netflix-streaming.html}{new
  streaming service}. WarnerMedia, a division of \textbf{AT\&T,} began a
  significant round of layoffs on Monday.
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{sumner-redstone-who-built-a-media-empire-dies-at-97}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{sumner-redstone-who-built-a-media-empire-dies-at-97}{Sumner
Redstone, who built a media empire, dies at
97.}}{Sumner Redstone, who built a media empire, dies at 97.}}\label{sumner-redstone-who-built-a-media-empire-dies-at-97}}

Copied to clipboard.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/12/business/00sharisumner-1/00sharisumner-1-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Sumner M. Redstone, the billionaire entrepreneur who saw business as
combat and his advancing years as no obstacle in building a media empire
that encompassed \textbf{CBS} and \textbf{Viacom},
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/12/obituaries/sumner-redstone-dead.html}{died
on Tuesday}. He was 97.

His death was announced in a statement from \textbf{National
Amusements}, the private theater chain company founded by his father.

Mr. Redstone had vowed never to give up the reins of his sprawling
conglomerate, but in February 2016 he stepped away from managing it, and
his daughter, Shari E. Redstone, with whom he had a contentious
relationship, took control of day-to-day affairs.

Beginning with a modest chain of drive-in movie theaters, Mr. Redstone
negotiated, sued and otherwise fought to amass holdings that over time
included CBS, the \textbf{Paramount} film and television studios, the
publisher \textbf{Simon \& Schuster}, the video retail giant
\textbf{Blockbuster} and a host of cable channels, including
\textbf{MTV}, \textbf{Comedy Central} and \textbf{Nickelodeon}. At their
peak, the businesses he controlled were worth more than \$80 billion.

Toward the end of his life, he controlled about 80 percent of the voting
stock in Viacom and CBS, presiding over both through National
Amusements. And almost to the end, his grip was tight and his enthusiasm
undiminished.

--- Jonathan Kandell

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
