Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}Facebook Removes Trump Ads
Displaying Symbol Used by Nazis

\url{https://nyti.ms/3hAAUVz}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/09/us/trump-vs-biden?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Election
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/09/08/us/elections/results-new-hampshire-primary-elections.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{New
  Hampshire Results}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/election-states-biden-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Paths
  to 270}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/31/us/politics/vote-by-mail-deadlines.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Voting
  by Mail}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/us/elections/2020-presidential-election-calendar.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Key
  Dates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Politics
  Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{facebook-removes-trump-ads-displaying-symbol-used-by-nazis}{%
\section{Facebook Removes Trump Ads Displaying Symbol Used by
Nazis}\label{facebook-removes-trump-ads-displaying-symbol-used-by-nazis}}

Nazis used a red triangle to classify political prisoners during World
War II. The Trump campaign said the red triangle in its Facebook ads was
associated with antifa, a claim experts rejected.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/06/18/us/politics/18TRUMP-REDTRIANGLE/merlin_173635575_c8465a68-3717-4d79-96b0-34f5356891c1-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/annie-karni}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2019/02/05/multimedia/author-annie-karni/author-annie-karni-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/annie-karni}{Annie Karni}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Published June 18, 2020Updated June 30, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

WASHINGTON ---
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/30/us/politics/brad-parscale-trump.html}{Facebook}
on Thursday removed advertisements posted on its platform by the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/30/us/politics/brad-parscale-trump.html}{Trump}
campaign that prominently featured a symbol used by Nazis to classify
political prisoners during World War II, saying the imagery violated
company policy.

The Trump campaign had used the ads, with a picture of a large red
triangle, to inveigh against antifa, a loose collective of anti-fascist
protesters that President Trump has blamed for violence and vandalism
during the nationwide protests against racial injustice.
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/11/us/antifa-protests-george-floyd.html}{There
is scant evidence} that antifa has been involved in any coordinated
campaigns during the demonstrations.

``Dangerous MOBS of far-left groups are running through our streets and
causing absolute mayhem,'' the campaign's Facebook
\href{https://www.mediamatters.org/facebook/facebook-let-trump-campaign-run-ads-inverted-red-triangle-infamous-nazi-symbol}{ads
said}. Beneath the text was the red triangle, a symbol that Nazis used
to identify Communists and other political prisoners in concentration
camps, just as they used a pink triangle to identify people they labeled
as homosexual.

It was not clear if the Trump campaign was familiar with the origin of
the symbol, which was reclaimed after World War II by some anti-fascists
in Britain and Germany, in the same way that various political groups
over the years have reclaimed words and symbols used to oppress them.

``We removed these posts and ads for violating our policy against
organized hate,'' Facebook said in a statement. ``Our policy prohibits
using a banned hate group's symbol to identify political prisoners
without the context that condemns or discusses the symbol.''

Before their removal, however, the advertisements gained more than a
million impressions across the Facebook pages of Mr. Trump and Vice
President Mike Pence. They began running on Facebook on Wednesday and
\href{https://twitter.com/JohnBuysse/status/1273291676912701441}{were
flagged by a journalist} for Fortune magazine on Thursday.

Tim Murtaugh, the Trump campaign's communications director, defended the
advertisements. ``The red triangle is a common Antifa symbol used in an
ad about Antifa,'' he wrote in an email. ``Pretty straightforward.''

He also said that a similar red triangle was a standard emoji, and
provided links to merchandise for sale online, like water bottles and
phone cases, decorated with symbols described by the sellers as
``anti-fascist red triangles.''

Mr. Murtaugh noted that the red triangle was not listed in the database
of hate symbols maintained by the Anti-Defamation League.

But the Anti-Defamation League said its database is not used to keep
track of historical Nazi symbols, and only lists symbols commonly used
by modern extremists and white supremacists in the United States. The
group denounced the Trump campaign for using the image.

``Whether aware of the history or meaning, for the Trump campaign to use
a symbol --- one which is practically identical to that used by the Nazi
regime to classify political prisoners in concentration camps --- to
attack his opponents is offensive and deeply troubling,'' said Jonathan
Greenblatt, the chief executive of the Anti-Defamation League. ``It is
not difficult for one to criticize their political opponent without
using Nazi-era imagery. We implore the Trump campaign to take greater
caution and familiarize themselves with the historical context before
doing so.''

The Auschwitz-Birkenau State Museum also
\href{https://twitter.com/AuschwitzMuseum/status/1273668340729499650}{weighed
in on Twitter}, noting that the red triangle was ``the most common
category of prisoners registered at the German Nazi \#Auschwitz camp.''

Mark Bray, a historian at Rutgers and the author of ``Antifa: The
Anti-Fascist Handbook,'' said that ``the origin of the symbol is
universally agreed to be with the Nazis and the concentration camps.''
He added that the red triangle was not part of the symbolism of antifa
in the United States.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/2020-election}{Election
2020 â€º}

\hypertarget{live-updates}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/09/us/trump-vs-biden}{Live
Updates}}{Live Updates}}\label{live-updates}}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/09/us/trump-vs-biden\#most-voters-say-trump-did-a-bad-job-on-the-virus-and-doubt-he-can-help-the-country-recover-a-poll-finds}{}

Sept. 9, 2020, 1:15 p.m. ET

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/09/us/trump-vs-biden\#most-voters-say-trump-did-a-bad-job-on-the-virus-and-doubt-he-can-help-the-country-recover-a-poll-finds}{Most
voters say Trump did a bad job on the virus and doubt he can help the
country recover, a poll
finds.}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/09/us/trump-vs-biden\#the-nih-director-knocks-down-trumps-prediction-that-a-virus-vaccine-will-be-approved-by-election-day}{}

Sept. 9, 2020, 1:12 p.m. ET

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/09/us/trump-vs-biden\#the-nih-director-knocks-down-trumps-prediction-that-a-virus-vaccine-will-be-approved-by-election-day}{The
N.I.H. director knocks down Trump's prediction that a virus vaccine will
be approved by Election
Day.}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/09/us/trump-vs-biden\#biden-ad-looks-to-keep-focus-on-trumps-reported-remarks-disparaging-american-soldiers}{}

Sept. 9, 2020, 12:49 p.m. ET

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/09/us/trump-vs-biden\#biden-ad-looks-to-keep-focus-on-trumps-reported-remarks-disparaging-american-soldiers}{Biden
ad looks to keep focus on Trump's reported remarks disparaging American
soldiers.}

The fact that the triangle has been reclaimed by some anti-fascists, Mr.
Bray said, does not give the Trump campaign license to use the same
symbol to attack antifa. ``This is a symbol that represented the
extermination of leftists,'' he said. ``It is a death threat against
leftists. There's no way around what that means historically.''

Facebook has removed Trump campaign ads in the past, for different
reasons. In March, for instance,
\href{https://www.bbc.com/news/world-us-canada-51730185}{the company
took down} a number of posts that contained misleading information about
the U.S. census, which violated Facebook's rules.

But the company and its chief executive, Mark Zuckerberg, have also been
adamant that Facebook will not police the veracity of political ads or
posts by political leaders like Mr. Trump. That policy has received
blowback internally from employees
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/01/technology/facebook-employee-protest-trump.html}{who
staged a virtual ``walkout'' this month} when the company did not take
down some of Mr. Trump's posts, which contained what many critics saw as
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/29/technology/twitter-facebook-zuckerberg-trump.html}{incitements
to violence and voter disenfranchisement}.

Facebook's policy stood in contrast to Twitter, which has added warning
labels to some of Mr. Trump's most incendiary tweets. Twitter
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/10/30/technology/twitter-political-ads-ban.html}{has
also stopped accepting political advertising}, citing the potential for
disinformation.

On Thursday,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/18/technology/trump-tweet-baby-manipulated.html}{Twitter
added a ``manipulated media'' warning} to one of Mr. Trump's tweets that
featured a video about a supposed ``racist baby'' that had been altered
to appear as if CNN had broadcast it.

Mr. Trump and his campaign have often charged forward with little regard
for the impact of hateful symbols in their messaging, leaving critics
with the impression that they are posting purposefully incendiary and
racist content online.

In 2016, Mr. Trump
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2016/07/03/us/politics/trump-clinton-star-of-david.html}{tweeted
and then deleted} an image of Hillary Clinton's face with \$100 bills in
the background and a six-pointed Star of David, the symbol that Nazis
forced Jews to wear on their clothing. At the time, Mr. Trump defended
himself by saying that the star was the shape of a sheriff's badge.

Randal Pinkett, who was the first African-American winner of Mr. Trump's
reality TV show ``The Apprentice,'' said Mr. Trump had lost the benefit
of the doubt. ``When you're already perceived or painted as a racist,
everything you do that is insensitive only adds to the narrative that
you're a racist,'' he said.

Last week, the president postponed a planned campaign rally in Tulsa,
Okla., that had been scheduled for Friday, which is the holiday
Juneteenth. He and his top aides
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/18/us/politics/trump-rally-tulsa-juneteenth.html}{said
they did not realize the significance} of holding the rally on a holiday
that commemorates the end of slavery in America, in a city that was the
site of one of the country's most violent racist episodes. The event was
pushed to Saturday.

Nick Corasaniti contributed reporting from New York, and Mike Isaac from
San Francisco.

\hypertarget{our-2020-election-guide}{%
\section{Our 2020 Election Guide}\label{our-2020-election-guide}}

Updated ~Sept. 9, 2020

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

\begin{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{the-latest}{%
  \subsection{The Latest}\label{the-latest}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Joe Biden heads today to Michigan, a battleground state where
    President Trump has resumed advertising ahead of a visit there on
    Thursday.
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/09/us/trump-vs-biden?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Read
    live updates}.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{how-to-win-270}{%
  \subsection{How to Win 270}\label{how-to-win-270}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Joe Biden and Donald Trump need 270 electoral votes to reach the
    White House. Try building
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/election-states-biden-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{your
    own coalition of battleground states}~to see potential outcomes.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{voting-by-mail}{%
  \subsection{Voting by Mail}\label{voting-by-mail}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Will you have enough time to vote by mail in your state? Yes, but
    it's risky to procrastinate.
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/31/us/politics/vote-by-mail-deadlines.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Check
    your state's deadline.}
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/joe-biden.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{}

    \hypertarget{joe-biden}{%
    \section{Joe Biden}\label{joe-biden}}

    \hypertarget{democrat}{%
    \subsection{Democrat}\label{democrat}}

    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/donald-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{}

    \hypertarget{donald-trump}{%
    \section{Donald Trump}\label{donald-trump}}

    \hypertarget{republican}{%
    \subsection{Republican}\label{republican}}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \hypertarget{keep-up-with-our-coverage}{%
  \subsection{Keep Up With Our
  Coverage}\label{keep-up-with-our-coverage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Get an
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{email}~recapping
    the day's news
  \item
    Download our mobile app on
    \href{https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nytimes/id284862083?ls=1\&mat_click_id=5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\&referrer=mat_click_id\%3D5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\%26link_click_id\%3D722930677036718082}{iOS}~and
    \href{http://a.localytics.com/android?id=com.nytimes.android\&referrer=utm_source\%3Dother_nyt_mobile_web\%26utm_medium\%3DWeb\%2520page\%26utm_term\%3DGeneral\%2520Mobile\%2520Page\%26utm_campaign\%3DNYT\%2520Mobile\%2520General\%2520Page}{Android}~and
    turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{Â©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
