Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}John Hickenlooper, Ending
Presidential Bid, Will Give Senate `Serious Thought'

\url{https://nyti.ms/31EwvYQ}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Election
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/biden-vice-president-2020.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Biden's
  V.P. Search}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/07/24/us/politics/trump-biden-campaign-donors.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Map
  of Donations}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/elections/delegate-count-primary-results.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Delegate
  Count}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2019/us/politics/2020-presidential-candidates.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{The
  Candidates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Politics
  Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{john-hickenlooper-ending-presidential-bid-will-give-senate-serious-thought}{%
\section{John Hickenlooper, Ending Presidential Bid, Will Give Senate
`Serious
Thought'}\label{john-hickenlooper-ending-presidential-bid-will-give-senate-serious-thought}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2019/08/07/us/politics/00hickenlooper-out/merlin_158180565_2861a7dc-dbf2-4478-ae69-2d508ca72faf-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/matt-stevens}{Matt Stevens} and
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/matt-flegenheimer}{Matt Flegenheimer}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Aug. 15, 2019
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

John Hickenlooper, the former Colorado governor whose low-key brand of
moderate politics made him popular in his home state but limited his
appeal in a Democratic primary filled with urgent progressive energy,
announced on Thursday that he was ending his presidential campaign.

Mr. Hickenlooper has been seriously considering a run for the
Republican-held Senate seat in Colorado that is up for election in 2020
--- a key pickup target in the Democrats' strategy to try to retake
control of the Senate.

``Today, I'm ending my campaign for president,'' he said in a videotaped
statement. ``But I will never stop believing that America can only move
forward when we work together.''

``I've heard from so many Coloradans who want me to run for the United
States Senate,'' he added. ``They remind me how much is at stake for our
country. And our state. I intend to give that some serious thought.''

Mr. Hickenlooper's White House bid never gained significant traction and
struggled so acutely that top staff members departed. He failed to break
through in the polls,
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2019/07/16/us/politics/democratic-fundraising-2020.html}{raised
less money than most of his competitors} and was all but certain to miss
the cutoff for the
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/news-event/democratic-debates}{Democratic
debates} in September.

\emph{{[}}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/08/15/us/politics/beto-orourke-2020-trump.html}{\emph{Beto
O'Rourke said Thursday that a Senate campaign would not be ``good
enough'' for this political moment}}\emph{.{]}}

\hypertarget{latest-updates-2020-election}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: 2020
Election}}{Latest Updates: 2020 Election}}\label{latest-updates-2020-election}}

Updated 2020-08-01T01:26:45.732Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-29fdff45}{Kamala
  Harris, a top vice-presidential contender, confronts double
  standards.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-13ec3d9c}{Karen
  Bass and Susan Rice are rising on Biden's vice-presidential
  shortlist.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-49e9a016}{Trump
  says Russian bounties to kill U.S. troops `never took place.'}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

A failure to qualify for the debates would have added to a growing list
of humbling moments for Mr. Hickenlooper, 67, who is also a former
Denver mayor, brewpub owner and geologist. All too often he found
himself in front of small, distracted crowds at campaign events. He was
mistaken at one point for
\href{https://twitter.com/scottdetrow/status/1143929727654289408?ref_src=twsrc\%5Etfw\%7Ctwcamp\%5Etweetembed\%7Ctwterm\%5E1143929727654289408\&ref_url=https\%3A\%2F\%2Fwww.businessinsider.com\%2Fjohn-hickenlooper-mistaken-for-a-reporter-at-the-democratic-debates-2019-6\%3Futm_source\%3Dhearst\%26utm_medium\%3Dreferral\%26utm_content\%3Dallverticals}{a
member of the news media} and at another for a different candidate.

Mr. Hickenlooper
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/08/13/us/politics/john-hickenlooper-2020-senate.html?smid=nytcore-ios-share}{had
been in discussions about withdrawing} from the presidential primary
since at least early this month and running for the Senate instead.
Colorado is a purple battleground state, and flipping the seat currently
held by Senator Cory Gardner
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/05/03/us/democrats-senate-campaign.html}{is
all but mandatory if Democrats hope to have any chance} of retaking the
Senate.

A
\href{https://www.denverpost.com/2019/08/12/john-hickenlooper-2020-senate-cory-gardner/}{recent
poll} showed Mr. Hickenlooper with more than a 50-point lead over
\href{https://ewscripps.brightspotcdn.com/26/f4/625f79044305a2f3bd9b98ce8c4f/kr-colorado-senate-dp-voter-poll-july-2019-xtabs.pdf}{the
current leading Democrats} in the race for the party's nomination for
the Senate seat;
\href{https://documentcloud.adobe.com/link/track?uri=urn:aaid:scds:US:f9273f93-44fc-411d-ab25-6e88b356e58d}{another
poll showed} him ahead of Mr. Gardner by 13 percentage points in a
head-to-head matchup. Those surveys were conducted by Democratic polling
firms.

After Mr. Hickenlooper's announcement, the advocacy group that
commissioned one of the polls urged the former governor to challenge Mr.
Gardner.

``As mayor of Denver and governor, John Hickenlooper did what was right
for Colorado, and what is right for Colorado now is for him to defeat
Cory Gardner,'' said Josh Morrow, the executive director of the group,
314 Action Fund. ``In the Senate, Gardner has pushed the far-right Trump
agenda harder than Trump himself.''

A spokesman for Mr. Gardner's Senate campaign did not respond to a
request for comment on Thursday.

Mr. Hickenlooper is one of a handful of presidential candidates,
including
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/08/15/us/politics/beto-orourke-2020-trump.html}{former
Representative Beto O'Rourke of Texas} and
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/06/26/us/politics/steve-bullock-democrats-2020.html}{Gov.
Steve Bullock of Montana}, who have been encouraged by some Democrats to
drop their bids for the White House and run for the Senate.

At first, he was largely resistant to the idea. But this month, as his
presidential campaign lurched along, Mr. Hickenlooper's
\href{https://www.cnn.com/2019/08/06/politics/hickenlooper-schumer-senate-2020/index.html}{communications
director told CNN} that the former governor had not ``closed the door to
anything.'' Senator Chuck Schumer, the minority leader, has spent months
trying to recruit Mr. Hickenlooper. And during a recent trip to Iowa,
Mr. Hickenlooper hopped into the car of Michael Bennet, Colorado's
Democratic senator and another presidential candidate, to discuss his
impending decision.

\emph{{[}Who's in? Who's out?}
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2019/us/politics/2020-presidential-candidates.html?action=click\&module=inline\&pgtype=Article}{\emph{Keep
up with the 2020 field with our candidate tracker}}\emph{.{]}}

In
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/03/04/us/john-hickenlooper-2020.html}{kicking
off his presidential campaign}, Mr. Hickenlooper pitched himself as a
unifier who could help mend what he called a ``crisis of division.'' But
in a partisan era in which many Democrats are seething with anger toward
President Trump, messages about compromise and compassion from Mr.
Hickenlooper and some of his rivals have largely fallen on deaf ears.

On policy, he sought to carve out space for himself as a moderate option
for voters during an election cycle that has seen progressive ideas
flourish. A successful entrepreneur who helped open a chain of
Midwestern pubs and restaurants, Mr. Hickenlooper
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/06/27/us/politics/john-hickenlooper-capitalism-socialism.html}{staunchly
defended capitalism and rejected socialism} --- even when it earned him
disdain.

Mr. Bennet, who served as Mr. Hickenlooper's chief of staff during his
tenure as Denver's mayor, said Thursday that Mr. Hickenlooper had
``helped shape the presidential race with his pragmatic viewpoint.''

``He provided a valuable voice in this primary, bringing the ideas and
solutions he successfully championed in Colorado to the national
debate,'' Mr. Bennet
\href{https://twitter.com/MichaelBennet/status/1162053029417377792}{said
in a tweet}.

Rick Ridder, a campaign strategist and organizer in Colorado and a
longtime friend of Mr. Hickenlooper, said the former governor had always
done well by presenting himself more as a brewery owner than a
politician --- even though he had been elected several times to serve as
one.

``The presidential campaign made John Hickenlooper look a lot more like
a politician than a brewer,'' Mr. Ridder said. ``I think he was
uncomfortable in that role.''

Mr. Ridder also said he believed that Mr. Hickenlooper's candidacy was
harmed by the rules around qualifying for the presidential debates.

``What these debates have done is accelerate the timing so a lot of
candidates don't quite have the time to find their voice,'' Mr. Ridder
said. ``John was working on trying to find his voice, and yet he was
thrown into the cauldron before he was ready.''

Mr. Hickenlooper is the second candidate to withdraw from the Democratic
presidential field since it expanded significantly in the spring;
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/07/08/us/politics/steyer-swalwell-2020.html}{Representative
Eric Swalwell of California} exited the race in July.
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2019/us/politics/2020-presidential-candidates.html}{Twenty-three
others} are still seeking the nomination.

As it turned out, the July debates would be Mr. Hickenlooper's final
opportunity to speak to millions of Americans at once. He spent much of
the evening pushing back on liberal policy ideas like
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/06/23/us/politics/2020-democrats-medicare-for-all-public-option.html}{``Medicare
for all''} and the
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/02/21/climate/green-new-deal-questions-answers.html}{Green
New Deal}. With momentum behind the more popular and progressive
candidates onstage with him, Mr. Hickenlooper at times appeared under
strain.

And yet, when it was his turn to give a brief closing statement, he
began by expressing only unbridled enthusiasm.

``What a night,'' he said. ``I've loved it.''

\hypertarget{our-2020-election-guide}{%
\section{Our 2020 Election Guide}\label{our-2020-election-guide}}

Updated July 31, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{the-latest}{%
  \subsection{The Latest}\label{the-latest}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    President Trump's assault on the Postal Service is intersecting with
    his attacks on mail-in voting.
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/politics/trump-usps-mail-delays.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Voting
    rights groups say it is a recipe for disaster.}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{bidens-vp-search}{%
  \subsection{Biden's V.P. Search}\label{bidens-vp-search}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/biden-vice-president-2020.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Here
    are 13 women} who have been under consideration to be Joe Biden's
    running mate, and why each might be chosen --- and might not be.
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{keep-up-with-our-coverage}{%
  \subsection{Keep Up With Our
  Coverage}\label{keep-up-with-our-coverage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Get an
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{email}
    recapping the day's news
  \end{itemize}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Download our mobile app on
    \href{https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nytimes/id284862083?ls=1\&mat_click_id=5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\&referrer=mat_click_id\%3D5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\%26link_click_id\%3D722930677036718082}{iOS}
    and
    \href{http://a.localytics.com/android?id=com.nytimes.android\&referrer=utm_source\%3Dother_nyt_mobile_web\%26utm_medium\%3DWeb\%2520page\%26utm_term\%3DGeneral\%2520Mobile\%2520Page\%26utm_campaign\%3DNYT\%2520Mobile\%2520General\%2520Page}{Android}
    and turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
