<div id="app">

<div id="standalone-header">

<div class="interactive-masthead NYTAppHideMasthead css-xuu3c2 e1suatyy0">

<div class="section css-133zg39 e1suatyy2">

<div class="css-eph4ug er09x8g0">

<div class="css-6n7j50">

</div>

<span class="css-1dv1kvn">Sections</span>

<div class="css-10488qs">

<span class="css-1dv1kvn">SEARCH</span>

</div>

[Skip to content](#site-content)[Skip to site index](#site-index)

</div>

<div class="css-10698na e1huz5gh0">

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div id="site-content" data-role="main">

<div class="css-v5btjw etb61u70">

<div class="css-wfjqfi etb61u71">

[Opinion](/section/opinion)

</div>

</div>

# The New York Times Editorial Board

<div class="css-1vegfwe interactive-byline-container">

<div class="interactive-byline css-103zbxs">

March 1,
2018

</div>

</div>

<div id="interactive-standalone-sharetools" class="css-wkcogx">

<div>

<div class="interactive-sharetools css-9z2bwm" data-role="toolbar" data-aria-label="Social Media Share buttons, Save button, and Comments Panel with current comment count" data-testid="share-tools">

  - 
  - 
  - 
  - 
    
    <div class="css-6n7j50">
    
    </div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

The New York Times editorial board is made up of opinion journalists who
rely on research, debate and individual expertise to reach a shared view
of important issues. The board does not speak for the newsroom or The
Times as a whole. Rather, amid the contending individual voices of Times
Opinion, it aims to provide a consistent, independent view of the world
based on time-tested institutional values. The board argues for a world
that is both free and fair, believing that societies must struggle to
reconcile these values in order to succeed. It has long supported a
liberal order of nations in which freedom and progress advance through
democracy and capitalism. But it has also sought to guard against the
excesses of those systems by promoting honest governance, civil rights,
equality of opportunity, a healthy planet and a good life for society's
most vulnerable members. Since its founding in 1896, the board has,
above all, championed what Adolph Ochs called “the free exercise of a
sound conscience,” believing that the fearless exchange of information
and ideas is the surest means of resisting tyranny and realizing human
potential.

<div id="editorialboard" class="section css-l08pwh interactive-minimal interactive-content interactive-size-medium" data-id="100000005774270">

<div class="css-17ih8de interactive-body">

<div class="editorialboard-page">

# The New York Times Editorial Board

The New York Times editorial board is made up of opinion journalists who
rely on research, debate and individual expertise to reach a shared view
of important issues. The board does not speak for the newsroom or The
Times as a whole. Rather, amid the contending individual voices of Times
Opinion, it aims to provide a consistent, independent view of the world
based on time-tested institutional values. The board argues for a world
that is both free and fair, believing that societies must struggle to
reconcile these values in order to succeed. It has long supported a
liberal order of nations in which freedom and progress advance through
democracy and capitalism. But it has also sought to guard against the
excesses of those systems by promoting honest governance, civil rights,
equality of opportunity, a healthy planet and a good life for society's
most vulnerable members. Since its founding in 1896, the board has,
above all, championed what Adolph Ochs called “the free exercise of a
sound conscience,” believing that the fearless exchange of information
and ideas is the surest means of resisting tyranny and realizing human
potential.

</div>

<div id="g-graphic" data-preview-slug="2018-03-01-nyt-editorialboard">

  - 
    
    <div id="member-0">
    
    ## Kathleen Kingsbury
    
    ### Editorial Page Editor
    
    ![](https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2020/01/12/editorial-board-page/5610fc92ee24704dfbe34ffd1d73d67323eff42c/katiekingsbury.jpg)
    
    <div class="member-bio">
    
    Kathleen Kingsbury is editorial page editor of The New York Times.
    She joined The Times in 2017 from The Boston Globe, where she served
    as managing editor for digital.
    
    Ms. Kingsbury joined The Globe’s editorial board in 2013 and later
    edited Ideas, the paper's Sunday section aimed at tackling the new
    thinking, intellectual trends and big ideas that shape our world. In
    this role, Ms. Kingsbury was also a deputy managing editor and the
    deputy editorial page editor.
    
    She was awarded the 2015 Pulitzer Prize for distinguished editorial
    writing for a series on low wages and the mistreatment of workers in
    the restaurant industry. The same eight-part series, “Service Not
    Included,” also received the Scripps Howard Foundation’s 2014 Walker
    Stone Award for editorial writing and the Burl Osborne Award for
    editorial leadership from the American Society of News Editors. She
    also edited The Globe's 2016 Pulitzer Prize-winning commentary on
    race and education.
    
    Ms. Kingsbury previously worked as a New York-based staff writer and
    Hong Kong-based foreign correspondent for Time magazine.
    
    Follow on Twitter
    [@katiekings](http://twitter.com/katiekings)
    
    </div>
    
    </div>

  - 
    
    <div id="member-1">
    
    ## Binyamin Appelbaum
    
    ### Economics and Business
    
    ![](https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2019/03/28/opinion/binya-appelbaum/binya-appelbaum-custom1-v3.jpg)
    
    <div class="member-bio">
    
    Binyamin Appelbaum joined the Times editorial board in 2019. From
    2010 to 2019, he was a Washington correspondent for The Times,
    covering the Federal Reserve and other aspects of economic policy.
    He previously worked for The Washington Post, The Boston Globe, The
    Charlotte Observer and The Florida Times-Union. A native of Boston,
    he holds a B.A. in history from the University of Pennsylvania. He
    is based in Washington.
    
    Follow on Twitter
    [@BCAppelbaum](http://twitter.com/BCAppelbaum)
    
    </div>
    
    </div>

  - 
    
    <div id="member-2">
    
    ## Greg Bensinger
    
    ### Technology
    
    ![](https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2020/01/12/editorial-board-page/5610fc92ee24704dfbe34ffd1d73d67323eff42c/gregbesinger.jpg)
    
    <div class="member-bio">
    
    Greg Bensinger joined The Times editorial board in 2020. He was a
    staff writer for the Washington Post and The Wall Street Journal
    where he covered the world's largest technology companies. Prior to
    that he worked for Bloomberg News writing about the
    telecommunications and auto industries. A native of Seattle, he
    holds a B.A. in English literature from the University of Virginia
    and an M.S. in Journalism from Columbia University. He now lives in
    San Francisco.
    
    Follow on Twitter
    [@greg.bensinger](https://twitter.com/GregBensinger)
    
    </div>
    
    </div>

  - 
    
    <div id="member-3">
    
    ## Michelle Cottle
    
    ### U.S. Politics
    
    ![](https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/09/19/opinion/michelle_cottle/michelle_cottle-custom1.jpg)
    
    <div class="member-bio">
    
    Michelle Cottle has covered Washington and national politics since
    the Clinton administration. She joined The Times in 2018 as the
    editorial board's national political writer after reporting on the
    nation's capital as a contributing editor for The Atlantic. Before
    that, Ms. Cottle was a senior writer at National Journal
    specializing in long-form profiles. From 2010 to 2014 she served as
    a Washington correspondent for Newsweek and the Daily Beast.
    Earlier, she was a longtime senior editor at The New Republic; some
    of her work there later appeared in "The Best American Political
    Writing of 2009." She also was an editor of The Washington Monthly
    magazine. Born and raised in the South, she has a B.A. in English
    from Vanderbilt University.
    
    Follow on Twitter
    [@mcottle](http://twitter.com/mcottle)
    
    </div>
    
    </div>

  - 
    
    <div id="member-4">
    
    ## Mara Gay
    
    ### New York State and Local Affairs
    
    ![](https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/05/08/opinion/mara-gay-rectangle/mara-gay-rectangle-custom1-v2.jpg)
    
    <div class="member-bio">
    
    Mara Gay joined The New York Times in 2018. Before coming to The
    Times, she was a City Hall reporter at The Wall Street Journal,
    covering Mayors Bill de Blasio and Michael Bloomberg, and dozens of
    other stories that have shaped the nation’s largest, most dynamic
    city. Ms. Gay has also worked for the New York Daily News, The
    Atlantic and The Daily, an all-digital newspaper owned by News Corp.
    She has a degree in political science from the University of
    Michigan, Ann Arbor, is a New York City native and lives in
    Brooklyn.
    
    Follow on Twitter
    [@MaraGay](http://twitter.com/MaraGay)
    
    </div>
    
    </div>

  - 
    
    <div id="member-5">
    
    ## Carol Giacomo
    
    ### Foreign Affairs
    
    ![](https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/packages/images/opinion/EditorialBoard/rsz_1cgiacomo_1.jpg)
    
    <div class="member-bio">
    
    Carol Giacomo, a former diplomatic correspondent for Reuters in
    Washington, covered foreign policy for the international wire
    service for more than two decades before joining The Times editorial
    board in August 2007. In her previous position, she traveled over 1
    million miles to more than 100 countries with eight secretaries of
    state and various other senior U.S. officials. Her reporting for the
    editorial board involves regular independent overseas travel,
    including recent trips to North Korea, Iran and Myanmar. In 2018,
    she won the Arthur Ross Media award for foreign affairs commentary
    from The American Academy of Diplomacy, an organization of former
    U.S. diplomats. In 2009, she won the Georgetown University Weintal
    Prize for diplomatic reporting. She is a member of the Council on
    Foreign Relations. In 1999-2000, she was a senior fellow at the U.S.
    Institute of Peace, researching U.S. economic and foreign policy
    decision-making during the Asian financial crisis. She was a Ferris
    professor of journalism at Princeton University in 2013 and is a
    frequent public speaker at academic institutions, think tanks and on
    media shows. Raised in Connecticut, she holds a B.A. in English
    Literature from Regis College, Weston, Mass. She began her
    professional journalism career at the Lowell Sun in Lowell, Mass.,
    and later worked for the Hartford Courant in the city hall, state
    capitol and Washington bureaus.
    
    Follow on Twitter
    [@giacomonyt](http://twitter.com/giacomonyt)
    
    </div>
    
    </div>

  - 
    
    <div id="member-6">
    
    ## Jeneen Interlandi
    
    ### Health and Science
    
    ![](https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2020/01/12/editorial-board-page/5610fc92ee24704dfbe34ffd1d73d67323eff42c/jeneen-interlandi-custom1-v3.jpg)
    
    <div class="member-bio">
    
    Jeneen Interlandi joined the Times editorial board in 2018. She is a
    staff writer for The New York Times Magazine, where she has written
    about health, science and education since 2006. She has been a staff
    writer at Consumer Reports and Newsweek, and a freelance journalist
    for several national magazines. Ms. Interlandi was a 2013 Harvard
    University Nieman Fellow. She holds an M.A. in Environmental Science
    and M.S. in Journalism, both from Columbia University.
    
    Follow on Twitter
    [@JInterlandi](http://twitter.com/JInterlandi)
    
    </div>
    
    </div>

  - 
    
    <div id="member-7">
    
    ## Lauren Kelley
    
    ### Women and Reproductive Rights
    
    ![](https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/02/28/opinion/lauren_kelly/lauren_kelly-custom1.jpg)
    
    <div class="member-bio">
    
    Lauren Kelley joined the Times editorial board in 2018. Previously,
    she was the online politics editor at Rolling Stone, where she led
    coverage of the 2016 presidential election, the Trump administration
    and Congress. Before that, she was the managing editor at Rewire, an
    outlet focused on reproductive health and rights, as well as an
    editor at Alternet and a staff writer at Philanthropy News Digest. A
    native of Dallas, Ms. Kelley holds a B.A. in English literature from
    Texas Christian University. She now lives in Brooklyn, N.Y.
    
    Follow on Twitter
    [@lauren\_kelley](http://twitter.com/lauren_kelley)
    
    </div>
    
    </div>

  - 
    
    <div id="member-8">
    
    ## Alex Kingsbury
    
    ### Technology and National Affairs
    
    ![](https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2019/04/01/opinion/alex-kigsbury-shot/alex-kigsbury-shot-custom2-v3.jpg)
    
    <div class="member-bio">
    
    Alex Kingsbury has been with The Times and a member of its editorial
    board since 2018. Previously, he sat on the editorial board of The
    Boston Globe and was deputy editor of The Globe's Ideas section.
    Before that, Mr. Kingsbury was a senior associate producer at WBUR,
    Boston's NPR news station, for the programs "On Point With Tom
    Ashbrook" and "Radio Boston." From 2004 to 2011, he was an editor at
    U.S. News & World Report. Born and raised in New England, he holds a
    B.A. in history from George Washington University and an M.S. from
    the Columbia University Graduate School of
    Journalism.
    
    </div>
    
    </div>

  - 
    
    <div id="member-9">
    
    ## Serge Schmemann
    
    ### International Affairs
    
    ![](https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2013/11/19/opinion/Schmemann_new/Schmemann_new-custom1.jpg)
    
    <div class="member-bio">
    
    Serge Schmemann joined the Times in 1980. He served as the editorial
    page editor of the International Herald Tribune in Paris from 2003
    to 2013. He has been a Times correspondent and bureau chief in
    Moscow, Bonn, Jerusalem and the United Nations. He served as the
    deputy foreign editor in New York from 1999 to 2001. Mr. Schmemann
    received the Pulitzer Prize in 1991 for coverage of the
    reunification of Germany, and an Emmy in 2003 for his work on a
    television documentary about the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. He
    was previously a reporter with the Associated Press. Mr. Schmemann
    is a graduate of Harvard College and holds an M.A. from Columbia
    University, as well as an honorary doctorate from Middlebury
    College. He was born in Paris, is married and has three
    children.
    
    </div>
    
    </div>

  - 
    
    <div id="member-10">
    
    ## Brent Staples
    
    ### Education, Criminal Justice, Economics
    
    ![](https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/packages/images/opinion/EditorialBoard/BrentStaples.jpg)
    
    <div class="member-bio">
    
    Brent Staples joined The Times editorial board in 1990. His
    editorials and essays are included in dozens of college readers
    throughout the United States and abroad. Before joining the
    editorial page, he served as an editor of The New York Times Book
    Review and an assistant editor for metropolitan news. Mr. Staples
    holds a Ph.D. in psychology from the University of Chicago and is
    author of "Parallel Time," a memoir, which was a finalist for the
    Los Angeles Times Book Prize and winner of the Anisfield-Wolf Book
    Award.
    
    Follow on Twitter
    [@BrentNYT](http://twitter.com/BrentNYT)
    
    </div>
    
    </div>

  - 
    
    <div id="member-11">
    
    ## Jesse Wegman
    
    ### The Supreme Court, Legal Affairs
    
    ![](https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2013/08/02/opinion/JesseWegman/JesseWegman-custom1.jpg)
    
    <div class="member-bio">
    
    Jesse Wegman joined the editorial board in 2013. He was previously a
    senior editor at The Daily Beast and Newsweek, a legal news editor
    at Reuters, and the managing editor of The New York Observer. In
    2010, he received a Soros Justice Fellowship to write a book about
    jailhouse lawyers. He graduated from New York University School of
    Law in 2005. Before that, he was a producer and reporter for several
    National Public Radio programs.
    
    Follow on Twitter
    [@jessewegman](http://twitter.com/jessewegman)
    
    </div>
    
    </div>

  - 
    
    <div id="member-12">
    
    ## John Broder
    
    ### Associate Editor
    
    ![](https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/02/28/opinion/john-broder/john-broder-custom1-v2.jpg)
    
    <div class="member-bio">
    
    Mr. Broder joined the editorial board at the start of 2018. He most
    recently served as deputy climate editor and director of news
    surveys, with responsibility for overseeing the New York Times Poll
    and polling analysis. Before that, he was digital editor for Europe,
    based in Paris. Mr. Broder was a correspondent for the Washington
    bureau from 2006 to 2012, covering energy and environmental issues,
    as well as the 2008 campaign. Previously, Mr. Broder had served as
    the Los Angeles bureau chief, Washington editor and White House
    correspondent during the Clinton administration. He also served as
    the newspaper’s Business Day Washington reporter covering regulatory
    and legal issues, including tobacco negotiations, anti-trust
    enforcement, consumer and financial regulation. He joined The Times
    in 1996.
    
    Before joining The Times, Mr. Broder served as a reporter in the
    Washington bureau of the Los Angeles Times from 1987 to 1996, where
    he covered the White House, intelligence, international economics
    and defense. From 1985 to 1987, Mr. Broder was a business writer at
    the Los Angeles Times, covering banking and finance.
    
    From 1978 to 1984, he was roving state correspondent, state capitol
    correspondent and photo editor at The Detroit News. Mr. Broder began
    his journalism career as a photojournalist at The Cleveland Press,
    the Kettering-Oakwood (Ohio) Times and the Charlevoix (Michigan)
    Courier.
    
    Mr. Broder is married to Karolyn Wallace, an elementary school
    teacher. They have two adult
    children.
    
    </div>
    
    </div>

  - 
    
    <div id="member-13">
    
    ## Nick Fox
    
    ### Editor
    
    ![](https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2017/06/12/opinion/nick-fox/nick-fox-custom1.jpg)
    
    <div class="member-bio">
    
    Nick Fox has been an editor at The Times since 1995, having
    previously worked as the assignment editor on the National desk, in
    the Dining section and with the online opinion forum Room for
    Debate. He previously worked for Newsday and The Bergen Record. He
    has a B.A. from Binghamton University and an M.A. from the Columbia
    University Graduate School of
Journalism.
    
    </div>
    
    </div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div id="standalone-footer">

<div>

<div>

<div id="interactive-footer-wrapper">

<div class="css-i29ckm">

<div class="interactive-sharetools css-9z2bwm" data-role="toolbar" data-aria-label="Social Media Share buttons, Save button, and Comments Panel with current comment count" data-testid="share-tools">

  - 
  - 
  - 
  - 
    
    <div class="css-6n7j50">
    
    </div>

</div>

</div>

<div>

</div>

<div id="bottom-wrapper" class="css-1ede5it">

<div id="bottom-slug" class="css-l9onyx">

Advertisement

</div>

[Continue reading the main
story](#after-bottom)

<div id="bottom" class="ad bottom-wrapper" style="text-align:center;height:100%;display:block;min-height:90px">

</div>

<div id="after-bottom">

</div>

</div>

## Site Index

<div>

</div>

## Site Information Navigation

  - [© <span>2020</span> <span>The New York Times
    Company</span>](https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice)

<!-- end list -->

  - [NYTCo](https://www.nytco.com/)
  - [Contact
    Us](https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us)
  - [Work with us](https://www.nytco.com/careers/)
  - [Advertise](https://nytmediakit.com/)
  - [T Brand Studio](http://www.tbrandstudio.com/)
  - [Your Ad
    Choices](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy#how-do-i-manage-trackers)
  - [Privacy](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy)
  - [Terms of
    Service](https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service)
  - [Terms of
    Sale](https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale)
  - [Site
    Map](https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion)
  - [Help](https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us)
  - [Subscriptions](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW)

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>
