Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/us}{U.S.}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/us}{U.S.}\textbar{}`Jails Are Petri Dishes': Inmates
Freed as the Virus Spreads Behind Bars

\url{https://nyti.ms/2Jmnf4z}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{the-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=5c0b5320-f4b7-11ea-8240-dbdc704b8894\&variant=undefined}{The
Coronavirus
Outbreak}}{The Coronavirus Outbreak}}\label{the-coronavirus-outbreak}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  live\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/11/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=5c0b5321-f4b7-11ea-8240-dbdc704b8894\&variant=undefined}{Latest
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=5c0b5322-f4b7-11ea-8240-dbdc704b8894\&variant=undefined}{Maps
  and Cases}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=5c0b7a30-f4b7-11ea-8240-dbdc704b8894\&variant=undefined}{Vaccine
  Tracker}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/10/us/politics/fda-coronavirus-vaccine.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=5c0b7a31-f4b7-11ea-8240-dbdc704b8894\&variant=undefined}{F.D.A.
  Regulators' Self-Defense}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/09/upshot/coronavirus-surprise-test-fees.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=5c0b7a32-f4b7-11ea-8240-dbdc704b8894\&variant=undefined}{Surprise
  Test Fees}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{jails-are-petri-dishes-inmates-freed-as-the-virus-spreads-behind-bars}{%
\section{`Jails Are Petri Dishes': Inmates Freed as the Virus Spreads
Behind
Bars}\label{jails-are-petri-dishes-inmates-freed-as-the-virus-spreads-behind-bars}}

Some jails are releasing people to stem outbreaks, but critics say it is
not happening quickly enough to save lives and resources.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/03/30/us/30virus-behindbars/merlin_171072603_4067a02a-1e9a-4d50-a01e-f6d3e310b5ba-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/timothy-williams}{Timothy
Williams},
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/benjamin-weiser}{Benjamin
Weiser} and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/william-k-rashbaum}{William
K. Rashbaum}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Published March 30, 2020Updated May 20, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

The coronavirus is spreading quickly in America's
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/20/nyregion/rikers-coronavirus-nyc.html}{jails}
and prisons, where social distancing is impossible and sanitizer is
\href{https://www.themarshallproject.org/2020/03/06/when-purell-is-contraband-how-do-you-contain-coronavirus}{widely
banned}, prompting authorities across the country to release
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/23/nyregion/coronavirus-nj-inmates-release.html}{thousands
of inmates} in recent weeks to try to slow the infection, save lives and
preserve medical resources.

Hundreds of Covid-19 diagnoses have been confirmed at local, state and
federal correctional facilities --- almost certainly an undercount,
given a lack of testing and the virus's rapid spread --- leading to
hunger strikes in immigrant detention centers and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/17/us/coronavirus-prisons-jails.html}{demands
for more protection} from prison employee unions.

A week ago, the Cook County jail in Chicago had
\href{https://chicago.suntimes.com/2020/3/23/21191438/two-cook-county-jail-detainees-test-positive-covid-19-coronavirus}{two
diagnoses}; by Sunday, 101 inmates and a dozen employees
\href{https://chicago.suntimes.com/coronavirus/2020/3/29/21199171/cook-county-jail-coronavirus-positive-101-cases-covid-19}{had
tested positive} for the virus. A nearby Illinois state prison reported
a coronavirus-related death on Monday, and Michigan prisons had 78
positive tests. The
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/30/nyregion/coronavirus-rikers-nyc-jail.html}{Rikers
Island jail complex} in New York City had 167 confirmed cases among
inmates by Monday. And at least 38 inmates and employees in the federal
prison system have the virus, with
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/reuters/2020/03/29/us/29reuters-heath-coronavirus-prison-death.html}{one
prisoner dead in Louisiana}.

``It's very concerning as a parent,'' said William Brewer Jr., whose son
is serving time for robbery in Virginia. ``He's in there sleeping in an
open bay with 60 other people. There's no way they can isolate and get
six feet between each other.''

Defense lawyers, elected officials, health experts and even
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/30/opinion/nyc-prison-release-covid.html}{some
prosecutors} have warned that efforts to release inmates and to contain
the spread of the disease are moving too slowly in the face of a
contagion
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html}{that
has so far infected} at least 156,000 people in the United States, with
more than 2,500 known deaths.

``By keeping more people in the jails, you are increasing the overall
number of people who contract the virus,'' and the demand for hospital
beds, ventilators and other lifesaving resources, said David E. Patton,
head of the federal public defender's office in New York City, which
represents nearly half of the 2,500 inmates in the city's two federal
jails. ``They are playing roulette with people's lives.''

America has more people behind bars than any other nation. Its
correctional facilities are frequently
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/12/13/us/rural-jails.html}{crowded
and unsanitary}, filled with
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2012/01/27/us/older-prisoners-mean-rising-health-costs-study-finds.html}{an
aging population} of often impoverished people with a history of poor
health care, \href{https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29584869}{many of
whom suffer from} respiratory problems and heart conditions. Practices
urged elsewhere to slow the spread of the virus --- avoiding crowds,
frequent handwashing, disinfecting clothing --- are nearly impossible to
carry out inside.

``Even as a visitor,'' said Mr. Brewer, ``if you want to wash your
hands, you've got to walk out and go into another building to do it.''

The federal Bureau of Prisons, which holds more than 167,000 people
nationwide, has been
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/17/us/coronavirus-prisons-jails.html}{criticized
by its own employees} as slow to act. On Friday, dozens of public health
experts sent
\href{http://cc02ecee5db373bb7786bdefac192d4d.tinyemails.com/e78d3422d85eb84b7cff02150575d76b/7b846f644a7a205b01acbef16e9cf51d.html}{a
letter to President Trump} urging him to take immediate steps to protect
inmates and immigration detainees.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-the-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/11/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: The Coronavirus
Outbreak}}{Latest Updates: The Coronavirus Outbreak}}\label{latest-updates-the-coronavirus-outbreak}}

Updated 2020-09-12T04:56:54.924Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/11/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-dfb8a16}{Fauci
  cautions the virus could disrupt life in the U.S. until `maybe even
  towards the end of 2021.'}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/11/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-7104d154}{From
  Asia to Africa, China promotes its vaccine candidates to win friends.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/11/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-393ad215}{The
  other way the virus will kill: hunger.}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/11/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

More live coverage:
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/11/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Markets}

Attorney General William P. Barr said officials were trying to expand
home confinement, as opposed to directly releasing federal prisoners,
almost all of whom were convicted of felonies. He ordered an assessment
of at-risk nonviolent inmates, particularly those who have served much
of their sentence.

But it was unclear how many would qualify under a
\href{https://www.politico.com/f/?id=00000171-1826-d4a1-ad77-fda671420000}{complex
list of criteria}. And Mr. Barr cautioned that the review would not
result in immediate transfers because of the need to ensure that
prisoners would not spread the virus once freed.

In Chicago, as the number of positive test results at the county jail
has skyrocketed, the sheriff, Tom Dart, has established a quarantine
area for those who have the virus, and another one for those showing
symptoms who have not tested positive but need to be monitored. The most
serious patients are being taken to a hospital.

``Our jails are petri dishes,'' said Toni Preckwinkle, president of the
Cook County Board of Commissioners, comparing them to nursing homes or
cruise ships --- both places where the virus has spread rapidly. She
said officials were seeking to reduce the jail's population to 4,000
people, from about 6,000 before the outbreak began. Currently, the
population stands at about 5,000. Only inmates accused of nonviolent
crimes are eligible for release, she said.

In Cleveland, the legal system was quick to act as the coronavirus took
hold in the United States, cutting the county jail population in half,
to about 1,000 people, since March 12.

``Otherwise, once this hits, we'd be crippled,'' said Brendan J.
Sheehan, the administrative and presiding judge of the Cuyahoga County
Common Pleas Court. ``We would be releasing people immediately because
we couldn't have a quarantine.''

Judge Sheehan led an effort to expedite cases for inmates in the jail
awaiting trial. The usual protocols --- hearings, plea deals, requests
for trials --- were kept in place, but proceedings that might have taken
60 or 90 days were resolved within two or three.

``I don't want people to think that we're opening up the jail doors and
letting people go,'' the judge said, adding, ``We have to protect the
public, and we also have to protect the safety of the inmate.''

In New York City, where the jail system's chief physician
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/20/nyregion/nyc-coronavirus-rikers-island.html}{warned
several days ago} that ``a storm is coming,'' Mayor Bill de Blasio said
the city had released at least 650 people by Sunday from Rikers Island,
the city's main jail complex. Most of those inmates were convicted of
nonviolent crimes and serving sentences of less than a year. Hundreds
more were under review for possible release.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/03/30/us/30virus-behindbars-2/merlin_170787705_90762bea-c308-45f9-b618-e534f99538b0-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

In Los Angeles County, Sheriff Alex Villanueva has embarked on what
appears to be the largest U.S. effort to release inmates, freeing 1,700
people this month, or about 10 percent of the population of one of the
nation's largest jail systems.

``Our population within the jail is a vulnerable population just by
virtue of who they are and where they're located,'' he said.

Sheriff Villanueva said the releases had been limited to inmates
scheduled to be freed in 30 days or fewer. All had been convicted of
nonviolent misdemeanors, he said. So far, there are no confirmed
coronavirus cases inside the county's jails.

Deputies in Los Angeles have also been instructed to make fewer arrests,
and Sheriff Villanueva asked the district attorney and courts to delay
some criminal proceedings. Arrests in areas patrolled by the Sheriff's
Department have dropped from around 300 a day to about 60 a day.

Jackie Lacey, the Los Angeles County district attorney, said that as a
way to remind her prosecutors about the seriousness of the threat to
inmates, ``I have asked my attorneys to consider the health risks in
every decision they make.''

But officials acknowledged that there were concerns about reducing
incarceration: About 30 percent of the county's jail inmates are
homeless, and they might be living on the street as soon as they are
released, making them at least as vulnerable to the virus as they might
be behind bars.

In recent weeks, the city has started to open recreation centers, which
were closed to stop the spread of the virus, to homeless people.

``We're not going to keep them in jail because they don't have a home,''
Sheriff Villanueva said.

California has the
\href{https://www.bjs.gov/content/pub/pdf/p17.pdf}{second-largest prison
population} in the country, after Texas, and at least
\href{https://www.sacbee.com/news/politics-government/the-state-worker/article241531806.html}{12
state prison employees} there have tested positive for the coronavirus.
Staff members and inmates have also tested positive at correctional
facilities in Florida, Texas, Michigan, Pennsylvania, New York and
Washington State, among others, and advocates said there were almost
certainly many undetected cases across the country.

Most inmates in county jails are either serving sentences for minor
crimes or are awaiting trial, but state prisons --- which hold the
majority of the nation's
\href{https://www.prisonpolicy.org/reports/pie2020.html}{2.3 million
incarcerated people}, most of whom were convicted of felonies --- are
less likely to make large-scale releases.

For families of incarcerated people, the concern can be agonizing. At
other times, Mr. Brewer might worry about his son getting into a fight
or running afoul of gangs in the Virginia prison system. But now, he
just prays he will not get sick.

Virginia's Department of Corrections said it had not had any positive
tests, and it had halted visits to prisoners as a way of trying to keep
the virus out. Many other states, as well as the federal prison system,
have also limited or halted visitation.

In New York City, where the Bureau of Prisons said four inmates had
tested positive in the city's two federal jails by Sunday, a lawsuit
filed late Friday asked the federal court in Brooklyn to order the
immediate release of about 540 federal prisoners there identified as
``particularly vulnerable'' to the virus because of their age or
underlying health conditions.

Katie Rosenfeld, a lawyer for the plaintiffs, said prisoners and their
family members were ``terrified'' that the jail would ``very soon be
overwhelmed with hundreds of people sick and dying inside.''

Even before the suit was filed, prosecutors in Brooklyn had been
directed to review their cases and decide whether releasing inmates
would be appropriate, considering their age, health status, the nature
of the charges against them and their risk to the community.

Marilyn Mosby, Baltimore's chief prosecutor, is going through a similar
exercise, but has also announced that she will decline to prosecute
certain low-level cases, including trespassing, drug possession,
prostitution and urinating in public, during the coronavirus outbreak.

``We believe that no longer prosecuting individuals for substance-use
disorder or sex work --- that's not going to increase crime,'' she said.
``The thing that we're concerned with is public safety, and we don't
want to prescribe someone with substance-use disorder to a death
sentence.''

Reporting was contributed by Danielle Ivory, Nicole Hong, Jan Ransom and
Alan Feuer.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
