Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/world/asia}{Asia Pacific}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/world/asia}{Asia Pacific}\textbar{}In India, Coronavirus
Fans Religious Hatred

\url{https://nyti.ms/2VjtOu8}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/news-event/coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{The
Coronavirus Outbreak}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  live\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/02/world/coronavirus-updates.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Latest
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Maps
  and Cases}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Vaccine
  Tracker}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/07/29/us/schools-reopening-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{What
  School May Look Like}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/live/2020/07/31/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Economy}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{in-india-coronavirus-fans-religious-hatred}{%
\section{In India, Coronavirus Fans Religious
Hatred}\label{in-india-coronavirus-fans-religious-hatred}}

Indian officials are blaming an Islamic group for spreading the virus,
and Muslims have been targeted in a wave of violence.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/04/10/world/00india-muslims-top/merlin_171461883_39509ffc-ed6f-4367-9ebd-b92624761569-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/jeffrey-gettleman}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/10/10/multimedia/author-jeffrey-gettleman/author-jeffrey-gettleman-thumbLarge.png}}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/kai-schultz}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2019/11/22/reader-center/author-kai-schultz/author-kai-schultz-thumbLarge.png}}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/suhasini-raj}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2019/11/22/reader-center/author-Suhasini-Raj/author-Suhasini-Raj-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/jeffrey-gettleman}{Jeffrey
Gettleman}, \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/kai-schultz}{Kai Schultz}
and \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/suhasini-raj}{Suhasini Raj}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  April 12, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

NEW DELHI --- After India's health ministry repeatedly blamed an Islamic
seminary for spreading the coronavirus --- and governing party officials
spoke of ``human bombs'' and ``corona jihad'' --- a spree of anti-Muslim
attacks has broken out across the country.

Young Muslim men who were passing out food to the poor were
\href{https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_2kx3KRQCnQ}{assaulted with
cricket bats}. Other
\href{https://indianexpress.com/article/coronavirus/covid-19-rumours-linked-to-3-attacks-in-delhi-gurgaon-6350696/}{Muslims
have been beaten up}, nearly lynched, run out of their neighborhoods or
attacked in mosques, branded as virus spreaders. In Punjab State,
loudspeakers at Sikh temples broadcast messages telling people not to
buy milk from Muslim dairy farmers because it was infected with
coronavirus.

Hateful messages have bloomed online. And
\href{https://www.indiatoday.in/india/story/surge-in-tiktok-videos-aimed-at-misleading-indian-muslims-over-coronavirus-precautions-1662930-2020-04-03}{a
wave of apparently fake videos} has popped up telling Muslims not to
wear masks, not to practice social distancing, not to worry about the
virus at all, as if the makers of the videos wanted Muslims to get sick.

In a global pandemic, there is always the hunt for blame. President
Trump has done it, insisting for a time on calling the coronavirus a
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/18/us/politics/china-virus.html}{``Chinese
virus.''} All over the world people are pointing fingers, driven by
their fears and anxieties to go after The Other.

Here in India, no other group has been demonized more than the country's
200 million Muslims, minorities in a Hindu-dominated land of 1.3 billion
people.

From the
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/10/07/world/asia/kashmir-doctors-phone.html}{crackdown
on Kashmir}, a Muslim majority area, to a
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/10/07/world/asia/kashmir-doctors-phone.html}{new
citizenship law that blatantly discriminates against Muslims}, this past
year has been one low point after another for Indian Muslims living
under an increasingly bold Hindu nationalist government led by Prime
Minister Narendra Modi and propelled by majoritarian policies.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/04/10/world/00india-muslims-2/merlin_170775567_babea3ce-1004-41dd-addc-baa7dbfd82ff-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

In this case, what's making things worse is that there's an element of
truth behind the government's claims. A single Muslim religious movement
has been identified as being responsible for a large share of India's
8,000-plus coronavirus cases. Indian officials estimated last week that
more than a third of the country's cases were connected to the group,
Tablighi Jamaat, which held a huge gathering of preachers in India in
March. Similar meetings in
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/20/world/asia/coronavirus-malaysia-muslims-outbreak.html}{Malaysia}
and
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/26/world/asia/pakistan-coronavirus-tablighi-jamaat.html}{Pakistan}
also led to outbreaks.

``The government was compelled to call out this congregation,'' said
Vikas Swarup, a senior official at India's foreign ministry.

He said that the gathering in March ``had a significant impact on the
containment methods'' but denied that the government's frequent blaming
of the group had ``anything to do with a particular community.''

\hypertarget{latest-updates-global-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/01/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: Global Coronavirus
Outbreak}}{Latest Updates: Global Coronavirus Outbreak}}\label{latest-updates-global-coronavirus-outbreak}}

Updated 2020-08-02T17:52:35.962Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/01/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-34047410}{The
  U.S. reels as July cases more than double the total of any other
  month.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/01/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-780ec966}{Top
  U.S. officials work to break an impasse over the federal jobless
  benefit.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/01/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-2bc8948}{Its
  outbreak untamed, Melbourne goes into even greater lockdown.}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/01/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

More live coverage:
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/live/2020/07/31/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Markets}

Tablighi Jamaat is a multinational Muslim missionary movement. A tall,
white, modern building towering over the Nizamuddin West neighborhood of
Delhi serves its global headquarters. The group is one of the world's
largest faith-based organizations, with tens of millions of members.

The Indian government has been racing to track down anyone from
Tablighi's seminary and quarantine congregants. Masked police officers
have sealed the headquarters on all sides; the other morning, they
patrolled the area with their fingers on the triggers of assault rifles.

The neighborhood resembles one near a bus depot or a port; the seminary
was the center of the economy, and all around it stand money changers,
guesthouses, travel agencies and gift shops, catering to the Muslim
missionaries who would flow through here.

The virus and the new wave of hatred have changed everything. Mohammed
Haider, who runs a milk stall, one of the few businesses allowed to stay
open under India's coronavirus lockdown, said, ``Fear is staring at us,
from everywhere.''

Image

Health care workers speaking with residents in the Delhi neighborhood
around the Tablighi Jamaat mosque and seminary.Credit... Rebecca Conway
for The New York Times

``People need only a small reason to beat us or to lynch us,'' he said.
``Because of corona.''

Muslim leaders are afraid. They see the intensifying attacks against
Muslims and remember what happened in February, when
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/12/world/asia/india-police-muslims.html}{Hindu
mobs rampaged in a working-class neighborhood in Delhi}, killing dozens,
and the police mostly stood aside --- or sometimes even helped the Hindu
mobs. In many villages now, Muslim traders are barred from entering
simply because of their faith.

``The government should not have played the blame game,'' said Khalid
Rasheed, the chairman of \href{http://islamiccentreofindia.com/}{Islamic
Center of India}. ``If you present the cases based on somebody's
religion in your media briefings,'' he said, ``it creates a big
divide.''

``Coronavirus may die,'' he added, ``but the virus of communal
disharmony will be hard to kill when this is over.''

Tahir Iqbal, a recent university graduate from Kashmir, was among the
4,000 or so gathered at the Tablighi Jamaat headquarters in early March
for missionary training. He said people slept, ate and prayed in close
quarters, with little fear of the coronavirus. ``We didn't take it
seriously at the time,'' he said.

On March 16, the Delhi government
\href{https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-govt-bars-assembly-of-over-50-people-orders-shutdown-of-weekly-markets-gyms-clubs/story-OOddakgdnYeKRofgYatXFN.html}{banned
gatherings}of more than 50 people. Several days later, Mr. Modi
announced
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/24/world/asia/india-coronavirus-lockdown.html}{a
nationwide lockdown}.

Image

Muslims from the Tablighi Jamaat seminary being moved to a quarantine
facility last month.Credit...~Yawar Nazir/Getty Images

But instead of dispersing, more than 1,000 people stayed put at the
center. During a March 19 sermon, Maulana Saad Kandhalvi, a Tablighi
Jamaat leader, told followers that coronavirus was ``God's punishment''
and not to fear it.

About a week later, health inspectors found around 1,300 people still
sheltering at the center without masks or other protective gear. Many
Muslim leaders criticized the group's center for not closing down.

But by that point, hundreds of congregants had already left. They wended
their way across India by car, bus, train and plane,
\href{https://www.businesstoday.in/latest/trends/coronavirus-1023-positive-cases-related-to-tablighi-jamat-reported-in-17-states/story/400188.html}{spreading
the coronavirus to more than half of India's states}, from beach towns
in the Andaman Islands to the hot, farming cities in the country's
northern plains.

On March 31, the Delhi authorities
\href{https://www.ibtimes.co.in/nizamuddin-markaz-chief-maulana-saad-6-others-booked-full-text-fir-816565}{filed
a criminal case} against Maulana Kandhalvi for ``deliberately,
willfully, negligently and malignantly'' putting the public's health at
risk. Tablighi Jamaat's center was sealed. The maulana, a title for a
Muslim scholar, disappeared.

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/news-event/coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{}

\hypertarget{the-coronavirus-outbreak-}{%
\subsubsection{The Coronavirus Outbreak
›}\label{the-coronavirus-outbreak-}}

\hypertarget{frequently-asked-questions}{%
\paragraph{Frequently Asked
Questions}\label{frequently-asked-questions}}

Updated July 27, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{should-i-refinance-my-mortgage}{%
  \paragraph{Should I refinance my
  mortgage?}\label{should-i-refinance-my-mortgage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/coronavirus-money-unemployment.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{It
    could be a good idea,} because mortgage rates have
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/16/business/mortgage-rates-below-3-percent.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{never
    been lower.} Refinancing requests have pushed mortgage applications
    to some of the highest levels since 2008, so be prepared to get in
    line. But defaults are also up, so if you're thinking about buying a
    home, be aware that some lenders have tightened their standards.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{what-is-school-going-to-look-like-in-september}{%
  \paragraph{What is school going to look like in
  September?}\label{what-is-school-going-to-look-like-in-september}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    It is unlikely that many schools will return to a normal schedule
    this fall, requiring the grind of
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/05/us/coronavirus-education-lost-learning.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{online
    learning},
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/05/29/us/coronavirus-child-care-centers.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{makeshift
    child care} and
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/03/business/economy/coronavirus-working-women.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{stunted
    workdays} to continue. California's two largest public school
    districts --- Los Angeles and San Diego --- said on July 13, that
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/13/us/lausd-san-diego-school-reopening.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{instruction
    will be remote-only in the fall}, citing concerns that surging
    coronavirus infections in their areas pose too dire a risk for
    students and teachers. Together, the two districts enroll some
    825,000 students. They are the largest in the country so far to
    abandon plans for even a partial physical return to classrooms when
    they reopen in August. For other districts, the solution won't be an
    all-or-nothing approach.
    \href{https://bioethics.jhu.edu/research-and-outreach/projects/eschool-initiative/school-policy-tracker/}{Many
    systems}, including the nation's largest, New York City, are
    devising
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/26/us/coronavirus-schools-reopen-fall.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{hybrid
    plans} that involve spending some days in classrooms and other days
    online. There's no national policy on this yet, so check with your
    municipal school system regularly to see what is happening in your
    community.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{is-the-coronavirus-airborne}{%
  \paragraph{Is the coronavirus
  airborne?}\label{is-the-coronavirus-airborne}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    The coronavirus
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/04/health/239-experts-with-one-big-claim-the-coronavirus-is-airborne.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{can
    stay aloft for hours in tiny droplets in stagnant air}, infecting
    people as they inhale, mounting scientific evidence suggests. This
    risk is highest in crowded indoor spaces with poor ventilation, and
    may help explain super-spreading events reported in meatpacking
    plants, churches and restaurants.
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/06/health/coronavirus-airborne-aerosols.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{It's
    unclear how often the virus is spread} via these tiny droplets, or
    aerosols, compared with larger droplets that are expelled when a
    sick person coughs or sneezes, or transmitted through contact with
    contaminated surfaces, said Linsey Marr, an aerosol expert at
    Virginia Tech. Aerosols are released even when a person without
    symptoms exhales, talks or sings, according to Dr. Marr and more
    than 200 other experts, who
    \href{https://academic.oup.com/cid/article/doi/10.1093/cid/ciaa939/5867798}{have
    outlined the evidence in an open letter to the World Health
    Organization}.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{what-are-the-symptoms-of-coronavirus}{%
  \paragraph{What are the symptoms of
  coronavirus?}\label{what-are-the-symptoms-of-coronavirus}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Common symptoms
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/symptoms-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{include
    fever, a dry cough, fatigue and difficulty breathing or shortness of
    breath.} Some of these symptoms overlap with those of the flu,
    making detection difficult, but runny noses and stuffy sinuses are
    less common.
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/04/27/health/coronavirus-symptoms-cdc.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{The
    C.D.C. has also} added chills, muscle pain, sore throat, headache
    and a new loss of the sense of taste or smell as symptoms to look
    out for. Most people fall ill five to seven days after exposure, but
    symptoms may appear in as few as two days or as many as 14 days.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{does-asymptomatic-transmission-of-covid-19-happen}{%
  \paragraph{Does asymptomatic transmission of Covid-19
  happen?}\label{does-asymptomatic-transmission-of-covid-19-happen}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    So far, the evidence seems to show it does. A widely cited
    \href{https://www.nature.com/articles/s41591-020-0869-5}{paper}
    published in April suggests that people are most infectious about
    two days before the onset of coronavirus symptoms and estimated that
    44 percent of new infections were a result of transmission from
    people who were not yet showing symptoms. Recently, a top expert at
    the World Health Organization stated that transmission of the
    coronavirus by people who did not have symptoms was ``very rare,''
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/09/world/coronavirus-updates.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq\#link-1f302e21}{but
    she later walked back that statement.}
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Indian authorities have been tightening the lockdown on hot spots across
the country, shutting down all movement in areas where coronavirus cases
have been detected. Though the nationwide total remains relatively low,
many fear the highly contagious virus could rip through crowded urban
areas, overwhelming India's already beleaguered public hospitals.

Indian authorities have used cellphone
\href{https://www.thestatesman.com/india/police-using-cell-phone-data-to-trace-people-who-attended-tablighi-jamaat-event-in-delhi-1502873974.html}{data
to track Tablighi Jamaat congregants} and
\href{https://www.thehindu.com/news/national/tamil-nadu/coronavirus-10-malaysians-who-attended-tablighi-jamaat-event-nabbed-by-ccb-officials-at-chennai-airport/article31263055.ece}{intercepted
Malaysian missionaries} at an airport before they could board an
evacuation flight out of India.

At a public briefing last week,
\href{https://economictimes.indiatimes.com/news/politics-and-nation/rate-of-doubling-of-covid-19-cases-4-1-days-without-tablighi-jamaat-incident-it-would-have-been-7-4-government/articleshow/74994181.cms}{Lav
Agarwal, a health ministry spokesman}, said that the number of days it
would have taken India's coronavirus cases to double would have been 7.4
--- not the more alarming 4.1 days it hit this past week --- had the
gathering not happened.

Image

The road leading to the Tablighi Jamaat mosque and seminary was blocked
on Wednesday.Credit...Rebecca Conway for The New York Times

Since then, more than 25,000 people who came in contact with Tablighi
members have been quarantined. Some nurses have complained that
\href{https://www.business-standard.com/article/news-ani/six-quarantined-tablighi-jamaat-members-booked-for-misbehaviour-with-hospital-staff-in-ghaziabad-120040300114_1.html}{Tablighi
members} put in isolation wards acted lewdly. One Muslim man who tested
positive for coronavirus
\href{https://www.indiatoday.in/india/story/tablighi-jamaat-member-commits-suicide-at-maharashtra-hospital-after-testing-positive-for-covid-19-1665822-2020-04-11}{slit
his throat in a central Indian hospital} on Saturday.

Some Hindu nationalist politicians and their supporters seized on the
situation, eagerly piling on the anti-Muslim sentiments that have been
building in recent years under Mr. Modi's government.

Raj Thackeray, the leader of the Maharashtra Navnirman Sena, a far-right
nationalist party, told local news outlets that Tablighi Jamaat members
``should be shot.''

Rajeev Bindal, a leader within Mr. Modi's Bharatiya Janata Party, said
Tablighi members were moving through the population ``like
\href{https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/tablighi-members-moving-like-human-bombs-himachal-bjp-chief-821495.html}{human
bombs}.''

In the village of Harewali, near Delhi,
\href{https://newsd.in/delhi-amid-coronavirus-scare-youth-who-returned-from-jamaat-mob-lynched-in-bawana/}{a
mob beat Mehboob Ali}, a young Muslim man, for attending Tablighi Jamaat
events, and filmed the beating.

``Tell us your plan!'' someone shouts in the video. ``Was your plan to
spread corona?''

Mr. Ali, bloodied and crouching in a field, shakes his head.

Sensing the backlash against Muslims, India's health ministry has
stopped blaming Tablighi Jamaat at public briefings.

``Certain communities and areas are being labeled purely based on false
reports,'' the health ministry said in
\href{https://www.mohfw.gov.in/pdf/AddressingSocialStigmaAssociatedwithCOVID19.pdf}{a
statement} a few days ago. ``There is an urgent need to counter such
prejudices.''

Sameer Yasir and Hari Kumar contributed reporting from New Delhi, and
Iqbal Kirmani from Srinagar, Kashmir.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
