Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}Trump's Disinfectant Remark
Raises a Question About the `Very Stable Genius'

\href{https://nyti.ms/3eUxOKD}{https://nyti.ms/3eUxOKD}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/news-event/coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{The
Coronavirus Outbreak}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  live\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/08/world/coronavirus-updates.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Latest
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Maps
  and Cases}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Vaccine
  Tracker}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/world/coronavirus-tips-advice.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{F.A.Q.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/live/2020/08/07/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Markets
  \& Economy}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

Political Memo

\hypertarget{trumps-disinfectant-remark-raises-a-question-about-the-very-stable-genius}{%
\section{Trump's Disinfectant Remark Raises a Question About the `Very
Stable
Genius'}\label{trumps-disinfectant-remark-raises-a-question-about-the-very-stable-genius}}

The president has often said he is exceptionally smart. His recent
suggestion about injecting disinfectants was not.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/04/28/us/politics/26virus-disinfectant-memo/merlin_171872820_ac94b047-74a7-459d-98c5-df7778586e2a-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/matt-flegenheimer}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/10/02/multimedia/author-matt-flegenheimer/author-matt-flegenheimer-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/matt-flegenheimer}{Matt
Flegenheimer}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  April 26, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

President Trump's self-assessment has been consistent.

``I'm, like, a very smart person,'' he assured voters in 2016.

``A very stable genius,'' he ruled two years later.

``I'm not a doctor,'' he allowed on Thursday, pointing to his skull
inside the White House briefing room, ``but I'm, like, a person that has
a good you-know-what.''

Mr. Trump's performance that evening, when he
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/04/24/us/politics/trump-inject-disinfectant-bleach-coronavirus.html}{suggested
that injections of disinfectants} into the human body could help combat
the coronavirus, did not sound like the work of a doctor, a genius, or a
person with a good you-know-what.

Even by the turbulent standards of this president, his musings on virus
remedies have landed with uncommon force, drawing widespread
condemnation as dangerous to the health of Americans and inspiring a
near-universal alarm that many of his past remarks --- whether offensive
or fear-mongering or simply untrue --- did not.

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/04/26/us/politics/trump-coronavirus-briefings-analyzed.html}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/04/22/autossell/trumpgrid/trumpgrid-articleLarge.png}

\hypertarget{260000-words-full-of-self-praise-from-trump-on-the-virus}{%
\subsection{260,000 Words, Full of Self-Praise, From Trump on the
Virus}\label{260000-words-full-of-self-praise-from-trump-on-the-virus}}

Three journalists from The New York Times reviewed more than 260,000
words spoken by President Trump during the pandemic. Here's what we
learned.

Mr. Trump's typical name-calling can be recast to receptive audiences as
mere ``counterpunching.'' His impeachment was explained away as the
dastardly opus of overreaching Democrats. It is more difficult to insist
that the man floating disinfectant injection knows what he's doing.

The reaction has so rattled the president's allies and advisers that he
was compelled over the weekend to
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/04/25/us/coronavirus-news.html}{remove
himself from the pandemic briefings} entirely, at least temporarily
accepting two fates he loathes: giving in to advice (from Republicans
who said the appearances
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/04/25/us/politics/trump-election-briefings.html}{did
far more harm than good} to his political standing) and surrendering the
mass viewership he relishes.

Some at the White House have expressed frustration that the issue has
lingered. ``It bothers me that this is still in the news cycle,'' Dr.
Deborah Birx, the coronavirus response coordinator, told CNN on Sunday,
adding, ``I worry that we don't get the information to the American
people that they need, when we continue to bring up something that was
from Thursday night.''

Gov. Larry Hogan of Maryland, a Republican who has been willing to speak
skeptically about Mr. Trump's virus leadership, said on ABC's ``This
Week'' on Sunday that it ``does send a wrong message'' when
misinformation spreads from a public official or ``you just say
something that pops in your head.'' Asked to explain the president's
words, Mr. Hogan said, ``You know, I can't really explain it.''

No modern American politician can match Mr. Trump's record of
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/spotlight/fact-checks}{false} or
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2019/11/02/us/politics/trump-twitter-presidency.html}{illogical}
statements, which has invited questions about his intelligence.
Insinuations and gaffes have trailed former President George W. Bush,
former Vice President Dan Quayle and
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/elections/joe-biden.html}{Joseph
R. Biden Jr.}, now the presumptive Democratic nominee, among many
others. But Mr. Trump's stark pronouncement --- on live television, amid
a grave public health crisis, and leaving little room for interpretation
--- was at once in a class of its own and wholly consistent with a
reputation for carelessness in speech.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/04/26/us/politics/26virus-disinfectant-memo-03/26virus-disinfectant-memo-03-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Still, for weeks, the president's political team has been strikingly
explicit about its intended messaging against Mr. Biden: presenting him
as a doddering 77-year-old not up to the rigors of the office --- and
setting off on the kind of whisper campaign that does not bother with
whispers.

A Trump campaign Twitter account on Saturday celebrated the anniversary
of Mr. Biden's 2020 bid by highlighting all that he had ``forgotten'' as
a candidate, with corresponding video clips of momentary flubs and
verbal stumbles: ``Joe Biden forgot the name of the coronavirus.'' ``Joe
Biden forgot the G7 was not the G8.'' ``Joe Biden forgot Super Tuesday
was on a Tuesday.''

\hypertarget{latest-updates-the-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/07/world/covid-19-news.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: The Coronavirus
Outbreak}}{Latest Updates: The Coronavirus Outbreak}}\label{latest-updates-the-coronavirus-outbreak}}

Updated 2020-08-08T12:04:28.992Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/07/world/covid-19-news.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-1f86d03a}{As
  the U.S. relief talks falter again, Trump says he is prepared to act
  on his own.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/07/world/covid-19-news.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-3f64a70a}{Cuomo
  says N.Y. schools can reopen in-person but leaves it up to districts
  to determine if, when and how.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/07/world/covid-19-news.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-14e70066}{Thousands
  of cases went unreported in California when a computer server failed.}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/07/world/covid-19-news.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

More live coverage:
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/live/2020/08/07/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Markets}

On Sunday, the Trump campaign made clear that the disinfectant affair
would not disrupt its plans. ``Joe Biden is often lost,'' said Tim
Murtaugh, a Trump campaign spokesman, ``losing his train of thought
during friendly interviews, even when he relies on written notes in
front of him.''

T.J. Ducklo, a Biden spokesman, called this approach ``a distraction
tactic --- as if anything could erase the memory of the president
suggesting people drink disinfectant on national television.''

Carlos Curbelo, a Republican former Florida congressman who clashed at
times with Mr. Trump and did not vote for him, said the president's
comments on disinfectants were likely to resonate precisely because he
was running a race premised largely on Mr. Biden's mental capacity.

``Given Joe Biden's gaffes and mistakes, I think the Trump campaign had
a strong narrative there,'' he said. ``At the very least, that advantage
was completely erased.''

Mr. Curbelo said a friend had suggested recently that Mr. Trump's toxic
virus idea was ``the craziest thing he ever said.''

``I said, `I don't know,''' Mr. Curbelo recalled. ```Maybe. I'd have to
look back and check.'''

This history, of course, is the argument for Democratic caution. The
list of episodes that were supposed to end Mr. Trump --- the ``Access
Hollywood'' tape, the ``very fine people'' on both sides of a white
supremacist rally, insulting John McCain's service as a prisoner of war
--- is longer than most voters' memories.

The president can register as more
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2017/12/29/us/politics/trump-news-overload.html}{time-bending}
than Teflon. Plenty sticks to him; it just tends to be buried quickly
enough by the next stack of outrages, limiting the exposure of any
single one.

But if most Trump admirers have long since made up their minds about
him, recent polling on his handling of the crisis does suggest some
measure of electoral risk. Governors and public health officials like
Dr. Anthony Fauci are viewed as far more trustworthy on the pandemic,
according to surveys.

Image

Drs. Anthony Fauci and Deborah Birx, the top public health officials
overseeing the federal response to the coronavirus, have struggled at
times to clarify Mr. Trump's off-the-cuff statements.Credit...Doug
Mills/The New York Times

Lily Adams, a former aide on the presidential campaigns of Hillary
Clinton and Kamala Harris, who is now advising Unite the Country, a
pro-Biden super PAC, said that swing voters in focus groups were
especially dismayed at Mr. Trump's refusal to listen to experts.

``Any person who has ever done a load of laundry, or installed a
childproof lock on a cleaning supplies cabinet, or just looked at one of
those skulls on the label, knows it's an idiotic idea,'' she said.

Even some of the president's reliable cheerleaders at Fox News have
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/04/24/business/media/virus-fox-trump-disinfectant.html}{not
tried} to defend him. And recent visitors to the Drudge Report --- the
powerful conservative news aggregation site whose proprietor, Matt
Drudge, has increasingly ridiculed Mr. Trump of late --- were greeted
with a doctored image of ``Clorox Chewables.'' ``Trump Recommended,''
the tagline read. ``Don't Die Maybe!''

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/news-event/coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{}

\hypertarget{the-coronavirus-outbreak-}{%
\subsubsection{The Coronavirus Outbreak
›}\label{the-coronavirus-outbreak-}}

\hypertarget{frequently-asked-questions}{%
\paragraph{Frequently Asked
Questions}\label{frequently-asked-questions}}

Updated August 6, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{why-are-bars-linked-to-outbreaks}{%
  \paragraph{Why are bars linked to
  outbreaks?}\label{why-are-bars-linked-to-outbreaks}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Think about a bar. Alcohol is flowing. It can be loud, but it's
    definitely intimate, and you often need to lean in close to hear
    your friend. And strangers have way, way fewer reservations about
    coming up to people in a bar. That's sort of the point of a bar.
    Feeling good and close to strangers. It's no surprise, then, that
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/02/us/coronavirus-bars.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{bars
    have been linked to outbreaks in several states.} Louisiana health
    officials have tied
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/22/us/new-coronavirus-phase.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{at
    least 100 coronavirus cases} to bars in the Tigerland nightlife
    district in Baton Rouge. Minnesota has traced 328 recent cases to
    bars across the state.
    \href{https://www.boisestatepublicradio.org/post/bars-large-venues-close-ada-county-after-surge-coronavirus-prompts-rollback\#stream/0}{In
    Idaho}, health officials shut down bars in Ada County after
    reporting clusters of infections among young adults who had visited
    several bars in downtown Boise. Governors in
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/01/us/california-coronavirus-reopening.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{California},
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/14/us/coronavirus-united-states.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{Texas
    and Arizona}, where coronavirus cases are soaring, have ordered
    hundreds of newly reopened bars to shut down. Less than two weeks
    after Colorado's bars reopened at limited capacity, Gov. Jared Polis
    \href{https://www.denverpost.com/2020/06/30/colorado-bars-closed-coronavirus/}{ordered
    them to close}.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{i-have-antibodies-am-i-now-immune}{%
  \paragraph{I have antibodies. Am I now
  immune?}\label{i-have-antibodies-am-i-now-immune}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    As of right now,
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/22/health/covid-antibodies-herd-immunity.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{that
    seems likely, for at least several months.} There have been
    frightening accounts of people suffering what seems to be a second
    bout of Covid-19. But experts say these patients may have a
    drawn-out course of infection, with the virus taking a slow toll
    weeks to months after initial exposure. People infected with the
    coronavirus typically
    \href{https://www.nature.com/articles/s41586-020-2456-9}{produce}
    immune molecules called antibodies, which are
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/05/07/health/coronavirus-antibody-prevalence.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{protective
    proteins made in response to an
    infection}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/05/07/health/coronavirus-antibody-prevalence.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{.
    These antibodies may} last in the body
    \href{https://www.nature.com/articles/s41591-020-0965-6}{only two to
    three months}, which may seem worrisome, but that's perfectly normal
    after an acute infection subsides, said Dr. Michael Mina, an
    immunologist at Harvard University. It may be possible to get the
    coronavirus again, but it's highly unlikely that it would be
    possible in a short window of time from initial infection or make
    people sicker the second time.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{im-a-small-business-owner-can-i-get-relief}{%
  \paragraph{I'm a small-business owner. Can I get
  relief?}\label{im-a-small-business-owner-can-i-get-relief}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    The
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/small-business-loans-stimulus-grants-freelancers-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{stimulus
    bills enacted in March} offer help for the millions of American
    small businesses. Those eligible for aid are businesses and
    nonprofit organizations with fewer than 500 workers, including sole
    proprietorships, independent contractors and freelancers. Some
    larger companies in some industries are also eligible. The help
    being offered, which is being managed by the Small Business
    Administration, includes the Paycheck Protection Program and the
    Economic Injury Disaster Loan program. But lots of folks have
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/05/07/business/small-business-loans-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{not
    yet seen payouts.} Even those who have received help are confused:
    The rules are draconian, and some are stuck sitting on
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/05/02/business/economy/loans-coronavirus-small-business.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{money
    they don't know how to use.} Many small-business owners are getting
    less than they expected or
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/10/business/Small-business-loans-ppp.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{not
    hearing anything at all.}
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{what-are-my-rights-if-i-am-worried-about-going-back-to-work}{%
  \paragraph{What are my rights if I am worried about going back to
  work?}\label{what-are-my-rights-if-i-am-worried-about-going-back-to-work}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Employers have to provide
    \href{https://www.osha.gov/SLTC/covid-19/standards.html}{a safe
    workplace} with policies that protect everyone equally.
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/coronavirus-money-unemployment.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{And
    if one of your co-workers tests positive for the coronavirus, the
    C.D.C.} has said that
    \href{https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/community/guidance-business-response.html}{employers
    should tell their employees} -\/- without giving you the sick
    employee's name -\/- that they may have been exposed to the virus.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{what-is-school-going-to-look-like-in-september}{%
  \paragraph{What is school going to look like in
  September?}\label{what-is-school-going-to-look-like-in-september}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    It is unlikely that many schools will return to a normal schedule
    this fall, requiring the grind of
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/05/us/coronavirus-education-lost-learning.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{online
    learning},
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/05/29/us/coronavirus-child-care-centers.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{makeshift
    child care} and
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/03/business/economy/coronavirus-working-women.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{stunted
    workdays} to continue. California's two largest public school
    districts --- Los Angeles and San Diego --- said on July 13, that
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/13/us/lausd-san-diego-school-reopening.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{instruction
    will be remote-only in the fall}, citing concerns that surging
    coronavirus infections in their areas pose too dire a risk for
    students and teachers. Together, the two districts enroll some
    825,000 students. They are the largest in the country so far to
    abandon plans for even a partial physical return to classrooms when
    they reopen in August. For other districts, the solution won't be an
    all-or-nothing approach.
    \href{https://bioethics.jhu.edu/research-and-outreach/projects/eschool-initiative/school-policy-tracker/}{Many
    systems}, including the nation's largest, New York City, are
    devising
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/26/us/coronavirus-schools-reopen-fall.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{hybrid
    plans} that involve spending some days in classrooms and other days
    online. There's no national policy on this yet, so check with your
    municipal school system regularly to see what is happening in your
    community.
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

For Mr. Trump, such mockery tends to singe. Since long before his 2016
campaign, few subjects have been as meaningful to him as appraisals of
his intellect.

It is a source of perpetual obsession and manifest insecurity, former
aides say, so much so that Mr. Trump has felt the need to allude to his
brainpower regularly: tales of his academic credentials at the
University of Pennsylvania; his ``natural ability'' in complicated
disciplines; his connection to a ``super genius'' uncle,
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/1985/02/26/us/john-trump-dies-engineer-was-78.html}{an
engineer} who taught at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.

When Rex Tillerson, the president's first secretary of state, was
\href{https://www.nbcnews.com/politics/white-house/tillerson-s-fury-trump-required-intervention-pence-n806451}{reported}
to have called Mr. Trump a ``moron'' in private --- one of several
former senior administration officials said to have rendered equivalent
verdicts --- Mr. Trump challenged him to ``compare I.Q. tests.'' A
favorite Trump insult on Twitter,
\href{https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/1107631297076305920}{reserved
for Mr. Biden} among others, is ``low I.Q. individual.''

``He doesn't want to feel like anybody is better than he is,'' said
Barbara A. Res, a former executive vice president of the Trump
Organization, who recalled Mr. Trump bragging about his college grades.
``He can't deal with that. I can see it now with the doctors, and that's
why he dismisses them. He used to be intimidated by lawyers. Anyone who
knows more than he does makes him feel less than he is.''

Steve Schmidt, a former Republican strategist and prominent Trump
critic, said the president's meditation on disinfectants stood apart
from a trope that Mr. Schmidt came to recognize as an adviser to
conservatives like Mr. Bush: ``that the conservative candidate in the
race was also always portrayed as the dumb candidate.''

``But a caricature is distinct from a narrative,'' Mr. Schmidt said. And
Mr. Trump's reckless medical fare, he reasoned, had given adversaries a
narrative by confirming a caricature.

The president's own
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/04/24/us/politics/trump-inject-disinfectant-bleach-coronavirus.html}{attempts
at damage control} have been scattershot. First, his new press
secretary, Kayleigh McEnany, accused the news media of taking Mr. Trump
out of context. Shortly afterward, he undercut her case by saying his
comments had in fact been a sarcastic prank on reporters, an explanation
even some supporters found implausible.

He left his Friday briefing on the coronavirus without taking questions.
By Saturday, when Mr. Trump tweeted that the events were
``\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/04/25/us/coronavirus-news.html}{not
worth the time \& effort},'' his opponents conceded this much:

The president had probably done something smart.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
