 **NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please
upgrade your browser.
\href{http://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/content/help/site/ie9-support.html}{LEARN
MORE »}

**Sections

**Home

**Search

\hypertarget{the-new-york-times}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\href{http://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/}{The
New York Times}}{The New York Times}}\label{the-new-york-times}}

\hypertarget{-magazine-}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/magazine}{Magazine}
}{ Magazine }}\label{-magazine-}}

 \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/magazine}{Magazine}
\textbar{}She Came to New York for the Vogue Ballroom Scene. She Found a
Family.

**Close search

\hypertarget{site-search-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Search Navigation}\label{site-search-navigation}}

Search NYTimes.com

**Clear this text input

Go

\url{https://nyti.ms/2XgcBBt}

\hypertarget{site-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Navigation}\label{site-navigation}}

\hypertarget{site-mobile-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Mobile Navigation}\label{site-mobile-navigation}}

\hypertarget{she-came-to-new-york-for-the-vogue-ballroom-scene-she-found-a-family}{%
\section{She Came to New York for the Vogue Ballroom Scene. She Found a
Family.}\label{she-came-to-new-york-for-the-vogue-ballroom-scene-she-found-a-family}}

Kendra Westwood isn't just a dancer --- she's also the head of a
``kiki'' house.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/05/30/magazine/performers-new-york.html}{The
New York Issue}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/05/30/magazine/dance-ballet-new-york.html}{Ballerina}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/05/30/magazine/sword-swallowing-new-york.html}{Sword
  swallower}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/05/30/magazine/gospel-singer-new-york.html}{Gospel
  singer}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/05/30/magazine/subway-dance-new-york.html}{Subway
  dancer}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/05/30/magazine/earl-rose-piano-carlyle-new-york.html}{Lounge
  pianist}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/05/30/magazine/broadway-kiss-me-kate.html}{Broadway
  star}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/05/30/magazine/latin-beat-new-york.html}{Percussionist}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/05/30/magazine/female-comedy-new-york.html}{Stand-up
  comic}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/05/30/magazine/aladdin-musical-new-york.html}{Broadway
  `Swing'}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/05/30/magazine/vogue-kiki-new-york.html}{Voguer}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/05/30/magazine/metropolitan-opera-singer-new-york.html}{Opera
  singer}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/05/30/magazine/princess-nokia-new-york.html}{Rapper}
\end{itemize}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/04/19/mag-newyork/assets/images/caret.svg}

Nº. 10 / The Voguer

\hypertarget{she-came-to-new-york-for-the-vogue-ballroom-scene-she-found-a-family-1}{%
\section{She Came to New York for the Vogue Ballroom Scene. She Found a
Family.}\label{she-came-to-new-york-for-the-vogue-ballroom-scene-she-found-a-family-1}}

Kendrå Westwood isn't just a dancer --- she's also the head of a
``kiki'' house.

By Lizzie FeidelsonPhotographs by Brenda Ann Kenneally

May 30, 2019

Like many members of the ballroom scene, Kendra Westwood had a difficult
relationship with her biological parents, who she felt didn't understand
her identity as a transgender woman. When she was 12, her
``grandfather'' --- a scene member who supports children in lieu of
biological family --- took her to a ball in Washington to show her ``how
fierce the scene could be,'' she told me, even if you just watch. The
ballroom scene originated in the 1920s and grew to prominence in New
York's black and Latino L.G.B.T. communities as a direct response to the
homophobia, transphobia and racism its participants suffered in their
daily lives. At 18, Westwood decided to cut ties with her biological
parents and move from Washington to New York.

 Video by Sasha Arutyunova

Around the time she moved to the city, Westwood went to a ball at Gay
Men's Health Crisis, an H.I.V./AIDS prevention, care and advocacy
organization. In ballroom, members belong to familial cliques, or
``houses,'' and compete, or ``walk,'' at evening-length balls before
peer judges. Westwood barely knew anyone, but she decided to get up and
vogue anyway. Vogueing is a style of dance that emerged from ballroom.
It involves fierce arm and hand poses reminiscent of runway models or
fashion photography, combined with breakdance-esque moves like
``dipping,'' in which the performer falls theatrically backward with one
foot pointed to the sky. While walking a ball, voguers move in an
improvised duet with the ball's commentator, a master of ceremonies who
delivers a propulsive, singsongy freestyle along with the D.J.'s beat.
Westwood ``cooked'' her opponent in a battle that night, and her
performance caused a stir. ``Everyone was asking me after the ball,''
she says: `` `Where you from? Who are you?' ''

That night, Westwood also met a beautiful transgender woman named Sharae
Kavoskii, the founder of House of Mattel, a newish house in the ``kiki''
scene. Kiki is a vibrant, youth-oriented subculture that began in 2002,
when Aisha Diori, who was then the mother of the House of Latex, teamed
up with H.I.V.-prevention organizations to fund low-stakes miniballs for
kids; it has since evolved into an independent community, with its own
balls and houses.

\hypertarget{the-new-york-issue}{%
\subparagraph{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/05/30/magazine/performers-new-york.html}{The
New York Issue}}{The New York Issue}}\label{the-new-york-issue}}

\hypertarget{what-it-takes-to-light-up-the-stage}{%
\subsubsection{What It Takes To Light Up the
Stage}\label{what-it-takes-to-light-up-the-stage}}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/05/30/magazine/dance-ballet-new-york.html}{}

The Ballerina

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/05/30/magazine/sword-swallowing-new-york.html}{}

The Sword swallower

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/05/30/magazine/gospel-singer-new-york.html}{}

The Gospel singer

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/05/30/magazine/subway-dance-new-york.html}{}

The Subway dancer

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/05/30/magazine/earl-rose-piano-carlyle-new-york.html}{}

The Lounge pianist

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/05/30/magazine/broadway-kiss-me-kate.html}{}

The Broadway star

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/05/30/magazine/latin-beat-new-york.html}{}

The Percussionist

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/05/30/magazine/female-comedy-new-york.html}{}

The Stand-up comic

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/05/30/magazine/aladdin-musical-new-york.html}{}

The Broadway `Swing'

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/05/30/magazine/vogue-kiki-new-york.html}{}

The Voguer

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/05/30/magazine/metropolitan-opera-singer-new-york.html}{}

The Opera singer

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/05/30/magazine/princess-nokia-new-york.html}{}

The Rapper

Soon after, Westwood joined House of Mattel. She also met a voguer named
Boogie, who became her ``father.'' ``Something about him was just ---
ever since then, I was his baby girl,'' Westwood told me. In Boogie's
living room in the Bronx, he and Westwood would ``pump the beat, and
we'd be vogueing for hours.'' In order to compete successfully in New
York's kiki scene, voguers rehearse at formalized practices once or
twice a week, but Westwood put in extra time with Boogie so she could
advance more quickly. Boogie taught Westwood to focus on the finer
points of vogue performance, which include using her hands to echo a
commentator's freestyle with matching gestures. He also taught her to do
vogue femme --- an upright, elongated style of vogue that is the
mainstay of vogueing by transgender women --- instead of the more
compact, boyish vogue she'd been doing until then. ``He's like: `Put
your hands up here --- dainty. Pick your back up!' ''

In ballroom, womanhood is at once a lived reality and a quality of
performance, channeled through attitude and specific choreography. Vogue
femme can be performed in the ``soft'' style, which is flowy and
sensuous, or in-your-face ``dramatics.'' The former is languid and
catlike --- in the charged environment of a ball, it can look almost
casual. Voguers dip to the ground as if melting, stroking their skin to
emphasize feminine softness. In dramatics, performers stalk the stage,
whipping their hair and kicking their feet up to give each dip velocity.

Even though kiki-scene balls are often sponsored by community-based
organizations, participants still must scrape together funds for
costumes or travel fees for out-of-state balls. For many low-income
members of the ballroom scene, these are serious expenses. Westwood
works at a social-services organization; in order to save money, she
sometimes shops at Halloween stores for her costumes, or ``effects,''
rather than commission new looks from scratch. She regularly travels
over an hour to get to her house practices or, every couple of weeks, to
walk in balls, which take place at music venues and community centers in
the Bronx, Manhattan and Brooklyn. Hundreds of young people gather, some
commuting from New Jersey or Philadelphia, to compete in balls that
start in the early evening and last for hours. While outreach workers
sit at tables on the perimeter, offering S.T.I. testing and other
services, young people take turns on a central runway lined with
spectators, eyes fixed on the judges' panel in the front. Each
participant wears an outfit to fit the evening's theme, some in jeans,
others in elaborate, clingy costumes. A D.J. spins while the commentator
riles up the crowd, announcing each new performer with: ``Let's. Go.''

When she first started vogueing, Westwood lived and competed as a boy.
But about a year ago, she began a gender transition, unveiling herself
at a ball in hazel contacts and ultrafeminine clothes. She now walks in
categories reserved for transgender women. She eventually toned down her
look, but the newfound comfort in her body was immediate, and her
experience of herself as a performer transformed. As a boy walking a
ball, Westwood says, she often worried spectators would think she was
``too much.'' As a girl, those thoughts disappeared. ``I could do
whatever I want now.''

Several months ago, Westwood, now 21, and one of her best friends,
Christopher Jones, whose ballroom name is Charming, decided to ``swerve
off'' from the House of Mattel and start their own kiki house called
House of Playboy. Starting a house is like ``starting your own brand,''
Westwood told me, but with responsibilities akin to those of a family.
Although not all members are her official ``children,'' she mentors
everyone in her house, treating them all like her ``babies,'' she said.
For a coming kiki ball in Philadelphia with a ``The Purge'' movie theme,
the whole house planned to come costumed in neon ski masks --- Westwood
wanted to bedazzle hers --- and they'd take a Friday train all together
from Penn Station.

A few days before the Philly ball, members of the House of Playboy took
turns vogueing in the middle of a tiled floor in a community center in
East Harlem where they practice for a few hours twice each week. A house
member complaining of knee pain sat at a table and played commentator.
``Surf like that,'' he commanded; mid-sashay, Westwood snapped her eyes
forward toward where he was sitting and improvised a smooth wave motion
with one arm. Her house children seemed so focused on watching her that
they forgot to cheer.

``You know how late it is when you're on the floor vogueing and
\emph{nobody's chanting,''} Charming chastised. Later, two girls watched
Westwood closely as she demonstrated a runway walk, her gaze at once
flirtatious and steely, black puffy coat draping off her arms. ``Make it
fun, make it entertaining,'' she told them. She clapped as the girls
demonstrated for her, singling out the shyest for praise. ``Girl!'' she
said, pleased. ``Your legs are \emph{long!''}

\textbf{Lizzie Feidelson} is a performer and writer in New York.
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2017/12/21/magazine/inside-the-high-drama-world-of-youth-competition-dance.html}{She
last wrote for the magazine about youth competition dance.}
\textbf{Brenda Ann Kenneally} is a documentary maker, an educator, a
Guggenheim fellow and the author of two books, most recently, ``Upstate
Girls.'' \textbf{Sasha Arutyunova} is a Moscow-born, Brooklyn-based
photographer and director.

Kendra Westwood will co-host the Time Machine Ball 2 on July 20 in
Brooklyn.

\hypertarget{the-new-york-issue-1}{%
\subparagraph{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/05/30/magazine/performers-new-york.html}{The
New York Issue}}{The New York Issue}}\label{the-new-york-issue-1}}

\hypertarget{what-it-takes-to-light-up-the-stage-1}{%
\subsubsection{What It Takes To Light Up the
Stage}\label{what-it-takes-to-light-up-the-stage-1}}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/05/30/magazine/dance-ballet-new-york.html}{}

\hypertarget{nuxba-1}{%
\subparagraph{Nº. 1}\label{nuxba-1}}

\hypertarget{the-ballerina}{%
\subparagraph{The Ballerina}\label{the-ballerina}}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/05/30/magazine/sword-swallowing-new-york.html}{}

\hypertarget{nuxba-2}{%
\subparagraph{Nº. 2}\label{nuxba-2}}

\hypertarget{the-sword-swallower}{%
\subparagraph{The Sword swallower}\label{the-sword-swallower}}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/05/30/magazine/gospel-singer-new-york.html}{}

\hypertarget{nuxba-3}{%
\subparagraph{Nº. 3}\label{nuxba-3}}

\hypertarget{the-gospel-singer}{%
\subparagraph{The Gospel singer}\label{the-gospel-singer}}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/05/30/magazine/subway-dance-new-york.html}{}

\hypertarget{nuxba-4}{%
\subparagraph{Nº. 4}\label{nuxba-4}}

\hypertarget{the-subway-dancer}{%
\subparagraph{The Subway dancer}\label{the-subway-dancer}}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/05/30/magazine/earl-rose-piano-carlyle-new-york.html}{}

\hypertarget{nuxba-5}{%
\subparagraph{Nº. 5}\label{nuxba-5}}

\hypertarget{the-lounge-pianist}{%
\subparagraph{The Lounge pianist}\label{the-lounge-pianist}}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/05/30/magazine/broadway-kiss-me-kate.html}{}

\hypertarget{nuxba-6}{%
\subparagraph{Nº. 6}\label{nuxba-6}}

\hypertarget{the-broadway-star}{%
\subparagraph{The Broadway star}\label{the-broadway-star}}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/05/30/magazine/latin-beat-new-york.html}{}

\hypertarget{nuxba-7}{%
\subparagraph{Nº. 7}\label{nuxba-7}}

\hypertarget{the-percussionist}{%
\subparagraph{The Percussionist}\label{the-percussionist}}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/05/30/magazine/female-comedy-new-york.html}{}

\hypertarget{nuxba-8}{%
\subparagraph{Nº. 8}\label{nuxba-8}}

\hypertarget{the-stand-up-comic}{%
\subparagraph{The Stand-up comic}\label{the-stand-up-comic}}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/05/30/magazine/aladdin-musical-new-york.html}{}

\hypertarget{nuxba-9}{%
\subparagraph{Nº. 9}\label{nuxba-9}}

\hypertarget{the-broadway-swing}{%
\subparagraph{The Broadway `Swing'}\label{the-broadway-swing}}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/05/30/magazine/vogue-kiki-new-york.html}{}

\hypertarget{nuxba-10}{%
\subparagraph{Nº. 10}\label{nuxba-10}}

\hypertarget{the-voguer}{%
\subparagraph{The Voguer}\label{the-voguer}}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/05/30/magazine/metropolitan-opera-singer-new-york.html}{}

\hypertarget{nuxba-11}{%
\subparagraph{Nº. 11}\label{nuxba-11}}

\hypertarget{the-opera-singer}{%
\subparagraph{The Opera singer}\label{the-opera-singer}}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/05/30/magazine/princess-nokia-new-york.html}{}

\hypertarget{nuxba-12}{%
\subparagraph{Nº. 12}\label{nuxba-12}}

\hypertarget{the-rapper}{%
\subparagraph{The Rapper}\label{the-rapper}}

\hypertarget{more-on-nytimescom}{%
\subsection{More on NYTimes.com}\label{more-on-nytimescom}}

Advertisement

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©
  2020 The New York Times Company}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Home}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/search/}{Search}
\item
  Accessibility concerns? Email us at
  \href{mailto:accessibility@NYTimes.com}{\nolinkurl{accessibility@NYTimes.com}}.
  We would love to hear from you.
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014892108-Privacy-policy\#pp}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014892108-Privacy-policy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation-1}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation-1}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us?redir=myacc}{Site
  Feedback}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
