Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/world/asia}{Asia
Pacific}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/world/asia}{Asia Pacific}\textbar{}China Spins Tale That
the U.S. Army Started the Coronavirus Epidemic

\url{https://nyti.ms/39QQzvI}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{The
Coronavirus Outbreak}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  live\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/04/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Latest
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Maps
  and Cases}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Vaccine
  Tracker}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/02/us/covid-college-reopening.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{College
  Reopening}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/03/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Economy}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{china-spins-tale-that-the-us-army-started-the-coronavirus-epidemic}{%
\section{China Spins Tale That the U.S. Army Started the Coronavirus
Epidemic}\label{china-spins-tale-that-the-us-army-started-the-coronavirus-epidemic}}

After criticizing American officials for politicizing the pandemic,
Chinese officials and news outlets have floated unfounded theories that
the United States was the source of the virus.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/03/15/world/15virus-china-conspiracy/merlin_162934194_dc776967-5551-4669-8b03-fe923044fb0c-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/steven-lee-myers}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/10/15/multimedia/author-steven-lee-myers/author-steven-lee-myers-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/steven-lee-myers}{Steven
Lee Myers}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Published March 13, 2020Updated March 17, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://cn.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/china/20200315/coronavirus-china-conspiracy-theory/}{阅读简体中文版}\href{https://cn.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/china/20200315/coronavirus-china-conspiracy-theory/zh-hant/}{閱讀繁體中文版}

BEIJING --- China is pushing a new theory about the origins of
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/03/13/world/asia/coronavirus-death-life.html?action=click\&module=Top\%20Stories\&pgtype=Homepage}{the
coronavirus}: It is an American disease that might have been introduced
by members of the United States Army who visited Wuhan in October.

There is not a shred of evidence to support that, but the notion
received an official endorsement from China's Ministry of Foreign
Affairs, whose spokesman accused American officials of not coming clean
about what they know about
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/13/world/coronavirus-news.html}{the
disease}.

\emph{{[}Read:}
\href{http://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/18/world/asia/coronavirus-china-aid.html}{\emph{As
its coronavirus cases dwindle, China is turning its focus
outward}}\emph{.{]}}

The intentional spreading of an unfounded conspiracy theory --- which
recirculated on China's tightly controlled internet on Friday ---
punctuated a downward spiral in relations between the two countries that
has been fueled by the basest instincts of officials on both sides.

The insinuation came in a series of posts on Twitter by Zhao Lijian, a
ministry spokesman who has made good use of the platform, which is
blocked in China, to push a newly aggressive, and hawkish, diplomatic
strategy. It is most likely intended to deflect attention from
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/02/01/world/asia/china-coronavirus.html}{China's
own missteps} in the early weeks of the epidemic by sowing confusion or,
at least, uncertainty at home and abroad.

Mr. Zhao's posts appeared to be a retort to similarly unsubstantiated
theories about the origins of the outbreak that have spread in the
United States. Senior officials there have called the epidemic the
``Wuhan virus,'' and at least one senator
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/02/17/business/media/coronavirus-tom-cotton-china.html}{hinted
darkly} that the epidemic began with the leak of a Chinese biological
weapon.

\emph{{[}Read:}
\href{http://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/03/13/world/asia/coronavirus-death-life.html}{\emph{Two
women fell sick from the coronavirus. One survived.}}\emph{{]}}

``The conspiracy theories are a new, low front in what they clearly
perceive as a global competition over the narrative of this crisis,''
said Julian B. Gewirtz, a scholar at the Weatherhead Center for
International Affairs at Harvard.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/03/13/world/13virus-china-conspiracy4/merlin_170451939_204fa8a1-17a9-4262-a56f-088996181986-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

``There are a few Chinese officials who appear to have gone to the
Donald J. Trump School of Diplomacy,'' added Mr. Gewirtz, who recently
\href{https://academic.oup.com/past/advance-article/doi/10.1093/pastj/gtz068/5780302}{published
a paper}on China's handling of the AIDS epidemic, after a similar
disinformation campaign. ``This small cadre of high-volume Chinese
officials don't seem to realize that peddling conspiracy theories is
totally self-defeating for China, at a moment when it wants to be seen
as a positive contributor around the world.''

The circulation of disinformation is not a new tactic for the Communist
Party state. The United States, in particular, is often a foil of
Chinese propaganda efforts. Last year, Beijing
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/09/05/world/asia/china-hong-kong-protests.html}{explicitly
accused} the American government of supporting public protests in Hong
Kong in an effort to weaken the party's rule.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-global-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/04/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: Global Coronavirus
Outbreak}}{Latest Updates: Global Coronavirus Outbreak}}\label{latest-updates-global-coronavirus-outbreak}}

Updated 2020-08-04T09:15:14.275Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/04/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-6b644638}{`Long
  days, long nights': Washington prepares for a prolonged fight over
  virus relief.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/04/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-7af9fca0}{Israel's
  rocky reopening of its schools may be a lesson for the U.S.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/04/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-33bf9168}{Hurricane
  Isaias arrives in North Carolina as officials along the East Coast
  scramble.}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/04/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

More live coverage:
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/03/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Markets}

The old tactic has been amplified by more combative public diplomacy and
a new embrace of a social media platform that is blocked in China to
spread a message abroad.

Victor Shih, an associate professor at the University of California at
San Diego who studies Chinese politics, said that while the campaign was
very likely an attempt to distract and deflect blame, a more worrisome
possibility was that some officials fabricated the idea and persuaded
top leaders to believe it.

``If the leadership really believes in the culpability of the U.S.
government,'' he warned, ``it may behave in a way that dramatically
worsens the bilateral relationship.''

China's leader, Xi Jinping, has faced sharp criticism for the
government's initial handling of the outbreak, even at
home.\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/02/07/world/asia/china-coronavirus-doctor-death.html}{Public
anger erupted} in February when a doctor who was punished for warning
his colleagues about the coronavirus died, prompting censors to redouble
their efforts to stifle public criticism.

Image

A vigil for Dr. Li Wenliang in Hong Kong last month. Dr. Li had warned
his colleagues about coronavirus before dying.Credit...Lam Yik Fei for
The New York Times

Chinese officials have repeatedly urged officials in other countries not
to politicize what is a public health emergency. Conservatives in the
United States, in particular, have latched on to loaded terms that have
been criticized for stigmatizing the Chinese people. Secretary of
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/10/us/politics/wuhan-virus.html?searchResultPosition=1}{State
Mike Pompeo referred to the ``Wuhan virus,''}while Representative Kevin
McCarthy, Republican of California, called it the ``Chinese
coronavirus.''

In response, Chinese officials and state news media have stepped up
their criticism of American officials' comments.

Only days before Mr. Zhao's latest post, the Xinhua news agency
published a commentary denouncing ``Washington's poisonous coronavirus
politics'' and warning that spreading rumors simply encouraged ``fear,
division and hate.''

``Their dangerously irresponsible statements are highly
counterproductive at this drastic hour that demands solidarity and
cooperation,''
\href{http://www.xinhuanet.com/english/2020-03/09/c_138859548.htm}{the
commentary}, written by Gao Wencheng, said, ``and could be much more
menacing than the virus itself.''

The coronavirus, according to all evidence, emanated from Wuhan, China,
in late December. Scientists have not yet identified a ``patient zero''
or a precise source of the virus, though preliminary studies have linked
it to a virus in bats that passed through another mammal before
infecting humans.

A senior official of China's National Health Commission, Liang Wannian,
said at
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/02/24/world/asia/china-coronavirus-world-health-organization.html}{a
briefing} in Beijing last month that the likely carrier was
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/05/opinion/coronavirus-china-pangolins.html}{a
pangolin}, an endangered species that is trafficked almost exclusively
to China for its meat and for its scales, which are prized for use in
traditional medicine.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{}

\hypertarget{the-coronavirus-outbreak-}{%
\subsubsection{The Coronavirus Outbreak
›}\label{the-coronavirus-outbreak-}}

\hypertarget{frequently-asked-questions}{%
\paragraph{Frequently Asked
Questions}\label{frequently-asked-questions}}

Updated August 3, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{im-a-small-business-owner-can-i-get-relief}{%
  \paragraph{I'm a small-business owner. Can I get
  relief?}\label{im-a-small-business-owner-can-i-get-relief}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    The
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/small-business-loans-stimulus-grants-freelancers-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{stimulus
    bills enacted in March} offer help for the millions of American
    small businesses. Those eligible for aid are businesses and
    nonprofit organizations with fewer than 500 workers, including sole
    proprietorships, independent contractors and freelancers. Some
    larger companies in some industries are also eligible. The help
    being offered, which is being managed by the Small Business
    Administration, includes the Paycheck Protection Program and the
    Economic Injury Disaster Loan program. But lots of folks have
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/05/07/business/small-business-loans-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{not
    yet seen payouts.} Even those who have received help are confused:
    The rules are draconian, and some are stuck sitting on
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/02/business/economy/loans-coronavirus-small-business.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{money
    they don't know how to use.} Many small-business owners are getting
    less than they expected or
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/10/business/Small-business-loans-ppp.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{not
    hearing anything at all.}
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{what-are-my-rights-if-i-am-worried-about-going-back-to-work}{%
  \paragraph{What are my rights if I am worried about going back to
  work?}\label{what-are-my-rights-if-i-am-worried-about-going-back-to-work}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Employers have to provide
    \href{https://www.osha.gov/SLTC/covid-19/standards.html}{a safe
    workplace} with policies that protect everyone equally.
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/coronavirus-money-unemployment.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{And
    if one of your co-workers tests positive for the coronavirus, the
    C.D.C.} has said that
    \href{https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/community/guidance-business-response.html}{employers
    should tell their employees} -\/- without giving you the sick
    employee's name -\/- that they may have been exposed to the virus.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{should-i-refinance-my-mortgage}{%
  \paragraph{Should I refinance my
  mortgage?}\label{should-i-refinance-my-mortgage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/coronavirus-money-unemployment.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{It
    could be a good idea,} because mortgage rates have
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/16/business/mortgage-rates-below-3-percent.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{never
    been lower.} Refinancing requests have pushed mortgage applications
    to some of the highest levels since 2008, so be prepared to get in
    line. But defaults are also up, so if you're thinking about buying a
    home, be aware that some lenders have tightened their standards.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{what-is-school-going-to-look-like-in-september}{%
  \paragraph{What is school going to look like in
  September?}\label{what-is-school-going-to-look-like-in-september}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    It is unlikely that many schools will return to a normal schedule
    this fall, requiring the grind of
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/05/us/coronavirus-education-lost-learning.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{online
    learning},
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/29/us/coronavirus-child-care-centers.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{makeshift
    child care} and
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/03/business/economy/coronavirus-working-women.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{stunted
    workdays} to continue. California's two largest public school
    districts --- Los Angeles and San Diego --- said on July 13, that
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/13/us/lausd-san-diego-school-reopening.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{instruction
    will be remote-only in the fall}, citing concerns that surging
    coronavirus infections in their areas pose too dire a risk for
    students and teachers. Together, the two districts enroll some
    825,000 students. They are the largest in the country so far to
    abandon plans for even a partial physical return to classrooms when
    they reopen in August. For other districts, the solution won't be an
    all-or-nothing approach.
    \href{https://bioethics.jhu.edu/research-and-outreach/projects/eschool-initiative/school-policy-tracker/}{Many
    systems}, including the nation's largest, New York City, are
    devising
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/26/us/coronavirus-schools-reopen-fall.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{hybrid
    plans} that involve spending some days in classrooms and other days
    online. There's no national policy on this yet, so check with your
    municipal school system regularly to see what is happening in your
    community.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{is-the-coronavirus-airborne}{%
  \paragraph{Is the coronavirus
  airborne?}\label{is-the-coronavirus-airborne}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    The coronavirus
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/04/health/239-experts-with-one-big-claim-the-coronavirus-is-airborne.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{can
    stay aloft for hours in tiny droplets in stagnant air}, infecting
    people as they inhale, mounting scientific evidence suggests. This
    risk is highest in crowded indoor spaces with poor ventilation, and
    may help explain super-spreading events reported in meatpacking
    plants, churches and restaurants.
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/06/health/coronavirus-airborne-aerosols.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{It's
    unclear how often the virus is spread} via these tiny droplets, or
    aerosols, compared with larger droplets that are expelled when a
    sick person coughs or sneezes, or transmitted through contact with
    contaminated surfaces, said Linsey Marr, an aerosol expert at
    Virginia Tech. Aerosols are released even when a person without
    symptoms exhales, talks or sings, according to Dr. Marr and more
    than 200 other experts, who
    \href{https://academic.oup.com/cid/article/doi/10.1093/cid/ciaa939/5867798}{have
    outlined the evidence in an open letter to the World Health
    Organization}.
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

The first cluster of patients was reported at the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/01/25/world/asia/china-markets-coronavirus-sars.html}{Huanan
Seafood Wholesale Marke}t, and studies have since suggested that the
virus could have been introduced there by someone already infected.
Wuhan and the surrounding province of Hubei account for the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/world/coronavirus-maps.html}{overwhelming
amount} of cases and deaths, so there is no scientific reason to believe
the virus began elsewhere.

Mr. Zhao's assertion began with a post linking to a video of the
director of the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, Robert
R. Redfield, testifying before the House on Wednesday and suggesting
that some flu deaths might have been caused by the coronavirus.

Image

The Huanan Seafood Market in Wuhan was disinfected and closed in January
after it was linked to the coronavirus outbreak.Credit...Hector
Retamal/Agence France-Presse --- Getty Images

``When did patient zero begin in US?'' Mr. Zhao wrote on Twitter, first
in English and separately in Chinese. ``How many people are infected.
What are the names of the hospitals? It might be US army who brought the
epidemic to Wuhan. Be transparent! Make public your date! US owe us an
explanation.''

Mr. Zhao appeared to refer to
the\href{https://www.defense.gov/Explore/Spotlight/CISM-Military-World-Games/}{Military
World Games}, which were held in Wuhan in October. The Pentagon sent 17
teams with more than 280 athletes and other staff members to the event,
well before any reported outbreaks. The Pentagon has had confirmed cases
in South Korea and Italy and is
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/12/us/politics/military-virus-pentagon.html}{bracing
for more to emerge,}but no illnesses have been tied to American service
members from October.

Mr. Zhao's remarks were spread on China's most prominent social media
platform, Weibo, under a hashtag:
\#ZhaoLijianPostedFiveTweetsinaRowQuestioningAmerica. By late afternoon
on Friday, that hashtag had been viewed more than 160 million times,
along with screenshots of the original Twitter posts.

The State Department summoned the Chinese ambassador on Friday to
protest Mr. Zhao's comments, officials in the Trump administration said.

At the regular briefing at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on Friday,
another spokesman, Geng Shuang, sidestepped three questions about
whether Mr. Zhao's suggestion had politicized the crisis and reflected
official Chinese policy.

He instead noted the statements made by American officials and lawmakers
to ``smear and attack'' China.

``We are firmly opposed to this,'' he said. ``In fact, the international
community, including the United States at home, have different views on
the source of the virus. What I have been saying in recent days is that
the Chinese side always believed that this is a scientific issue and
requires scientific and professional opinions.''

Claire Fu contributed research.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
