Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/style}{Style}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/style}{Style}\textbar{}One Question Left on the Board

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

vows

\hypertarget{one-question-left-on-the-board}{%
\section{One Question Left on the
Board}\label{one-question-left-on-the-board}}

Lina-Marie Mano and Andrew Silvestri played 20 questions while they were
dating as a way to learn more about each other.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/09/13/fashion/11Vows-OKC1/merlin_175025325_35dffc9a-2d6f-4aaa-9b51-c3e899c4bb5e-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/vincent-m-mallozzi}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2019/02/14/multimedia/author-vincent-m-mallozzi/author-vincent-m-mallozzi-thumbLarge.png}}

By
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/vincent-m-mallozzi}{Vincent
M. Mallozzi}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Sept. 11, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Shortly after they began dating, Lina-Marie Mano and Andrew Silvestri
started playing a game called 20 questions.

``We made individual lists of 20 questions that we could ask each other
any time we wanted,'' said Mr. Silvestri, 34, the head of data center
public policy and community development at Google in Oklahoma City.

``We made a rule that no matter the question, we had to be totally
honest with our answers,'' he said. ``It was a nice way to clear the air
about a lot of things, or to simply learn new things, or to possibly
come to know more about each other than we had previously known.''

Ms. Mano learned just how good Mr. Silvestri was at playing the game
when he fielded her first question --- ``Do you prefer dating blondes or
brunettes?,'' a little too smoothly.

``Well,'' he said, proceeding to burn a short, exaggerated stare at her
long dark hair, ``I definitely prefer brunettes.''

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/09/11/fashion/11Vows-OKC2/merlin_175025121_b9325a69-7dc9-4312-83f2-c38c4f12e408-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Image

The coronavirus had forced the couple to change their original wedding
date and reduce their guest list.Credit...Nick Oxford for The New York
Times

Ms. Mano wasn't thrilled. ``I guess I wasted that question,'' she said.

Several other questions, especially those regarding past relationships,
produced the kind of delicate answers that took the couple from
frivolity to fragility.

``Those questions didn't always go over so well, but that was the
point,'' said Ms. Mano, 35, the senior merchandise planner in fine
apparel and couture collections for the Neiman Marcus Group in Dallas.
``The whole idea was to create question-and-answer sessions that brought
new information into our conversations,'' she said, ``or at the very
least, added much more depth and insight to anything we chatted about.
It was great.''

Ms. Mano and Mr. Silvestri met in Oklahoma City on Halloween in 2016.
They were in a mutual friend's backyard, where Ms. Mano, who then lived
in Dallas, sat around a fire pit sipping wine with other guests.

Image

The bride wore an Oscar de la Renta Landon silk V-neck trumpet gown. The
groom had on a midnight navy blue pin dot tuxedo with Giuseppe Zanotti's
Lewis black suede loafers.Credit...Nick Oxford for The New York Times

Mr. Silvestri had just returned from a failed date, and began telling
anyone within earshot, including Ms. Mano, all about it. ``I was on a
Bumble date, appropriately enough,'' he said. ``The plan was to go out
for drinks and then to dinner, but midway through the date, we both knew
it wasn't going anywhere, so we decided to cut the evening short right
then and there.''

After the woeful tale, he was introduced to Ms. Mano.

``Hey, are you single,'' he asked, ``Why don't we go out?''

Ms. Mano recalled ``laughing it off and then ignoring him.''

``I actually thought he was funny and very cute,'' she added, ``but I
didn't think he really meant what he said, because he lived in Oklahoma
City and I lived in Dallas.''

Yet before going their separate ways, they both felt they had made an
immediate connection, having spent a few hours telling stories and
laughing with one another.

They began building a friendship via text messages, and began learning
even more about each other.

Mr. Silvestri was born to a Mexican mother, Rosana Elias Silvestri, and
an Italian father, Dr. Paul Silvestri, a psychologist, who lived in
Tucson, Ariz. He told Ms. Mano that he graduated from Oklahoma Christian
University and received a Master in Public Policy from Harvard.

Ms. Mano is a daughter of a French mother, Marie-Pierre Mano, and a
Japanese father, Dr. Noriyuki Mano, an orthopedic surgeon, who lived in
Orlando, Fla. Ms. Mano had graduated from Auburn University and received
a master's degree in international business at Grenoble Graduate School
of Business in Paris.

Image

Guests were able to view some of the art installations.Credit...Nick
Oxford for The New York Times

Image

Hors d'oeuvres were passed out to during the cocktail hour.Credit...Nick
Oxford for The New York Times

``I was really more interested in her than she was in me,'' Mr.
Silvestri said. ``But she was so beautiful and smart, and well worth
pursuing.''

On Nov. 18 2016, Mr. Silvestri's 31st birthday, he decided to call Ms.
Mano and ask her to dinner. When her voice began to sputter, he said,
``Come on, you can't say no, it's my birthday.''

She said yes, setting into motion a long-distance relationship that
began with a first date at a restaurant in Oklahoma City. They were part
of a larger group that night, all of whom heard Ms. Mano continually
call Mr. Silvestri, ``Alex,'' the name of a mutual friend who was
already a part of the group.

Mr. Silvestri laughed it off, as did Ms. Mano, and the next night, he
took her to an Oklahoma City basketball game against the visiting
Phoenix Suns.

``My big fear was that we were going to end up on the Kiss Cam,'' Ms.
Mano said. ``Thankfully that didn't happen.''

Kiss or no kiss, Mr. Silvestri said: ``I fell for her pretty fast and
pretty hard.

Image

The newlyweds posed for photos outside the arts center.Credit...Nick
Oxford for The New York Times

In January 2017, he asked her to be his girlfriend, and her response had
them both laughing once more. ``She told me that she would not
officially become my girlfriend until we went on 25 dates,'' Mr.
Silvestri said. ``So I started keeping track.''

Through chuckles, Ms. Mano denied issuing the 25-date edict, and began
seeing Mr. Silvestri on a fairly regular basis.

One morning in March 2017, Ms. Mano and Mr. Silvestri began making plans
for a trip to the Lincoln Memorial in Washington, one of Mr. Silvestri's
favorite places.

``There is always such a hectic scene there,'' he said. ``But if you go
around to the back of the memorial, which faces Virginia and the river,
it's like a different world, so peaceful and quiet.

``When I was in college, I always imagined bringing my future wife
there,'' he added.

On the day of the trip, Mr. Silvestri delighted in telling Ms. Mano that
it just so happened to be Date No. 25, reminding her, as per their
arrangement, that she was officially his girlfriend.

``I had no idea he was actually counting our dates,'' Ms. Mano said.

\emph{{[}}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/love-letter?module=inline}{\emph{Sign
up for Love Letter and always get the latest in Modern Love, weddings,
and relationships in the news by email.}}\emph{{]}}

Image

The reception hall was draped in fabric and lit with Edison
bulbs.Credit...Nick Oxford for The New York Times

Image

Balloons filled the reception area.Credit...Nick Oxford for The New York
Times

They were soon walking hand in hand behind the Lincoln Memorial, where
Mr. Silvestri told his newly minted girlfriend for the very first time
that he loved her.

She returned the L-word immediately.

``When Lina came into my life, I was running around about 100 miles per
hour, like a madman, always dealing with work or education-related
issues,'' Mr. Silvestri said. ``But she centered my spirit, allowing me
to calm down and refocus, and to realize that nothing is more important
than family.''

Ms. Mano credited Mr. Silvestri ``with kind of pushing me to be a more
open and strong person.''

``I'm sort of shy,'' she said, ``but Andrew pushes me out of my comfort
zone sometimes and allows me to have a voice.''

Two years later, in January 2019, the couple returned to the Lincoln
Memorial, and this time, Mr. Silvestri dropped to one knee, and asked
Ms. Mano Question No. 19 on his 20-question list: ``Will you marry me?''

Then, in August 2019, Mr. Silvestri, the youngest of three children, was
dealt a crushing blow when his mother died from complications of
pancreatic cancer.

``Our getting engaged was a moment for us to really celebrate life and
take advantage of family, then suddenly, my mom was not there to help us
celebrate,'' said Mr. Silvestri, beginning to cry. ``It was just
devastating.''

Image

Mr. Silvestri said Ms. Mano, who he met on Halloween in 2016, ``centered
my spirit, allowing me to calm down and refocus, and to realize that
nothing is more important than family.''Credit...Nick Oxford for The New
York Times

Ms. Mano, who has an older sister, said ``losing his mother only made
Andrew lean heavier on family.''

``If he's not around family,'' she said, ``he's usually trying to get
family together.''

They were married July 25 at the Oklahoma Contemporary Arts Center in
Oklahoma City before 100 guests. The groom's father, Paul Silvestri, who
was ordained by Church of Christ, officiated. The coronavirus forced the
couple to drop their original wedding date, March 21, and to shave 150
family members and friends from their guest list.

``Andrew and Lina, in just a few minutes you are going to step into a
life that is full of new possibilities, new dreams and new hopes,'' the
groom's father said. ``You see, this marriage was in the making nearly
35 years ago beginning on the day Andrew was born.

``I don't think a day passed by where we didn't pray and ask God to
bring just the right woman for Andrew to marry and asking God to also
prepare Andrew to be the right man for the woman he chose,'' he told the
bride. ``You are God's answer to all these years of prayer and we
couldn't be happier.''

Neither could the newlyweds, who, according to the rules of a game they
began playing four years earlier, still have one question left to ask
each other.

Image

Ms. Mano credited Mr. Silvestri ``with kind of pushing me to be a more
open and strong person.''Credit...Nick Oxford for The New York Times

The subject of that official 20th question could be anything in the
coming years, given what could lie ahead. Children? Promotions? Vacation
plans?

``Having used up all of our other questions has made this last one that
much more valuable,'' the groom said. ``The possibilities are endless.''

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

\hypertarget{on-this-day}{%
\subsubsection{On This Day}\label{on-this-day}}

\textbf{When} July 25, 2020

\textbf{Where} Oklahoma Contemporary Arts Center, Oklahoma City

\textbf{The Bride's Attire} She donned an Oscar de la Renta Landon silk
V-neck trumpet gown with draped ruffle back and illusion neckline. She
also wore, Miu Miu metallic leather sandals with crystal-studded straps,
embellished butterfly earrings by Nicola Bathie, and a yellow gold
Cartier love bracelet given to her by the groom on their wedding day.

\textbf{The Groom's Attire} He wore a midnight navy blue pin dot tuxedo
with Giuseppe Zanotti's Lewis cup crystal embellished black suede
loafers, his grandfathers gold cuff links, and a Z-Blue Dial Milgauss
Rolex watch, given to him by the bride on their wedding day.

\textbf{Near His Heart} The groom kept a picture of his mother in the
breast pocket of his tuxedo during the ceremony. ``She was right over my
heart the entire time,'' he said.

\emph{Continue following our fashion and lifestyle coverage on Facebook
(}\href{https://www.facebookcorewwwi.onion/nytimesstyles}{\emph{Styles}}
\emph{and}
\href{https://www.facebookcorewwwi.onion/modernlove}{\emph{Modern
Love}}\emph{), Twitter
(}\href{https://twitter.com/nytstyles}{\emph{Styles}}\emph{,}
\href{https://twitter.com/nytfashion}{\emph{Fashion}} \emph{and}
\href{https://twitter.com/nytimesvows}{\emph{Weddings}}\emph{) and}
\href{https://instagram.com/nytimesfashion}{\emph{Instagram}}\emph{.}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
