Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/world/asia}{Asia Pacific}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/world/asia}{Asia Pacific}\textbar{}China Confirms New
Coronavirus Spreads From Humans to Humans

\url{https://nyti.ms/2tDdP0f}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/news-event/coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{The
Coronavirus Outbreak}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  live\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/02/world/coronavirus-updates.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Latest
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Maps
  and Cases}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Vaccine
  Tracker}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/07/29/us/schools-reopening-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{What
  School May Look Like}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/live/2020/07/31/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Economy}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{china-confirms-new-coronavirus-spreads-from-humans-to-humans}{%
\section{China Confirms New Coronavirus Spreads From Humans to
Humans}\label{china-confirms-new-coronavirus-spreads-from-humans-to-humans}}

A top Chinese government-appointed expert says a mysterious respiratory
illness that has killed at least four people can be transmitted by
humans, heightening concern about the outbreak.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/01/20/world/20china-virus-explainer-1/merlin_167415117_1722dfb8-f598-4919-90ad-40fe00900b5e-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/javier-c-hernandez}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/11/22/multimedia/author-javier-c-hernandez/author-javier-c-hernandez-thumbLarge-v3.png}}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/austin-ramzy}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/10/15/multimedia/author-austin-ramzy/author-austin-ramzy-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/javier-c-hernandez}{Javier C.
Hernández} and \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/austin-ramzy}{Austin
Ramzy}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Published Jan. 20, 2020Updated Feb. 19, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://cn.nytimes.com/china/20200121/coronavirus-china-symptoms/}{阅读简体中文版}\href{https://cn.nytimes.com/china/20200121/coronavirus-china-symptoms/zh-hant/}{閱讀繁體中文版}

WUHAN, China --- The mysterious coronavirus that has killed at least
four people and sickened more than 200 in China is capable of spreading
from person to person, a prominent Chinese scientist said on Monday,
adding to fears of a broader epidemic.

The disclosure increased pressure on the Chinese government to contain a
growing public health crisis, just as China enters its
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/01/22/world/asia/china-coronavirus-travel.html}{busiest
travel season of the year}. On Tuesday, the authorities confirmed a
\href{http://wjw.wuhan.gov.cn/front/web/showDetail/2020012109083}{fourth
death} from the illness in the central Chinese city of Wuhan.

The authorities had previously said
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/01/21/health/what-is-coronavirus.html}{the
deadly virus} seemed capable of spreading only from animals to humans in
most cases, tracing the outbreak to a market in Wuhan.

But in recent days at least two people have become infected with the
pneumonialike virus even though they live hundreds of miles from Wuhan,
experts said on Monday, suggesting that the
illness\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/02/19/world/asia/china-coronavirus.html}{is
spreading from person to person}.

``Now we can say it is certain that it is a human-to-human transmission
phenomenon,'' Dr. Zhong Nanshan, a scientist who is leading a
government-appointed expert panel on the outbreak, said in an interview
on state-run television on Monday.

The World Health Organization announced Monday that it was convening an
emergency meeting on Wednesday ``to ascertain whether the outbreak
constitutes a public health emergency of international concern, and what
recommendations should be made to manage it.''

Millions of Chinese are traveling this week for the Lunar New Year
holiday, adding to fears that the virus could spread swiftly and on a
broader scale. Experts said the severity of the outbreak would now
depend on how many people, on average, a person with virus could infect.

``There are now sufficient cases that it's not going to die out by
chance,'' said Neil Ferguson, a public health expert at Imperial College
London who has studied the new virus. ``The real question now is, how
efficiently can this virus spread from person to person?''

China's leader, Xi Jinping, said on Monday that the outbreak ``must be
taken seriously'' and that every possible measure should be taken to
contain it, according to the state broadcaster CCTV.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-global-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/01/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: Global Coronavirus
Outbreak}}{Latest Updates: Global Coronavirus Outbreak}}\label{latest-updates-global-coronavirus-outbreak}}

Updated 2020-08-02T17:52:35.962Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/01/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-34047410}{The
  U.S. reels as July cases more than double the total of any other
  month.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/01/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-780ec966}{Top
  U.S. officials work to break an impasse over the federal jobless
  benefit.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/01/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-2bc8948}{Its
  outbreak untamed, Melbourne goes into even greater lockdown.}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/01/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

More live coverage:
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/live/2020/07/31/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Markets}

Also on Monday, the authorities reported that new cases had been
detected for the first time in Beijing, Shanghai and the southern
province of Guangdong, all hundreds of miles from Wuhan. Cases have also
been reported in Japan, South Korea and Thailand. In many of these
cases, people infected with the virus had traveled to Wuhan.

Here is what we know about the virus, where it has been found, how it is
spreading and what precautions are being taken:

\hypertarget{the-virus-emerged-in-the-city-of-wuhan}{%
\subsection{The virus emerged in the city of
Wuhan.}\label{the-virus-emerged-in-the-city-of-wuhan}}

The government of Wuhan
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/01/06/world/asia/china-SARS-pneumonialike.html}{first
confirmed on Dec. 31} that hospitals in the city were treating dozens of
patients for pneumonia with an unknown cause.

Many of the cases were connected to the Huanan Seafood Market, which
also sold live poultry and exotic animal meats. Considered a likely
source of the virus, the market was closed and disinfected.

The health commission in Wuhan said on Sunday that the illness had also
appeared in people who had not been exposed to the market, raising the
possibility that the virus could be present elsewhere in the city.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/01/20/world/20china-virus-explainer-3/merlin_167281143_e5116096-9281-4782-a34f-3ea3468d20b2-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Local officials have pledged to handle the outbreak with transparency.
But the memory of how China initially covered up the extent of
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2003/04/27/world/the-sars-epidemic-the-path-from-china-s-provinces-a-crafty-germ-breaks-out.html}{a
deadly SARS outbreak} that infected more than 8,000 people in 2002 and
2003 has not completely faded. Although flu experts have said the
Chinese government is trying to be more transparent now, many in China
remain skeptical.

Over the weekend, the number of reported cases
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/01/18/world/asia/china-virus-wuhan-coronavirus.html}{more
than tripled to about 200}, mostly in Wuhan. One more person in the city
died, bringing the total death toll to three, while nine others remained
critically ill, the city's health commission said. Twenty-five people
have recovered.

The authorities have started detecting the country's first cases outside
of Wuhan. Five new cases were reported in Beijing, 14 in Guangdong
Province, and two in Shanghai. The total number of cases climbed to at
least 219.

The World Health Organization said the spike in reported cases was the
result of
\href{https://twitter.com/WHO/status/1219026530636091392}{increased
searching and testing} for respiratory illnesses.

\hypertarget{the-virus-now-appears-to-spread-between-humans}{%
\subsection{The virus now appears to spread between
humans.}\label{the-virus-now-appears-to-spread-between-humans}}

Researchers in China
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/01/08/health/china-pneumonia-outbreak-virus.html}{identified
the mysterious pneumonialike illness} in early January as a new
coronavirus.

Experts initially said that it did not appear to be readily spread by
humans, but on Monday Dr. Zhong, the scientist appointed by the
government to study the outbreak, said that in Guangdong, two
individuals appeared to have been infected by relatives who had traveled
to Wuhan.

Dr. Zhong said the virus could be present in particles of saliva. In one
case, he said, a patient appears to have infected 14 medical workers.

Coronaviruses are named for the spikes that protrude from their
membranes, like the sun's corona. Such viruses cause several illnesses
of the respiratory tract, ranging from the common cold to severe
diseases like SARS. Dr. Zhong was China's
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2005/05/15/health/after-its-epidemic-arrival-sars-vanishes.html}{leading
SARS expert} during that outbreak.

According \href{https://www.who.int/health-topics/coronavirus}{to the
World Health Organization}, common signs of infection include fever,
cough, and respiratory difficulties like shortness of breath. Serious
cases can lead to pneumonia, kidney failure and even death.

\hypertarget{cases-have-been-reported-outside-china}{%
\subsection{Cases have been reported outside
China.}\label{cases-have-been-reported-outside-china}}

The
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/01/15/world/asia/coronavirus-japan-china.html}{authorities
in Thailand detected the new coronavirus} last week in two Chinese women
who had flown from Wuhan to Bangkok on separate trips. The government
said the women, aged 74 and 61, were in good condition.

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/news-event/coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{}

\hypertarget{the-coronavirus-outbreak-}{%
\subsubsection{The Coronavirus Outbreak
›}\label{the-coronavirus-outbreak-}}

\hypertarget{frequently-asked-questions}{%
\paragraph{Frequently Asked
Questions}\label{frequently-asked-questions}}

Updated July 27, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{should-i-refinance-my-mortgage}{%
  \paragraph{Should I refinance my
  mortgage?}\label{should-i-refinance-my-mortgage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/coronavirus-money-unemployment.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{It
    could be a good idea,} because mortgage rates have
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/16/business/mortgage-rates-below-3-percent.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{never
    been lower.} Refinancing requests have pushed mortgage applications
    to some of the highest levels since 2008, so be prepared to get in
    line. But defaults are also up, so if you're thinking about buying a
    home, be aware that some lenders have tightened their standards.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{what-is-school-going-to-look-like-in-september}{%
  \paragraph{What is school going to look like in
  September?}\label{what-is-school-going-to-look-like-in-september}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    It is unlikely that many schools will return to a normal schedule
    this fall, requiring the grind of
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/05/us/coronavirus-education-lost-learning.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{online
    learning},
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/05/29/us/coronavirus-child-care-centers.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{makeshift
    child care} and
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/03/business/economy/coronavirus-working-women.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{stunted
    workdays} to continue. California's two largest public school
    districts --- Los Angeles and San Diego --- said on July 13, that
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/13/us/lausd-san-diego-school-reopening.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{instruction
    will be remote-only in the fall}, citing concerns that surging
    coronavirus infections in their areas pose too dire a risk for
    students and teachers. Together, the two districts enroll some
    825,000 students. They are the largest in the country so far to
    abandon plans for even a partial physical return to classrooms when
    they reopen in August. For other districts, the solution won't be an
    all-or-nothing approach.
    \href{https://bioethics.jhu.edu/research-and-outreach/projects/eschool-initiative/school-policy-tracker/}{Many
    systems}, including the nation's largest, New York City, are
    devising
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/26/us/coronavirus-schools-reopen-fall.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{hybrid
    plans} that involve spending some days in classrooms and other days
    online. There's no national policy on this yet, so check with your
    municipal school system regularly to see what is happening in your
    community.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{is-the-coronavirus-airborne}{%
  \paragraph{Is the coronavirus
  airborne?}\label{is-the-coronavirus-airborne}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    The coronavirus
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/04/health/239-experts-with-one-big-claim-the-coronavirus-is-airborne.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{can
    stay aloft for hours in tiny droplets in stagnant air}, infecting
    people as they inhale, mounting scientific evidence suggests. This
    risk is highest in crowded indoor spaces with poor ventilation, and
    may help explain super-spreading events reported in meatpacking
    plants, churches and restaurants.
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/06/health/coronavirus-airborne-aerosols.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{It's
    unclear how often the virus is spread} via these tiny droplets, or
    aerosols, compared with larger droplets that are expelled when a
    sick person coughs or sneezes, or transmitted through contact with
    contaminated surfaces, said Linsey Marr, an aerosol expert at
    Virginia Tech. Aerosols are released even when a person without
    symptoms exhales, talks or sings, according to Dr. Marr and more
    than 200 other experts, who
    \href{https://academic.oup.com/cid/article/doi/10.1093/cid/ciaa939/5867798}{have
    outlined the evidence in an open letter to the World Health
    Organization}.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{what-are-the-symptoms-of-coronavirus}{%
  \paragraph{What are the symptoms of
  coronavirus?}\label{what-are-the-symptoms-of-coronavirus}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Common symptoms
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/symptoms-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{include
    fever, a dry cough, fatigue and difficulty breathing or shortness of
    breath.} Some of these symptoms overlap with those of the flu,
    making detection difficult, but runny noses and stuffy sinuses are
    less common.
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/04/27/health/coronavirus-symptoms-cdc.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{The
    C.D.C. has also} added chills, muscle pain, sore throat, headache
    and a new loss of the sense of taste or smell as symptoms to look
    out for. Most people fall ill five to seven days after exposure, but
    symptoms may appear in as few as two days or as many as 14 days.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{does-asymptomatic-transmission-of-covid-19-happen}{%
  \paragraph{Does asymptomatic transmission of Covid-19
  happen?}\label{does-asymptomatic-transmission-of-covid-19-happen}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    So far, the evidence seems to show it does. A widely cited
    \href{https://www.nature.com/articles/s41591-020-0869-5}{paper}
    published in April suggests that people are most infectious about
    two days before the onset of coronavirus symptoms and estimated that
    44 percent of new infections were a result of transmission from
    people who were not yet showing symptoms. Recently, a top expert at
    the World Health Organization stated that transmission of the
    coronavirus by people who did not have symptoms was ``very rare,''
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/09/world/coronavirus-updates.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq\#link-1f302e21}{but
    she later walked back that statement.}
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

In Japan, a Chinese man who returned from Wuhan on Jan. 6 was also
confirmed to have the disease. He was discharged after five days in a
hospital.

South Korea confirmed its first case of the coronavirus on Monday in a
35-year-old Chinese woman from Wuhan who arrived on Sunday at Incheon
International Airport, which serves Seoul.

The woman was found with a fever, muscle pain and other symptoms while
going through customs and was immediately quarantined for tests, said
Jung Eun-kyeong, director of the Korea Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention.

The woman was traveling with five other people intending to spend the
Lunar New Year holidays in South Korea and Japan, Ms. Jung said. South
Korean officials were running tests on anyone believed to have come in
contact with the woman in the plane, she said.

\hypertarget{officials-have-implemented-precautionary-measures}{%
\subsection{Officials have implemented precautionary
measures.}\label{officials-have-implemented-precautionary-measures}}

In Hong Kong, the government
\href{https://www.info.gov.hk/gia/general/202001/04/P2020010400179.htm}{initiated
a disease response plan} after the first cases were reported in Wuhan.
\href{https://www.chp.gov.hk/files/pdf/enhanced_sur_pneumonia_wuhan_eng.pdf}{Dozens
of people were hospitalized} after returning to Hong Kong from mainland
China, but none were found to have been infected with the new virus.

Five people who traveled from Wuhan to Zhejiang, a coastal Chinese
province south of Shanghai, are being treated for fever but have not
been diagnosed with the new coronavirus, the health authorities there
said.

Image

Monitoring passengers arriving at the Hong Kong airport~ this
month.Credit...Andy Wong/Associated Press

State media also reported six suspected cases on Monday, including two
in Sichuan Province, one in Shanghai, one in Yunnan Province, one in
Shandong Province and one in the region of Guangxi.

In the southern city of Shenzhen, the authorities have started imposing
temperature screening procedures at the airport and at train and bus
stations. The city said it would also crack down on the illegal trading
of wild animals.

\hypertarget{animals-appear-to-be-the-most-likely-source}{%
\subsection{Animals appear to be the most likely
source.}\label{animals-appear-to-be-the-most-likely-source}}

The W.H.O. says animals appear to be the most likely primary source of
the outbreak, though it is still not known which animals are
responsible.

Past outbreaks of similar illnesses, like SARS, were believed to have
emerged from markets where people and live animals were in regular
contact.

To prevent the spread of respiratory infections, the W.H.O. recommends
that people wash their hands regularly, cover their mouths and noses
when coughing and sneezing, and avoid direct contact with farm or wild
animals.

The health authorities in Hong Kong
\href{https://www.chp.gov.hk/en/features/102465.html}{have also advised
residents} traveling outside the city not to touch live animals, not to
eat wild animals, and to avoid markets selling fresh meat and live
poultry.

Javier C.
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/javier-c-hernandez}{Hernández} reported
from Wuhan and Austin Ramzy reported from Hong Kong. Choe Sang-Hun
contributed reporting from Seoul, South Korea. Elsie Chen contributed
research from Wuhan, and Albee Zhang contributed research from Beijing.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
