Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/climate}{Climate}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/climate}{Climate}\textbar{}E.P.A. Chief Scott Pruitt
Resigns Under a Cloud of Ethics Scandals

\url{https://nyti.ms/2KOJwXS}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/climate?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Climate
and Environment}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/30/climate/sea-level-inland-floods.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Rising
  Seas}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/climate/trump-environment-rollbacks.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Trump's
  Changes}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/04/19/climate/climate-crash-course-1.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Climate
  101}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2018/08/30/climate/how-much-hotter-is-your-hometown.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Is
  Your Hometown Hotter?}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/climate-change?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{epa-chief-scott-pruitt-resigns-under-a-cloud-of-ethics-scandals}{%
\section{E.P.A. Chief Scott Pruitt Resigns Under a Cloud of Ethics
Scandals}\label{epa-chief-scott-pruitt-resigns-under-a-cloud-of-ethics-scandals}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/07/08/us/politics/08dc-pruitt-hfo/00dc-pruitt-hfo-videoSixteenByNine3000.jpg}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/coral-davenport}{Coral Davenport},
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/lisa-friedman}{Lisa Friedman} and
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/maggie-haberman}{Maggie Haberman}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  July 5, 2018
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

\emph{Want the latest climate and environment news in your inbox?}
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/climate-change}{\emph{Sign up
here}} \emph{to receive} \emph{\textbf{Climate Fwd:}}\emph{, our email
newsletter.}

WASHINGTON --- Scott Pruitt, the administrator of the Environmental
Protection Agency and architect of President Trump's aggressive effort
to rewrite the government's rule book on environmental regulations,
resigned on Thursday in the face of
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/04/18/climate/scott-pruitt-epa-investigations-guide.html}{numerous
ethics investigations} that doomed his tenure.

Despite Mr. Pruitt's efforts to nurture a close relationship with the
president, Mr. Trump himself announced the resignation in a
\href{https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/1014956568129892352}{tweet}
sent from Air Force One. He thanked Mr. Pruitt for an ``outstanding
job'' and said the agency's deputy,
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/07/05/climate/wheeler-epa-pruitt.html}{Andrew
Wheeler}, a former coal lobbyist, would take over as the acting
administrator on Monday.

Mr. Pruitt in his
\href{https://twitter.com/maggieNYT/status/1014965976599875585}{resignation
letter} cited ``unrelenting attacks on me personally'' as one of the
reasons for his departure. Mr. Pruitt had been hailed by conservatives
for his zealous deregulation, but he could not overcome a spate of
questions about his alleged
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/04/12/climate/pruitt-epa-ethics-letter-congress.html}{spending
abuses},
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/02/21/climate/gowdy-pruitt-epa-travel.html}{first-class
travel} and cozy relationships with lobbyists.

Mr. Pruitt also came under fire for
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/06/15/us/politics/scott-pruitt-epa-aides.html?action=click\&module=In\%20Other\%20News\&pgtype=Homepage\&action=click\&module=News\&pgtype=Homepage}{enlisting
aides to obtain special favors for him and his family}, such as
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/06/05/climate/pruitt-epa-chick-fil-a.html}{reaching
out to the chief executive of Chick-fil-A}, Dan T. Cathy, with the
intent of helping Mr. Pruitt's wife, Marlyn, open a franchise of the
restaurant.

The resignation appeared to happen quickly.

On Wednesday, Mr. Pruitt attended two Fourth of July parties, one at the
White House and another at the Interior Department. One attendee who
spent time with him said he spent the night mingling, shaking hands,
watching the fireworks and showing no indication that he planned to step
down. His chief of staff, Ryan Jackson, also gave no hint of what was
ahead.

An individual close to Mr. Pruitt said the president acted after he
found one particular story in recent days embarrassing: a report that
Mr. Pruitt had
\href{https://www.cnn.com/2018/07/03/politics/scott-pruitt-jeff-sessions-trump/index.html}{asked
Mr. Trump to fire Jeff Sessions}, the attorney general, so that Mr.
Pruitt could run the Justice Department.

The idea had been discussed privately for months by the president, who
occasionally asked advisers if it was a good idea, according to two
people familiar with the discussions. But seeing those deliberations
being aired publicly, amid a string of other damaging reports, focused
Mr. Trump's attention, a person close to the president said. Fresh
allegations that Mr. Pruitt had retroactively altered his public
schedule, potentially committing a federal crime, had also escalated
concerns about him at the White House, according to a White House aide.
On Thursday afternoon, around 1:30, Mr. Trump's chief of staff, John F.
Kelly, reached out to Mr. Pruitt to tell him the time had come.

Mr. Pruitt, a former Oklahoma attorney general who built his career on
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2017/01/14/us/politics/document-Pruitt-v-EPA-a-Compilation-of-Oklahoma-14.html}{lawsuits
against the agency} he would eventually lead, remained a favorite of Mr.
Trump's for the majority of his tenure at the E.P.A. He began
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2017/07/01/us/politics/trump-epa-chief-pruitt-regulations-climate-change.html}{the
largest regulatory rollback} in the agency's history, undoing, delaying
or blocking several Obama-era environmental rules. Among them was a
suite of historic regulations aimed at mitigating global warming
pollution from the United States' vehicles and power plants.

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/climate?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_keepup}{}

\hypertarget{climate-and-environment-}{%
\subsubsection{Climate and Environment
â€º}\label{climate-and-environment-}}

\hypertarget{keep-up-on-the-latest-climate-news}{%
\paragraph{Keep Up on the Latest Climate
News}\label{keep-up-on-the-latest-climate-news}}

Updated July 30, 2020

Here's what you need to know about the latest climate change news this
week:

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/30/climate/bangladesh-floods.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_keepup}{Floods
    in}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/30/climate/bangladesh-floods.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_keepup}{Bangladesh}
    are punishing the people least responsible for climate change.
  \item
    As climate change raises sea levels,
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/30/climate/sea-level-inland-floods.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_keepup}{storm
    surges and high tides} are likely to push farther inland.
  \item
    The E.P.A. inspector general plans to investigate whether a rollback
    of fuel efficiency standards
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/27/climate/trump-fuel-efficiency-rule.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_keepup}{violated
    government rules}.
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

\emph{{[}}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/07/05/climate/wheeler-epa-pruitt.html}{\emph{Mr.
Wheeler shares Mr. Pruitt's zeal to dismantle climate change
regulations. Read more here.}}\emph{{]}}

Mr. Pruitt also played a lead role in urging Mr. Trump to follow through
on his campaign pledge to
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2017/06/01/climate/trump-paris-climate-agreement.html}{withdraw
the United States from the 2015 Paris climate agreement}, despite
warnings from some of the president's other senior advisers that the
move could damage the United States' credibility in foreign policy.
Under the landmark accord, nearly every country had committed to
reducing emissions of planet-warming fossil fuel pollution.

In 2017,
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2017/03/09/us/politics/epa-scott-pruitt-global-warming.html}{Mr.
Pruitt made headlines for questioning} the established science of
human-caused climate change, contradicting decades of research by
scientific institutions, including his own agency. Although Mr. Pruitt
was harshly criticized for the remarks, they did not affect his good
standing with a president who has also mocked climate science.

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2017/10/05/climate/trump-environment-rules-reversed.html}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2019/11/15/us/15ules/environment-rules-reversed-trump-promo-1530854517535-articleLarge.png}

\hypertarget{78-environmental-rules-on-the-way-out-under-trump}{%
\subsection{78 Environmental Rules on the Way Out Under
Trump}\label{78-environmental-rules-on-the-way-out-under-trump}}

This is the full list of environmental policies the Trump administration
has targeted, often in an effort to ease burdens on the fossil fuel
industry.

Mr. Trump has repeatedly told associates that Mr. Pruitt has done what
he has wanted in terms of cutting regulations, so he has been reluctant
to let him go. Mr. Pruitt, for his part, had made himself available to
the president as a confidant.

He ingratiated himself in part by offering himself as a sounding board
on topics ranging from the North American Free Trade Agreement to to the
Russia investigation, and he would join in as the president criticized
the attorney general, Mr. Sessions. He often lunched at the White House
mess in hopes of running into the president.

But White House advisers, including Mr. Kelly, the president's chief of
staff, for months have implored Mr. Trump to get rid of Mr. Pruitt.
Ultimately, the president grew disillusioned with Mr. Pruitt after the
accusations of impropriety and ethical missteps overshadowed Mr.
Pruitt's policy achievements.

In recent days, people who have spoken with Mr. Trump said he sounded
exasperated with his E.P.A. administrator's negative headlines. ``It's
one thing after another with this guy,'' one person close to Mr. Trump
quoted the president as saying.

Mr. Pruitt is the subject of at least
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/04/18/climate/scott-pruitt-epa-investigations-guide.html}{13
federal investigations}, and a government watchdog agency concluded that
he had broken the law with his purchase
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/04/16/climate/scott-pruitt-phone-booth.html}{of
a \$43,000 secure telephone booth}. He was also under investigation for
his 2017
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/30/climate/scott-pruitt-epa-rental.html}{lease
of a bedroom in a condominium} linked to a Canadian energy company's
powerful Washington lobbying firm, and for accusations that he
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/04/05/business/epa-officials-questioned-scott-pruitt.html}{demoted
or sidelined E.P.A. employees} who questioned his actions.

The former E.P.A. administrator had come under criticism for lavish
expenditures on foreign travel, including a
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/05/01/us/pruitt-epa-trips-lobbyists.html}{trip
arranged for him by a lobbyist to Morocco}, a country where the E.P.A.
has no policy agenda. His domestic travel also came under fire after a
former staff member
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/04/12/climate/pruitt-epa-ethics-letter-congress.html}{told
congressional investigators} that his boss often sought to travel to
Oklahoma, where Mr. Pruitt owns a home, directing his employees to
``find me something to do'' there so he could justify charging taxpayers
for the expense.

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2018/03/16/us/politics/all-the-major-firings-and-resignations-in-trump-administration.html}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/07/05/us/all-the-major-firings-and-resignations-in-trump-administration-promo-1530825933054/all-the-major-firings-and-resignations-in-trump-administration-promo-1530825933054-articleLarge-v2.jpg}

\hypertarget{the-turnover-at-the-top-of-the-trump-administration}{%
\subsection{The Turnover at the Top of the Trump
Administration}\label{the-turnover-at-the-top-of-the-trump-administration}}

Since President Trump's inauguration, White House staffers and cabinet
officials have left in firings and resignations, one after the other.

A
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/04/21/us/politics/scott-pruitt-oklahoma-epa.html}{New
York Times report} earlier this year detailed Mr. Pruitt's lavish
spending and questionable practices in his home state. O n Thursday The
Times reported on new questions about whether aides to Mr. Pruitt had
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/07/05/climate/pruitt-epa-calendar-morris.html}{deleted
sensitive information} about his meetings from his public schedule,
potentially in violation of the law.

While Democrats have criticized Mr. Pruitt since his nomination, in
recent months even conservative Republicans had taken the unusual step
of criticizing and questioning his ethics. Representative Trey Gowdy,
Republican of South Carolina and the chairman of the House Oversight
Committee, has started an investigation into Mr. Pruitt's actions at the
E.P.A., the first such Republican-led inquiry into a Trump
administration cabinet member.

Joni Ernst and Charles E. Grassley, two Republican senators from Iowa, a
farm state with a solid bank of Trump voters, have both publicly
criticized Mr. Pruitt. Last month, the conservative
\href{https://www.nationalreview.com/2018/06/scott-pruitt-should-resign/}{National
Review}, which once championed his appointment, called on Mr. Pruitt to
resign. On Tuesday, Laura Ingraham, the conservative talk radio host,
\href{https://twitter.com/IngrahamAngle/status/1014281388269408257}{tweeted,}
``Pruitt is the swamp. Drain it.''

On May 2, Mr. Gowdy's staff began conducting transcribed,
behind-closed-doors interviews with Mr. Pruitt's closest aides. Partial
transcripts from one of those interviews revealed that Mr. Pruitt used
one of his top aides last year
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/06/04/climate/pruitt-epa-apartment-aide.html}{essentially
as a personal assistant}, having her help him search for an apartment as
well as try to procure a used mattress from the Trump International
Hotel.

In addition, Mr. Pruitt faced irritation from the White House after The
Atlantic magazine
\href{https://www.theatlantic.com/politics/archive/2018/04/pruitt-epa/557123/}{reported
that Mr. Pruitt's office gave raises to two aides}, even though the
White House had declined to approve the raises.

The E.P.A. has denied any wrongdoing on Mr. Pruitt's behalf.

As the scandals mounted through the spring, Mr. Pruitt was called to
testify before several House and Senate committees. Although they were
routine budget hearings, they ended up serving as forums for lawmakers
to interrogate Mr. Pruitt about his management practices. Mr. Pruitt,
who is deeply religious, spent considerable time in the days before the
hearings in prayer, according to a person close to him.

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2017/climate/what-is-climate-change.html}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2017/09/19/climate/climate-qandq-promo/climate-qandq-promo-articleLarge.png}

\hypertarget{climate-change-is-complex-weve-got-answers-to-your-questions}{%
\subsection{Climate Change Is Complex. We've Got Answers to Your
Questions.}\label{climate-change-is-complex-weve-got-answers-to-your-questions}}

We know. Global warming is daunting. So here's a place to start: 17
often-asked questions with some straightforward answers.

He got through the hearings battered but intact, after deflecting blame
for numerous issues onto his staff, particularly his chief of staff, Mr.
Jackson, whom he blamed for making controversial decisions such as the
illegal purchase of the \$43,000 secure telephone booth.

But the tactic of blaming his employees cost him loyalty.

In recent months, nearly a dozen political appointees have quit or been
fired from the E.P.A. More recently, many of those staffers have been
called to testify to investigators on the House Oversight Committee,
which had launched a probe into Mr. Pruitt's expenditures. The results
of that investigation were expected to be the subject of a Senate
hearing next month.

Inside the E.P.A. on Thursday, as news of Mr. Pruitt's departure spread,
some career employees said that the mood was jubilant but quiet given
that many people were out of the office around the July 4 holiday. Some
employees met for early drinks at Mackey's Public House, a bar near the
E.P.A.

It remains unclear how well some aspects of Mr. Pruitt's regulatory
rollback agenda, and his effort to undo the environmental work of his
predecessors, will stand the test of time. In his haste to cripple
government regulation and publicize his success, Mr. Pruitt and his
officials have
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/04/07/climate/scott-pruitt-epa-rollbacks.html}{failed
to follow important procedures}, and courts have already struck down at
least six of his rollback efforts.

His removal will deal a blow to his
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/17/climate/scott-pruitt-political-ambitions.html}{political
aspirations}. People close to Mr. Pruitt have said that he had been
using his prominence in the Trump administration to position himself for
a run for state office in Oklahoma. His sights, some said, were set on a
possible presidential run in 2024.

Instead, Mr. Pruitt is now the latest in Mr. Trump's purge of top
administration officials.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{Â©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
