Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}Coronavirus Casts Unwelcome
Spotlight on Trump's Health Secretary

\url{https://nyti.ms/3bPEBTL}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{The
Coronavirus Outbreak}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  live\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/02/world/coronavirus-updates.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Latest
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Maps
  and Cases}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Vaccine
  Tracker}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/07/29/us/schools-reopening-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{What
  School May Look Like}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/07/31/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Economy}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{coronavirus-casts-unwelcome-spotlight-on-trumps-health-secretary}{%
\section{Coronavirus Casts Unwelcome Spotlight on Trump's Health
Secretary}\label{coronavirus-casts-unwelcome-spotlight-on-trumps-health-secretary}}

Alex M. Azar II has long been seen as a difficult personality in
President Trump's cabinet, but the pandemic has heightened personal
clashes, putting him on thin ice.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/04/28/us/politics/28dc-virus-azar1/merlin_171268902_6e040b5f-b6ac-4c35-a1fb-4b0d0b96fa04-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/noah-weiland}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2019/07/23/reader-center/author-noah-weiland/author-noah-weiland-thumbLarge.png}}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/maggie-haberman}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/07/12/multimedia/author-maggie-haberman/author-maggie-haberman-thumbLarge.png}}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/michael-d-shear}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/06/13/multimedia/author-michael-d-shear/author-michael-d-shear-thumbLarge-v2.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/noah-weiland}{Noah
Weiland},
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/maggie-haberman}{Maggie
Haberman} and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/michael-d-shear}{Michael D.
Shear}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  April 29, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

WASHINGTON --- Two of President Trump's top health officials were
stewing last month in a drab room at the Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention in Atlanta as Mr. Trump and his health secretary, Alex M.
Azar II, were concluding a laboratory tour, one that they had been left
off of.

One of the officials, Dr. Jerome M. Adams, the surgeon general, was then
invited to join the president and the secretary to shake hands. The
other, Seema Verma, who leads the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid
Services, was not. Instead, a staff member told the powerful Medicare
chief to head to the receiving line with the rank and file. Furious, she
left for the airport to catch a commercial flight home to Washington.

The episode from March 6, described by senior administration officials
who believed Mr. Azar was behind the snub, illustrated to them why Mr.
Azar's future as secretary of health and human services is a constant
question, even as his sprawling department battles the worst public
health crisis in a century. Where Mr. Azar goes, personal conflicts seem
to follow, senior administration officials say. Officials at the
Department of Health and Human Services disputed that notion.

The department's newly installed spokesman, Michael R. Caputo, dismissed
such talk as beside the point.

``I can tell you that the American people want information they can use
to fight the coronavirus, not palace intrigue,'' he said.

But even before the coronavirus pandemic, senior White House officials
had grown deeply frustrated with Mr. Azar and his management of the
department.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/12/10/us/politics/trump-seema-verma-azar.html}{His
toxic relationship with Ms. Verma became so ugly and public} last year
that the two were summoned to the White House in December to determine
whether they could continue to work together.
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/07/11/health/drug-prices-rebate-donald-trump.html}{Mr.
Azar has also repeatedly clashed with Joe Grogan}, the director of the
White House's Domestic Policy Council, who two senior administration
officials said would soon leave his post. In recent weeks, several
people close to the president grew even angrier with Mr. Azar for what
they viewed as
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/07/us/politics/trump-coronavirus.html}{a
public relations effort on his part to generate favorable coverage} of
his response to the virus at the president's expense.

Now, Mr. Azar finds himself increasingly sidelined by Mr. Trump and his
advisers, who blame the secretary for early failures on testing and for
what they describe as inconsistent stewardship of the coronavirus task
force in its first month.

Over the weekend,
\href{https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/1254529069733105665}{the
president denied that he was preparing to fire Mr. Azar}, calling the
reports ``Fake News'' and saying Mr. Azar was doing ``an excellent
job!''

But Vice President Mike Pence took over for Mr. Azar
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/02/26/us/politics/trump-coronavirus-cdc.html}{as
the leader of the task force}at the end of February, and in the weeks
since the episode at C.D.C. headquarters, Mr. Azar has been excluded
from key coronavirus meetings, administration officials say, including
one led by Mr. Grogan and another involving only the nation's top
medical officials.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-global-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/01/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: Global Coronavirus
Outbreak}}{Latest Updates: Global Coronavirus Outbreak}}\label{latest-updates-global-coronavirus-outbreak}}

Updated 2020-08-02T17:52:35.962Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/01/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-34047410}{The
  U.S. reels as July cases more than double the total of any other
  month.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/01/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-780ec966}{Top
  U.S. officials work to break an impasse over the federal jobless
  benefit.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/01/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-2bc8948}{Its
  outbreak untamed, Melbourne goes into even greater lockdown.}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/01/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

More live coverage:
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/07/31/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Markets}

``These are all arguably people who theoretically report to him, work
for him, but like everything else, that has been upended in this
administration, where it isn't very clear if cabinet secretaries are
choosing or even co-choosing their top political appointees,'' said
Kathleen Sebelius, a health and human services secretary under President
Barack Obama. ``I don't have any idea how you operate in that
environment when you're excluded from meetings with your agency.''

Aides to Mr. Azar say he remains fully in charge of his department and
is an integral part of the administration's response to the virus. White
House officials continue to dismiss questions about his status.

``Even with the president's tweet on Sunday flatly denying rumors that
Secretary Azar is on his way out or that he is doing anything other than
an excellent job, the media is still focused on outrageous claims of
palace intrigue that are only meant to distract the American people from
the Trump administration's bold leadership in response to this
pandemic,'' said Judd Deere, a White House spokesman.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/04/28/us/politics/28dc-virus-azar3/merlin_163532337_390758ea-e7bc-45b5-9535-bdea689461e6-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

But the monthslong coronavirus crisis has exacerbated deep and
longstanding divisions between Mr. Azar, a former pharmaceutical
executive, and political officials in other parts of the administration,
including some of those closest to Mr. Trump in the White House.

In the last several weeks, the president grew angry with Mr. Azar after
articles in
\href{https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/trump-coronavirus-response-squandered-time/2020/03/07/5c47d3d0-5fcb-11ea-9055-5fa12981bbbf_story.html}{The
Washington Post} and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/28/us/testing-coronavirus-pandemic.html}{The
New York Times} depicted the White House as slow to respond to the
coronavirus outbreak, according to several officials familiar with his
thinking. They said Mr. Trump was enraged that he was being criticized
in accounts that portrayed Mr. Azar as having been aggressive in
responding to the threat early on.

Mr. Azar's allies say he was one of the few people who tried to alert
the West Wing to a looming public health crisis in January and early
February. They note that some officials accused Mr. Azar of being ``an
alarmist'' for his repeated warnings about the coronavirus at a time
when Mr. Trump was publicly playing down the threat.

But others have said Mr. Azar was not clear enough with Mr. Trump about
the magnitude of the threat. Several aides to the president said that
Mr. Azar was so focused on keeping his job and preserving his standing
in the White House that he gave conflicting information --- dire one
day, optimistic the next --- that ended up confusing Mr. Trump and his
senior advisers.

Some of Mr. Azar's critics have even accused him of misleading top White
House officials. Last week, senior officials felt blindsided when
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/22/us/politics/rick-bright-trump-hydroxychloroquine-coronavirus.html}{Dr.
Rick Bright, the head of a crucial drug and vaccine development unit at
Department of Health and Human Services, issued a blistering statement}
saying he had been removed from his post after he resisted political
pressure to back unproven drugs publicly heralded by the president. In a
meeting in the Situation Room moments earlier, Mr. Azar had told the
vice president that Mr. Bright had received a promotion.

The episode at the C.D.C. headquarters has also reverberated with White
House and health officials, some of whom saw it as an example of Mr.
Azar's pettiness. Ms. Verma had made a special effort to get to Atlanta
after traveling the day before with Mr. Pence, catching up to the
president after his tour had been canceled, then abruptly put back on
his schedule.

But she was left off the president's tour, which unfolded on national
television. Mr. Azar stood with Mr. Trump, who wore a red ``Keep America
Great'' hat produced by his re-election campaign, and Dr. Robert R.
Redfield, the director of the C.D.C., for almost an hour as the
president extolled his administration's work. Ms. Verma and Dr. Adams
were nowhere to be seen. To then be told to join a receiving line with
other guests waiting to shake Mr. Azar's hand infuriated Ms. Verma.

One senior administration official, who spoke on the condition of
anonymity to discuss the events, insisted that Mr. Azar had no knowledge
of the staging of the C.D.C. event, and that it was dictated by White
House advance officials.

Mr. Azar remains a member of the primary coronavirus task force and
continues to be an active participant in the group's meetings, though
for weeks he has not appeared regularly alongside the president or vice
president during the daily news conferences held afterward. In recent
weeks, Mr. Azar has also made fewer appearances in the national news
media, which are coordinated through Mr. Pence's office.

He has also been missing from the ``operational check-ins'' held before
the task force's meetings where officials organize and prepare. The
gatherings in the Roosevelt Room are led by Mr. Grogan and include the
heads of the key health agencies within the Department of Health and
Human Services, including the C.D.C., the National Institute of Allergy
and Infectious Diseases and the Food and Drug Administration.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{}

\hypertarget{the-coronavirus-outbreak-}{%
\subsubsection{The Coronavirus Outbreak
›}\label{the-coronavirus-outbreak-}}

\hypertarget{frequently-asked-questions}{%
\paragraph{Frequently Asked
Questions}\label{frequently-asked-questions}}

Updated July 27, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{should-i-refinance-my-mortgage}{%
  \paragraph{Should I refinance my
  mortgage?}\label{should-i-refinance-my-mortgage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/coronavirus-money-unemployment.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{It
    could be a good idea,} because mortgage rates have
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/16/business/mortgage-rates-below-3-percent.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{never
    been lower.} Refinancing requests have pushed mortgage applications
    to some of the highest levels since 2008, so be prepared to get in
    line. But defaults are also up, so if you're thinking about buying a
    home, be aware that some lenders have tightened their standards.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{what-is-school-going-to-look-like-in-september}{%
  \paragraph{What is school going to look like in
  September?}\label{what-is-school-going-to-look-like-in-september}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    It is unlikely that many schools will return to a normal schedule
    this fall, requiring the grind of
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/05/us/coronavirus-education-lost-learning.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{online
    learning},
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/29/us/coronavirus-child-care-centers.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{makeshift
    child care} and
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/03/business/economy/coronavirus-working-women.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{stunted
    workdays} to continue. California's two largest public school
    districts --- Los Angeles and San Diego --- said on July 13, that
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/13/us/lausd-san-diego-school-reopening.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{instruction
    will be remote-only in the fall}, citing concerns that surging
    coronavirus infections in their areas pose too dire a risk for
    students and teachers. Together, the two districts enroll some
    825,000 students. They are the largest in the country so far to
    abandon plans for even a partial physical return to classrooms when
    they reopen in August. For other districts, the solution won't be an
    all-or-nothing approach.
    \href{https://bioethics.jhu.edu/research-and-outreach/projects/eschool-initiative/school-policy-tracker/}{Many
    systems}, including the nation's largest, New York City, are
    devising
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/26/us/coronavirus-schools-reopen-fall.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{hybrid
    plans} that involve spending some days in classrooms and other days
    online. There's no national policy on this yet, so check with your
    municipal school system regularly to see what is happening in your
    community.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{is-the-coronavirus-airborne}{%
  \paragraph{Is the coronavirus
  airborne?}\label{is-the-coronavirus-airborne}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    The coronavirus
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/04/health/239-experts-with-one-big-claim-the-coronavirus-is-airborne.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{can
    stay aloft for hours in tiny droplets in stagnant air}, infecting
    people as they inhale, mounting scientific evidence suggests. This
    risk is highest in crowded indoor spaces with poor ventilation, and
    may help explain super-spreading events reported in meatpacking
    plants, churches and restaurants.
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/06/health/coronavirus-airborne-aerosols.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{It's
    unclear how often the virus is spread} via these tiny droplets, or
    aerosols, compared with larger droplets that are expelled when a
    sick person coughs or sneezes, or transmitted through contact with
    contaminated surfaces, said Linsey Marr, an aerosol expert at
    Virginia Tech. Aerosols are released even when a person without
    symptoms exhales, talks or sings, according to Dr. Marr and more
    than 200 other experts, who
    \href{https://academic.oup.com/cid/article/doi/10.1093/cid/ciaa939/5867798}{have
    outlined the evidence in an open letter to the World Health
    Organization}.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{what-are-the-symptoms-of-coronavirus}{%
  \paragraph{What are the symptoms of
  coronavirus?}\label{what-are-the-symptoms-of-coronavirus}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Common symptoms
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/symptoms-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{include
    fever, a dry cough, fatigue and difficulty breathing or shortness of
    breath.} Some of these symptoms overlap with those of the flu,
    making detection difficult, but runny noses and stuffy sinuses are
    less common.
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/27/health/coronavirus-symptoms-cdc.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{The
    C.D.C. has also} added chills, muscle pain, sore throat, headache
    and a new loss of the sense of taste or smell as symptoms to look
    out for. Most people fall ill five to seven days after exposure, but
    symptoms may appear in as few as two days or as many as 14 days.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{does-asymptomatic-transmission-of-covid-19-happen}{%
  \paragraph{Does asymptomatic transmission of Covid-19
  happen?}\label{does-asymptomatic-transmission-of-covid-19-happen}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    So far, the evidence seems to show it does. A widely cited
    \href{https://www.nature.com/articles/s41591-020-0869-5}{paper}
    published in April suggests that people are most infectious about
    two days before the onset of coronavirus symptoms and estimated that
    44 percent of new infections were a result of transmission from
    people who were not yet showing symptoms. Recently, a top expert at
    the World Health Organization stated that transmission of the
    coronavirus by people who did not have symptoms was ``very rare,''
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/09/world/coronavirus-updates.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq\#link-1f302e21}{but
    she later walked back that statement.}
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Mr. Grogan has told associates that he purposefully excluded Mr. Azar,
according to one senior administration official.

Mr. Azar is not a part of the regular meetings of a group of the
administration's senior health officials with medical degrees, including
Dr. Anthony S. Fauci, the federal government's top infectious disease
expert, and Dr. Deborah L. Birx, the White House's coronavirus response
coordinator.

``If you don't have the health secretary as the lead, it's very unclear
who is the lead,'' Ms. Sebelius said.

The recent tensions have prompted White House officials, including Mark
Meadows, the new chief of staff, to discuss possible replacements for
Mr. Azar once the coronavirus crisis stabilizes, according to senior
administration officials. Among the names discussed have been Ms. Verma,
Dr. Birx and Dr. John C. Fleming, a former House Republican and official
at the Department of Health and Human Services who is now an aide to Mr.
Meadows.

Image

Mr. Azar has clashed with Seema Verma, who heads the Centers for
Medicare and Medicaid Services, and is seen as a possible contender to
replace Mr. Azar as health and human services secretary.Credit...Erin
Schaff/The New York Times

But some of Mr. Trump's aides cautioned that advisers had gotten ahead
of themselves by putting out word that Mr. Azar could be replaced in the
coming weeks. Senior administration officials say the president will
most likely wait until the summer to make a change, once the immediate
crisis has diminished, if he makes one at all before the election.

Mr. Azar has told several administration officials that he wants to
leave his post on his own terms.

But if Mr. Azar is removed, it will not just be the result of concerns
about the administration's response to the coronavirus. Mr. Grogan
fought regularly with Mr. Azar over efforts to lower prescription drug
prices, an issue Mr. Trump sees as central to his health agenda.

Mr. Trump also blamed Mr. Azar for aggressively pushing for a partial
ban on flavored e-cigarettes, a decision the president made in January
and then quickly regretted, advisers said. He berated Mr. Azar about it
in a call on Jan. 16 in front of his political advisers.

Mr. Azar's
\href{https://www.politico.com/news/2019/12/11/azar-verma-trump-082816}{well-documented}
battles with Ms. Verma now extend to which of them is seen as
controlling the distribution of congressionally approved money to health
care providers. While Mr. Azar attended the funeral for his father this
month, officials in Mr. Pence's office signed off on Ms. Verma making
the announcement, a White House official said. The official said that
Mr. Pence was acting out of a desire to get the money out the door, not
to slight Mr. Azar.

In recent days, the White House
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/16/us/politics/michael-caputo-hhs.html}{installed
Mr. Caputo, a longtime Trump loyalist with no background in health
care}, as the top communications official at the Department of Health
and Human Services, an attempt to manage how Mr. Azar and his staff are
interacting with reporters.

Noah Weiland and Michael D. Shear reported from Washington, and Maggie
Haberman from New York.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
