Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/opinion}{Opinion}\textbar{}Trump, Please Quit Before
You're Fired

\url{https://nyti.ms/39HSQtL}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

\href{/section/opinion}{Opinion}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{trump-please-quit-before-youre-fired}{%
\section{Trump, Please Quit Before You're
Fired}\label{trump-please-quit-before-youre-fired}}

By walking away, he can save the lives of supporters who have listened
to his lethal quackery.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/timothy-egan}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/05/11/opinion/timothy-egan/timothy-egan-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/timothy-egan}{Timothy
Egan}

Contributing Opinion Writer

\begin{itemize}
\item
  July 31, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/07/31/opinion/31eganWeb/31eganWeb-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

It was clear when President Trump woke up on Thursday morning, with no
pollster left to lie to him, and not enough Fox News sycophancy to fill
his cereal bowl, that he would have to play one of the last tricks in
the dictator's handbook.

He floated the idea of breaching the Constitution by
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/30/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html}{illegally
delaying the national election}. It follows his logic on a pandemic that
has taken more than 150,000 American lives. If there were less testing
for the coronavirus, cases would go down. Ergo, if there were no
election on Nov. 3, he couldn't be booted from office in a wipeout.
\emph{The stable genius strikes again!}

Here's a better suggestion: As a mortal threat to those looking for
life-or-death guidance from the White House, he should do humanity a
favor and surrender now. He can quit while he's only behind by 10 points
or so. More important, by walking away today, he can save many lives of
supporters who have listened to the lethal quackery from the
presidential podium.

He gave up in the war on Covid-19 from Day 1, when he declared that
there was nothing to worry about, it would all soon disappear like
magic. And his throw-in-the-towel tactics continue to this day, as he
promotes the harmful and bizarre suggestions of a woman who also
believes in demon sperm transmitted through dreams.

And here's the net result of a country run by a crackpot: On a single
day this week, there were nearly twice as many Covid-19 deaths in just
one American state, Texas, than in the five major countries of Western
Europe combined. On that same day, Thursday, the Covid Tracking Project
reported 1,400 American deaths, the most in a single day since May 15.

Trump publicly quit on his country two years ago, when he chose Vladimir
Putin's word over that of American intelligence officials,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/07/16/opinion/putin-trump-meeting-helsinki.html}{the
infamous sellout in Helsinki}. So it was no surprise when the two
leaders spoke by phone this week that
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/29/us/politics/trump-putin-bounties.html}{Trump
did not even raise the question} of Russians paying a bounty to have
American soldiers killed in Afghanistan. That is dereliction of duty,
son.

He quit on the economy in early spring, when he pushed for a widespread
reopening, even though health experts warned that the results could be
catastrophic. And thus, this week we saw the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/30/business/economy/q2-gdp-coronavirus-economy.html}{largest
drop in economic output} on record, as people were afraid to resume
normal commerce in a country fevered with viral hot spots.

Trump has yet to realize what every sensible business owner knows: The
only path back to prosperity is through the managed economic sacrifice
and uniform health guidelines needed to get the virus under control.

He quit on the Constitution, obstructing Congress and abusing power, in
the scheme to tie aid to a struggling ally to
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/11/04/opinion/trump-ukraine.html}{a
demand that Ukraine dig up dirt} on a political opponent.

From there, he's become increasingly authoritarian. Clearing a park full
of peaceful protesters by force in order to stage a photo op with a
Bible was just the start.

Of late, Trump has been itching for a riot. With buildings aflame,
windows smashed and mobs in the streets, he could fulfill his prophecy
of being the only man able to fix the American carnage he warned us
about. Majorities support changes needed to root out systemic racism.
The only way that Trump can hold back the tide is to change the story.

Except, some of the players are not who we think they are. The police
have identified the man who turned largely peaceful Black Lives Matter
protests into mayhem in Minneapolis --- the
\href{https://www.startribune.com/police-umbrella-man-was-a-white-supremacist-trying-to-incite-floyd-rioting/571932272/}{window-smashing
Umbrella Man} --- as a white supremacist.

Sending Trump's troops into American cities appears to have backfired,
even as the president announced plans to possibly send new federal
agents into Cleveland, Milwaukee and Detroit, counting on swing state
showdowns for the Fox News machine.

If Trump were to quit, he would join Richard Nixon in disgrace --- he'd
be an impeached president (Nixon quit on the brink of impeachment)
forced from office. Except, Nixon is a notch higher in the hell-scape,
given his diplomatic openings in China and his signing of landmark
environmental laws.

Delaying the Nov. 3 election is not only illegal, it would be
unprecedented. Lincoln held the regular election during the Civil War,
and Franklin Roosevelt faced voters on time during World War II.

If Trump were to walk away today, the likely nominee of his party would
be Mike Pence. And Democrats shouldn't be afraid of facing Pence. He's
Trump with a pious veneer, the man sent to the border to justify putting
kids in cages, the Stepford veep always there with a timely bootlick.
And of course, he carries a portfolio of failure as the man chosen to
oversee the federal government's disastrous response to the pandemic.

Quitting before an election would deprive Americans of the satisfaction
of rejecting him by an overwhelming margin, a national shower to clean
off four years of his grime and grift.

But there's another image, equally satisfying. Trump could play one last
gambit in the dictator's checklist and refuse to leave office on Jan. 20
--- election or no election --- as required by the Constitution. If he
does this, a weary nation would be rewarded with a presidential perp
walk, as Trump is escorted out of the White House and into infamy by the
military police.

\emph{The Times is committed to publishing}
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/01/31/opinion/letters/letters-to-editor-new-york-times-women.html}{\emph{a
diversity of letters}} \emph{to the editor. We'd like to hear what you
think about this or any of our articles. Here are some}
\href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014925288-How-to-submit-a-letter-to-the-editor}{\emph{tips}}\emph{.
And here's our email:}
\href{mailto:letters@NYTimes.com}{\emph{letters@NYTimes.com}}\emph{.}

\emph{Follow The New York Times Opinion section on}
\href{https://www.facebookcorewwwi.onion/nytopinion}{\emph{Facebook}}\emph{,}
\href{http://twitter.com/NYTOpinion}{\emph{Twitter (@NYTopinion)}}
\emph{and}
\href{https://www.instagram.com/nytopinion/}{\emph{Instagram}}\emph{.}

Timothy Egan (@nytegan) is a contributing opinion writer who covers the
environment, the American West and politics. He is a winner of the
National Book Award and author, most recently, of ``A Pilgrimage to
Eternity.''

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{Â©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
