Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/opinion}{Opinion}\textbar{}Who Can Make Trump Miserable
This Fall?

\url{https://nyti.ms/3h2zu4X}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

\href{/section/opinion}{Opinion}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{who-can-make-trump-miserable-this-fall}{%
\section{Who Can Make Trump Miserable This
Fall?}\label{who-can-make-trump-miserable-this-fall}}

Goodbye, Jeff Sessions, hello \ldots{} Heir Archy.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/gail-collins}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/04/03/opinion/gail-collins/gail-collins-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/gail-collins}{Gail
Collins}

Opinion Columnist

\begin{itemize}
\item
  July 15, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/07/17/opinion/17collins1/merlin_174189189_51f468f4-2318-4cd6-8a2f-2ec36c6adbd8-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

I hope by now you've managed to come to grips with the fact that we're
no longer going to have Jeff Sessions in our lives.

``It's been a real adventure for me,'' Sessions said in his concession
speech this week, after he lost the Republican Senate nomination to a
former football coach whose biggest campaign moment probably came when
his
\href{https://www.al.com/news/2020/07/tommy-tuberville-campaign-bus-catches-fire-on-alabama-interstate.html}{bus
caught on fire}.

Not clear which adventure Sessions was referring to --- scampering out
of the Senate to become
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/07/29/nyregion/trump-sharpton-ny-history.html}{Donald
Trump's} attorney general and wage his long-dreamed-of war against
immigrants? Accepting the advice of Justice Department lawyers and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/01/04/us/politics/trump-sessions-russia-mcgahn.html}{recusing
himself} from the Russia investigation? Being attacked by a furious
Trump who had purposely put Sessions in the job to get protection from
the forces of \ldots{} justice?

Truly, he's been badly treated by the man who he helped propel into the
presidency. Hehehehe.

It's a little weird contemplating Sessions now. Trump's treatment of him
was outrageous, but if anybody's going to suffer a political stab in the
back, you have to be glad it's the guy whose policies as attorney
general ranged from keeping more people in prison longer to ``good
people don't smoke marijuana.''

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/07/15/opinion/15collins2/merlin_174574449_2419087a-5088-49ca-ac74-f5cb64920c43-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Tommy Tuberville, the football coach who beat Sessions,
\href{https://www.newsbreak.com/alabama/birmingham/news/0PZMVnBr/tommy-tuberville-goes-low-profile-to-run-out-clock-in-runoff-with-jeff-sessions}{doesn't
seem to have any ideas} beyond
\href{https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NmgO9qwgPEc}{flexing his muscles}
and promising to do whatever President Trump likes. Alabamians have no
idea what he would do if Joe Biden was president, since Tuberville will
never acknowledge such a possibility.

The nominee will go on to fight against Senator Doug Jones, the Democrat
who you'll recall won his seat in a race against a judge with a history
of making improper advances to teenage girls. Tuberville will presumably
be more of a challenge.

I guess we'll have to chalk the Alabama primary up as a win for Trump,
who assured voters that Sessions was ``not mentally qualified.'' (This
was before the president gave that
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/14/us/politics/trump-news-conference.html}{wild,
rambling press conference} in which he claimed Biden was opposed to
windows.)

We're deep into the Senate election season now, with primaries right and
left, setting the stage for the Democrats' attempt to take control of
the majority in 2021. Everything is on the line --- taxes, economic
recovery, Supreme Court justices.

Let's look at a few of the battles brewing. You'll be able to discuss
them with your friends over virtual cocktails. And if you want to send a
donation or two to candidates who strike your fancy, go for it.

In Maine, Republican Senator Susan Collins is fighting for survival. You
may remember Collins as the self-styled brave independent moderate, who
spends most of her working days caving in.

Her opponent
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/14/us/politics/sara-gideon-maine.html}{will
be Sara Gideon}, the speaker of the state House. Gideon won the
Democratic primary Tuesday over two lesser-known women who seemed to
spend much of their time attacking her for not agreeing to enough
debates.

Image

Sara Gideon speaking to the press near a polling station in Portland,
Maine, on Tuesday.Credit...Elise Amendola/Associated Press

That's an important rule for political campaigns: When all else fails,
demand more debates. John McCain insisted that he and Barack Obama have
10. Trump is
\href{https://www.politico.com/news/2020/06/18/trump-joe-biden-debates-328356}{already
complaining} about Biden's refusal to go beyond the three scheduled.

Gideon showed up for two, which seemed OK given the fact that she was
about a mile ahead in the polls. But it's perfectly fair to have your
doubts about a candidate who won't debate at all. Coach Tuberville, for
instance, said he backed out of any new encounters with Sessions because
of:

A) The coronavirus.

B) Donald Trump already having praised his mental capacity.

C) Lack of attractive cheerleaders.

Yeah, he
\href{https://whnt.com/news/tommy-tuberville-says-he-wont-debate-jeff-sessions/}{blamed
the coronavirus}. Hardly exists at all for the Trump camp, unless
somebody is asking you to do something you don't want to do.

Moving west there's Arizona, which looks like it's going to be huge.
This is the one that could tip the balance for the Senate Democrats. The
Republican incumbent is Martha McSally, who lost a Senate race in 2018,
but then was appointed to the state's second seat after John McCain died
and his successor quit. You could argue that she's been through a lot.
Everything, really, except being elected to her job.

We're pretty sure McSally's Democratic opponent is going to be former
astronaut Mark Kelly, even though Kelly first has to weather a primary
against someone named Bo Garcia. All we know about Bo is that his
nickname is ``Heir Archy'' and he's running as a write-in candidate.
Really, that's all. No campaign website, no nothing. But if you write in
his name on your ballot, they'll count the vote.

Do not be dispirited because some of the people running for high office
in America appear to be phantom candidates from nowhere. Think of it
this way: It's sort of inspiring how wide open the system sometimes is,
as long as you don't expect to actually get elected to anything.

One of my favorite meaningless races was for an Idaho Senate seat in
2010. Nobody had any doubt that Mike Crapo, the Republican incumbent,
was going to win. Eventually Democrat William Bryk volunteered to oppose
him, just so Crapo would have some competition. This came after he
noticed that you did not actually have to live in Idaho in order to run
there. Bryk was, in fact, a bankruptcy lawyer in Brooklyn. His campaign
slogan was, ``If Elected, I Will Move.''

Right now, that sort of sounds better than Make America Great Again.

\emph{The Times is committed to publishing}
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/01/31/opinion/letters/letters-to-editor-new-york-times-women.html}{\emph{a
diversity of letters}} \emph{to the editor. We'd like to hear what you
think about this or any of our articles. Here are some}
\href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014925288-How-to-submit-a-letter-to-the-editor}{\emph{tips}}\emph{.
And here's our email:}
\href{mailto:letters@NYTimes.com}{\emph{letters@NYTimes.com}}\emph{.}

\emph{Follow The New York Times Opinion section on}
\href{https://www.facebookcorewwwi.onion/nytopinion}{\emph{Facebook}}\emph{,}
\href{http://twitter.com/NYTOpinion}{\emph{Twitter (@NYTopinion)}}
\emph{and}
\href{https://www.instagram.com/nytopinion/}{\emph{Instagram}}\emph{.}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{Â©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
