Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}Adviser to Emirates With
Ties to Trump Aides Is Cooperating With Special Counsel

\url{https://nyti.ms/2FZwN2K}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{adviser-to-emirates-with-ties-to-trump-aides-is-cooperating-with-special-counsel}{%
\section{Adviser to Emirates With Ties to Trump Aides Is Cooperating
With Special
Counsel}\label{adviser-to-emirates-with-ties-to-trump-aides-is-cooperating-with-special-counsel}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/03/07/us/politics/07dc-investigate1/merlin_134904804_82ac82c3-06e2-4bc4-b804-4d4727635b18-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/mark-mazzetti}{Mark Mazzetti},
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/david-d-kirkpatrick}{David D.
Kirkpatrick} and \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/adam-goldman}{Adam
Goldman}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  March 6, 2018
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

WASHINGTON --- An adviser to the United Arab Emirates with ties to
current and former aides to President Trump is cooperating with the
special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, and gave testimony last week to
a grand jury, according to two people familiar with the matter.

Mr. Mueller appears to be examining the influence of foreign money on
Mr. Trump's political activities and has asked witnesses about the
possibility that the adviser, George Nader,
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/03/us/politics/george-nader-mueller-investigation-united-arab-emirates.html}{funneled
money from the Emirates to the president's political efforts}. It is
illegal for foreign entities to contribute to campaigns or for Americans
to knowingly accept foreign money for political races.

Mr. Nader, a Lebanese-American businessman who advises Crown Prince
Mohammed bin Zayed Al-Nahyan, the effective ruler of the Emirates, also
attended a January 2017 meeting in the Seychelles that Mr. Mueller's
investigators have examined. The meeting, convened by the crown prince,
brought together a Russian investor close to President Vladimir V. Putin
of Russia with Erik Prince, the founder of Blackwater and an informal
adviser to Mr. Trump's team during the presidential transition,
according to three people familiar with the meeting.

Mr. Nader's cooperation in the special counsel's investigation could
prompt new legal risks for the Trump administration, and Mr. Nader's
presence at the Seychelles meeting appears to connect him to the primary
focus of Mr. Mueller's investigation: examining Russian interference
during the 2016 presidential campaign.

Mr. Nader represented the crown prince in the three-way conversation in
the Seychelles, at a hotel overlooking in the Indian Ocean, in the days
before Mr. Trump took office. At the meeting, Emirati officials believed
Mr. Prince was speaking for the Trump transition team, and a Russian
fund manager, Kirill Dmitriev, represented Mr. Putin, according to
several people familiar with the meeting. Mr. Nader, who grew close
later to several advisers in the Trump White House, had once worked as a
consultant to Blackwater, a private security firm now known as Academi.
Mr. Nader introduced his former employer to the Russian.

The significance of the meeting in the Seychelles has been a puzzle to
American officials ever since intelligence agencies first picked up on
it in the final days of the Obama administration, and the purpose of the
discussion is in dispute. During
\href{http://docs.house.gov/meetings/IG/IG00/20171130/106661/HHRG-115-IG00-Transcript-20171130.pdf}{congressional
testimony in November}, Mr. Prince denied representing the Trump
transition team during the meeting and dismissed his encounter with Mr.
Dmitriev as nothing more than a friendly conversation over a drink.

A lawyer for Mr. Nader did not respond to requests for comment. A
spokesman for Mr. Dmitriev has repeatedly declined to comment about the
Seychelles meeting, as has Yousef al-Otaiba, the Emirati ambassador in
Washington.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/03/07/us/politics/07dc-investigate2/merlin_73062782_a78e1368-ff50-4921-8ee8-78e2b4ee0398-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Mr. Dmitriev, a former Goldman Sachs banker with an M.B.A. from Harvard,
was tapped by Mr. Putin in 2011 to manage an unusual state-run
investment fund. Where other such funds seek to earn returns on
sovereign wealth, Mr. Dmitriev's Russian Direct Investment Fund seeks
outside investments, often from foreign governments, for unglamorous
infrastructure projects inside of Russia.

The Obama administration imposed sanctions on the fund as part of a raft
of economic penalties after the
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2014/03/19/world/europe/ukraine.html}{Russian
government sent military forces into Ukraine in 2014}.

The United Arab Emirates, which Washington considers one of its closest
Arab allies, co-invested together with Mr. Dmitriev's fund as part of an
effort to build close relations to Russia as well. After Crown Prince
Mohammed met with Mr. Putin in 2013 in Moscow on a state visit, two
investment arms of the government in Abu Dhabi committed to invest \$6
billion in the fund's Russian projects, eventually paying to build
projects like roads, an airport and cancer treatment centers in Russia.

Mr. Dmitriev became a frequent visitor to Abu Dhabi, and Emirati
officials came to see him as a key conduit to the Russian government. In
a 2015 email, the Emirati ambassador to Moscow at the time described Mr.
Dmitriev as a ``messenger'' to get information directly to Mr. Putin.
The email was among a large number hacked from the account of the
ambassador to Washington and published online. The now former ambassador
to Moscow, Omar Saif Ghobash, did not respond to an email about the
leak.

Mr. Nader was first served with search warrants and a grand jury
subpoena on Jan. 17, shortly after landing at Washington Dulles
International Airport, according to two people familiar with the
episode. He had intended to travel on to Mar-a-Lago, Mr. Trump's Florida
estate, to celebrate the president's first year in office, but the
F.B.I. had other plans, questioning him for more than two hours and
seizing his electronics.

Since then, Mr. Nader has been questioned numerous times about meetings
in New York during the transition, the Seychelles meeting and meetings
in the White House with two of Mr. Trump's senior advisers, Jared
Kushner and Stephen K. Bannon, who has since left the administration.

The meeting in the Seychelles also took place against the backdrop of a
larger pattern of secretive contacts between the Trump team and both the
Russians and the Emiratis. In the weeks after the 2016 presidential
election, Crown Prince Mohammed aroused the suspicions of American
national security officials when they learned that he had breached
protocol by visiting Trump Tower in Manhattan without notifying the
Obama administration of his visit to the United States.

Mr. Kushner, Mr. Trump's son-in-law and a senior transition adviser, met
at Trump Tower with Sergey I. Kislyak, the Russian ambassador to
Washington at the time, and
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2017/05/26/us/politics/kushner-talked-to-russian-envoy-about-creating-secret-channel-with-kremlin.html}{discussed
setting up a back channel} to communicate with Moscow during the
transition --- circumventing American diplomatic channels normally used
during a presidential transition. Mr. Kushner met a few days later with
a Russian banker close to Putin, Sergey N. Gorkov --- whose bank was
also under sanctions --- in what Mr. Kushner has said was an attempt to
establish a direct line of communication to Mr. Putin during the
transition.

Image

Mr. Prince denied to congressional investigators that he was
representing the Trump transition team at a meeting in the
Seychelles.Credit...Zach Gibson for The New York Times

Michael T. Flynn, Mr. Trump's first national security adviser, was
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2017/12/02/us/politics/trump-michael-flynn.html}{fired
for lying about his conversations} with the Russian ambassador during
the transition.

Public accounts of the Seychelles meeting have varied sharply.
Questioned about it during testimony in November before the House
Intelligence Committee, Mr. Prince dismissed his encounter with Mr.
Dmitriev as little more than a chance run-in.

He was in the Seychelles for a meeting with Crown Prince Mohammed and
Emirati officials, Mr. Prince said, and after the meeting, the officials
suggested he meet Mr. Dmitriev at the bar of the Four Seasons hotel.

``We chatted on topics ranging from oil and commodity prices to how much
his country wished for resumption of normal trade relations'' with the
United States, Mr. Prince said about the meeting, which he said lasted
about 30 minutes.

``I remember telling him that if Franklin Roosevelt could work with
Joseph Stalin to defeat Nazi fascism, then certainly Donald Trump could
work with Vladimir Putin to defeat Islamic fascism,'' he told lawmakers.

Shortly after the Seychelles meeting, Mr. Dmitriev met with Anthony
Scaramucci, then an informal Trump adviser, at the 2017 World Economic
Forum in Davos, Switzerland. In
\href{https://www.rbth.com/news/2017/01/17/trumps-advisor-says-us-sanctions-against-russia-had-opposite-effect_682543}{an
interview afterward with TASS, a Russian news agency}, Mr. Scaramucci
criticized the Obama administration's economic sanctions on Russia as
ineffective and suggested that the Trump administration and Russia could
find common ground on numerous issues.

``We have to make the world safer, we have to eliminate from the world
the radical Islamic terrorism, and we have to figure out the ways to
grow the wages for working class-families,'' said Mr. Scaramucci, who
later had a brief but calamitous
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2017/07/31/us/politics/trump-white-house-obamacare-health.html}{stint
as White House communications director}. ``Whether in Russia or in the
U.S., I think there are a lot of common objectives.''

For his part, Mr. Dmitriev seemed particularly optimistic at the dawn of
the Trump era. In an interview with The New York Times two days after
the 2016 election, he said he was excited that Mr. Trump's dramatic
victory would ``reshape the U.S.-Russia relationship.''

``When Russia is treated with respect,'' he said, ``we can move
forward.''

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
