Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}Tom Steyer Drops Out of 2020
Presidential Race

\url{https://nyti.ms/39e38k6}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Election
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/biden-vice-president-2020.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Biden's
  V.P. Search}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/07/24/us/politics/trump-biden-campaign-donors.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Map
  of Donations}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/elections/delegate-count-primary-results.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Delegate
  Count}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2019/us/politics/2020-presidential-candidates.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{The
  Candidates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Politics
  Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{tom-steyer-drops-out-of-2020-presidential-race}{%
\section{Tom Steyer Drops Out of 2020 Presidential
Race}\label{tom-steyer-drops-out-of-2020-presidential-race}}

Mr. Steyer, the former hedge-fund executive, exited the race after a
disappointing finish in South Carolina --- a state where he had spent
considerable resources and pinned the hopes of his campaign.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/02/29/us/politics/00steyer-out/merlin_169739994_6d407a55-bed7-4f7a-9e1f-c5af54d8351b-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/stephanie-saul}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/02/06/reader-center/author-stephanie-saul/author-stephanie-saul-thumbLarge.png}}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/matt-stevens}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2019/04/03/multimedia/author-matt-stevens/author-matt-stevens-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/stephanie-saul}{Stephanie Saul} and
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/matt-stevens}{Matt Stevens}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Feb. 29, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

COLUMBIA, S.C. ---
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/elections/tom-steyer.html}{Tom
Steyer}, the billionaire former hedge-fund executive whose prolific
campaign spending
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/08/27/us/politics/tom-steyer-debate.html}{altered
the Democratic primary} and allowed him to persist in the race, withdrew
after an apparent third-place finish Saturday night in South Carolina.

Speaking to supporters here, Mr. Steyer announced he was ending his long
shot presidential bid, but promised to continue working on issues that
are of great importance to him --- environmental and economic injustice.

``We live in a country that is deeply unjust economically where rich
people have been profiting at the expense of everybody else,'' Mr.
Steyer said, his voice cracking at times. ``And I didn't get in this
race and start talking about things to get votes. I was in this race to
talk about things that I cared the most about.''

Mr. Steyer, 62, had failed to capitalize on
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/01/25/us/politics/tom-steyer-millions-south-carolina.html}{his
investment of millions of dollars in South Carolina}, where he had
pinned the hopes of his campaign. Despite spending more than \$191
million on advertising nationally, Mr. Steyer did not earn any national
pledged delegates in Iowa, New Hampshire or Nevada, making South
Carolina something of a make-or-break state for his continued viability.
With nearly 90 percent of the votes counted here, Mr. Steyer had
garnered less than 12 percent of the vote, although he told supporters
he might pick up one or two delegates.

Mr. Steyer, who said he had always planned to end his candidacy if he
did not see a path to victory, declared that, based on the South
Carolina results, he did not see a path. In leaving the campaign, he did
not endorse another candidate, but pledged to work with the Democratic
nominee who he said would be ``a million times better than Trump. Trump
is a disaster.''

Mr. Steyer's departure from the race comes nearly eight months after
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/07/09/us/politics/tom-steyer-president.html}{he
made a late entry into the contest}; his July decision to join the
primary was a surprising reversal for the longtime climate change and
impeachment activist
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/01/09/us/politics/tom-steyer-trump-2020.html}{who
had previously said he would not seek the White House in 2020}.

But run he did. And although he continued to rail against President
Trump and call for action to combat global warming, Mr. Steyer fashioned
himself as a populist most concerned with attacking the corporate
interests that he said had developed a stranglehold over the American
political system.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-2020-election}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: 2020
Election}}{Latest Updates: 2020 Election}}\label{latest-updates-2020-election}}

Updated 2020-08-01T01:26:45.732Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-29fdff45}{Kamala
  Harris, a top vice-presidential contender, confronts double
  standards.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-13ec3d9c}{Karen
  Bass and Susan Rice are rising on Biden's vice-presidential
  shortlist.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-49e9a016}{Trump
  says Russian bounties to kill U.S. troops `never took place.'}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

Aided by his personal fortune, Mr. Steyer was able to move from his
position as a prolific funder of Democratic groups to the center of
Democratic politics.

With consistent polling in the low single digits,
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2019/us/politics/democratic-debate-lineup.html}{he
earned a spot on the stage in a majority of the Democratic debates} ---
exposure to a national television audience that he often used to preach
party unity in opposition to Mr. Trump. (His time on television also
made
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/10/16/style/tom-steyer-plaid-tie-2020-democratic-debate.html}{his
favored tartan tie} a social media sensation; an attempt he made after a
debate to greet Senator
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/elections/bernie-sanders.html}{Bernie
Sanders} of Vermont, who was engaging in
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/01/15/us/politics/sanders-warren-debate-handshake.html}{a
tense confrontation} with Senator
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/elections/elizabeth-warren.html}{Elizabeth
Warren} of Massachusetts, also garnered considerable attention.)

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/elections/delegate-count-primary-results.html}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/01/31/us/delegate-count-primary-results-promo-1580516316371/delegate-count-primary-results-promo-1580516316371-articleLarge-v80.png}

\hypertarget{democratic-delegate-count-and-primary-election-results-2020}{%
\subsection{Democratic Delegate Count and Primary Election Results
2020}\label{democratic-delegate-count-and-primary-election-results-2020}}

See how many delegates are available in each state.

Nowhere was Mr. Steyer's money more evident than in South Carolina. As
his rivals fought amid the crowded Democratic field to gain a foothold
in Iowa and New Hampshire, Mr. Steyer's campaign saw an opportunity to
saturate South Carolina voters with television ads and direct mail while
also building out a large campaign operation and making dozens of visits
to the state.

But Mr. Steyer's campaign
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/01/25/us/politics/tom-steyer-millions-south-carolina.html}{went
beyond even those efforts}. In a state where black voters comprised
about 60 percent of the Democratic electorate, Mr. Steyer's campaign
hired local African-American staff members, used black-owned businesses
to cater events and provide other services and committed to spending
about \$150,000 on advertising in the black-owned media.

The
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/07/19/us/politics/tom-steyer-2020-campaign.html}{heavy
spending strategy} --- which presaged a similar approach taken by fellow
billionaire
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/elections/michael-bloomberg.html}{Michael
R. Bloomberg} --- appeared to be at least partially responsible for the
boost in the polls that Mr. Steyer enjoyed in South Carolina. In January
and February, Mr. Steyer
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/01/09/upshot/tom-steyer-poll.html}{polled
in the double digits several times} in surveys of South Carolina voters
despite having never performed that well in dozens of other national and
early voting state polls, save for once or twice in Nevada.

But exactly
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/02/24/us/politics/tom-steyer-james-clyburn-south-carolina.html}{how
Mr. Steyer wielded his financial resources also came under scrutiny} and
raised questions about whether he was seeking to gain influence though
his spending. For instance, Mr. Steyer's campaign made commercial rent
payments to a company owned by Jennifer Clyburn Reed, a daughter of
James E. Clyburn, the longtime Democratic congressman from South
Carolina whose endorsement was highly coveted and eventually went to
former Vice President
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/elections/joe-biden.html}{Joseph
R. Biden Jr}.

Mr. Steyer's campaign also put influential black lawmakers on his
campaign payroll as advisers ---
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/02/12/us/politics/bernie-sanders-tom-steyer-south-carolina.html}{some
of whom endorsed him} --- and faced allegations of vote-buying, all of
which raised concerns among some South Carolina Democrats. Earlier in
the cycle,
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/11/07/us/politics/tom-steyer-endorsements.html}{Mr.
Steyer's campaign was forced to apologize} for what it said was
``miscommunication'' following a report that a top aide had privately
offered campaign contributions to local politicians in exchange for
endorsements.

Nonetheless, Mr. Steyer's relative strength in South Carolina earned him
one final chance to make his case in front of a national television
audience at the debate in late February.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/02/29/us/politics/00steyer-out-2/merlin_169806492_f9b6d17f-15de-4823-a69d-595d4d5f2ba4-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

In the days before the primary, Mr. Steyer's South Carolina staff had
swelled to more than 100 workers, many of them young and black South
Carolinians.

In appearances around the state, Mr. Steyer focused his appeal on the
economic and environmental injustices affecting African-Americans, as
well as an unequivocal pledge that the federal government would pay
reparations to the descendants of slaves if he were elected.

``We should have a formal commission on race to retell the story of the
last 400-plus years in America of systematic legal injustice,
discrimination and cruelty,'' he said in Tuesday's debate.

Mr. Steyer repeated the pledge at a fish fry sponsored by his campaign
in North Charleston on Thursday, where he also had recruited the black
radio personality Sheryl Underwood to speak on his behalf.

``I support his ability to speak to issues that our community needs
somebody to speak to,'' Ms. Underwood said of Mr. Steyer. ``I support
the coalescing of his resources with our resources to get more people
into the process.''

In the end, though, it was not enough, and, despite the onslaught of
spending, many South Carolinians viewed Mr. Steyer's campaign as more of
a novelty than anything. Democratic political activists had coined a new
term to describe his foray into the state: South Carolina had been
``Steyered,'' they said.

Stephanie Saul reported from Columbia, S.C., and Matt Stevens reported
from New York. Alexander Burns contributed reporting.

\hypertarget{our-2020-election-guide}{%
\section{Our 2020 Election Guide}\label{our-2020-election-guide}}

Updated July 31, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{the-latest}{%
  \subsection{The Latest}\label{the-latest}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    President Trump's assault on the Postal Service is intersecting with
    his attacks on mail-in voting.
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/politics/trump-usps-mail-delays.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Voting
    rights groups say it is a recipe for disaster.}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{bidens-vp-search}{%
  \subsection{Biden's V.P. Search}\label{bidens-vp-search}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/biden-vice-president-2020.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Here
    are 13 women} who have been under consideration to be Joe Biden's
    running mate, and why each might be chosen --- and might not be.
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{keep-up-with-our-coverage}{%
  \subsection{Keep Up With Our
  Coverage}\label{keep-up-with-our-coverage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Get an
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{email}
    recapping the day's news
  \end{itemize}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Download our mobile app on
    \href{https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nytimes/id284862083?ls=1\&mat_click_id=5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\&referrer=mat_click_id\%3D5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\%26link_click_id\%3D722930677036718082}{iOS}
    and
    \href{http://a.localytics.com/android?id=com.nytimes.android\&referrer=utm_source\%3Dother_nyt_mobile_web\%26utm_medium\%3DWeb\%2520page\%26utm_term\%3DGeneral\%2520Mobile\%2520Page\%26utm_campaign\%3DNYT\%2520Mobile\%2520General\%2520Page}{Android}
    and turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
