Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}Postal Service Pick With
Ties to Trump Raises Concerns Ahead of 2020 Election

\url{https://nyti.ms/3dubbeG}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/09/08/us/elections/results-new-hampshire-primary-elections.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{New
  Hampshire Results}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/08/us/trump-vs-biden?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Election
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/election-states-biden-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Paths
  to 270}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/31/us/politics/vote-by-mail-deadlines.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Voting
  by Mail}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/us/elections/2020-presidential-election-calendar.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Key
  Dates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Politics
  Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{postal-service-pick-with-ties-to-trump-raises-concerns-ahead-of-2020-election}{%
\section{Postal Service Pick With Ties to Trump Raises Concerns Ahead of
2020
Election}\label{postal-service-pick-with-ties-to-trump-raises-concerns-ahead-of-2020-election}}

The growing appetite for mail-in voting is adding to worries about the
selection of a Republican fund-raiser and Trump donor to be the
postmaster general.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/05/07/business/07DC-POSTAL-01/07DC-POSTAL-01-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/alan-rappeport}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/06/12/multimedia/author-alan-rappeport/author-alan-rappeport-thumbLarge-v2.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/alan-rappeport}{Alan
Rappeport}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  May 7, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

WASHINGTON --- The installment of one of President Trump's financial
backers and a longtime Republican donor as the postmaster general is
raising concerns among Democrats and ethics watchdogs that the Postal
Service will be politicized at a time when states are mobilizing their
vote-by-mail efforts ahead of the 2020 election.

The Postal Service's board of governors on Wednesday night
\href{https://about.usps.com/newsroom/national-releases/2020/0506-bog-announces-selection-of-louis-dejoy-to-serve-as-nations-75th-postmaster-general.htm?mod=article_inline}{selected
Louis DeJoy}, a North Carolina businessman and veteran of the logistics
industry, to lead the struggling agency, which faces insolvency and has
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/04/12/us/politics/trump-postal-service-amazon.html}{frequently
drawn the ire of Mr. Trump}. The president has been pushing the post
office to increase prices on companies that use it to deliver packages,
such as Amazon, and has threatened to withhold funding if sweeping
changes are not enacted.

Those changes have failed to get off the ground, but with Mr. DeJoy at
the helm there are growing concerns that the nation's mail carrier could
be weaponized.

Mr. Trump declared last month that ``the Postal Service is a joke'' and
assailed it for taking steep losses on packages it ships for big
e-commerce companies at low rates. He suggested that the service
increase the price it charges companies by four or five times the
current rates.

The president has feuded publicly with Jeff Bezos, Amazon's chief
executive, over coverage of him by The Washington Post, which Mr. Bezos
also owns.

In Mr. DeJoy, Mr. Trump will have an ally who is likely to do his
bidding to bring major structural changes. Although Mr. DeJoy is well
known among Republican donors, he is about to experience a new level of
public scrutiny when he begins the job on June 15.

``GOP is naming a political operative with no USPS experience as the
Postmaster General right before an election where millions of people
will try to vote by mail to save their own lives,'' Representative
Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, Democrat of New York,
\href{https://twitter.com/AOC/status/1258382589674639360?s=20}{said
Thursday on Twitter}. ``They are eroding our democracy and crushing our
public institutions before our very eyes.''

Mr. Trump dispatched Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin to oversee an
overhaul at the Postal Service, and negotiations over its funding have
emerged as a point of tension between Republicans and Democrats. In
March, Mr. Mnuchin quashed a bipartisan attempt to send the agency
emergency funds, insisting instead that his department be given new
authority to lend up to \$10 billion to the Postal Service on terms it
helps set. Mr. Trump has said the service will receive no additional
money until it meets his demands.

Mr. Mnuchin's agenda has created tension within the upper ranks of the
Postal Service as well. The vice chairman of its board of governors,
David C. Williams, was so uneasy over the terms being put forward by the
Treasury Department that he resigned in recent weeks, lamenting to
associates that the agency was being politicized in ways he had not
previously experienced, according to people familiar with his thinking.
Mr. Williams, who is also a former inspector general for the Postal
Service, declined to comment.

Mr. Mnuchin praised the selection of Mr. DeJoy on Thursday and said in a
statement that with his experience and leadership, the Postal Service
would have a bright future. ``He will bring valuable business experience
to this important role and help lead the Postal Service to a successful
future for the benefit of its employees, suppliers and customers,'' Mr.
Mnuchin said.

While the Postal Service's financial straits are a concern, a bigger
issue stems from the growing reality that many voters will probably want
to cast their 2020 ballot by mail if the coronavirus does not abate or
if people do not feel safe gathering at polling places on Nov. 3.

Five states currently conduct voting almost entirely by mail. Speaker
Nancy Pelosi has said that she wants a provision in an upcoming economic
relief bill that would allow mail-in voting on a national basis.
However, many Republicans, including Mr. Trump, have opposed the
concept, claiming that it could lead to voter fraud.

Critics of Mr. Trump believe that having Mr. DeJoy run the Postal
Service could represent another obstacle to remote voting.

``For vote by mail, this seems like putting a fox in charge of the hen
house,'' William Kristol, the conservative commentator,
\href{https://twitter.com/BillKristol/status/1258222620115378176?s=20}{said
on Twitter}. ``Should Congress specify ways the Post Office has to
cooperate with states' vote by mail efforts?''

In a letter released on Wednesday, a group of 30 Democratic senators
wrote to Mr. Mnuchin urging him to keep politics out of the Postal
Service's business.

``We urge you to reject imposing counterproductive or politically
motivated conditions on the pledged \$10 billion emergency loan to the
U.S.P.S. and any other relief that the U.S.P.S. needs,'' they wrote.

The Postal Service appealed to lawmakers last month for an \$89 billion
lifeline and warned that it could run out of money by the end of
September without help. The Postal Service is projecting a \$13 billion
revenue shortfall this fiscal year because of the pandemic.

While Mr. Trump has suggested that the service could shore up its
finances by charging more, it actually makes money from its business
with Amazon. If the post office were to sharply raise prices, as Mr.
Trump has suggested, Amazon could pull its business and shift to
alternatives such as UPS or FedEx.

Mr. Mnuchin said last month that changes to the Postal Service would
begin when a new postmaster general was in place. Mr. DeJoy will be
taking over for Megan J. Brennan, who assumed the role in 2015 and
announced last year that she was retiring.

The conversations about Mr. DeJoy becoming the postmaster general began
in January, according to a person familiar with the discussions. Despite
those talks, he continued with his role helping with the Republican
National Convention, for which he serves as the
\href{https://www.charlottein2020.com/charlotte-2020-host-committee-names-national-finance-chairman-louis-dejoy}{national
finance chairman}.

Mr. DeJoy is the chairman and chief executive of New Breed Logistics in
North Carolina. In announcing his selection, the Postal Service's board
of governors noted that his company had been a contractor to the service
for more than 25 years, offering logistics support to its processing
facilities.

Mr. DeJoy, who is originally from Brooklyn, has also spent decades as a
major donor to Republicans across the country. This year he has already
donated about \$360,000 to Trump Victory, a super PAC supporting Mr.
Trump's re-election bid, and thousands to the Republican National
Committee,
\href{https://www.fec.gov/data/receipts/individual-contributions/?committee_id=C00003418\&committee_id=C00580100\&committee_id=C00618371\&committee_id=C00618389\&contributor_name=louis+dejoy}{according
to federal filings}. Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics in
Washington, a watchdog group, estimated that Mr. DeJoy had donated more
than \$2.5 million to Republican state parties, committees and
candidates since 2016.

It is not the first time that the donations have led to prominent jobs
for Mr. DeJoy or his family. Earlier this year, Mr. DeJoy's wife, Aldona
Wos, was tapped by Mr. Trump to be the United States ambassador to
Canada. Ms. Wos had also served as the ambassador to Estonia under the
administration of President George W. Bush in 2004.

That year, The News \& Record of Greensboro noted that Mr. DeJoy had a
penchant for turning his political connections and donations into
profitable government contracts. At the time, Mr. DeJoy cast himself as
a humble entrepreneur who probably would have struggled to succeed on a
reality television show such as Mr. Trump's ``The Apprentice.''

``I'd be fired,''
\href{https://www.greensboro.com/business/new-breed-ceo-no-one-s-apprentice/article_ab0f9da6-b94f-5afc-8bc7-3e7b482028ef.html}{Mr.
DeJoy told the newspaper}. ``That attitude that you are the most
important person is self-destructive.''

Maggie Haberman, Emily Cochrane and Nicholas Fandos contributed
reporting

\hypertarget{our-2020-election-guide}{%
\section{Our 2020 Election Guide}\label{our-2020-election-guide}}

Updated ~Sept. 8, 2020

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

\begin{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{the-latest}{%
  \subsection{The Latest}\label{the-latest}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    President Trump and his party are using a playbook that aims to
    alarm people about crime in their backyards. It didn't work in 2018,
    but
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/08/us/politics/trump-republicans-fear-strategy.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{both
    parties think it could resonate more this year}.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{how-to-win-270}{%
  \subsection{How to Win 270}\label{how-to-win-270}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Joe Biden and Donald Trump need 270 electoral votes to reach the
    White House. Try building
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/election-states-biden-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{your
    own coalition of battleground states}~to see potential outcomes.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{voting-by-mail}{%
  \subsection{Voting by Mail}\label{voting-by-mail}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Will you have enough time to vote by mail in your state? Yes, but
    it's risky to procrastinate.
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/31/us/politics/vote-by-mail-deadlines.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Check
    your state's deadline.}
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/joe-biden.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{}

    \hypertarget{joe-biden}{%
    \section{Joe Biden}\label{joe-biden}}

    \hypertarget{democrat}{%
    \subsection{Democrat}\label{democrat}}

    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/donald-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{}

    \hypertarget{donald-trump}{%
    \section{Donald Trump}\label{donald-trump}}

    \hypertarget{republican}{%
    \subsection{Republican}\label{republican}}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \hypertarget{keep-up-with-our-coverage}{%
  \subsection{Keep Up With Our
  Coverage}\label{keep-up-with-our-coverage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Get an
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{email}~recapping
    the day's news
  \item
    Download our mobile app on
    \href{https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nytimes/id284862083?ls=1\&mat_click_id=5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\&referrer=mat_click_id\%3D5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\%26link_click_id\%3D722930677036718082}{iOS}~and
    \href{http://a.localytics.com/android?id=com.nytimes.android\&referrer=utm_source\%3Dother_nyt_mobile_web\%26utm_medium\%3DWeb\%2520page\%26utm_term\%3DGeneral\%2520Mobile\%2520Page\%26utm_campaign\%3DNYT\%2520Mobile\%2520General\%2520Page}{Android}~and
    turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
