Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}Trump's Claim of Total
Authority in Crisis Is Rejected Across Ideological Lines

\url{https://nyti.ms/2K7Iasg}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{the-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=c97adcf0-f296-11ea-95f6-af5fc3a8088f\&variant=undefined}{The
Coronavirus
Outbreak}}{The Coronavirus Outbreak}}\label{the-coronavirus-outbreak}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  live\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/09/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=c97b0400-f296-11ea-95f6-af5fc3a8088f\&variant=undefined}{Latest
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=c97b0401-f296-11ea-95f6-af5fc3a8088f\&variant=undefined}{Maps
  and Cases}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=c97b0402-f296-11ea-95f6-af5fc3a8088f\&variant=undefined}{Vaccine
  Tracker}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/02/your-money/eviction-moratorium-covid.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=c97b0403-f296-11ea-95f6-af5fc3a8088f\&variant=undefined}{Eviction
  Moratorium}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/09/02/magazine/food-insecurity-hunger-us.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=c97b0404-f296-11ea-95f6-af5fc3a8088f\&variant=undefined}{American
  Hunger}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

News Analysis

\hypertarget{trumps-claim-of-total-authority-in-crisis-is-rejected-across-ideological-lines}{%
\section{Trump's Claim of Total Authority in Crisis Is Rejected Across
Ideological
Lines}\label{trumps-claim-of-total-authority-in-crisis-is-rejected-across-ideological-lines}}

Trading barbs with governors about their powers over when to ease
restrictions on society, the president made an assertion that lacks a
basis in the Constitution or federal law.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/04/14/us/politics/14dc-virus-power/14dc-virus-power-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/charlie-savage}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/06/12/multimedia/author-charlie-savage/author-charlie-savage-thumbLarge-v2.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/charlie-savage}{Charlie
Savage}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  April 14, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

WASHINGTON --- President Trump's claim that he wielded ``total''
authority in the pandemic crisis prompted rebellion not just from
governors. Legal scholars across the ideological spectrum on Tuesday
rejected his declaration that ultimately he, not state leaders, will
decide when to risk lifting social distancing limits in order to reopen
businesses.

``When somebody's the president of the United States, the authority is
total,'' Mr. Trump asserted at
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/13/us/politics/trump-coronavirus-governors.html}{a
raucous press briefing} on Monday evening. ``And that's the way it's got
to be.''

But neither the Constitution nor any federal law bestows that power upon
Mr. Trump, a range of legal scholars and government officials said.

``We don't have a king in this country,'' Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo of New
York said on Tuesday, adding, ``There are laws and facts --- even in
this wild political environment.'' He rebutted Mr. Trump's claim by
citing a line from
\href{https://teachingamericanhistory.org/library/document/speech-on-the-compromises-of-the-constitution/}{Alexander
Hamilton}, observing that presidential encroachment on powers that the
Constitution reserved to the states would be ``repugnant to every rule
of political calculation.''

Mr. Cuomo is a Democrat, but even some of the most outspoken Republican
supporters of a generally sweeping vision of presidential power agreed
that Mr. Trump's claim was empty.

\href{https://www.nationalreview.com/2020/04/no-trump-cant-force-states-to-reopen/}{John
Yoo}, a University of California, Berkeley, law professor known for
writing much-disputed Justice Department memos after the Sept. 11
attacks claiming that President George W. Bush, as commander in chief,
had the power to override legal limits on torture and surveillance for
the war against Al Qaeda, said Mr. Trump could not force states to
reopen.

``Only the states can impose quarantines, close institutions and
businesses, and limit intrastate travel,'' Mr. Yoo wrote in
\href{https://www.nationalreview.com/2020/04/no-trump-cant-force-states-to-reopen/}{The
National Review}. ``Democratic governors Gavin Newsom in California,
Andrew Cuomo in New York, and J.B. Pritzker Illinois imposed their
states' lockdowns, and only they will decide when the draconian policies
will end.''

Vice President Mike Pence --- who
\href{https://robbishop.house.gov/media/press-releases/house-members-take-cause-liberty}{styled
himself as a strong proponent of states' rights} when Barack Obama was
president --- was a lonely voice backing Mr. Trump. ``In the long
history of this country,'' he said on Monday, ``the authority of the
president of the United States during national emergencies is
unquestionably plenary.''

The Constitution bestows specific powers on the federal government while
reserving the rest to sovereign state governments. None of the
enumerated powers given to the federal government directly address
control over public health measures, although the Constitution does let
Congress regulate interstate commerce.

Both a pandemic and social distancing measures that require the closure
of businesses, to be sure, affect interstate commerce. But even if the
federal government in theory could have more power in this area, it
would take an act of Congress to bestow it on the presidency.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-the-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/09/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: The Coronavirus
Outbreak}}{Latest Updates: The Coronavirus Outbreak}}\label{latest-updates-the-coronavirus-outbreak}}

Updated 2020-09-09T12:11:09.219Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/09/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-70cea8bb}{As
  drugmakers pledge to thoroughly vet a vaccine, one company pauses its
  trials for a safety review.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/09/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-780eaa2f}{Britain
  is expected to ban gatherings of more than six people.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/09/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-11cec4c0}{Quarantine
  breakdowns at colleges in the U.S. are leaving some at risk.}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/09/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

More live coverage:
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/09/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Markets}

Lawmakers have created some executive powers relevant to the crisis ---
including enabling an administration to take steps to keep illness from
spreading across state lines and to mobilize industry to ramp up
production of needed goods in a public health crisis. But they have
passed no statute purporting to give the presidency pre-eminence over
governors on rescinding public health limits inside states.

Similarly, while Mr. Trump
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/13/us/politics/coronavirus-national-emergency.html}{declared
a national emergency} over the pandemic, that did not mean he was
tapping into some reservoir of limitless constitutional power. Rather,
he was activating specific statutes that Congress has enacted creating
particular standby powers, none of which include letting a president
overturn state-imposed public health safety measures.

In \href{https://supreme.justia.com/cases/federal/us/343/579/}{a 1952
case} involving President Harry S. Truman's seizure of steel mills to
avert a strike during the Korean War, the Supreme Court rejected his
effort to invoke purported ``inherent'' constitutional power to resolve
the crisis using different tools than Congress had provided.

And even if Congress were to now enact a law giving Mr. Trump that power
--- which is unlikely, with the House in the hands of Democrats ---
there would still be legal obstacles. The Supreme Court over the last
generation has pushed back when Congress has enacted laws that the court
sees as federal commandeering of states' authority.

``The federal government may neither issue directives requiring the
states to address particular problems, nor command the states' officers,
or those of their political subdivisions, to administer or enforce a
federal regulatory program,'' Justice Antonin Scalia wrote
\href{https://casetext.com/case/printz-v-us}{in a 1997 Supreme Court
ruling}.

On Tuesday, Mr. Trump appeared to seek a face-saving way out, saying he
was ``authorizing'' governors to decide for themselves when to reopen
their states. He offered no explanation for the implication that his
permission was necessary before they could lift their own orders.

For Mr. Trump, the legal emptiness of his assertion fits with a larger
pattern in his handling of the pandemic and more. Where President
Theodore Roosevelt liked to invoke an African proverb to describe his
approach to wielding executive power --- ``speak softly and carry a big
stick'' --- Mr. Trump sometimes talks as if he has a big stick but with
little to back it up.

Despite his ``extreme, proud rhetoric about how he can do whatever he
wants,'' said Jack Goldsmith, a Harvard law professor and senior Justice
Department official in the George W. Bush administration, the story of
the Trump presidency has been, with few exceptions, ``talking a big
game, but not in fact exercising executive power successfully.''

Mr. Trump has made greater use of a softer power of the presidency:
using his pre-eminent position and the attention he commands for public
persuasion, which Roosevelt called the bully pulpit. But Mr. Trump used
it at first to play down the crisis, rather than issuing a call to
action to galvanize the country to more swiftly take steps
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/28/us/testing-coronavirus-pandemic.html}{like
ramping up testing capacity} and consider imposing social distancing
measures.

Some legal experts theorized that Mr. Trump could try to use the federal
government's control over disaster relief funds and equipment to punish
states whose governors reject a hypothetical future White House
declaration that it is time to open up.

He could, for example, try to allocate more equipment to states whose
governors acquiesce to his desires, which would inevitably lead to
litigation. Even so, as Mr. Yoo wrote, such punitive measures are
politically unlikely to move Democratic governors in hard-hit areas to
reopen their economies before public health experts say it is safe.

Mr. Trump demurred when pressed to say who told him he wielded ``total''
authority, and his administration has put forward no legal theory.

Some White House officials expressed uncertainty about what the
president was relying on. But others pointed to Article II of the
Constitution, which creates the presidency and which Mr. Trump has often
invoked, and several statutes creating certain public health powers.
None of those statutes they cited say a president has total authority to
force governors to lift pandemic restrictions.

Indeed, numerous legal scholars rejected Mr. Trump's claim as baseless,
including Jonathan Turley, a George Washington University law professor
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/12/04/us/politics/trump-impeachment.html?searchResultPosition=2}{who
testified in the president's favor during the impeachment inquiry}.

``The Constitution was written precisely the deny that particular
claim,''
\href{https://twitter.com/JonathanTurley/status/1249837933038837760}{Mr.
Turley wrote on Twitter}.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{}

\hypertarget{the-coronavirus-outbreak-}{%
\subsubsection{The Coronavirus Outbreak
›}\label{the-coronavirus-outbreak-}}

\hypertarget{frequently-asked-questions}{%
\paragraph{Frequently Asked
Questions}\label{frequently-asked-questions}}

Updated September 4, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{what-are-the-symptoms-of-coronavirus}{%
  \paragraph{What are the symptoms of
  coronavirus?}\label{what-are-the-symptoms-of-coronavirus}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    In the beginning, the coronavirus
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/coronavirus-facts-history.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq\#link-6817bab5}{seemed
    like it was primarily a respiratory illness}~--- many patients had
    fever and chills, were weak and tired, and coughed a lot, though
    some people don't show many symptoms at all. Those who seemed
    sickest had pneumonia or acute respiratory distress syndrome and
    received supplemental oxygen. By now, doctors have identified many
    more symptoms and syndromes. In April,
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/27/health/coronavirus-symptoms-cdc.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{the
    C.D.C. added to the list of early signs}~sore throat, fever, chills
    and muscle aches. Gastrointestinal upset, such as diarrhea and
    nausea, has also been observed. Another telltale sign of infection
    may be a sudden, profound diminution of one's
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/22/health/coronavirus-symptoms-smell-taste.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{sense
    of smell and taste.}~Teenagers and young adults in some cases have
    developed painful red and purple lesions on their fingers and toes
    --- nicknamed ``Covid toe'' --- but few other serious symptoms.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{why-is-it-safer-to-spend-time-together-outside}{%
  \paragraph{Why is it safer to spend time together
  outside?}\label{why-is-it-safer-to-spend-time-together-outside}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/15/us/coronavirus-what-to-do-outside.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{Outdoor
    gatherings}~lower risk because wind disperses viral droplets, and
    sunlight can kill some of the virus. Open spaces prevent the virus
    from building up in concentrated amounts and being inhaled, which
    can happen when infected people exhale in a confined space for long
    stretches of time, said Dr. Julian W. Tang, a virologist at the
    University of Leicester.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{why-does-standing-six-feet-away-from-others-help}{%
  \paragraph{Why does standing six feet away from others
  help?}\label{why-does-standing-six-feet-away-from-others-help}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    The coronavirus spreads primarily through droplets from your mouth
    and nose, especially when you cough or sneeze. The C.D.C., one of
    the organizations using that measure,
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/14/health/coronavirus-six-feet.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{bases
    its recommendation of six feet}~on the idea that most large droplets
    that people expel when they cough or sneeze will fall to the ground
    within six feet. But six feet has never been a magic number that
    guarantees complete protection. Sneezes, for instance, can launch
    droplets a lot farther than six feet,
    \href{https://jamanetwork.com/journals/jama/fullarticle/2763852}{according
    to a recent study}. It's a rule of thumb: You should be safest
    standing six feet apart outside, especially when it's windy. But
    keep a mask on at all times, even when you think you're far enough
    apart.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{i-have-antibodies-am-i-now-immune}{%
  \paragraph{I have antibodies. Am I now
  immune?}\label{i-have-antibodies-am-i-now-immune}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    As of right
    now,\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/22/health/covid-antibodies-herd-immunity.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{~that
    seems likely, for at least several months.}~There have been
    frightening accounts of people suffering what seems to be a second
    bout of Covid-19. But experts say these patients may have a
    drawn-out course of infection, with the virus taking a slow toll
    weeks to months after initial exposure.~People infected with the
    coronavirus typically
    \href{https://www.nature.com/articles/s41586-020-2456-9}{produce}~immune
    molecules called antibodies, which are
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/07/health/coronavirus-antibody-prevalence.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{protective
    proteins made in response to an
    infection}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/07/health/coronavirus-antibody-prevalence.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{.
    These antibodies may}~last in the body
    \href{https://www.nature.com/articles/s41591-020-0965-6}{only two to
    three months}, which may seem worrisome, but that's~perfectly normal
    after an acute infection subsides, said Dr. Michael Mina, an
    immunologist at Harvard University. It may be possible to get the
    coronavirus again, but it's highly unlikely that it would be
    possible in a short window of time from initial infection or make
    people sicker the second time.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{what-are-my-rights-if-i-am-worried-about-going-back-to-work}{%
  \paragraph{What are my rights if I am worried about going back to
  work?}\label{what-are-my-rights-if-i-am-worried-about-going-back-to-work}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Employers have to provide
    \href{https://www.osha.gov/SLTC/covid-19/standards.html}{a safe
    workplace}~with policies that protect everyone equally.
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/coronavirus-money-unemployment.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{And
    if one of your co-workers tests positive for the coronavirus, the
    C.D.C.}~has said that
    \href{https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/community/guidance-business-response.html}{employers
    should tell their employees}~-\/- without giving you the sick
    employee's name -\/- that they may have been exposed to the virus.
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Complicating the task of parsing the president's intentions, he often
appears to float striking and self-aggrandizing ideas off the cuff,
causing consternation before he drops them.

On March 28, for example, he abruptly suggested that he might impose a
federal quarantine on the New York City area before reversing course
hours later.

It was never clear what he was talking about. While Congress has
\href{https://www.law.cornell.edu/uscode/text/42/264}{granted the
federal government some power} to take steps to prevent the transmission
of illness into the country or between states, the virus was already
everywhere by then, so sealing state borders would not have kept it
contained. And a quarantine that would confine large populations to
their homes within a state is widely understood to be a state-level
decision.

Yet despite punctuating his performance with claims of his own might,
Mr. Trump has repeatedly made less-than-aggressive use of undisputed
authorities at his disposal to combat the pandemic.

For example, he has repeatedly boasted about shutting down travel from
China in February, using the power that Congress granted to the
presidency to control the international border in a public health
emergency.

But despite Mr. Trump's claims that he was the first to take that
action, 38 other countries
\href{https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/2020/04/07/trumps-claim-that-he-imposed-first-china-ban/}{had
already put in place such a travel ban}. And the American version was
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/04/us/coronavirus-china-travel-restrictions.html}{limited
and porous}.

And as it became clear in March that hospitals were hindered by
shortages of masks and other equipment, Mr. Trump
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/20/us/politics/trump-coronavirus-supplies.html}{resisted
growing calls} to make use of another power Congress gave the presidency
for use in a national emergency: to coerce factory owners to change what
they are manufacturing under the Defense Production Act.

In late March, Mr. Trump finally declared that he was invoking the law
--- but he had
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/20/us/politics/defense-production-act-virus.html}{merely
delegated to Alex M. Azar II}, the secretary of health and human
services, the ability to invoke that law in theory. No company had been
ordered to do anything.

As criticism over Mr. Trump's inaction swelled, he
\href{https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential-actions/memorandum-order-defense-production-act-regarding-general-motors-company/}{signed
an order} telling Mr. Azar to use the law to push General Motors to make
ventilators. But G.M. said it had already decided by then to make
ventilators in partnership with Ventec, developed plans to source the
necessary parts and started preparing a factory in Kokomo, Ind., for
production.

Mr. Trump has a history of making head-turning claims about his powers
in other contexts. During the Russia investigation, for example, his
lawyers argued that
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2017/12/04/us/politics/obstruction-of-justice-trump-explained.html}{he
could not be guilty of obstruction of justice} because his power over
the Justice Department was absolute, and Mr. Trump
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/04/10/us/politics/trump-firing-authority-mueller.html}{repeatedly
claimed he could fire the special counsel}, Robert S. Mueller III, if he
wanted --- even directly.

``Article II allows me to do whatever I want,''
\href{https://abcnews.go.com/Politics/transcript-abc-news-george-stephanopoulos-exclusive-interview-president/story?id=63749144}{he
said}.

Yet as the eventual report by Mr. Mueller showed, in practice Mr.
Trump's power was weak. He
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/04/23/us/politics/trump-mueller-obstruction.html}{pushed
subordinates to oust the special counsel}, but they would not go along.

Mr. Goldsmith said that Mr. Trump's approach to the pandemic crisis and
more had reflected a general pattern of loud words but incompetently
executed action on policies that were more complex than basic tasks like
issuing pardons and firing people, bogging down his efforts in court
battles and dysfunction rather than clear accomplishment.

``Trump wants it to seem like he is this really powerful guy being
really aggressive with executive power, but he's not,'' Mr. Goldsmith
said. ``There has been a huge mismatch between his rhetoric and his
actions. He clearly seems to enjoy how people's heads explode when he
says this stuff, even though it's not matched by reality.''

Maggie Haberman contributed reporting from New York.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
