Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}Viral Photo Captures Power
Dynamic Between Trump and Nancy Pelosi

\href{https://nyti.ms/2qlYsXW}{https://nyti.ms/2qlYsXW}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{viral-photo-captures-power-dynamic-between-trump-and-nancy-pelosi}{%
\section{Viral Photo Captures Power Dynamic Between Trump and Nancy
Pelosi}\label{viral-photo-captures-power-dynamic-between-trump-and-nancy-pelosi}}

President Trump tweeted a photograph meant to mock Ms. Pelosi, but it
soon went viral as the opposite: an iconic image capturing Washington's
most powerful woman standing up to him.

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/sheryl-gay-stolberg}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/11/26/multimedia/author-sheryl-gay-stolberg/author-sheryl-gay-stolberg-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/sheryl-gay-stolberg}{Sheryl Gay
Stolberg}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Oct. 18, 2019
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

WASHINGTON --- When President Trump tweeted a photograph of Speaker
Nancy Pelosi rising to storm out of a meeting with him this week in the
Cabinet Room, he meant it as an insult, branding her ``Nervous Nancy''
and saying she had had an ``unhinged meltdown.''

But the photograph --- which depicts Ms. Pelosi, 79, standing and
wagging her finger at a scowling Mr. Trump, 73, seated across the table
--- quickly went viral for an entirely different reason, hailed by
progressives as the latest iconic image of Washington's most powerful
woman telling an impetuous president exactly what is what.

Ms. Pelosi's staff rushed to make the picture, which was taken by an
official White House photographer, the background of her Twitter
profile, as her fans posted it with glee, using hashtags like
\#PresidentPelosi and \#PelosiOwnsTrump.

\begin{quote}
Nervous Nancy's unhinged meltdown!
\href{https://t.co/RDeUI7sfe7}{pic.twitter.com/RDeUI7sfe7}

--- Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump)
\href{https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/1184597281808498688?ref_src=twsrc\%5Etfw}{October
16, 2019}
\end{quote}

It is hardly the first time the fractured relationship between Ms.
Pelosi and Mr. Trump has best been captured on film.

First, there was the photograph of Ms. Pelosi in sunglasses and swinging
rust-colored coat, after she upbraided Mr. Trump in an Oval Office
meeting in December, even before she became speaker. Then there was Ms.
Pelosi's sardonic clap at the president during his State of the Union
Address, in which she wore an arch expression that
\href{https://twitter.com/sfpelosi/status/1093178767642488832?s=20}{her
daughter later said} she remembered from her teenage years, and summed
up as, ``Frankly she's disappointed that you thought this would work.''

Now comes a new classic image of Ms. Pelosi, at a long conference table
filled almost entirely with graying white men, lecturing the president
during a
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/10/16/us/politics/trump-pelosi-meeting.html}{contentious
meeting on Syria} as others look down uncomfortably, averting their
gaze.

Like the others, it has ripped across the internet, in what Democrats
regard as a spectacular backfire that once again demonstrates that Mr.
Trump does not quite know how to deal with a woman who is his equal.

By Ms. Pelosi's account, the photo, taken Wednesday before she and other
Democrats walked out of the meeting, shows her confronting the president
over his decision to pull troops out of Syria, effectively abandoning
the Kurds, who have now turned to Russia for help. She wanted to know,
if the move was a favor to President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia, who is
seeking to strengthen his position there?

``I had concerns that all roads seemed to lead to Putin,'' Ms. Pelosi
told reporters on Thursday.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2019/10/18/us/politics/18dc-photo2/merlin_150244998_c392c1ee-8741-4d3c-84c4-e8add8acfd24-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

It was a stunning accusation of disloyalty, but the substance has all
but been lost in the hoopla around the body language between the two of
them, and the gender imbalance in the room. (For the record, a handful
of other women were in attendance, including Representative Liz Cheney,
the No. 3 House Republican, who is partly obscured by Ms. Pelosi's
outstretched arm as she points to a glowering Mr. Trump.)

During the meeting, the president had insulted Ms. Pelosi, calling her a
``third-grade politician'' (at least that was her account; the White
House later insisted he had said ``third-rate'') and reacted with an
angry taunt when she turned to leave, saying, ``Goodbye, see you at the
polls!''

Hours before he posted the photo, Ms. Pelosi had returned to the Capitol
and told the news media, ``Now, we have to pray for his health, because
this was a very serious meltdown on the part of the president.''

Mr. Trump used the photo instead to hurl the very same accusation back
at Ms. Pelosi, as he often does when he is criticized, and his fellow
Republicans pointed to the image as evidence that Ms. Pelosi was being
disrespectful to the president. But Democrats saw something else: a
powerful woman schooling an impetuous man, or perhaps a mother scolding
a toddler --- not to mention a fund-raising opportunity.

A group called Mad Dog PAC, which describes itself as a ``high-impact,
high-visibility, nonviolent activities to help bring about the
impeachment and removal of Donald Trump,'' is now selling coffee mugs
bearing the picture. ``Celebrate Speaker Pelosi bringing it to the
toddler in chief with our new Pelosi Owns Trump ceramic coffee mug,''
its website declares.

Emerge America, a political action committee devoted to electing
Democratic women, used the photo in an email fund-raising blast. ``We're
on a mission to put more women like Nancy in office and demand our seat
at the table, and we just set a goal to raise \$5,000 in less than 24
hours,'' said the missive, which tantalized recipients with the subject
line, ``This photo of Nancy Pelosi.''

The New York Times generally does not publish what are known as handout
photographs --- images of events from which news photographers were
excluded --- which can be powerful pieces of propaganda, as Mr. Trump
apparently believed the picture of his confrontation with Ms. Pelosi to
be.

White House officials said Mr. Trump released the photo to expose Ms.
Pelosi as petulant and unwilling to have a calm discussion.

``While everyone else wanted to engage in a sincere dialogue with
military leaders, the picture clearly shows the speaker was in the
middle of an unhinged, uncontrollable meltdown,'' said Hogan Gidley, the
deputy White House press secretary.

That is not what everyone saw.
\href{https://www.vogue.com/article/nancy-pelosi-donald-trump-white-house-photo-analyzed?verso=true}{Vogue
magazine} invited three art experts to analyze the picture. ``Some see
Renaissance influences; others, hints of Norman Rockwell,'' the magazine
wrote. ``Have you noticed the Benjamin Franklin bust in the background
and the clock on the mantle bisecting the frame?''

But no one is having as much fun with the photograph as Ms. Pelosi
herself. It now graces her Twitter and Facebook pages. And her staff
took particular delight in the fact that, because it was taken by a
White House photographer in a meeting closed to journalists, it would
never have become public had the president not released it himself.

``We would never have gotten that photo had he not tweeted it,'' said
Drew Hammill, Ms. Pelosi's spokesman. ``It was a huge gift.''

Michael D. Shear contributed reporting.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{Â©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
