Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}W.H.O. Members Reject
Trump's Demands but Agree to Study Its Virus Response

\url{https://nyti.ms/3e2t845}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{the-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=c82e3b80-e3aa-11ea-a48e-b9252519409f}{The
Coronavirus
Outbreak}}{The Coronavirus Outbreak}}\label{the-coronavirus-outbreak}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  live\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/21/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=c82e3b81-e3aa-11ea-a48e-b9252519409f}{Latest
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=c82e6290-e3aa-11ea-a48e-b9252519409f}{Maps
  and Cases}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=c82e6291-e3aa-11ea-a48e-b9252519409f}{Vaccine
  Tracker}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/19/us/colleges-closing-covid.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=c82e6292-e3aa-11ea-a48e-b9252519409f}{Colleges
  Closing}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/21/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=c82e6293-e3aa-11ea-a48e-b9252519409f}{Economy}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{who-members-reject-trumps-demands-but-agree-to-study-its-virus-response}{%
\section{W.H.O. Members Reject Trump's Demands but Agree to Study Its
Virus
Response}\label{who-members-reject-trumps-demands-but-agree-to-study-its-virus-response}}

The outcome left the United States isolated as officials from China,
Russia and the European Union chided Mr. Trump over his heated threats.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/05/19/us/politics/19dc-who1/merlin_172612845_c0521a09-e036-46c1-886b-f316bcca9fff-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/michael-d-shear}{Michael
D. Shear} and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/andrew-jacobs}{Andrew
Jacobs}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  May 19, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://cn.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/usa/20200520/trump-who-coronavirus/}{阅读简体中文版}\href{https://cn.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/usa/20200520/trump-who-coronavirus/zh-hant/}{閱讀繁體中文版}

WASHINGTON --- President Trump's angry demands for punitive action
against the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/09/health/coronavirus-asymptomatic-world-health-organization.html}{World
Health Organization} were rebuffed on Tuesday by the organization's
other member nations, which decided instead to conduct an ``impartial,
independent'' examination of the W.H.O.'s response to the coronavirus
pandemic.

In a four-page letter late Monday, Mr. Trump had threatened to
permanently cut off United States funding of the W.H.O. unless it
committed to ``major, substantive improvements'' within 30 days. It was
a major escalation of his repeated attempts to blame the W.H.O. and
China for the spread of the virus and deflect responsibility for his
handling of a worldwide public health crisis that has
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html}{killed
more than 90,000 people} in the United States.

But representatives of the organization's member nations rallied around
the W.H.O. at its annual meeting in Geneva, largely ignoring Mr. Trump's
demand for an overhaul and calling for a global show of support in the
face of a deadly pandemic.

The outcome left the United States isolated as officials from China,
Russia and the European Union chided Mr. Trump over his heated threats
even as they acknowledged the need for a review of how the W.H.O.
performed as the virus spread from China to the rest of the world.

Public health experts noted that Mr. Trump's threats to withdraw from
the organization and halt funding ignored the reality that any such
moves would require the consent of Congress, something many analysts
said was unlikely.

But the president's continued attacks on the W.H.O., experts said,
threatened to hobble the organization at a critical moment and seriously
damage international efforts to combat the virus, especially in poorer
countries that depend heavily on the agency.

``Just when the world was trying to come together over an unprecedented
health crisis, it's all splintered apart,'' said Lawrence O. Gostin, the
director of the \href{https://oneill.law.georgetown.edu/}{O'Neill
Institute for National and Global Health Law} at Georgetown University.
``This kind of disruption and setting global health on fire by the Trump
administration is going to cost lives.''

\hypertarget{latest-updates-the-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/21/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: The Coronavirus
Outbreak}}{Latest Updates: The Coronavirus Outbreak}}\label{latest-updates-the-coronavirus-outbreak}}

Updated 2020-08-21T12:14:35.854Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/21/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-6a60a19d}{`Be
  adults': Universities in the U.S. are warning students about
  gatherings as they return to campus.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/21/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-324af071}{As
  he accepts the Democratic nomination, Biden knocks Trump's pandemic
  response.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/21/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-191d44be}{South
  Korea threatens to detain people who obstruct virus-control efforts.}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/21/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

More live coverage:
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/21/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Markets}

Virginie Battu-Henriksson, a spokeswoman for the European Commission,
said it was ``the time for solidarity, not the time for finger
pointing.'' Valentina I. Matviyenko, the speaker of the upper house of
the Russian Parliament, said Moscow would stand behind the W.H.O.,
adding that there was ``certainly no reason to perform a mock trial or
any kinds of investigations'' or to ``destroy the useful things that
have been accumulated for decades by mankind.''

The resolution approved by W.H.O. members without objection promised a
``comprehensive evaluation'' of the organization that would review
``experience gained and lessons learned from the W.H.O.-coordinated
international health response to Covid-19.''

In a statement, the White House sought to claim victory, suggesting that
the resolution amounted to a mandate to investigate Mr. Trump's concerns
about the origins of the virus.

But the document, which was sponsored by scores of American allies but
not the United States, fell far short of the condemnation of the W.H.O.
that Mr. Trump issued in his letter Monday night. Officials at the White
House and the Department of Health and Human Services did not respond to
emails seeking comment.

Mr. Trump has
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/07/us/politics/coronavirus-trump-who.html}{railed
against the W.H.O. for weeks} as his own political and public health
crisis at home has intensified, saying the organization is in the thrall
of China, where the virus originated. In his letter Monday night, he
said the W.H.O. was responsible for many deaths because it failed to
challenge the version of events provided by Xi Jinping, the president of
China, regarding the origin of the virus and its initial spread.

``As the source of the outbreak, China has a special responsibility to
pay more and to give more,'' John Ullyot, a spokesman for Mr. Trump's
National Security Council, said in a statement before the meeting.

The president accuses the global health group of failing to act quickly
and aggressively enough against the virus, in effect denouncing the
organization for the very missteps and failures that have been leveled
at him and his administration. Public health experts have said the
president's public denials of the virus's dangers slowed the American
response, which included delayed testing and a failure to stockpile
protective gear.

Foreign policy experts said Mr. Trump's attacks on the W.H.O. provided a
strategic opening for China, which announced on Monday that it would
spend \$2 billion in the global fight against the pandemic, and served
mainly to undercut the interests of the United States by angering its
closest allies.

``We've been actively alienating them, which is not a good competitive
strategy on our part,'' said Thomas J. Christensen, the director of the
China and the World program at Columbia University and a former U.S.
deputy assistant secretary of state for East Asian and Pacific Affairs.
``We're weakening our own diplomatic profile around the world, and
strengthening China's.''

Mr. Trump's criticism about the W.H.O.'s coziness with China was
particularly ironic given his praise for the country early in the
pandemic, when he was trying to complete negotiations on a trade deal.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/05/19/us/politics/19dc-who2/merlin_172627203_5453283c-4b08-4738-9a1b-a4a68f83ce4d-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Besides his accusations, Mr. Trump's letter also contained a number of
falsehoods and misleading statements. One of them was that the W.H.O.
``consistently ignored credible reports of the virus spreading in Wuhan
in early December 2019 or even earlier, including reports from the
Lancet ** medical journal.''

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{}

\hypertarget{the-coronavirus-outbreak-}{%
\subsubsection{The Coronavirus Outbreak
›}\label{the-coronavirus-outbreak-}}

\hypertarget{frequently-asked-questions}{%
\paragraph{Frequently Asked
Questions}\label{frequently-asked-questions}}

Updated August 17, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{why-does-standing-six-feet-away-from-others-help}{%
  \paragraph{Why does standing six feet away from others
  help?}\label{why-does-standing-six-feet-away-from-others-help}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    The coronavirus spreads primarily through droplets from your mouth
    and nose, especially when you cough or sneeze. The C.D.C., one of
    the organizations using that measure,
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/14/health/coronavirus-six-feet.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{bases
    its recommendation of six feet} on the idea that most large droplets
    that people expel when they cough or sneeze will fall to the ground
    within six feet. But six feet has never been a magic number that
    guarantees complete protection. Sneezes, for instance, can launch
    droplets a lot farther than six feet,
    \href{https://jamanetwork.com/journals/jama/fullarticle/2763852}{according
    to a recent study}. It's a rule of thumb: You should be safest
    standing six feet apart outside, especially when it's windy. But
    keep a mask on at all times, even when you think you're far enough
    apart.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{i-have-antibodies-am-i-now-immune}{%
  \paragraph{I have antibodies. Am I now
  immune?}\label{i-have-antibodies-am-i-now-immune}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    As of right
    now,\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/22/health/covid-antibodies-herd-immunity.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{that
    seems likely, for at least several months.} There have been
    frightening accounts of people suffering what seems to be a second
    bout of Covid-19. But experts say these patients may have a
    drawn-out course of infection, with the virus taking a slow toll
    weeks to months after initial exposure. People infected with the
    coronavirus typically
    \href{https://www.nature.com/articles/s41586-020-2456-9}{produce}
    immune molecules called antibodies, which are
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/07/health/coronavirus-antibody-prevalence.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{protective
    proteins made in response to an
    infection}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/07/health/coronavirus-antibody-prevalence.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{.
    These antibodies may} last in the body
    \href{https://www.nature.com/articles/s41591-020-0965-6}{only two to
    three months}, which may seem worrisome, but that's perfectly normal
    after an acute infection subsides, said Dr. Michael Mina, an
    immunologist at Harvard University. It may be possible to get the
    coronavirus again, but it's highly unlikely that it would be
    possible in a short window of time from initial infection or make
    people sicker the second time.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{im-a-small-business-owner-can-i-get-relief}{%
  \paragraph{I'm a small-business owner. Can I get
  relief?}\label{im-a-small-business-owner-can-i-get-relief}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    The
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/small-business-loans-stimulus-grants-freelancers-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{stimulus
    bills enacted in March} offer help for the millions of American
    small businesses. Those eligible for aid are businesses and
    nonprofit organizations with fewer than 500 workers, including sole
    proprietorships, independent contractors and freelancers. Some
    larger companies in some industries are also eligible. The help
    being offered, which is being managed by the Small Business
    Administration, includes the Paycheck Protection Program and the
    Economic Injury Disaster Loan program. But lots of folks have
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/05/07/business/small-business-loans-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{not
    yet seen payouts.} Even those who have received help are confused:
    The rules are draconian, and some are stuck sitting on
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/02/business/economy/loans-coronavirus-small-business.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{money
    they don't know how to use.} Many small-business owners are getting
    less than they expected or
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/10/business/Small-business-loans-ppp.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{not
    hearing anything at all.}
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{what-are-my-rights-if-i-am-worried-about-going-back-to-work}{%
  \paragraph{What are my rights if I am worried about going back to
  work?}\label{what-are-my-rights-if-i-am-worried-about-going-back-to-work}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Employers have to provide
    \href{https://www.osha.gov/SLTC/covid-19/standards.html}{a safe
    workplace} with policies that protect everyone equally.
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/coronavirus-money-unemployment.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{And
    if one of your co-workers tests positive for the coronavirus, the
    C.D.C.} has said that
    \href{https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/community/guidance-business-response.html}{employers
    should tell their employees} -\/- without giving you the sick
    employee's name -\/- that they may have been exposed to the virus.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{what-is-school-going-to-look-like-in-september}{%
  \paragraph{What is school going to look like in
  September?}\label{what-is-school-going-to-look-like-in-september}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    It is unlikely that many schools will return to a normal schedule
    this fall, requiring the grind of
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/05/us/coronavirus-education-lost-learning.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{online
    learning},
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/29/us/coronavirus-child-care-centers.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{makeshift
    child care} and
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/03/business/economy/coronavirus-working-women.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{stunted
    workdays} to continue. California's two largest public school
    districts --- Los Angeles and San Diego --- said on July 13, that
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/13/us/lausd-san-diego-school-reopening.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{instruction
    will be remote-only in the fall}, citing concerns that surging
    coronavirus infections in their areas pose too dire a risk for
    students and teachers. Together, the two districts enroll some
    825,000 students. They are the largest in the country so far to
    abandon plans for even a partial physical return to classrooms when
    they reopen in August. For other districts, the solution won't be an
    all-or-nothing approach.
    \href{https://bioethics.jhu.edu/research-and-outreach/projects/eschool-initiative/school-policy-tracker/}{Many
    systems}, including the nation's largest, New York City, are
    devising
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/26/us/coronavirus-schools-reopen-fall.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{hybrid
    plans} that involve spending some days in classrooms and other days
    online. There's no national policy on this yet, so check with your
    municipal school system regularly to see what is happening in your
    community.
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

But in a statement Tuesday morning, The Lancet pointed out that the
journal ``published no report in December 2019 referring to a virus or
outbreak in Wuhan or anywhere else in China.'' The journal said its
first reports about the virus were published on Jan. 24, just six days
before the W.H.O. declared an international emergency.

Mr. Trump's attacks on the W.H.O. are at the center of the president's
appeal to his core supporters --- a message that his political advisers
intend to highlight as Mr. Trump fights for a second term this November.
To many of the president's supporters, the W.H.O. and other
international organizations are to blame for lost jobs, low wages and
economic uncertainty.

And as Mr. Trump seeks re-election, he will need to convince a broad
part of the electorate that he is not responsible for the tens of
thousands of deaths and economic calamity caused by the virus. Creating
enemies out of the W.H.O. and the Chinese government could be an
effective way of blunting what is sure to be fierce criticism from
Democrats this fall about his handling of the pandemic.

The W.H.O. resolution approved on Tuesday did not provide specific
direction to investigate one of Mr. Trump's central allegations against
the global health group: that it was too credulous in believing China's
assertions about the virus and its leaders' denials that it was not
created in a Chinese lab.

Scientists who have studied the genetics of the virus say that the
overwhelming probability is that it leapt from animal to human in a
non-laboratory setting, as was the case with H.I.V., Ebola and SARS.

China did not object to the resolution, but Mr. Xi said on Monday that
any such inquiry should wait until the health crisis is brought under
control.

At the White House on Tuesday, Mr. Trump said the W.H.O. would ``have to
clean up their act.''

``They have to do a better job,'' he said. ``They have to be much more
fair to other countries, including the United States, or we're not going
to be involved with them and we'll do it in a separate way.''

In a closing statement on Tuesday that marked the end of the two-day
assembly, Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, the director general of the
W.H.O., reiterated his support for an investigation into the
organization's handling of its response to the virus and highlighted the
need for cooperation.

``Covid-19 has robbed us of people we love. It has robbed us of lives
and livelihoods. It has shaken the foundations of our world,'' he said.
``It threatens to tear at the fabric of international cooperation. But
it has also reminded us that for all our differences, we are one human
race, and we are stronger together.''

Michael D. Shear reported from Washington, and Andrew Jacobs from New
York.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
