Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}John Delaney Ends
Presidential Campaign After Two and a Half Years

\url{https://nyti.ms/2OfJKeh}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Election
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/biden-vice-president-2020.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Biden's
  V.P. Search}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/07/24/us/politics/trump-biden-campaign-donors.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Map
  of Donations}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/elections/delegate-count-primary-results.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Delegate
  Count}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2019/us/politics/2020-presidential-candidates.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{The
  Candidates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Politics
  Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{john-delaney-ends-presidential-campaign-after-two-and-a-half-years}{%
\section{John Delaney Ends Presidential Campaign After Two and a Half
Years}\label{john-delaney-ends-presidential-campaign-after-two-and-a-half-years}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/01/31/us/politics/31DELANEY-out2/31DELANEY-out2-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/maggie-astor}{Maggie Astor}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Jan. 31, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

DES MOINES --- John Delaney ran one of the longest presidential
campaigns in American history, but it's over now.

Mr. Delaney dropped out of the Democratic race on Friday, just three
days before the Iowa caucuses, ending a two-and-a-half-year marathon
that has spanned almost the entirety of the Trump presidency.

Anthony Scaramucci was working in the White House when Mr. Delaney began
his campaign. The white supremacist rally in Charlottesville had not
happened yet. Robert Mueller's investigation was less than three months
old.

Stay up to date on primaries and caucuses. Subscribe to ``On Politics,''
and we'll send you a link to the live results.

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/politics}{Sign up for our
politics newsletter}

Mr. Delaney announced his candidacy on July 28, 2017, during his third
term as a representative from Maryland, and did not pursue re-election
in 2018, the better to focus on his quest for the White House. By the
time other Democrats began flooding Iowa, he had already visited every
county --- the theory being that a little-known congressman could become
a presidential nominee if he barnstormed the early primary states before
anyone else was around to draw voters' attention.

``I think I'm the right person for the job, but not enough people knew
who I was or still know who I am,''
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/11/10/us/politics/john-delaney-2020-iowa.html}{Mr.
Delaney said in August 2018}. ``The way to solve that problem, it seems
to me, is to get in early and just work harder than everyone else.''

On Friday, he acknowledged that it hadn't been enough. He said he had
concluded that he would not meet the threshold of 15 percent support
needed for viability in the caucuses --- at least not in enough
precincts to matter --- but that he could pull enough support to keep
other moderate candidates below the threshold, which he did not want to
do.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-2020-election}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: 2020
Election}}{Latest Updates: 2020 Election}}\label{latest-updates-2020-election}}

Updated 2020-08-01T01:26:45.732Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-29fdff45}{Kamala
  Harris, a top vice-presidential contender, confronts double
  standards.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-13ec3d9c}{Karen
  Bass and Susan Rice are rising on Biden's vice-presidential
  shortlist.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-49e9a016}{Trump
  says Russian bounties to kill U.S. troops `never took place.'}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

``Particularly these rural counties I went to, I would talk to people in
precincts that last time, 2016, 20 people caucused, and I'd be sitting
there with two people who I know are going to caucus for me,'' he said
in an interview on Friday. ``I've wanted this campaign to be
constructive and productive the whole time, and it felt like when I knew
that I didn't have enough support to reach viability in a meaningful
way, but I had enough support to pull off from other candidates, I said,
well, that's not very productive.''

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/01/31/us/politics/00DELANEY-out1/00DELANEY-out1-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

He said he might endorse someone later in the primary, but would not
immediately. He also said he would ``absolutely fully support, with
everything I've got, whoever the Democratic nominee is,'' even if it is
one of the liberal candidates whose policies he has criticized.

Mr. Delaney's big pitch was bipartisanship, and the time-honored idea
that Americans could overcome their bitterest divisions if they had a
leader who encouraged them to do so. As more candidates entered and the
race shifted sharply to the left, he leaned harder into his
self-appointed role as a voice of moderation, nowhere more so than on
health care.

He proposed
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/06/26/us/politics/john-delaney-health-care.html}{automatically
enrolling every American in a government-run health care plan}, but
offering a credit to people who wanted to forfeit that benefit and buy
their own insurance instead. He cast it as a compromise measure: a way
to guarantee universal coverage without eliminating private insurance.
And as the race heated up, he pushed aggressively against ``Medicare for
all,'' calling it unrealistic and bad politics.

``I believe the American people do want choices,'' he said in 2018.
``We're different than other countries in that regard. We believe in
choices, we believe in everyone making their own decisions, so I don't
see why we want to be insisting upon one source of health care for
everyone.''

By June 2019, Mr. Delaney was stuck around 1 percent in the polls, but
it was enough to qualify him for the first two Democratic debates. After
a muted performance in the first debate, he made the most of the second,
logging
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2019/07/30/us/elections/debate-speaking-time.html}{about
the same amount of speaking time} as more prominent candidates like
Senator Amy Klobuchar of Minnesota. But his numbers did not improve, and
he didn't qualify for later debates.

The debate moderators seemed, at times, to regard Mr. Delaney less as
his own candidate than as a foil for liberals like Senators Bernie
Sanders of Vermont and Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts. It was at Mr.
Delaney, in response to his criticism of ``impossible promises'' and
``fairy-tale economics,'' that Ms. Warren directed
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/07/30/us/politics/elizabeth-warren-debate.html}{a
memorable line}: ``I don't understand why anybody goes to all the
trouble of running for president of the United States just to talk about
what we really can't do and shouldn't fight for.''

Mr. Delaney said on Friday that he thought his campaign had brought
early attention to criticisms of ``Medicare for all'' that candidates
like former Mayor Pete Buttigieg of South Bend, Ind., now hammer on the
trail.

On ``this notion of running toward the center, unifying the country,''
he said, ``I think our campaign made a meaningful difference.''

Before he was elected to the House in 2012, Mr. Delaney founded two
financial companies and was, at one point, the youngest chief executive
on the New York Stock Exchange. Those companies made him one of the
wealthiest members of Congress, with
\href{https://www.rollcall.com/news/politics/every-member-congress-wealth-one-chart}{an
estimated net worth of more than \$90 million}. He spent millions of
those dollars on his own campaign.

\hypertarget{our-2020-election-guide}{%
\section{Our 2020 Election Guide}\label{our-2020-election-guide}}

Updated July 31, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{the-latest}{%
  \subsection{The Latest}\label{the-latest}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    President Trump's assault on the Postal Service is intersecting with
    his attacks on mail-in voting.
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/politics/trump-usps-mail-delays.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Voting
    rights groups say it is a recipe for disaster.}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{bidens-vp-search}{%
  \subsection{Biden's V.P. Search}\label{bidens-vp-search}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/biden-vice-president-2020.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Here
    are 13 women} who have been under consideration to be Joe Biden's
    running mate, and why each might be chosen --- and might not be.
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{keep-up-with-our-coverage}{%
  \subsection{Keep Up With Our
  Coverage}\label{keep-up-with-our-coverage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Get an
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{email}
    recapping the day's news
  \end{itemize}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Download our mobile app on
    \href{https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nytimes/id284862083?ls=1\&mat_click_id=5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\&referrer=mat_click_id\%3D5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\%26link_click_id\%3D722930677036718082}{iOS}
    and
    \href{http://a.localytics.com/android?id=com.nytimes.android\&referrer=utm_source\%3Dother_nyt_mobile_web\%26utm_medium\%3DWeb\%2520page\%26utm_term\%3DGeneral\%2520Mobile\%2520Page\%26utm_campaign\%3DNYT\%2520Mobile\%2520General\%2520Page}{Android}
    and turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
