Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2018/briefing/global-morning-briefing-newsletter-signup.html}{Briefing}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/interactive/2018/briefing/global-morning-briefing-newsletter-signup.html}{Briefing}\textbar{}Beirut
Blasts, Coronavirus, \#MeToo: Your Wednesday Briefing

\url{https://nyti.ms/30tt0qo}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{beirut-blasts-coronavirus-metoo-your-wednesday-briefing}{%
\section{Beirut Blasts, Coronavirus, \#MeToo: Your Wednesday
Briefing}\label{beirut-blasts-coronavirus-metoo-your-wednesday-briefing}}

Here's what you need to know.

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/isabella-kwai}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2019/09/17/reader-center/author-isabella-kwai/author-isabella-kwai-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/isabella-kwai}{Isabella Kwai}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Aug. 5, 2020Updated 2:56 a.m. ET
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

(Want to get this briefing by email? Here's the
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/morning-briefing}{sign-up}.)

\begin{quote}
Good morning.

We're covering the aftermath of the \textbf{Beirut} explosions,
eyebrow-raising appointments to Britain's \textbf{House of Lords} and a
tough new lockdown in \textbf{Australia}.
\end{quote}

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/08/04/briefing/05briefing-asia-slide-89DA/05briefing-asia-slide-89DA-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\hypertarget{enormous-explosion-shatters-central-beirut}{%
\subsection{Enormous explosion shatters central
Beirut}\label{enormous-explosion-shatters-central-beirut}}

A massive shock wave
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/04/world/middleeast/beirut-explosion-blast.html?action=click\&module=Top\%20Stories\&pgtype=Homepage}{rocked
the center of the Lebanese capital} on Tuesday, damaging buildings miles
away and sending a giant pink cloud skyward near the port. At least 78
people were killed and 4,000 injured, Lebanon's health minister said.

With the wounded still streaming into hospitals and the search for
missing people underway,
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/04/world/middleeast/beirut-explosion-blast.html?action=click\&module=Top\%20Stories\&pgtype=Homepage}{the
toll was expected to rise}. Hospitals were so overwhelmed that they were
turning wounded people away.

There were two blasts within moments of each other, the second one much
larger. Prime Minister Hassan Diab said Wednesday would be a national
day of mourning. Images show
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/04/world/middleeast/beirut-lebanon-explosions-photos.html}{the
extent of the devastation}.

\textbf{The cause:} An estimated 2,750 tons of ammonium nitrate,
commonly used in fertilizer and bombs, had been kept in a depot at the
blast site for six years, top officials said. ``Those responsible will
pay a price for this catastrophe,'' said Mr. Diab, who hinted that
neglect had led to the disaster.

\textbf{First-person account:} Our correspondent Vivian Yee was at home
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/04/world/middleeast/lebanon-explosion-beirut.html}{when
the blast shook her building}, leaving her bloodied and dazed. The
Lebanese who helped her in the hours that followed ``had the
heartbreaking steadiness'' that comes from experience with catastrophe,
she wrote. ``Nearly all of them were strangers, yet they treated me like
a friend.''

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

Image

The Houses of Parliament in London.Credit...Andrew Testa for The New
York Times

\hypertarget{house-of-lords-list-revives-cronyism-concerns}{%
\subsection{House of Lords list revives cronyism
concerns}\label{house-of-lords-list-revives-cronyism-concerns}}

One is a Russian-born British newspaper baron whose father was once a
K.G.B. officer. Another is the
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/04/world/house-of-lords-boris-johnson.html}{prime
minister's younger brother}.

Theirs are among the names on Prime Minister Boris Johnson's first list
of appointments to the House of Lords. The handing out of peerages, as
the lifetime appointments are called, is one of Britain's most
dependable displays of cronyism, regardless of who the prime minister
is.

But critics say Mr. Johnson's nominations could further undermine the
credibility of the long-troubled institution. He created 36 new peers,
the second-highest number in more than two decades, bringing the chamber
to nearly 800 members. He also nominated Brexit supporters from the
opposition Labor Party, which could have unpredictable results.

\textbf{Why it matters:} At its best, the House of Lords serves as a
check on the more unruly House of Commons. In recent decades, though, it
has become known mainly as a sinecure for well-connected types and
wealthy donors.

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

Image

Police officers and soldiers on patrol in Melbourne on
Sunday.Credit...William West/Agence France-Presse --- Getty Images

\hypertarget{melbourne-tries-shock-and-awe-as-virus-surges}{%
\subsection{Melbourne tries `shock and awe' as virus
surges}\label{melbourne-tries-shock-and-awe-as-virus-surges}}

Australia's second-largest city has imposed some of the toughest
restrictions in the world to beat back a new wave of coronavirus
infections. Officials are promising a
``\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/04/world/australia/coronavirus-melbourne-lockdown.html}{shock
and awe'' attack on the virus} that will last at least six weeks.

There are signs that people in Melbourne are getting fed up. Our Sydney
bureau chief writes that ``the new waves of restrictions feel to many
like a bombing raid that just won't end.'' A door-to-door campaign to
check in on 3,000 people who had contracted the virus found that 800 of
them were not at home.

The police are facing opposition as they enforce the rules. Officers
recently smashed the windows of cars and pulled people out after they
refused to provide their names and addresses.

\textbf{The second wave}: Melbourne thought it had beat the virus in
June. But the city's hotel quarantine program broke down, with travelers
passing the virus to security guards, who carried it to their
neighborhoods.

\textbf{Details:} Under the new restrictions, stores will close, schools
will return to at-home instruction and restaurants will offer only
takeaway or delivery. An 8 p.m. curfew is in place. The outbreak in the
state of Victoria, whose capital is Melbourne, peaked at 753 new cases
on July 30 and has hovered at about 500 a day ever since.

Here are the
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/04/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&module=Top\%20Stories\&pgtype=Homepage}{latest
updates} and
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/world/coronavirus-maps.html}{maps}
of the pandemic.

In other developments:

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Recent studies of
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/04/health/coronavirus-immune-system.html}{patients
  with severe Covid-19 cases} found that their immune systems unleashed
  a misguided barrage of weapons that could wreak havoc on healthy
  tissues.
\item
  After Russia announced a vaccination program set for October, raising
  concerns that inoculations may begin before tests are complete, the
  World Health Organization urged it to follow guidelines for
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/04/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&module=Top\%20Stories\&pgtype=Homepage\#link-7bfa12a5}{producing
  safe and effective vaccines}.
\item
  Two preliminary studies of an experimental vaccine in the U.S. have
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/04/world/coronavirus-cases.html?action=click\&module=Top\%20Stories\&pgtype=Homepage\#link-1228a480}{yielded
  encouraging results,} said Novovax, the company developing the
  vaccine.
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{if-you-have-8-minutes-this-is-worth-it}{%
\subsubsection{If you have 8 minutes, this is worth
it}\label{if-you-have-8-minutes-this-is-worth-it}}

\hypertarget{a-metoo-moment-for-gymnasts}{%
\subsection{A \#MeToo moment for
gymnasts}\label{a-metoo-moment-for-gymnasts}}

Image

Credit...Andrew Testa for The New York Times

At a time when the Tokyo Olympics should have been taking place,
gymnasts have been speaking out about
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/03/sports/olympics/gymnastics-abuse-athlete-a.html}{verbal
and physical abuse by coaches.}

Chloe Gilliland, 29, a former member of the Australian national team,
said she considered suicide as a teenager after coaches said she was ``a
bad child'' because she was too heavy. Catherine Lyons, 19, once a top
junior competitor for Britain, said coaches would hit her and harass her
about her weight, and even shut her inside a cupboard for crying when
she was a child. Above, Lisa Mason, a 2000 British Olympian, said many
gymnasts ``are done with normalizing the abuse that we were told was
needed to make champions.''

The gymnasts' stories are part of a push for change empowered by the
\#MeToo movement. National gymnastics federations in Britain, Australia,
the Netherlands and Belgium say they are trying to curb abuses.

\hypertarget{heres-what-else-is-happening}{%
\subsubsection{Here's what else is
happening}\label{heres-what-else-is-happening}}

\textbf{Pakistan:} Hindus in the country often face discrimination in
housing, jobs and access to government programs. Now, community leaders
say economic hardship is driving
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/04/world/asia/pakistan-hindu-conversion.html}{an
uptick in conversions to Islam}.

\textbf{Disney:} The company reported doomsday financial results on
Tuesday, with padlocked theme parks, idled cruise ships and postponed
film releases all
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/live/2020/08/04/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus\#disney-lost-4-7-billion-last-quarter-but-its-newest-business-was-a-big-hit}{contributing
to \$4.72 billion in quarterly losses}. But with people at home, its
streaming business has grown.

Image

Credit...Australian Defence Force, via Agence France-Presse --- Getty
Images

\textbf{Snapshot:} Above, an Australian Army helicopter landing on the
Micronesian island of Pulap to rescue three stranded sailors on Sunday.
If you're ever in their shoes, remember that
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/04/world/australia/sos-pacific-island.html}{writing
SOS in giant letters on the sand can actually work}.

\textbf{What we're reading:} This
\href{https://harpers.org/archive/2020/08/all-my-pronouns-the-singular-they/}{article
in Harper's Magazine} on the use of they/them as gender-neutral
pronouns. ``This beautifully written essay, with its deep insight into
the history of pronouns and their usage and its gentle humor, helped me
to accept and understand the beauty of `they' in its singular form,''
Melissa Eddy, our Berlin correspondent, writes.

\hypertarget{now-a-break-from-the-news}{%
\subsubsection{Now, a break from the
news}\label{now-a-break-from-the-news}}

Image

Credit...Con Poulos for The New York Times

\textbf{Cook:} This
\href{https://cooking.nytimes.com/recipes/1020367-tomato-and-peach-salad-with-whipped-goat-cheese}{tomato
and peach salad with whipped goat cheese} works as a starter, a side or
a supper, piled on top of grilled bread.

\textbf{Watch:} The new documentary
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/03/arts/music/creem-magazine-documentary.html?action=click\&module=RelatedLinks\&pgtype=collection}{``Creem:
America's Only Rock 'n' Roll Magazine''} traces the rise and fall of the
irreverent, boundary-smashing music publication from the 1970s.

\textbf{Do:} In-person job interviews went away when the pandemic closed
so many offices. If you're a job seeker, here are tips on
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/03/business/online-job-interview-tips.html}{acing
an online interview.}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/spotlight/at-home}{\emph{At Home has our
full collection of ideas}} \emph{on what to read, cook, watch and do.}

\hypertarget{and-now-for-the-back-story-on-}{%
\subsubsection{And now for the Back Story on
\ldots{}}\label{and-now-for-the-back-story-on-}}

\hypertarget{examining-medical-bills-during-a-pandemic}{%
\subsection{Examining medical bills during a
pandemic}\label{examining-medical-bills-during-a-pandemic}}

\emph{Americans have been battling surprise medical bills for
coronavirus treatment for nearly as long as they've been fighting the
virus itself, according to Sarah Kliff, our investigative reporter on
health issues.}

\emph{So she started a project that uses those bills, sent by readers,
to examine the cost of testing and treatment. We'll be sharing their
stories as we explore how the virus outbreak is changing health care in
the U.S. Here's}
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/03/reader-center/coronavirus-medical-bills.html}{\emph{what
she wrote about the project}}\emph{.}

I'm a reporter who has been writing articles about those bills since
mid-February. My first article focused on an American man and his
3-year-old daughter who faced more than \$3,900 in bills for care
received during a government-mandated quarantine.

Image

Credit...Scott Gelber

``I assumed it was all being paid for,'' the man,
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/02/29/upshot/coronavirus-surprise-medical-bills.html}{Frank
Wucinski,}said at the time. ``We didn't have a choice. When the bills
showed up, it was just a pit in my stomach, like, `How do I pay for
this?'''

Since then, my colleagues and I have written about \$2,315 coronavirus
tests and \$401,886 bills for treatment. We've discovered that the price
of a coronavirus test can vary by 2,700 percent within the same
emergency room.

I've run similar projects that have inspired legislation and demystified
American medical billing. Because health care providers keep their
prices secret, bills play a critical role in helping us understand how
Americans are grappling with medical costs during the health crisis.

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

\begin{quote}
That's it for this briefing. See you next time.

--- Isabella
\end{quote}

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

\textbf{Thank you}\\
To Theodore Kim and Jahaan Singh for the break from the news. You can
reach the team at
\href{mailto:briefing+midnight@nytimes.com?subject=Briefing\%20Feedback}{briefing@nytimes.com}.

\textbf{P.S.}\\
• We're listening to ``\href{https://www.nytimes.com/thedaily}{The
Daily}.'' Our latest episode is about the lessons that state elections
held during the pandemic offer for the U.S. presidential vote in
November.\\
• Here's today's
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/crosswords/game/mini}{Mini Crossword
puzzle}, and a clue: \_\_ Tzu (dog) (four letters).
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/crosswords}{You can find all our puzzles
here}.\\
• Taylor Lorenz, one of our tech reporters, spoke to ``Entertainment
Tonight'' about whether
\href{https://www.etonline.com/could-tiktok-really-get-shut-down-heres-what-you-need-to-know-150710}{TikTok
could be shut down.}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
