Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}Hostilities on Hold for a
Day, Trump and Biden Head to Shanksville

\url{https://nyti.ms/3mcnDVu}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/12/us/politics/biden-trump-poll-wisconsin-minnesota.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{New
  York Times Poll}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/election-states-biden-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Paths
  to 270}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/us/elections/2020-presidential-election-calendar.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Voting
  Deadlines}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/31/us/politics/vote-by-mail-deadlines.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Voting
  by Mail}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Politics
  Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{hostilities-on-hold-for-a-day-trump-and-biden-head-to-shanksville}{%
\section{Hostilities on Hold for a Day, Trump and Biden Head to
Shanksville}\label{hostilities-on-hold-for-a-day-trump-and-biden-head-to-shanksville}}

Joe Biden traveled to ground zero and then to Shanksville, Pa., where he
and the president separately honored the victims of the hijacked plane
that crashed after passengers fought back.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/09/11/us/politics/11campaign3/merlin_176872437_41f01bb1-d5b8-40ad-bd59-0bd95297159f-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/annie-karni}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2019/02/05/multimedia/author-annie-karni/author-annie-karni-thumbLarge.png}}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/katie-glueck}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/01/29/reader-center/author-katie-glueck/author-katie-glueck-thumbLarge.png}}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/thomas-kaplan}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2019/08/28/reader-center/author-thomas-kaplan/author-thomas-kaplan-thumbLarge-v2.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/annie-karni}{Annie
Karni}, \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/katie-glueck}{Katie
Glueck} and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/thomas-kaplan}{Thomas
Kaplan}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Sept. 11, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

SHANKSVILLE, Pa. --- The two presidential contenders put their
acrimonious political sparring on hold on Friday to pay their respects
to the Americans killed in the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, a pause in an
extraordinarily polarizing race in which the candidates have offered
drastically different visions on virtually every issue, including what
it means to comfort a grieving nation.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/donald-trump.html}{President
Trump} offered somber remarks in Shanksville, Pa., honoring those who
died on
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2001/09/13/us/after-attacks-united-flight-93-doomed-flight-passengers-vowed-perish-fighting.html}{Flight
93}, the plane that was hijacked and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2004/07/22/politics/details-emerge-on-flight-93.html}{headed
for Washington} but instead crashed into a field after passengers fought
back.
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/joe-biden.html}{Joseph
R. Biden Jr.}, the Democratic nominee, traveled to New York before
visiting Shanksville to commemorate the 19th anniversary of the attacks,
speaking with family members of the victims but not making a formal
address.

``Our sacred task, our righteous duty and our solemn pledge is to carry
forward the noble legacy of the brave souls who gave their lives for us
19 years ago,'' Mr. Trump said. At another point, he added, ``The only
thing that stood between the enemy and a deadly strike at the heart of
American democracy was the courage and resolve of 40 men and women ---
the amazing passengers and crew of Flight 93.''

Mr. Biden and his wife, Jill, attended the National September 11
Memorial \& Museum's
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/11/nyregion/9-11-ceremony-September-11th.html}{commemoration
ceremony} in Lower Manhattan, standing with Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo of New
York for much of the time. Then the Bidens traveled to Shanksville,
where Mr. Biden laid a wreath of white flowers at the Flight 93 National
Memorial and met family members of some of those who died. (Mr. Trump,
during his morning visit there, also laid a wreath of white flowers in
front of the wall of names, but he did not meet with any family
members.)

``One of the marks of being an American is understanding there are some
things that are bigger and more important than yourself,'' Mr. Biden
said in Pennsylvania. He marveled at those who ``consciously know that
what you're about to do is likely to cost you your life.''

Earlier in the day, Mr. Biden, the former vice president, promised
reporters that he would not ``talk about anything other than 9/11.''

``We took all our advertising down,'' Mr. Biden, clad in a black mask,
said early Friday morning at the airport in Delaware. ``It's a solemn
day. That's how we're going to keep it.''

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/09/11/us/politics/11campaign-2/merlin_176854437_de6fadad-64d4-466c-8ff5-919b1c8995c5-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Mr. Trump avoided reporters shouting questions as he boarded Air Force
One. On the plane, he followed directions when his chief of staff, Mark
Meadows, told him that an announcement would play on the P.A. system
when it was time to observe a moment of silence at 8:46 a.m., when the
first plane struck the World Trade Center's north tower. ``God bless
America,'' Mr. Meadows said after the moment of silence had passed.
``God bless America,'' Mr. Trump echoed. He offered no further remarks.

The appearances marked a sharp departure in tone from a week of
intensifying hostilities between Mr. Biden and Mr. Trump, with Election
Day less than two months away. The Democrat said on Wednesday he
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/09/us/politics/biden-trump-michigan-jobs-taxes.html}{held
the president responsible} for the scale of the coronavirus deaths,
following
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/09/us/trump-vs-biden/trump-admitted-to-bob-woodward-that-he-intentionally-played-down-the-threat-of-the-coronavirus}{new
revelations} from a forthcoming book by the journalist Bob Woodward that
Mr. Trump knowingly minimized the risks of the virus. Mr. Biden has also
blasted the president over
\href{https://www.theatlantic.com/politics/archive/2020/09/trump-americans-who-died-at-war-are-losers-and-suckers/615997/}{reports}
that Mr. Trump disparaged American soldiers killed in combat and other
veterans, which Mr. Trump denied.

The president, for his part, kept up an onslaught of scathing and
sometimes false claims about Mr. Biden over issues from trade to his
approach to America's suburbs. In rallies, tweets and press briefings,
he attacked the former vice president as a hostage of the Democratic
left who would preside over a lawless nation. And by later on Friday
afternoon, Mr. Trump was back to
\href{https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/1304511871152795650?s=20}{tweeting}
combatively at Democrats.

As the Bidens went to New York, Mr. Trump and his wife, Melania,
traveled to the memorial service in Shanksville in the morning. There,
he delivered remarks from a lectern set up in front of the wall of names
commemorating the 40 passengers and crew who were killed on the flight.

``In their memory, we resolve to stand united as one American nation,''
Mr. Trump, flanked by teleprompters, said in his speech. ``To defend our
freedoms, to uphold our values, to love our neighbors, to cherish our
country, to care for our communities, to honor our heroes and to never,
ever forget.''

He also made a point to reference his own record on confronting
terrorism, and he made frequent nods to law enforcement.

Image

Mr. Biden greeted Vice President Mike Pence at a commemoration ceremony
for the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks in Manhattan.Credit...Amr Alfiky/The
New York Times

Vice President Mike Pence and his wife, Karen, also attended the
ceremony in New York, and he chatted with Mr. Biden, trading
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/11/us/trump-vs-biden/at-a-9-11-memorial-rivals-cross-paths-and-bump-elbows}{an
elbow bump} in lieu of a handshake, a nod to the pandemic. The Pences
later attended another ceremony nearby, and they also stopped at a
firehouse. The Bidens did the same in Pennsylvania, bringing cake and
beer to a Shanksville fire station.

Mr. Biden's running mate, Senator Kamala Harris, and her husband,
Douglas Emhoff, attended a remembrance ceremony in Fairfax, Va.

Mr. Biden, who has suffered a series of family tragedies, is perhaps at
his best when comforting others grappling with grief, whether in a
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/05/30/us/politics/joe-biden-beau-biden-death.html}{one-on-one
conversation} or while
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/11/us/politics/joe-biden-funeral-speech.html}{giving
a eulogy}, and amid the coronavirus crisis has made a point to
frequently recognize the staggering death toll. Mr. Trump, a lover of
large campaign rallies, is not known for those skills and has often
glossed over the devastation of the virus.

In New York, Mr. Biden gave flowers to a 90-year-old woman who said she
had lost her son, as Mr. Biden sought to empathize about pain that, he
suggested, ``never goes away.'' To her and in Pennsylvania on Friday, he
mentioned his own son, Beau Biden, who died of brain cancer in 2015 and
had previously deployed to Iraq with the Delaware Army National Guard.

``It takes a lot of courage for someone that lost someone to come back
today,'' Mr. Biden said at another point in New York. ``It's a wonderful
memorial, but it's hard. It just brings you back to the moment it
happened, no matter how long, how much time passes. So I admire the
families who come.''

In Pennsylvania, he again talked about the grieving process with the
family members on hand and engaged in some lighthearted banter with
younger attendees.

Mr. Trump's condolences were more scripted.

``The first lady and I come to this hallowed ground deeply aware that we
cannot fill the void in your heart or erase the terrible sorrow of this
day,'' he said. ``The agony renewed, the nightmare relived, the wounds
reopened, the last treasured words played over and over again in your
minds. But while we cannot erase your pain, we can help to shoulder your
burden.''

While Mr. Trump and Mr. Pence have engaged in campaign travel for
months, Mr. Biden has only recently begun to travel more frequently, and
Friday was another example of his stepped-up schedule of in-person
appearances. He visited Pennsylvania and Michigan earlier in the week,
and he is scheduled to travel to Florida, Pennsylvania and Minnesota
next week.

The annual Sept. 11 ceremony at ground zero ended up being a heavily
scrutinized moment in the last presidential race, as Hillary Clinton
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2016/09/12/us/politics/hillary-clinton-campaign-pneumonia.html}{left
abruptly} and had to be helped into a van, a scene that was captured on
video. Mrs. Clinton had received a diagnosis of pneumonia two days
earlier, but her campaign
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2016/09/13/us/hillary-clinton-pneumonia.html}{did
not disclose it} until hours after she left the ceremony.

Annie Karni reported from Shanksville, Katie Glueck from New York and
Thomas Kaplan from Connecticut. Maggie Haberman contributed reporting
from New York.

\hypertarget{our-2020-election-guide}{%
\section{Our 2020 Election Guide}\label{our-2020-election-guide}}

Updated ~Sept. 12, 2020

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

\begin{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{the-latest}{%
  \subsection{The Latest}\label{the-latest}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    President Trump has failed to erase Joseph R. Biden Jr.'s lead
    across a set of key swing states,
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/12/us/politics/biden-trump-poll-wisconsin-minnesota.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{according
    to a poll}~conducted by The Times and Siena College.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{paths-to-270}{%
  \subsection{Paths to 270}\label{paths-to-270}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Joe Biden and Donald Trump need 270 electoral votes to reach the
    White House. Try building
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/election-states-biden-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{your
    own coalition of battleground states}~to see potential outcomes.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{voting-deadlines}{%
  \subsection{Voting Deadlines}\label{voting-deadlines}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Early voting for the presidential election starts in September~in
    some states. Take a look at
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/us/elections/2020-presidential-election-calendar.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{key
    dates}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/us/elections/2020-presidential-election-calendar.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{where
    you
    liv}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/us/elections/2020-presidential-election-calendar.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{e}.
    If you're voting by
    mail,~\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/31/us/politics/vote-by-mail-deadlines.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{it's
    risky to procrastinate}.
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/joe-biden.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{}

    \hypertarget{joe-biden}{%
    \section{Joe Biden}\label{joe-biden}}

    \hypertarget{democrat}{%
    \subsection{Democrat}\label{democrat}}

    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/donald-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{}

    \hypertarget{donald-trump}{%
    \section{Donald Trump}\label{donald-trump}}

    \hypertarget{republican}{%
    \subsection{Republican}\label{republican}}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \hypertarget{keep-up-with-our-coverage}{%
  \subsection{Keep Up With Our
  Coverage}\label{keep-up-with-our-coverage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Get an
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{email}~recapping
    the day's news
  \item
    Download our mobile app on
    \href{https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nytimes/id284862083?ls=1\&mat_click_id=5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\&referrer=mat_click_id\%3D5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\%26link_click_id\%3D722930677036718082}{iOS}~and
    \href{http://a.localytics.com/android?id=com.nytimes.android\&referrer=utm_source\%3Dother_nyt_mobile_web\%26utm_medium\%3DWeb\%2520page\%26utm_term\%3DGeneral\%2520Mobile\%2520Page\%26utm_campaign\%3DNYT\%2520Mobile\%2520General\%2520Page}{Android}~and
    turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
