Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/business/economy}{Economy}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/business/economy}{Economy}\textbar{}U.S. Delivers Another
Blow to Huawei With New Tech Restrictions

\url{https://nyti.ms/3cC57QX}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{the-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus?name=styln-coronavirus-markets\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=b7c5ae10-f2cb-11ea-b558-854c80501eb6\&variant=undefined}{The
Coronavirus
Outbreak}}{The Coronavirus Outbreak}}\label{the-coronavirus-outbreak}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  live\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/09/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?name=styln-coronavirus-markets\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=b7c5ae11-f2cb-11ea-b558-854c80501eb6\&variant=undefined}{Latest
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html?name=styln-coronavirus-markets\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=b7c5ae12-f2cb-11ea-b558-854c80501eb6\&variant=undefined}{Maps
  and Cases}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html?name=styln-coronavirus-markets\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=b7c5ae13-f2cb-11ea-b558-854c80501eb6\&variant=undefined}{Vaccine
  Tracker}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/02/your-money/eviction-moratorium-covid.html?name=styln-coronavirus-markets\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=b7c5ae14-f2cb-11ea-b558-854c80501eb6\&variant=undefined}{Eviction
  Moratorium}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/09/upshot/coronavirus-surprise-test-fees.html?name=styln-coronavirus-markets\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=b7c5d520-f2cb-11ea-b558-854c80501eb6\&variant=undefined}{Surprise
  Test Fees}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{us-delivers-another-blow-to-huawei-with-new-tech-restrictions}{%
\section{U.S. Delivers Another Blow to Huawei With New Tech
Restrictions}\label{us-delivers-another-blow-to-huawei-with-new-tech-restrictions}}

The Commerce Department announced rules that threaten to inflict more
pain on the company and upset an already rocky U.S.-China relationship.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/05/16/us/politics/15JPDC-HUAWEI1-print/15DC-HUAWEI-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/ana-swanson}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/12/10/multimedia/author-ana-swanson/author-ana-swanson-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/ana-swanson}{Ana Swanson}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Published May 15, 2020Updated July 14, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

WASHINGTON --- The Trump administration issued a new rule Friday that
will bar
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/14/business/huawei-uk-5g.html}{Huawei}
and its suppliers from using American technology and software, a
significant escalation in the White House's battle with the Chinese
telecom giant and one that is likely to inflame tensions with Beijing.

The rule change, which is slated to go into effect in September, will
block companies around the world from using American-made machinery and
software to design or produce chips for Huawei or its entities.
Companies can apply for a license to continue supplying those products,
but the administration said the presumption would be to deny those
requests.

John Neuffer, the president of the Semiconductor Industry Association,
which represents chip makers, said his group was concerned that the rule
would ``create uncertainty and disruption for the global semiconductor
supply chain.'' He added, however, that it appeared less damaging than
broader approaches the administration had previously considered.

The move appears aimed at inflicting further damage on Huawei, which
continues to rely on American-made machinery and software designs to
make the chips for its smartphones and tablets, as do the companies that
supply it. The Trump administration has singled out Huawei as a threat
to national security, saying its gear should not be trusted because it
is
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/02/11/us/politics/white-house-huawei-back-door.html}{beholden
to the Chinese government}, an accusation the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/01/15/technology/huawei-ren-zhengfei.html}{company
has denied}.

The measure is the latest of several restrictions taken against Huawei
in the last year. The administration added Huawei to an ``entity list''
last May, barring exports of American products to the company and 114 of
its affiliates unless suppliers had first obtained a license.

After that rule was imposed, Huawei took steps to reduce its reliance on
American chip manufacturers like Qualcomm and ramp up its in-house
production through a chip unit, HiSilicon.

But HiSilicon still relies on outside manufacturers, including the
Shanghai-based Semiconductor Manufacturing International Corporation, or
S.M.I.C., and the Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company, or
T.S.M.C., to mass-produce chips to its specifications. Many of those
operations rely to some extent on technology that was developed and
refined in the United States, where the semiconductor industry began.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-the-coronavirus-outbreak-and-the-economy}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/09/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: The Coronavirus Outbreak and the
Economy}}{Latest Updates: The Coronavirus Outbreak and the Economy}}\label{latest-updates-the-coronavirus-outbreak-and-the-economy}}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/09/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#amazon-announces-another-hiring-spree}{6h
ago}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/09/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#amazon-announces-another-hiring-spree}{Amazon
announces another hiring spree.}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/09/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#why-a-licensing-expert-and-a-mall-operator-bought-brooks-brothers-forever-21-and-others}{8h
ago}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/09/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#why-a-licensing-expert-and-a-mall-operator-bought-brooks-brothers-forever-21-and-others}{Why
a licensing expert and a mall operator bought Brooks Brothers, Forever
21 and others.}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/09/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#lvmh-says-it-is-pulling-out-of-its-16-billion-takeover-of-tiffany}{8h
ago}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/09/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#lvmh-says-it-is-pulling-out-of-its-16-billion-takeover-of-tiffany}{LVMH
says it is pulling out of its \$16 billion takeover of Tiffany.}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/09/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

More live coverage:
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/09/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Global}

In a statement on Friday, the Commerce Department said Huawei had tried
to ``undermine'' its previous restrictions by using American software
and technology to make its own semiconductors, and buying products from
foreign foundries that used American equipment.

``There has been a very highly technical loophole through which Huawei
has been able, in effect, to use U.S. technology with foreign fab
producers,'' Wilbur Ross, the commerce secretary,
\href{https://video.foxbusiness.com/v/6156862016001/\#sp=show-clips}{said
in an interview} Friday morning on Fox Business Network. He said the
changes announced Friday were tailored moves ``to try to correct that
loophole and make sure that the American fab foundries are competing on
an equal footing with the foreign ones.''

The measure could weigh on major chip contract manufacturers that sell
to Huawei, particularly S.M.I.C. and T.S.M.C., which rely heavily on
American manufacturing tools. It may also clamp down on sales by makers
of semiconductor equipment, like Applied Materials, KLA and Lam
Research, as well as chip design software companies.

The move comes at a moment of heightened tensions between the United
States and China. President Trump has blamed China for not doing enough
to stop the spread of the coronavirus and has suggested that the United
States
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/01/us/politics/coronavirus-china-trump.html}{may
punish the Chinese government}. He has also begun
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/08/business/us-china-trade-coronavirus.html}{threatening
to scrap the trade deal} the two countries signed in January.

``This came from China,'' Mr. Trump said at a White House event to
discuss a vaccine on Friday. ``It should have been stopped in China
before it got out to the world.''

The administration's new measure against Huawei, one of China's biggest
technology companies and a crown jewel of Chinese innovation, could
prompt a backlash against American technology companies that depend on
sales to China, such as Qualcomm and Apple.

On Friday evening, the English edition of the Chinese state-controlled
newspaper Global Times
\href{https://www.globaltimes.cn/content/1188491.shtml}{cited an unnamed
source} who said the Chinese government was ready to retaliate.

``Based on what I know, if the U.S. further blocks key technology supply
to Huawei, China will activate the `unreliable entity list,' restrict or
investigate U.S. companies such as Qualcomm, Cisco and Apple, and
suspend the purchase of Boeing airplanes,'' Hu Xijin, the editor in
chief of the Global Times,
\href{https://twitter.com/HuXijin_GT/status/1261250635371909120}{wrote
on Twitter}.

In a call with reporters on Friday, a State Department official
enumerated the United States' broad concerns about Huawei, including
that it had violated American sanctions on Iran and helped the Chinese
government construct a surveillance network within China and abroad.
Huawei is key to the Chinese government's broad strategy of ``civil
military fusion'' that supports the Communist Party's global ambitions,
the official said.

Senator Ben Sasse, a Nebraska Republican, called the rule change ``long
overdue.''

``The United States needs to strangle Huawei,'' he said in a statement.
``Modern wars are fought with semiconductors, and we were letting Huawei
use our American designs. This is pretty simple: Chip companies that
depend on American technology can't jump into bed with the Chinese
Communist Party.''

Huawei had no immediate comment.

On Thursday night, T.S.M.C. said it had
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/14/technology/trump-tsmc-us-chip-facility.html}{agreed
to build} a \$12 billion factory in Arizona, in response to the Trump
administration's growing concerns about the security of the global
electronics supply chain. The twin announcements raised speculation that
T.S.M.C. might have obtained some kind of assurance that at least a
portion of its sales to Huawei would be exempted from the new ban. While
the bulk of T.S.M.C.'s revenue is from American companies, HiSilicon
accounted for 14 percent of its revenue in the first quarter and is the
company's fastest-growing client, said Paul Triolo, an industry analyst
at Eurasia Group.

Keith Krach, the under secretary for economic growth, energy and the
environment at the State Department, said Friday that T.S.M.C. had been
given ``no assurances'' that it would be exempt from the measure. A
Commerce Department official said the agency did not comment on
individual license decisions.

A T.S.M.C. spokeswoman said the factory decision was based on its
business needs, not part of any negotiation for eased trade sanctions.

In a statement early Friday, Secretary of State Michael R. Pompeo said
the deal would increase American economic independence from China and
strengthen the U.S. relationship with Taiwan, a self-governing island
claimed by Beijing.

Also on Friday morning, the Commerce Department extended for another 90
days a license that has allowed American companies to continue doing
business with Huawei temporarily. It warned that this would be the final
extension.

Paul Mozur and Raymond Zhong contributed reporting.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
