Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}Republican Senators in
Arizona and Georgia Have a Problem: The Base

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Election
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/biden-vice-president-2020.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Biden's
  V.P. Search}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/07/24/us/politics/trump-biden-campaign-donors.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Map
  of Donations}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/elections/delegate-count-primary-results.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Delegate
  Count}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2019/us/politics/2020-presidential-candidates.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{The
  Candidates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Politics
  Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{republican-senators-in-arizona-and-georgia-have-a-problem-the-base}{%
\section{Republican Senators in Arizona and Georgia Have a Problem: The
Base}\label{republican-senators-in-arizona-and-georgia-have-a-problem-the-base}}

This November, the uneasy relationship between the most right-wing
voters in the Republican Party and the statewide lawmakers who rely on
their votes will burst into the open.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/07/02/us/politics/00GOP-base1/merlin_173311077_325d19f0-5a0a-4ce6-b0e9-925d8d37e6a1-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/astead-w-herndon}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/09/14/us/author-head-astead/author-head-astead-thumbLarge-v2.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/astead-w-herndon}{Astead W. Herndon}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  July 9, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

DILLARD, Ga. --- As Representative Doug Collins went booth to booth at a
recent Republican jamboree in northeast Georgia's Rabun County, he was a
hero, not an insurgent. No one knocked him for splitting the party with
his bid against the state's junior senator,
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/09/sports/basketball/kelly-loeffler-atlanta-dream-protests.html}{Kelly
Loeffler}, who is also a Republican. For many voters in the deeply
conservative region, Mr. Collins was the candidate who most represented
the values of their political icon: President Trump.

This feeling --- that the Republican base understands Trumpism and its
best messengers better than G.O.P. leaders --- is shaping the race in
Georgia, as well as another Senate battleground contest this year in
Arizona. There, Senator Martha McSally, a Republican, faces not only a
energized Democratic electorate but a skeptical right-wing base. In both
states, Republican governors appointed the senators, who now have to win
their seats for themselves in November's election.

In Georgia, many grass-roots conservatives are still bitter that Gov.
Brian Kemp appointed Ms. Loeffler over Mr. Collins to the Senate in 2019
in what they say was a sop to the state's Republican business and
consultant class. They hope to soon right that wrong.

``I'm not opposed to the sitting senator, I'm just for Doug Collins,''
said Lauren ``Bubba'' McDonald Jr., a member of the state's public
service commission whose local claim to fame was being the only
statewide elected official to endorse Mr. Trump early in the 2016
Republican primary.

Mr. McDonald, who pointed to Mr. Collins's
\href{https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_p5X4aH2h9M}{fierce performance}
on the Judiciary Committee during Mr. Trump's impeachment hearings,
added, ``Think of it this way: we have no reason \emph{not} to support
Doug Collins.''

In an interview, Mr. Collins summed up the race this way: ``The biggest
issue here is I'm the right person for Georgia.''

Many Republican candidates face a perplexing electoral landscape this
year, given that Mr. Trump's conduct has endeared him to the party's
most conservative groups, but
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/25/us/politics/trump-senate-republicans-poll.html}{has
soured some suburban moderates and seniors} who are vital parts of any
swing state coalition. These candidates are walking a tightrope, made
more difficult by a voter base that doesn't just want to elect
Republicans, but rather loyal foot soldiers who take on Mr. Trump's
political and cultural enemies.

It is the long-term political war over how Trumpism is best expressed
--- not the short-term battle over Mr. Trump himself --- and how a party
that has been driven by early-morning tweets for four years will seek to
survive the next 40.

In the run-up to the 2018 midterm elections, a record number of House
Republicans chose not to seek re-election rather than face conflict with
the conservative base, and even a favorable Senate map saw Republicans
lose in states like Arizona and Nevada.

With Mr. Trump on the ballot this year, it will be even harder for
candidates to paper over the differences, and the uneasy relationship
between the party's most right-wing voters and the statewide Republicans
like Ms. Loeffler and Ms. McSally who rely on their votes is bursting
into the open.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/07/02/us/politics/00GOP-base2/merlin_173310969_0d154426-e1e2-4344-8208-38e78b9f740d-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Governors in both Arizona and Georgia are currently confronting this
political challenge, after opening up their states's economies at the
urging of the president and those in the media who support him, only to
face pressure to reverse course after coronavirus cases surged.

Polling also shows that Ms. Loeffler and Ms. McSally are underdogs in
their respective races, facing an energized Democratic electorate in
addition to their inner-party wrangling. Ms. Loeffler and Ms. McSally,
and the governors who appointed them, declined or did not respond to
requests to be interviewed for this story.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-2020-election}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: 2020
Election}}{Latest Updates: 2020 Election}}\label{latest-updates-2020-election}}

Updated 2020-08-01T01:26:45.732Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-29fdff45}{Kamala
  Harris, a top vice-presidential contender, confronts double
  standards.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-13ec3d9c}{Karen
  Bass and Susan Rice are rising on Biden's vice-presidential
  shortlist.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-49e9a016}{Trump
  says Russian bounties to kill U.S. troops `never took place.'}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

In the Georgia special election set for Nov. 3, which will not have a
primary and will pit several Democrats and Republicans against each
other on one ballot, Mr. Collins has led almost every public and private
poll, with Ms. Loeffler and several Democrats behind him. (The winner
must earn 50 percent of the vote to avoid a runoff.)

A recent survey of Arizona voters from The New York Times and Siena
College found Ms. McSally
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/25/us/politics/trump-senate-republicans-poll.html}{trailing
her Democratic opponent}, the former astronaut and U.S. Navy Captain
Mark Kelly, by nine percentage points.

In a recent Fox News poll of the Arizona race, just 73 percent of
Republicans supported Ms. McSally, while 88 percent of Democrats
supported Mr. Kelly.

``They don't buy her as a bona fide very conservative Republican,'' said
Chuck Coughlin, a longtime Republican political consultant in Arizona.

The candidates' struggles speak to how real divisions among Republicans
have been obscured by Mr. Trump's victory in 2016, and could erupt again
should he lose in November.

Ms. McSally, in particular, faces pressure from a nativist faction that
wants her to be more vocal on restricting immigration. The extreme
wealth of Ms. Loeffler, who has a net worth in the hundreds of millions
and is married to the chairman of the New York Stock Exchange, has
become an issue in her race, particularly since she faced criticism for
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/05/26/us/politics/senators-stock-trades-investigation.html}{stock
transactions that coincided} with the early days of the coronavirus
pandemic.

Allies of Ms. Loeffler point to recent polling that showed a closer race
than initial surveys suggested. This week, the senator --- who is also a
co-owner of the W.N.B.A.'s Atlanta Dream ---
\href{https://www.ajc.com/blog/politics/loeffler-opposes-wnba-plan-spread-black-lives-matter-message/ybTbHIpzZx7dbRlz3sfLiM/}{announced
she opposed} the league's plan to allow players to wear warm-up jerseys
reading ``Black Lives Matter'' and ``Say Her Name,'' a move some saw as
an attempt to shore up her conservative credentials.

In a statement provided by a campaign spokesman, Ms. Loeffler said,
``Georgians want a conservative outsider like me --- not another career
politician like Doug Collins who has sided with liberal democrats like
Stacey Abrams to raise taxes, restrict 2nd Amendment rights, oppose term
limits, and fund sanctuary cities.''

Several Republicans in Arizona and Georgia said in interviews that the
problem is not with Ms. Loeffler's or Ms. McSally's messages, but
whether the base is buying the candidates as authentic. As a sign of
their shared troubles among Republicans, some of the most negative
publicity for both senators in the past year has come courtesy of Fox
News, the cable outlet that is often sympathetic to the president.

Ms. McSally was pressed repeatedly by the conservative host Laura
Ingraham during Mr. Trump's impeachment trial about whether she wanted
the Senate to call witnesses, and refused to answer. Ms. Loeffler has
denied wrongdoing regarding the stock transactions, but when news broke
one of her largest detractors was another host, Tucker Carlson.

``We don't know the truth,'' Mr. Carlson said at the time, ``But if she
knew about these trades and still issued that little P.S.A. we showed
you, she should leave office.''

He later had Ms. Loeffler on the show to explain the transactions.

Image

Senator Martha McSally, left, and President Trump during a trip to Yuma,
Ariz., last month.Credit...Doug Mills/The New York Times

Mr. Coughlin said Ms. McSally's problems in Arizona were similar to the
skepticism faced by former Senators John McCain and Jeff Flake, both
Arizona Republicans who opposed Mr. Trump at times. In Mr. Trump's
Republican Party, it is difficult for any Republican --- but
particularly federal candidates in a presidential election year --- to
run from his shadow.

``The electorate has changed a lot,'' Mr. Coughlin said, adding that the
current Republican Party has ``moved away from that narrative that
people were originally attracted to. And in my view, has become one
that's reactive to the identity politics of the left.''

Stan Barnes, a former Republican member of the Arizona state
legislature, said he expected more Republicans to support Ms. McSally as
November draws nearer. Mr. Barnes argued that the current polling
snapshot may look worse for Republicans across the country than what
actually happens in the fall.

``The numbers will firm up as we get to November,'' Mr. Barnes said.
``People will start to focus and say, `Well, it's not just about her but
about the balance of the Senate.' And Republican voters are unified
around the idea that they don't want Senator Chuck Schumer leading the
U.S. Senate.''

Image

Many grass-roots conservatives believe Ms. Loeffler's appointment to her
Senate seat reflected a prioritization of the state's business and
consultant class.Credit...Al Drago for The New York Times

During the interview at the Rabun County event, Mr. Collins expressed
confidence in his campaign, declining to criticize Ms. Loeffler or Mr.
Kemp's decision to appoint her while also making clear the choice would
soon be proven out of step with the state's Republican voters.

Conventional political wisdom held that Mr. Kemp appointed Ms. Loeffler
in an attempt to win over moderate suburban women, but Mr. Collins said
conservative authenticity was the way to do that.

``This is about who is a conservative, who people know is tested and
proven, and that's me and not her,'' Mr. Collins said.

There is some evidence Mr. Collins's appeals are working. He is not only
the preferred candidate in Rabun County, but he has landed the
endorsement of former Representative Karen Handel, the one of the
state's most prominent Republican women and the party's nominee in an
all-important swing district in the Atlanta suburbs.

Ms. Handel is seeking to win back the seat she used to hold, in the
Sixth Congressional District, from Representative Lucy McBath, a
Democrat, in a closely watched House rematch. But instead of sitting out
the Senate race or supporting the incumbent, Ms. Handel recently
announced she was endorsing Mr. Collins, a sign that Ms. Loeffler's
attempts to consolidate Republican women have not taken root.

``He is the best person to represent our Georgia values,'' Ms. Handel
said in a statement. ``Most importantly, I trust Doug --- to stand up
for life, to stand with our president, and to stand for our Georgia
values.''

Image

Mr. Collins and Ms. Loeffler will face off against each other and
several Democrats in a special election this November.Credit...Audra
Melton for The New York Times

Whether Mr. Trump decides to endorse Mr. Collins or Ms. Loeffler will
also have an effect on the campaign's trajectory. Those in Mr. Collins's
camp express private optimism that the White House will let the race
play out, particularly after early polling showed Mr. Collins was the
likely preference of the president's core base. However, Ms. Loeffler is
aided by her personal wealth and the establishment Republican groups
meant to protect incumbents, such as the National Republican Senatorial
Committee.

At the event in Mr. Collins's home district, where attendees were
universally supportive of his candidacy, the prospect of Mr. Trump
endorsing his opponent was unfathomable to some.

``We know Doug,'' said Ethan Underwood, a local businessman who ran for
the seat Mr. Collins is vacating, in the state's Ninth District.

``And respectfully to Ms. Loeffler,'' he added, ``she hasn't done
anything.''

Ed Henderson, the Rabun County party secretary, noted that Ms. Loeffler
had not held an event with the Republicans in the state's Northeast
region, including in its counties where support for Mr. Trump is
strongest. (Ms. Loeffler
\href{https://www.ajc.com/blog/politics/dangerous-loeffler-goes-collins-hometown-slam-his-big-tech-stance/zZJNxGWhE1tNjec7v7TSQJ/}{did
hold an event} in nearby Hall County after Mr. Henderson made the
remark.)

He downplayed the controversy over whether Ms. Loeffler had engaged in
insider trading, but said her absence in the region had contributed to
the perception that she was a wealthy Atlanta Republican, not a
grass-roots Georgia one.

``Senator Loeffler, we would love to see you in the Ninth District,''
Mr. Henderson said.

He then threw in a reference to Ms. Loeffler's private aircraft. ``You
can bring your plane here,'' he said. ``We have an airfield.''

\hypertarget{our-2020-election-guide}{%
\section{Our 2020 Election Guide}\label{our-2020-election-guide}}

Updated July 31, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{the-latest}{%
  \subsection{The Latest}\label{the-latest}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    President Trump's assault on the Postal Service is intersecting with
    his attacks on mail-in voting.
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/politics/trump-usps-mail-delays.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Voting
    rights groups say it is a recipe for disaster.}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{bidens-vp-search}{%
  \subsection{Biden's V.P. Search}\label{bidens-vp-search}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/biden-vice-president-2020.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Here
    are 13 women} who have been under consideration to be Joe Biden's
    running mate, and why each might be chosen --- and might not be.
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{keep-up-with-our-coverage}{%
  \subsection{Keep Up With Our
  Coverage}\label{keep-up-with-our-coverage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Get an
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{email}
    recapping the day's news
  \end{itemize}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Download our mobile app on
    \href{https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nytimes/id284862083?ls=1\&mat_click_id=5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\&referrer=mat_click_id\%3D5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\%26link_click_id\%3D722930677036718082}{iOS}
    and
    \href{http://a.localytics.com/android?id=com.nytimes.android\&referrer=utm_source\%3Dother_nyt_mobile_web\%26utm_medium\%3DWeb\%2520page\%26utm_term\%3DGeneral\%2520Mobile\%2520Page\%26utm_campaign\%3DNYT\%2520Mobile\%2520General\%2520Page}{Android}
    and turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
