Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}Tulsi Gabbard Drops Out of
Presidential Race

\url{https://nyti.ms/2U0daQS}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Election
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/biden-vice-president-2020.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Biden's
  V.P. Search}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/07/24/us/politics/trump-biden-campaign-donors.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Map
  of Donations}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/elections/delegate-count-primary-results.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Delegate
  Count}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2019/us/politics/2020-presidential-candidates.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{The
  Candidates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Politics
  Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{tulsi-gabbard-drops-out-of-presidential-race}{%
\section{Tulsi Gabbard Drops Out of Presidential
Race}\label{tulsi-gabbard-drops-out-of-presidential-race}}

The representative from Hawaii, who often defied her own party,
announced the end of her campaign and said she would back Joe Biden.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/03/19/us/politics/19gabbard-out/merlin_169983657_46f6aa34-e35d-4ae3-856c-b3d03969b79a-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/lisa-lerer}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/09/11/us/politics/author-lisa-lerer/lisa-lerer-headshot-thumbLarge.png}}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/maggie-astor}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/07/18/multimedia/author-maggie-astor/author-maggie-astor-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/lisa-lerer}{Lisa Lerer} and
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/maggie-astor}{Maggie Astor}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  March 19, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Representative
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/elections/tulsi-gabbard.html}{Tulsi
Gabbard} of Hawaii, who ran a foreign policy-focused campaign for the
presidential nomination of a party she sharply criticized, announced on
Thursday that she was dropping out of the race.

Ms. Gabbard, who had been one of only three candidates and the only
woman remaining in the Democratic primary, said she would throw her
support to former Vice President
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/elections/joe-biden.html}{Joseph
R. Biden Jr.}, who has accumulated a nearly insurmountable lead in the
delegate count. Throughout the race, her campaign struggled to gain
traction, never breaking double digits in state or national polls. She
won only two delegates in the primary contests, both in American Samoa,
where she was born.

In a video posted to social media on Thursday, Ms. Gabbard said she felt
she could better serve the country in the midst of the coronavirus
pandemic in her capacity as a major in the Hawaii Army National Guard.

``Our nation is facing an unprecedented global crisis that highlights
the inextricable bonds of humanity, and how foreign policy and domestic
policy are inseparable,'' she said. ``The best way I can be of service
at this time is to continue to work for the health and well-being of the
people of Hawaii and our country in Congress, and to stand ready to
serve in uniform should the Hawaii National Guard be activated.''

Ms. Gabbard, who resigned her vice chairmanship at the Democratic
National Committee in 2016 to endorse the presidential campaign of
Senator
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/elections/bernie-sanders.html}{Bernie
Sanders} of Vermont, Mr. Biden's closest competitor this year, said she
had ``great appreciation'' for Mr. Sanders's work.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-2020-election}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: 2020
Election}}{Latest Updates: 2020 Election}}\label{latest-updates-2020-election}}

Updated 2020-08-01T01:26:45.732Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-29fdff45}{Kamala
  Harris, a top vice-presidential contender, confronts double
  standards.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-13ec3d9c}{Karen
  Bass and Susan Rice are rising on Biden's vice-presidential
  shortlist.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-49e9a016}{Trump
  says Russian bounties to kill U.S. troops `never took place.'}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

She also cited her relationship with Mr. Biden's son Beau, who served in
the Delaware Army National Guard and died in 2015.

``Although I may not agree with the vice president on every issue, I
know that he has a good heart and is motivated by his love for our
country and the American people,'' she said. ``I'm confident that he
will lead our country guided by the spirit of aloha --- respect and
compassion --- and thus help heal the divisiveness that has been tearing
our country apart."

Ms. Gabbard, 38, announced late last year that she would not seek
re-election to Congress in the fall.

She campaigned for president on a noninterventionist foreign policy,
denouncing ``regime-change wars'' and the idea of the United States as
the world's police. She said her own deployments --- she served two
tours of duty in the Middle East as a member of the National Guard ---
had taught her the costs of war firsthand.

``We should be coming to other leaders in other countries with respect,
building a relationship based on cooperation rather than with, you know,
a police baton,''
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/08/02/us/politics/tulsi-gabbard-2020-presidential-race.html}{she
said last year}.

Her unorthodox platform, a mix of noninterventionist foreign policy,
liberal social policy and libertarian leanings on issues like drug
decriminalization,
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/10/12/us/politics/tulsi-gabbard.html}{attracted
support from an unusual array of public backers}. Alt-right internet
stars, white nationalists, libertarian activists and some of the biggest
boosters of Mr. Trump heaped praise on
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/11/18/us/politics/tulsi-gabbard-clinton-new-hampshire.html}{Ms.
Gabbard}.

Many Democrats were far more skeptical of her effort, at a loss to
explain her frequent appearances on Fox News, favorable coverage in
Russian state media and an ideology that both argued for getting out of
foreign wars and refused to strongly condemn some autocratic leaders.

A public fight with Hillary Clinton
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/11/18/us/politics/tulsi-gabbard-clinton-new-hampshire.html}{brought
attention and fund-raising dollars}, keeping Ms. Gabbard on the primary
debate stage and attracting some support from independent and Republican
voters, particularly in libertarian-leaning New Hampshire.

Ms. Gabbard was once seen as a rising star in the Democratic Party,
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2015/11/29/us/politics/tulsi-gabbard-rising-democratic-star-from-hawaii-makes-mark-on-party-by-defying-it.html}{even
as she sometimes defied it}.

Her progressive economics and noninterventionist foreign policy seemed
like obvious attractions for Democrats, her military résumé gave her
extra credibility, and she broke barriers as the first Hindu and the
first American Samoan elected to Congress. So it was not surprising when
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/01/11/us/politics/tulsi-gabbard-2020-president-announcement.html}{she
entered the presidential race} last January, even though no sitting
representative has been elected president in 140 years.

In a race that at its peak included six female candidates, Ms. Gabbard
ended up becoming the last woman standing.

But while she had a deeply devoted base, it was not large enough to
sustain her. And at times, she seemed to be campaigning against the same
party whose nomination she was seeking.

``Our Democratic Party, unfortunately, is not the party that is of, by
and for the people,'' she said
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/11/20/us/politics/tulsi-gabbard-harris-debate.html}{at
a debate in November}. ``It is a party that has been and continues to be
influenced by the foreign policy establishment in Washington,
represented by Hillary Clinton and others' foreign policy, by the
military industrial complex and other greedy corporate interests.''

President Trump's re-election campaign seized on that remark, clipping
the first sentence and
\href{https://twitter.com/TrumpWarRoom/status/1197342010191036416}{blasting
it out on Twitter} before the debate had even ended.

Perhaps no emblem of the establishment was a better foil for Ms. Gabbard
than Mrs. Clinton, who
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/10/18/us/politics/tulsi-gabbard-hillary-clinton-russia.html}{suggested
in October} that Russia was backing Ms. Gabbard's campaign and that
Republicans were ``grooming'' her as a third-party candidate. Ms.
Gabbard pushed back fiercely, calling Mrs. Clinton ``the queen of
warmongers, embodiment of corruption and personification of the rot that
has sickened the Democratic Party for so long'' and then suing her for
defamation.

The clash
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/11/18/us/politics/tulsi-gabbard-clinton-new-hampshire.html}{helped
raise Ms. Gabbard's profile} and won over some voters --- including
independents and conservatives --- who dislike the Clintons, while
simultaneously alienating some members of the party's usual base.

Ms. Gabbard also broke from the Democratic pack on impeachment. She
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/09/27/us/politics/tulsi-gabbard-impeachment.html}{was
the last candidate} to back an inquiry last year, and when the articles
of impeachment came to the House floor in December, she was the only
Democrat
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/12/18/us/elections/tulsi-gabbard-impeachment-vote.html}{who
refused to cast a yes-or-no vote}.

``I came to the conclusion that I could not in good conscience vote
either yes or no,'' she said at the time, calling the process too
partisan. ``I am standing in the center and have decided to vote
present.''

\hypertarget{our-2020-election-guide}{%
\section{Our 2020 Election Guide}\label{our-2020-election-guide}}

Updated July 31, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{the-latest}{%
  \subsection{The Latest}\label{the-latest}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    President Trump's assault on the Postal Service is intersecting with
    his attacks on mail-in voting.
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/politics/trump-usps-mail-delays.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Voting
    rights groups say it is a recipe for disaster.}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{bidens-vp-search}{%
  \subsection{Biden's V.P. Search}\label{bidens-vp-search}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/biden-vice-president-2020.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Here
    are 13 women} who have been under consideration to be Joe Biden's
    running mate, and why each might be chosen --- and might not be.
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{keep-up-with-our-coverage}{%
  \subsection{Keep Up With Our
  Coverage}\label{keep-up-with-our-coverage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Get an
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{email}
    recapping the day's news
  \end{itemize}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Download our mobile app on
    \href{https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nytimes/id284862083?ls=1\&mat_click_id=5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\&referrer=mat_click_id\%3D5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\%26link_click_id\%3D722930677036718082}{iOS}
    and
    \href{http://a.localytics.com/android?id=com.nytimes.android\&referrer=utm_source\%3Dother_nyt_mobile_web\%26utm_medium\%3DWeb\%2520page\%26utm_term\%3DGeneral\%2520Mobile\%2520Page\%26utm_campaign\%3DNYT\%2520Mobile\%2520General\%2520Page}{Android}
    and turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
