Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/2020-election}{Elections}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/news-event/2020-election}{Elections}\textbar{}2020 Election Live
Updates: Russia Continues to Meddle in Election to Aid Trump, U.S.
Intelligence Says

\url{https://nyti.ms/3a4dqVe}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/07/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Election
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/06/us/elections/results-tennessee-primary-elections.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Tennessee
  Results}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/biden-vice-president-2020.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Biden's
  V.P. Search}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/us/politics/2020-presidential-candidates.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{The
  Candidates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Politics
  Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

LIVE UPDATES

Updated~

Aug. 7, 2020, 7:37 p.m. ET

Aug. 7, 2020, 7:37 p.m. ET

\hypertarget{2020-election-live-updates-russia-continues-to-meddle-in-election-to-aid-trump-us-intelligence-says}{%
\section{2020 Election Live Updates: Russia Continues to Meddle in
Election to Aid Trump, U.S. Intelligence
Says}\label{2020-election-live-updates-russia-continues-to-meddle-in-election-to-aid-trump-us-intelligence-says}}

Vice President Mike Pence made plans to visit Wisconsin after Joe Biden
opted out of traveling there for the convention. Democrats called for an
audit of the Postal Service's new policies, citing concerns about
potential mail-in voting issues.

Right Now

Russia is using a range of techniques to denigrate Joe Biden, while
China prefers that President Trump be defeated in November and is
weighing whether to take more aggressive action in the election,
American intelligence officials said.

\hypertarget{heres-what-you-need-to-know}{%
\subsubsection{Here's what you need to
know:}\label{heres-what-you-need-to-know}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-77a72de1}{Russia is using a variety of tactics
  to damage the Biden campaign, U.S. intelligence officials say.}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-1ab01601}{Biden's choice of a running mate
  could define the presidential contest.}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-4b53533c}{Here's why Biden keeps missing his
  own V.P. deadlines.}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-676189e6}{Pence plans to visit Wisconsin after
  Biden scraps his Milwaukee convention trip.}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-41982312}{Several prominent Democrats raised
  concerns about the Postal Service's new policies and called for an
  audit.}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-35e50c87}{The Democratic Party filed a formal
  challenge to Kanye's campaign in Wisconsin.}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-7b5f765f}{An appeals court rules that the
  House can sue to force testimony from McGahn.}
\end{itemize}

\subsection{}

Russia is using a variety of tactics to damage the Biden campaign, U.S.
intelligence officials say.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/07/us/politics/07elections-briefing-top/merlin_175321773_3f446cae-31b6-4c5a-aa64-84e3943b7295-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/07/us/politics/russia-china-trump-biden-election-interference.html}{Russia
is using a range of techniques to denigrate Joseph R. Biden Jr.},
American intelligence officials said Friday in their first public
assessment that Moscow continues to try to interfere in the 2020
campaign to help President Trump.

At the same time, the officials said China preferred that Mr. Trump be
defeated in November and was weighing whether to take more aggressive
action in the election.

Those conclusions were included in a statement released by William R.
Evanina, the director of the National Counterintelligence and Security
Center.

But officials briefed on the intelligence said that Russia was the far
graver, and more immediate, threat. While China seeks to gain influence
in American politics, its leaders have not yet decided to wade directly
into the presidential contest, however much they may dislike Mr. Trump,
the officials said.

The assessment by Mr. Evanina suggested the intelligence community was
treading carefully, reflecting the political heat generated by previous
findings: The White House has objected to conclusions that Moscow is
working to help Mr. Trump, and Democrats on Capitol Hill have expressed
concern that the intelligence agencies are not being forthright enough
about Russia's preference for him and that the agencies are introducing
China's anti-Trump stance to balance the scales.

Democrats see the interference campaign run by Russia as a far more
direct and urgent threat.

``The fact that adversaries like China or Iran don't like an American
president's policies is normal fare. What's abnormal, disturbing and
dangerous is that an adversary like Russia is actively trying to get a
Trump re-elected,'' said Jeremy Bash, a former Obama administration
official.

Russia tried to use influence campaigns during the 2018 midterm voting
to try and sway public opinion, but did not successfully tamper with
voting infrastructure.

Mr. Evanina said it would be difficult for adversarial countries to try
to manipulate voting results on a large scale. But nevertheless, the
countries could try to interfere in the voting process or take steps
aimed at ``calling into question the validity of the election results.''

A foreign policy adviser for the Biden campaign, Antony Blinken, later
commented on the report. ``Donald Trump has publicly and repeatedly
invited, emboldened and even tried to coerce foreign interference in
American elections,'' he said.

``Joe Biden, on the other hand,'' he added, ``has led the fight against
foreign interference for years, and has refused to accept any foreign
materials intended to help him in this election --- something that
Donald Trump and his campaign have repeatedly failed to do.''

\hypertarget{-1}{%
\subsection{}\label{-1}}

Biden's choice of a running mate could define the presidential contest.

Image

Joseph R. Biden Jr.'s choice of running mate carries more significance
than a vice-presidential pick usually would.Credit...Hannah Yoon for The
New York Times

For all the attention it gets, the vice-presidential choice has usually
proved of little significance to the outcome of an election. But as Mr.
Biden, the presumptive Democratic nominee, draws closer to naming his
running mate, some party leaders think his selection could prove
particularly meaningful this time.

Mr. Trump has
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/10/us/biden-trump.html}{struggled}
to find a line of attack that works against Mr. Biden. But depending on
whom Mr. Biden chooses, Mr. Trump might be able to make this contest not
about his Democratic challenger but about the No. 2 person on the
ticket.

That is why questions about the
\href{https://www.politico.com/news/2020/08/04/karen-bass-eulogized-communist-party-usa-leader-391455}{history}
of one of the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/04/us/politics/karen-bass-vice-president-biden.html}{front-runners
for the position}, Representative Karen Bass of California, have such
resonance. The Trump campaign has already seized on her trips to Cuba as
a young activist and her 2010 appearance at the opening of the Church of
Scientology headquarters in Los Angeles.

``Biden has been a frustratingly elusive target for Trump because Biden
does not sound, look or feel like the `radical left,''' David Axelrod,
who was President Barack Obama's senior strategist, said in an email.
``So Trump is hoping to depict Biden as a Trojan Horse and the running
mate as the radical-in-waiting.''

Many Democrats assume much of this anti-Bass research was unearthed and
distributed by one of her rivals; that would hardly be unusual in
American politics. Where it came from may not be relevant: The Trump
campaign would probably have uncovered it soon enough.

\hypertarget{-2}{%
\subsection{}\label{-2}}

Here's why Biden keeps missing his own V.P. deadlines.

First, Mr. Biden was going to name a running mate around Aug. 1. Then he
publicly floated another timeline, the end of the first week of August,
but
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/07/us/politics/joe-biden-vice-presidential-search.html}{an
aide confirmed that an announcement} would not happen this week.

Even as the political world awaits his decision and donors are readying
finance events featuring the still-unnamed running mate --- ``date and
time to be announced'' --- Mr. Biden himself has not appeared to be in a
big rush.

This comes as no surprise to those who know him well. Throughout his
career, on issues large and small, Mr. Biden has shown himself to be
openly meditative, with a penchant for missing his own deadlines as he
mulls his options.

Ahead of the 2004 and 2016 presidential races, he deliberated
extensively about whether to run before deciding against it. Last year,
as Mr.
Biden\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/03/07/us/politics/biden-2020.html}{grappled}
again with the question, he missed one self-imposed deadline before
finally joining the race. On a different scale, he is often late to his
own events, lingers on rope lines and phone calls, and has been slow to
formulate responses during several pivotal moments of the 2020 contest.

Mr. Biden's habit of pushing deadlines leaves some Democrats anxious and
annoyed, while others say it brings him to a well-considered decision,
eventually.

Mr. Biden is now expected to name his vice-presidential choice shortly
before the Democratic convention, which begins Aug. 17. While that is in
keeping with the timeline of the two previous Democratic nominees, it is
at odds with Mr. Biden's own words.

``The deadline for a V.P. nomination is the convention,'' said
Representative Cedric Richmond, a co-chairman of Mr. Biden's campaign.
``He's very deliberative with his decision-making. It works.''

\hypertarget{-3}{%
\subsection{}\label{-3}}

Pence plans to visit Wisconsin after Biden scraps his Milwaukee
convention trip.

Image

Vice President Mike Pence with his daughter in Tampa, Fla., on
Wednesday. He is planning a trip to Wisconsin during the Democratic
National Convention.Credit...Douglas R. Clifford/Tampa Bay Times, via
Associated Press

When Vice President Mike Pence heard that Mr. Biden had
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/05/us/politics/joe-biden-milwaukee.html}{scrapped
his trip to Milwaukee to accept the Democratic presidential nomination},
he saw an opportunity.

Mr. Pence and the Trump campaign had already scheduled a political event
for the vice president in Wisconsin on Aug. 19, according to two
administration officials, an attempt to fill a void they thought Mr.
Biden was leaving in the battleground state.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-2020-election}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/07/us/elections/trump-biden.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: 2020
Election}}{Latest Updates: 2020 Election}}\label{latest-updates-2020-election}}

Updated 2020-08-07T23:37:27.202Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/07/us/elections/trump-biden.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-77a72de1}{Russia
  is using a variety of tactics to damage the Biden campaign, U.S.
  intelligence officials say.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/07/us/elections/trump-biden.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-1ab01601}{Biden's
  choice of a running mate could define the presidential contest.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/07/us/elections/trump-biden.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-4b53533c}{Here's
  why Biden keeps missing his own V.P. deadlines.}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/07/us/elections/trump-biden.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

The decision to fly Mr. Pence to Wisconsin during the Democratic
National Convention in Milwaukee, simply because Mr. Biden decided he
should not go, underscored the different political wagers the two
campaigns are making.

Trailing by a wide margin in the polls in Wisconsin, the Trump campaign
is assuming there is more to be gained politically by showing up,
speaking in front of a small crowd and getting coverage from local
television stations and newspapers. Mr. Biden, by contrast, has chosen
to stay away and portray it as the responsible choice in the face of a
public health crisis and the recommendations of health officials
discouraging travel in the state.

A spokesman for Mr. Biden, T.J. Ducklo, called Mr. Pence's planned trip
to Wisconsin ``disgraceful,'' adding: ``It's the perfect analogy for how
under his and President Trump's leadership, this White House
consistently puts their own political interests above the health and
safety of the American people.''

In Wisconsin, aides to Mr. Pence also saw an opportunity to troll their
opponent for the past mistakes of his party. ``You would think that for
a party that didn't show up four years ago, they'd learn from their
lessons and just show up,'' Devin O'Malley, press secretary for Mr.
Pence, said of Mr. Biden's decision to call off his trip to Milwaukee.

Mr. Biden has led Mr. Trump in most polls of the state. And Democrats in
Wisconsin said they saw no evidence on the ground that voters wanted the
convention to go on, or Mr. Biden to visit, with the number of positive
cases still rising.

\hypertarget{-4}{%
\subsection{}\label{-4}}

Several prominent Democrats raised concerns about the Postal Service's
new policies and called for an audit.

Seven Democratic members of Congress on Friday urged the inspector
general for the Postal Service to audit new policies imposed by Mr.
Trump's new postmaster general, saying they are concerned the changes
``pose a potential threat to mail-in ballots and the 2020 general
election.''

In a letter to Tammy L. Whitcomb, the inspector general, the lawmakers
referenced reports that Louis DeJoy, the recently appointed postmaster
general, has limited overtime pay and made other changes that critics
say have slowed mail delivery across the country and made it less
reliable.

The lawmakers urged Ms. Whitcomb to investigate the impact of the
changes on the delivery of critical mail, including medication,
paychecks and bills.

``These delays also pose a threat to the November election, particularly
during the coronavirus pandemic when millions of Americans are expected
to choose to vote by mail rather than wait in long lines on Election
Day,'' the lawmakers wrote.

Concerns about the ability of the Postal Service to deal with an immense
increase in mail-in ballots have increased in recent weeks after the
results of one Democratic primary in New York remained in limbo for
weeks while scores of mail-in ballots were invalidated.

The Democratic lawmakers who signed the letter were: Senators Elizabeth
Warren of Massachusetts, Gary C. Peters of Michigan and Thomas R. Carper
of Delaware; and Representatives Carolyn B. Maloney of New York, Stephen
F. Lynch of Massachusetts, Gerald E. Connolly of Virginia and Brenda
Lawrence of Michigan.

\hypertarget{-5}{%
\subsection{}\label{-5}}

The Democratic Party filed a formal challenge to Kanye's campaign in
Wisconsin.

Image

Kanye West in July.Credit...Randall Hill/Reuters

The Democratic Party filed a formal challenge on Friday to keep Kanye
West off the Wisconsin presidential ballot in November, citing numerous
irregularities in the qualifying petitions his campaign had submitted.

The challenge includes affidavits from seven Wisconsin voters who said
they were misled into signing the petitions supporting Mr. West's
presidential aspirations.

Sharon J. Brown of Milwaukee said she was approached outside a pharmacy
and asked to sign a petition in support of more polling places. ``I
would not have signed the petition had I known it was to put Kanye West
on the ballot,'' Ms. Brown wrote in an affidavit.

Another voter said he signed after being told the petition was to keep
Mr. West \emph{off} the ballot.

``If what these affidavits say is true, the Kanye West campaign broke
the law,'' said Michael S. Maistelman, a lawyer representing the
Democratic Party of Wisconsin.

Among other potential grounds for a challenge is the fact that some of
the 2,400 signatures submitted to the Wisconsin Elections Commission on
Tuesday are not actual Wisconsin voters: A Milwaukee Journal Sentinel
columnist, Daniel Bice, found the supposed signatures of well-known
personalities on the petitions --- Mickey Mouse, Senator Bernie Sanders
and Mr. West, himself.

Republican operatives in at least half a dozen states are involved in
placing Mr. West's name on November ballots as a third-party candidate,
a plan some have argued is an effort to depress Black votes for Mr.
Biden.

In an interview with Forbes magazine on Thursday, Mr. West, when asked
if he was trying to hurt Mr. Biden's campaign, said, ``I'm not denying
it; I just told you.''

In a separate development Friday, a watchdog group filed a complaint
against a lawyer representing both Mr. Trump and Mr. West, questioning
whether she breached legal ethics by representing competing candidates.

The complaint was filed to the Wisconsin Office of Lawyer Regulation by
the Washington-based Campaign for Accountability.

Lane Ruhland, the lawyer, submitted the petitions on Mr. West's behalf
in a last-minute attempt to have him placed on the Wisconsin ballot. She
is known for her extensive legal work for the Republican Party,
including for Mr. Trump's re-election campaign.

Ms. Ruhland could not be reached for comment.

\hypertarget{-6}{%
\subsection{}\label{-6}}

An appeals court rules that the House can sue to force testimony from
McGahn.

The House Judiciary Committee can sue to force the former White House
counsel Donald F. McGahn II to testify before Congress, a federal
appeals court ruled on Friday.

The United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit
said in a 7-to-2 decision that enforcement of congressional subpoenas
was crucial to its oversight duties over the executive branch and
remanded to a panel of judges other issues Mr. McGahn raised in the
case. Mr. McGahn is unlikely to appear before Congress ahead of the
election, but the decision endorsed strong congressional oversight
powers and Congress's ability to take the White House to court if an
administration fails to comply with its subpoenas.

The two judges on the court appointed by President Trump recused
themselves from the case.

The House Judiciary Committee
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/04/22/us/politics/mcgahn-trump-attacks.html}{subpoenaed
Mr. McGahn} in April 2019 as part of its investigation into possible
obstruction of justice by Mr. Trump. He was a
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/04/19/us/politics/mueller-report-citations.html}{key
witness for the inquiry} conducted by the former special counsel Robert
S. Mueller III into the possible obstruction of justice and Russian
interference in the 2016 election.

Mr. McGahn told the special counsel that the president
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/01/25/us/politics/trump-mueller-special-counsel-russia.html}{ordered
him} to have the Justice Department dismiss Mr. Mueller, and when he
refused and threatened to quit, Mr. Trump backed off. Later, the
president ordered him to deny that he had ever asked and issue a memo
saying as such. He threatened to fire Mr. McGahn if he failed to comply.

The committee
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/08/07/us/politics/don-mcgahn-subpoena.html}{sued
Mr. McGahn}, who
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2018/03/16/us/politics/all-the-major-firings-and-resignations-in-trump-administration.html}{left
the White House} in 2018, when the administration directed him not to
appear, asking the court to quash the claims that Mr. Trump's aides are
``absolutely immune'' from its subpoenas.

\hypertarget{-7}{%
\subsection{}\label{-7}}

In Tennessee's G.O.P. Senate primary, voters chose the candidate with
the president's support.

Image

Bill Hagerty, who was endorsed by President Trump, won the primary to
succeed the retiring Senator Lamar Alexander on Thursday.Credit...Mark
Humphrey/Associated Press

The
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/06/us/politics/tennessee-senate-primary-hagerty.html}{Tennessee
Senate Republican primary} may have taken a competitive turn in its
final weeks, but Bill Hagerty proved that for red-state candidates in
the Trump era, there are still few things more valuable than the
endorsement of Donald J. Trump himself.

On Thursday, Mr. Hagerty, 60, who served as the president's first
ambassador to Japan, trounced 14 other candidates in the primary to
succeed the retiring Senator Lamar Alexander.

The race had tightened in its homestretch, with an upstart candidate,
Manny Sethi, riding a wave of grass-roots enthusiasm as he positioned
himself as the field's true conservative and most committed ally of the
president, earning the support of prominent conservatives like Senators
Ted Cruz of Texas and Rand Paul of Kentucky.

Mr. Sethi, 42, an orthopedic surgeon, attacked Mr. Hagerty for his
background in private equity, longtime friendship with Senator Mitt
Romney of Utah and support from the Tennessee Republican establishment.

In the end, it wasn't enough. Mr. Trump had endorsed Mr. Hagerty before
he even entered the race. When skepticism arose about Mr. Hagerty's
commitment to the tenets of Trumpism, Mr. Hagerty squelched it simply by
promoting that endorsement even more.

Mr. Hagerty will face off against Marquita Bradshaw, an environmental
justice advocate who became the first Black woman to win a major-party
Senate nomination in Tennessee.

\hypertarget{-8}{%
\subsection{}\label{-8}}

The state's Democrats nominated an environmental justice advocate who
embraced her underdog status.

Image

Marquita Bradshaw is the first Black woman to be nominated for the
Senate by a major party in Tennessee.Credit...Max Gersh/The Commercial
Appeal, via Associated Press

Marquita Bradshaw, an environmental justice advocate who has run her
Senate campaign on a shoestring budget, won an upset victory in the
state's Democratic primary on Thursday, brushing aside a party-backed
candidate who had significantly out-raised her.

Ms. Bradshaw
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/06/us/elections/results-tennessee-senate-primary-election.html}{won
by roughly nine percentage points} to become the first Black woman to
gain a major party's nomination for the U.S. Senate in Tennessee.

She faces an uphill climb against
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/06/us/politics/tennessee-senate-primary-hagerty.html}{the
Republican nominee, Bill Hagerty}, to claim the seat held by the
retiring senator, Lamar Alexander. Tennessee has not elected a
Democratic senator since Al Gore, 30 years ago.

In an interview on Friday, Ms. Bradshaw embraced her status as an
underdog.

``Working people showed that my viability was different,'' she said. ``I
knew it was going to happen --- I could see the momentum.''

Ms. Bradshaw finished ahead of four opponents, including James Mackler,
an Army veteran backed by the
\href{https://www.dscc.org/news/dscc-endorses-james-mackler-in-tennessee-senate-race/}{Democratic
Senatorial Campaign Committee} who, according to filings with the
Federal Election Commission,
\href{https://www.fec.gov/data/committee/C00637850/}{had raised more
than \$2 million}. The most recent filings available showed that Ms.
Bradshaw's campaign had raised only \$8,400 by the end of March.

On the campaign trail, Ms. Bradshaw
\href{https://www.sierraclub.org/tennessee/blog/2020/06/marquita-bradshaw-let-s-hold-space-dissonance}{wrote}
and spoke frequently about environmental racism, drawing on her
experience growing up near a Superfund site.

``People here know how important it is for an environmental-justice
voice to be in the U.S. Senate,'' she said. ``It's about the importance
of shaping a just transition away from pollution. People's health and
lives are on the line.''

\hypertarget{-9}{%
\subsection{}\label{-9}}

A Georgia Senate candidate faces a call to drop out after a novel with
racist themes he wrote surfaces.

A Democratic Senate candidate in Georgia is facing a call to exit the
race, after a report on Friday revealed that he had written a book
containing racist themes.

According to an article
\href{https://www.huffpost.com/entry/a-democratic-senate-candidate-wrote-a-book-filled-with-racist-tropes_n_5f2cd06ac5b6e96a22b03e3e?vdc\&guccounter=1\&guce_referrer=aHR0cHM6Ly90LmNvL0ZTY05URktDYXY_YW1wPTE\&guce_referrer_sig=AQAAAN25FsV52VhOSPdANYrQDwIapNplzxvmOd--teHPmFUOu7EEDyFD4NTVwuz8CgNoXgZQhaN7985GL5cKg9GZfEHg_-pjGzl-s6ne39c9Xe5i5pZGUAbHhvlNQ3HB2n_4UEK8EoUYMUplUl5CeeSL2cXLuEM0LvYLpwwFd2r2A5sy}{published
by HuffPost}, Matt Lieberman, the son of former Senator Joseph I.
Lieberman of Connecticut, self-published a novel in 2018, called
``Lucius,'' whose main character is an old white southern man who uses
racial slurs throughout the book and imagines he owns a Black slave who
can communicate with plants and animals.

``He definitely needs to drop out,'' James Woodall, the president of the
Georgia chapter of the N.A.A.C.P., said in an interview, adding that the
novel uses tropes that ``reinforce the very functions of white
supremacy.''

``This is a very unique time in the history of our state and in our
nation, and we do not need any distractions,'' Mr. Woodall said. Mr.
Woodall
\href{https://twitter.com/iMajorWish/status/1235969589147840513}{is
supporting} Raphael Warnock, a pastor at the historic Ebenezer Baptist
Church in Atlanta and one of Mr. Lieberman's Democratic opponents.

In a statement, Mr. Lieberman said he had written the book in response
to the white nationalist rally in Charlottesville, Va., in 2017 ``as a
clear-eyed and honest look at racism in America'' and that its
resurfacing now was a ``testament to the strength of my candidacy
today.''

Mr. Lieberman separately told HuffPost that he recognized his ``approach
to this delicate subject is not palatable for every reader.''

Mr. Lieberman is running in a special election for the seat formerly
held by Johnny Isakson, a Republican, who resigned at the end of last
year, citing health reasons. The seat is currently held by Senator Kelly
Loeffler, a financial services executive with no previous government
experience, who was appointed last year by Gov. Brian Kemp.

Mr. Warnock, Mr. Lieberman's opponent, has the backing of prominent
Democrats in the state including Stacey Abrams and
\href{https://www.ajc.com/blog/politics/georgia-senate-warnock-wins-clyburn-endorsement/6lcWvKZ34cxFHqIvCpGDYL/}{Representative
James E. Clyburn}.

Georgia officials do not expect any candidate to receive a majority of
the vote in the all-party election, which will be held Nov. 3. Such a
scenario would force a runoff between the top two candidates.

\hypertarget{-10}{%
\subsection{}\label{-10}}

E. Jean Carroll's defamation suit against Trump can move forward, judge
rules.

A New York State court judge rejected President Trump's bid to
temporarily halt proceedings in
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/07/nyregion/jean-caroll-donald-trump-lawsuit-rape.html}{a
lawsuit filed against him by the writer E. Jean Carroll}, who has
accused him of rape. The ruling allows the case to move forward as the
election looms.

Ms. Carroll had
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/06/21/books/e-jean-carroll-trump.html}{published
a memoir last year} that accused Mr. Trump of sexually assaulting her in
a department store dressing room in Manhattan in the 1990s. After he
responded to the book by calling her a liar and saying he had never met
her, she
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/11/04/nyregion/jean-carroll-sues-trump.html}{sued
him for defamation}.

Lawyers for Mr. Trump had sought to put the suit on hold while an
appeals court decides whether to dismiss
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2017/01/17/us/former-apprentice-contestant-files-defamation-suit-against-trump.html}{a
similar lawsuit filed by Summer Zervos}, a former contestant on Mr.
Trump's reality show ``The Apprentice.'' The lawyers argued that the
Constitution gave a sitting president immunity against civil lawsuits in
state court.

But on Thursday, Justice Verna L. Saunders in New York rejected their
arguments, pointing to a recent U.S. Supreme Court ruling that concluded
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/09/us/trump-taxes-supreme-court.html}{Mr.
Trump could not block a subpoena for his tax returns} by the Manhattan
district attorney's office.

The ruling allows the lawsuit to enter the discovery phase. Lawyers for
Ms. Carroll
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/01/30/nyregion/e-jean-carroll-trump-dna.html}{had
requested that Mr. Trump provide a DNA sample} to determine whether his
genetic material was on a dress that Ms. Carroll said she was wearing at
the time of the incident.

The ruling also means that both Ms. Carroll and Mr. Trump could sit for
depositions under oath in the coming months.

\hypertarget{-11}{%
\subsection{}\label{-11}}

A Republican House candidate draws ire for selling masks that say
`Covid-19: Made in China.'

Image

Nick Freitas is challenging Representative Abigail Spanberger, a
first-term Democrat, in central Virginia.Credit...Steve
Helber/Associated Press

The Republican lawmaker challenging Representative Abigail Spanberger, a
Democrat, for her House seat in central Virginia is drawing sharp
criticism for selling face masks that describe the coronavirus as ``MADE
IN CHINA,'' the type of language that has stoked xenophobia and racism
toward Asian-Americans during the pandemic.

The candidate, Nick Freitas, a member of the Virginia House of
Delegates, was
\href{https://apnews.com/eacdfb20e3c9f7464e7dae6e98c38d9e}{chosen by
state Republicans} to face Ms. Spanberger, a former C.I.A. officer who
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/elections/results/virginia-house-district-7}{narrowly
ousted a Republican incumbent in 2018}.

Mr. Freitas's campaign store features a \$15 set of three face masks,
one of which displays ``COVID-19'' in large type, with smaller type
below that reads ``*MADE IN CHINA.*''

The phrase echoes rhetoric favored by Mr. Trump, who has sought for
months to
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/29/health/virus-who.html}{tie
the virus to China} and blame the country for spreading what he
sometimes
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/18/us/politics/china-virus.html}{calls
the ``Chinese Virus.''}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/29/us/politics/coronavirus-asian-americans.html}{Asian-American
civic and political leaders} have accused Mr. Trump of seeking a
scapegoat to distract from his
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/18/us/politics/trump-coronavirus-response-failure-leadership.html}{failed
response to the public health crisis}. They say the language used by him
and his supporters has contributed to the thousands of episodes of
harassment and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/23/us/chinese-coronavirus-racist-attacks.html}{discrimination
that Asian-Americans have reported} during the pandemic. One group
\href{https://stopaapihate.org/}{counted roughly 2,500 such incidents}
between March 19 and July 22.

``We are highly disturbed that delegate Nick Freitas has decided to
bankroll his campaign using a narrative that identifies Covid-19 with
China,'' the National Korean American Service \& Education Consortium
Action Fund said in \href{https://nakasecactionfund.org/11546}{a
statement} that was signed by multiple other political groups and
community leaders, adding that Mr. Freitas's campaign ``exacerbates
anti-Asian racism and endangers our lives.''

In a statement, Mr. Freitas's campaign manager, Joe Desilets, said that
the masks were intended to target the ``communist regime in China'' that
``lied to the world'' about the virus and enabled its spread. ``Nick
will not hesitate to hold such a regime accountable,'' he said.

Bettina Weiss, Ms. Spanberger's campaign manager, said she was focused
on ``solving the very real problems'' facing the nation and that she had
``no comment on her opponent's choice to sell divisive novelty
merchandise trivializing a global pandemic.''

\hypertarget{-12}{%
\subsection{}\label{-12}}

Warren says child care is crucial for bringing the economy back.

Image

Senator Elizabeth Warren spoke at a news conference last month about
extending eviction protections.Credit...Anna Moneymaker for The New York
Times

America is in the middle of a child care meltdown.

Millions of children are out of school and unlikely to return anytime
soon. Day care centers are being pushed to the brink of collapse. And
parents are trying, and often failing, to balance care with working.

None of this surprises Elizabeth Warren. The Massachusetts senator ---
still
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/biden-vice-president-2020.html}{under
consideration to be Joe Biden's running mate} --- made child care a
centerpiece of her presidential campaign, proposing one of the most
ambitious plans in the primary field.

Now, the problems Ms. Warren described during her campaign have hit a
crisis point. And it doesn't seem as if help is coming anytime soon ---
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/06/us/politics/congress-schools-coronavirus.html}{at
least not from Congress} or the White House.

The Times's Lisa Lerer and Jennifer Medina recently spoke to Ms. Warren
about what had changed since she ran for president, how she saw Mr.
Biden's policy plans and why strengthening child care is like building a
transit system.

``We build roads and bridges so that people can get to work. We have
communications systems so people can communicate and learn about jobs,
right? All of those things build an infrastructure that keeps this
economy going,'' she said.

``Child care is a core part of our infrastructure. But when someone has
a baby, in effect, our country says, `Hey, you're on your own now. Good
luck. Hope you can find something out there.' That just makes it 10
times harder for every parent who's trying to juggle raising a child and
making a living.''

Reporting was contributed by Julian E. Barnes, Emily Cochrane, Sydney
Ember, Hailey Fuchs, Katie Glueck, Maggie Haberman, Nicole Hong, Thomas
Kaplan, Annie Karni, Lisa Lerer, Adam Nagourney, Elaina Plott, Giovanni
Russonello, Stephanie Saul, Michael D. Shear, Matt Stevens, Jim
Tankersley and Michael Wines.

\hypertarget{our-2020-election-guide}{%
\section{Our 2020 Election Guide}\label{our-2020-election-guide}}

Updated Aug. 7, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{the-latest}{%
  \subsection{The Latest}\label{the-latest}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    A Trump-backed candidate won the Republican Senate primary in
    Tennessee.
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/07/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Follow
    live election updates here}.
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{bidens-vp-search}{%
  \subsection{Biden's V.P. Search}\label{bidens-vp-search}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/biden-vice-president-2020.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Here
    are 13 women} who have been under consideration to be Joe Biden's
    running mate, and why each might be chosen --- and might not be.
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{keep-up-with-our-coverage}{%
  \subsection{Keep Up With Our
  Coverage}\label{keep-up-with-our-coverage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Get an
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{email}
    recapping the day's news
  \end{itemize}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Download our mobile app on
    \href{https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nytimes/id284862083?ls=1\&mat_click_id=5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\&referrer=mat_click_id\%3D5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\%26link_click_id\%3D722930677036718082}{iOS}
    and
    \href{http://a.localytics.com/android?id=com.nytimes.android\&referrer=utm_source\%3Dother_nyt_mobile_web\%26utm_medium\%3DWeb\%2520page\%26utm_term\%3DGeneral\%2520Mobile\%2520Page\%26utm_campaign\%3DNYT\%2520Mobile\%2520General\%2520Page}{Android}
    and turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
