Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}Trump Vowed to `Drain the
Swamp,' but Lobbyists Are Helping Run His Campaign

\url{https://nyti.ms/2ZFDf9t}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Election
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/biden-vice-president-2020.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Biden's
  V.P. Search}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/07/24/us/politics/trump-biden-campaign-donors.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Map
  of Donations}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/elections/delegate-count-primary-results.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Delegate
  Count}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2019/us/politics/2020-presidential-candidates.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{The
  Candidates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Politics
  Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{trump-vowed-to-drain-the-swamp-but-lobbyists-are-helping-run-his-campaign}{%
\section{Trump Vowed to `Drain the Swamp,' but Lobbyists Are Helping Run
His
Campaign}\label{trump-vowed-to-drain-the-swamp-but-lobbyists-are-helping-run-his-campaign}}

Lobbyists like David Urban, whose connections start at the very top, are
thriving as they help the president's re-election effort while aiding
corporate clients.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/06/30/us/politics/05dc-lobby1/00dc-lobby1-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/kenneth-p-vogel}{Kenneth P. Vogel},
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/michael-laforgia}{Michael LaForgia} and
Hailey Fuchs

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Published July 6, 2020Updated July 9, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

WASHINGTON --- The chief executive of the arms maker Raytheon, under
pressure to overcome a congressional hold on major sales in the fall of
2018, wanted to sit down with one of the few people who could solve the
problem --- Secretary of State Mike Pompeo.

But the State Department would not schedule the meeting. So Raytheon
turned for help to David Urban, perhaps the best-connected lobbyist in
President Trump's Washington.

Mr. Urban was a classmate at West Point of Mr. Pompeo and of Mark Esper,
now the defense secretary, and was influential in recommending both men
for administration posts.

He has close ties to Mr. Trump, who credits him with having helped
deliver a pivotal Election Day victory in Pennsylvania in 2016 and
recently invited Mr. Urban to
\href{https://twitter.com/rep_stevewomack/status/1271805658275418115}{fly
on Marine One with him} to West Point. He has a long roster of blue-chip
clients, including military contractors like Raytheon, whose chief
executive got the meeting he wanted with Mr. Pompeo after Mr. Urban
intervened on his behalf.

The meeting was requested by Mr. Urban more than two weeks before the
State Department
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/05/23/us/politics/trump-saudi-arabia-arms-sales.html}{issued
an emergency waiver} in May 2019 that circumvented the congressional
hold on the arms deals, allowing billions of dollars in Raytheon
missiles and bombs to be sold to Saudi Arabia and the United Arab
Emirates. The meeting took place in June several weeks after the
issuance of the waiver, the State Department said. It is not known what
Mr. Pompeo and the Raytheon executive discussed.

The department did not deny that Mr. Urban arranged the meeting but said
the emergency waiver --- now the subject of
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/25/us/politics/trump-congress-arms-sales.html}{congressional}
and
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/05/18/us/politics/pompeo-trump-linick-inspector-general-firing.html}{inspector
general investigations} --- was consistent with American national
security objectives.

The story behind Mr. Pompeo's meeting with Raytheon, which has not been
previously reported, is emblematic of the outsize influence wielded in
Washington by Mr. Urban and a small group of other lobbyists and
operatives who backed Mr. Trump when most of the K Street establishment
was keeping its distance. Those relationships became lucrative after Mr.
Trump won a surprise victory on Election Day and rewarded early
loyalists with key posts, continued access or both.

With Mr. Trump lagging in the polls, the lobbyists are seeking to
protect that mutually beneficial relationship by working to re-elect
him, underscoring the mix of politics and policy that has served them
--- and their clients --- so well over the last three and a half years.

Consider the examples of eight lobbyists and operatives with ties to
lobbying firms, including Mr. Urban, who are now assisting Mr. Trump's
campaign in various paid and unpaid capacities, like fund-raising and
strategy.

Those eight have been paid a total of nearly \$120 million through their
firms to influence the United States government from the beginning of
2017, as Mr. Trump prepared to take office, to the end of March,
according to an analysis of congressional and Justice Department
filings.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/06/30/us/politics/05dc-lobby5/merlin_173763312_21e5434c-5f42-4bd0-a3a7-b50156313af8-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

The scale of those revenues is especially striking given that several of
the lobbyists --- including two of the top three earners, Brian Ballard,
a veteran lobbyist from Florida, and Jeff Miller, an operative from
Texas --- had not lobbied at the federal level before Mr. Trump's
election. Mr. Ballard's firm was paid nearly \$65 million and Mr.
Miller's more than \$18 million by interests for which the two men had
registered to lobby through the end of March, the most recent period for
which comprehensive data is available.

And while Mr. Urban has been a registered lobbyist at the federal level
since 2002, his federal lobbying revenues have nearly tripled in the
Trump era --- rising to more than \$25 million in the roughly 40 months
after his swearing-in from less than \$9 million in the roughly 40
months before Mr. Trump became president.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-2020-election}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: 2020
Election}}{Latest Updates: 2020 Election}}\label{latest-updates-2020-election}}

Updated 2020-08-01T01:26:45.732Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-29fdff45}{Kamala
  Harris, a top vice-presidential contender, confronts double
  standards.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-13ec3d9c}{Karen
  Bass and Susan Rice are rising on Biden's vice-presidential
  shortlist.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-49e9a016}{Trump
  says Russian bounties to kill U.S. troops `never took place.'}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

The mutually beneficial relationships between the president and the
lobbyists is the latest evidence of the
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/01/26/us/politics/trump-recording-donors.html}{hollowness
of Mr. Trump's 2016 campaign pledge} to
``\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2016/11/11/us/politics/trump-government.html}{drain
the swamp}'' by taking on the special interests, lobbyists and donors
who had ``rigged the system against everyday Americans.''

Mr. Trump's political kitchen cabinet is stocked with people who are
thriving in that swamp.

They include
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2016/06/21/us/politics/corey-lewandowski-donald-trump.html}{Corey
Lewandowski}, Mr. Trump's initial campaign manager in 2016. Mr.
Lewandowski has not registered as a lobbyist, despite
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2017/08/01/us/politics/corey-lewandowski-trump.html}{advising
companies} with issues before the administration and also
\href{https://www.politico.com/story/2019/02/13/ryan-zinke-lobbying-firm-1168926}{reports
that he has worked with a lobbying firm} founded in part by Jason
Osborne, a former Trump 2016 campaign aide who has
\href{https://docquery.fec.gov/cgi-bin/forms/C00618389/1379377/sa/3L}{raised
at least \$360,000} for Mr. Trump's re-election campaign.

Also recently added to the campaign team was Jason Miller, who
\href{https://www.documentcloud.org/documents/6609688-DOL-Records-Regarding-the-Conflict-of-Interest.html\#p1048}{set
up meetings} in 2017 for
\href{https://www.documentcloud.org/documents/5686950-Treasury-Secretary-Mnuchin-s-Calendars.html\#p844}{Wall
Street executives} with cabinet officials, and briefly
\href{https://soprweb.senate.gov/index.cfm?event=getFilingDetails\&filingID=40FA8A43-199A-402B-AA00-78B0CF699DFB\&filingTypeID=1}{registered
this year as a lobbyist} for
\href{https://soprweb.senate.gov/index.cfm?event=getFilingDetails\&filingID=85E787FA-E2D7-4FD9-B739-E5BF9A5781F0\&filingTypeID=1}{other
companies} before joining the campaign's payroll.

Mr. Urban and Mr. Lewandowski, who have not been paid by the re-election
campaign committee, joined Mr. Miller in a campaign brain trust meeting
last month,
\href{https://www.axios.com/trump-campaign-internal-polling-f022697e-03cc-4fe0-8aab-cbffd1f74a0c.html}{first
reported by Axios}.

Beyond the strategic advice, Mr. Trump's campaign has also benefited
from financial assistance from lobbyists who are top volunteer
fund-raisers, including Mr. Ballard, Jeff Miller, Roy Bailey, David
Tamasi and Kent R. Hance of Texas, a former Democratic representative
who
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/1985/05/04/us/in-blow-to-texas-democrats-ex-rep-hance-joins-republicans.html}{switched
to the Republican Party} in 1985 after leaving Congress.

They have been credited with raising a total of nearly \$8 million since
the beginning of 2019 for Mr. Trump's re-election committees and the
Republican National Committee, according to campaign finance filings,
though they most likely accounted for far more cash raised to help Mr.
Trump, since the filings only count certain kinds of donations.

Image

Brian Ballard has known Mr. Trump for 30 years and had lobbied for the
Trump Organization in Florida.Credit...Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg

There is a long tradition of Washington lobbyists and consultants in
both parties assisting campaigns, which helps ensure their continued
access to the corridors of power.

Mr. Trump, however, was a Washington outsider with few connections to
traditional K Street power brokers, and most kept their distance from
him. That has heightened the earning power of the relatively few
lobbyists who publicly backed the president, whose support in some cases
has won them entree into the inner circles of the Trump administration
and campaign.

``This is by far the smallest number of lobbyists supporting a president
in decades,'' said Mr. Tamasi, a K Street veteran who began raising
money for Mr. Trump in June 2016, and has raised more than \$230,000 for
his re-election effort and the Republican National Committee. ``The
market sees that limited pool of K Street support and makes advocacy
business decisions accordingly.''

Mr. Bailey, who had not registered to lobby the federal government
before Mr. Trump took office, highlighted his fund-raising for Mr.
Trump's campaign and inauguration in an email
\href{https://www.documentcloud.org/documents/6958438-Seeking-a-Meeting-at-the-E-P-A-Lobbyist-Touts.html}{seeking
access} to Scott Pruitt, then the administrator of the Environmental
Protection Agency, for a biotechnology company known at the time as
Intrexon. The company paid Mr. Bailey
\href{https://soprweb.senate.gov/index.cfm?event=getFilingDetails\&filingID=340EDCB1-9935-4424-BBEE-DCC81397D937\&filingTypeID=78}{\$180,000
in lobbying fees}.

Mr. Ballard, who has known Mr. Trump for 30 years and had lobbied for
the Trump Organization in Florida, has been hired by a host of major
companies seeking to deal with scrutiny from Mr. Trump or his
administration, including
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/11/27/business/gm-auto-trump.html}{General
Motors},
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/03/12/business/boeing-flights-grounded.html}{Boeing},
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/29/us/politics/trump-amazon-taxes.html}{Amazon}
and the Turkish state-owned bank
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/10/15/us/politics/halkbank-turkey-iran-indictment.html}{Halkbank}.

Mr. Ballard was a leading fund-raiser for Mr. Trump's 2016 campaign and
then for his inauguration. He is a regional vice chairman for the
Republican National Committee's fund-raising operation, and was
\href{https://myemail.constantcontact.com/Meet-the-Jacksonville-2020-Host-Committee.html?soid=1134390131943\&aid=AA68sNTVjXE}{tapped
last month as a co-chairman of the committee} raising funds for the
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/11/us/politics/trump-jacksonville-rnc-speech.html}{recently
relocated Republican National Convention} in Jacksonville, Fla.

Jeff Miller, who is not related to Jason Miller, had run the 2016
presidential campaign of Rick Perry, the former governor of Texas Mr.
Trump later nominated as energy secretary. He helped Mr. Perry navigate
the confirmation process, and registered to lobby for his first clients
in Washington --- including an
\href{https://soprweb.senate.gov/index.cfm?event=getFilingDetails\&filingID=34C32AFE-4ABB-4101-A6D5-4E0B93A86FEF\&filingTypeID=1}{energy
company} --- one day before Mr. Perry was
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2017/03/02/us/politics/senate-confirms-rick-perry-as-energy-secretary.html}{confirmed
and sworn into office}, then
\href{https://www.documentcloud.org/documents/4779334-Energy-Secretary-Rick-Perry-Calendars-for-March.html\#p405}{facilitated}
meetings for
\href{https://www.documentcloud.org/documents/4779334-Energy-Secretary-Rick-Perry-Calendars-for-March.html\#p152}{clients}
with Mr. Perry.

Mr. Miller has raised about \$4 million for Mr. Trump's re-election and
the Republican National Committee from the beginning of last year to the
end of March.

But few lobbyists consistently have more influence than Mr. Urban, who
is known as the master of the subtle nudge, often delivered in private
discussions. Mr. Urban declined to comment.

Mr. Trump has called Mr. Urban ``one of my good friends.'' And a month
after the election, during which Mr. Urban ran Mr. Trump's winning
campaign in the crucial swing state of Pennsylvania, the pair were
photographed watching the annual Army-Navy football game together
\href{https://www.wptv.com/news/national/trump-cheered-by-fans-at-annual-army-navy-game}{in
Mr. Urban's private suite}.

Mr. Urban had played football at West Point and, to this day, he carries
an olive-drab green Army surplus backpack instead of a briefcase to many
meetings. Last year, Mr. Trump
\href{https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential-actions/president-donald-j-trump-announces-intent-nominate-appoint-individuals-key-administration-posts-15/}{appointed
Mr. Urban to a position} at his alma mater. The public displays of
support from the president, which have included multiple flights aboard
Air Force One and one last month aboard Marine One, bolstered Mr.
Urban's reputation as well-connected and raised his earning power on K
Street.

Image

Mr. Urban helped place two of his friends --- Secretary of State Mike
Pompeo, left, and Defense Secretary Mark T. Esper --- in administration
jobs.Credit...Pool photo by Rick Rycroft

The two friends he helped place in the Trump administration's cabinet
--- Mr. Pompeo, who initially served as C.I.A. director before becoming
secretary of state, and Mr. Esper,
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/06/18/us/politics/mark-esper-acting-defense-secretary.html}{a
former Raytheon lobbyist} who served as Army secretary before becoming
defense secretary --- are now in positions to oversee issues of key
importance to Mr. Urban's military contractor clients.

Mr. Pompeo invited Mr. Urban, as well as the chief executives of two
companies for which Mr. Urban lobbies --- Raytheon and the convenience
store chain 7-Eleven --- to exclusive dinners in the State Department's
Diplomatic Reception Rooms.

Mr. Urban's private conversations with Mr. Pompeo and Mr. Esper tend to
focus on politics, rather than foreign affairs or national security,
according to people familiar with the relationships. One of the people
said Mr. Esper, in particular, has relied on Mr. Urban as a Trump
whisperer, who helps interpret the president's moods and rants.

When Mr. Trump became upset with
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/03/us/politics/esper-milley-trump-protest.html}{Mr.
Esper's opposition last month} to his threat to send the military to
quell unrest in American cities, Mr. Urban expressed support for his
former classmate, which played an important role in Mr. Trump's decision
not to remove the defense secretary, according to two people familiar
with the discussions.

Other lobbyists say Mr. Urban has further raised his profile with both
his clients and Mr. Trump through his platform as a paid contributor for
CNN, which appears to have started regularly
\href{https://twitter.com/mmfa/status/1145335186315497473}{identifying
him as a lobbyist} during his appearances on its programs after
\href{https://www.thedailybeast.com/david-urban-why-is-cnn-paying-a-trump-campaign-adviser}{drawing
scrutiny} for consistently failing to do so.

During a segment on the network last year, Mr. Urban suggested the
possibility of
\href{http://transcripts.cnn.com/TRANSCRIPTS/1906/20/cg.02.html}{a
proportional military response against Iran} in retaliation for the
country's downing of a crewless American drone. ``If I were a betting
man, I'd bet that there'd be some sort of a Tomahawk missile strike on
the site that launched this,'' Mr. Urban said, referring to one of
Raytheon's products. Mr. Trump
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/06/20/world/middleeast/iran-us-drone.html}{had
approved a retaliatory strike against Iran} in that case but pulled back
at the last minute.

And during an appearance this year, after
\href{https://www.cnn.com/videos/tv/2020/01/08/intv-amanpour-david-urban-trump-iran.cnn}{praising
Mr. Trump's hard-line against Iran}, Mr. Urban was asked by a CNN host
whether a move against Iran might represent ``an opportunity for your
companies.'' Mr. Urban rejected the question, praising the president for
being ``incredibly restrained with the use of force,'' and adding ``no
one is looking to profiteer here.''

Members of Congress from both parties opposed the Raytheon arms sales to
the Saudis, in part because of Saudi Arabia's leading role in the
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2018/10/26/world/middleeast/saudi-arabia-war-yemen.html}{Yemen
war}, which has left
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2018/10/20/world/middleeast/saudi-arabia-invisible-war-yemen.html?module=inline}{thousands
of civilians dead and millions suffering from famine}, and later because
of the grisly killing by Saudi agents of the journalist
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/10/16/world/middleeast/khashoggi-saudi-prince.html}{Jamal
Khashoggi}.

By late summer 2018, Raytheon executives were under increasing pressure
to close the stalled deals. At least one of the contracts called for
onerous penalties if the company did not deliver, and executives had
also already booked the sales as expected revenue, according to current
and former government officials.

Thomas A. Kennedy, then the company's chief executive and now its
executive chairman, sought a meeting with Mr. Pompeo that fall, but Mr.
Pompeo pushed it to lower-level officials, who met with subordinates of
Mr. Kennedy that September, the officials said.

After Mr. Urban later sought the meeting for Raytheon, the State
Department issued the emergency declaration overriding the congressional
block and the arms sales proceeded. The meeting happened weeks later.
Mr. Urban did not attend.

The State Department played down the meeting, noting in a statement from
a spokeswoman that Mr. Pompeo meets with corporate executives ``with
great frequency'' and has an entire bureau at the department dedicated
to working with the private sector on national security matters.

``The secretary's decisions with respect to arms sales --- as with all
of his actions --- are made to keep America safe and undergo a full
legal review and approval process,'' the statement said.

The congressional and inspector general
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/05/18/us/politics/pompeo-trump-linick-inspector-general-firing.html}{investigations}
into the emergency waiver and the related arms sales have put scrutiny
on Mr. Pompeo. But Mr. Urban's clout appears to remain intact.

The State Department spokeswoman said Mr. Pompeo ``has known David Urban
for over three decades and knows him to be an American patriot.''

Kenneth P. Vogel and Hailey Fuchs reported from Washington, D.C., and
Michael LaForgia from Spokane, Wash. Eric Schmitt and Edward Wong
contributed reporting from Washington, D.C.

\hypertarget{our-2020-election-guide}{%
\section{Our 2020 Election Guide}\label{our-2020-election-guide}}

Updated July 31, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{the-latest}{%
  \subsection{The Latest}\label{the-latest}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    President Trump's assault on the Postal Service is intersecting with
    his attacks on mail-in voting.
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/politics/trump-usps-mail-delays.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Voting
    rights groups say it is a recipe for disaster.}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{bidens-vp-search}{%
  \subsection{Biden's V.P. Search}\label{bidens-vp-search}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/biden-vice-president-2020.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Here
    are 13 women} who have been under consideration to be Joe Biden's
    running mate, and why each might be chosen --- and might not be.
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{keep-up-with-our-coverage}{%
  \subsection{Keep Up With Our
  Coverage}\label{keep-up-with-our-coverage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Get an
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{email}
    recapping the day's news
  \end{itemize}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Download our mobile app on
    \href{https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nytimes/id284862083?ls=1\&mat_click_id=5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\&referrer=mat_click_id\%3D5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\%26link_click_id\%3D722930677036718082}{iOS}
    and
    \href{http://a.localytics.com/android?id=com.nytimes.android\&referrer=utm_source\%3Dother_nyt_mobile_web\%26utm_medium\%3DWeb\%2520page\%26utm_term\%3DGeneral\%2520Mobile\%2520Page\%26utm_campaign\%3DNYT\%2520Mobile\%2520General\%2520Page}{Android}
    and turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
