<div id="app">

<div>

<div>

<div>

<div class="NYTAppHideMasthead css-ri3gv3 e1suatyy0">

<div class="section css-ui9rw0 e1suatyy2">

<div class="css-eph4ug er09x8g0">

<div class="css-6n7j50">

</div>

<span class="css-1dv1kvn">Sections</span>

<div class="css-10488qs">

<span class="css-1dv1kvn">SEARCH</span>

</div>

[Skip to content](#site-content)[Skip to site
index](#site-index)

</div>

<div class="css-10698na e1huz5gh0">

</div>

</div>

<div id="masthead-bar-one" class="section hasLinks css-15hmgas e1csuq9d3">

<div class="css-uqyvli e1csuq9d0">

</div>

<div class="css-1uqjmks e1csuq9d1">

</div>

<div class="css-9e9ivx">

[](https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie&client_id=vi)

</div>

<div class="css-1bvtpon e1csuq9d2">

[Today’s Paper](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper)

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div data-aria-hidden="false">

<div id="site-content" data-role="main">

<div class="css-mj09ha">

<span>Last Updated <span class="css-vxcmzt"></span></span>

<div class="css-ki347z">

<span class="css-1656jku">July 29, 2020, 6:44 p.m.
ET</span><span class="css-xwx5dt"></span>

</div>

<span class="css-1dv1kvn" data-aria-live="polite">July 29, 2020, 6:44
p.m. ET</span>

</div>

<div class="css-ftdtgk">

<div class="css-1vkm6nb ehdk2mb0">

# Lawmakers From Both Sides Take Aim at Big Tech Executives

</div>

</div>

<div id="feed-top" class="css-7pw99z">

</div>

### Here’s what you need to know:

  - [](#democrats-dug-in-with-accusations-of-anticompetitive-behavior)
    
    <span>Democrats dug in with accusations of anticompetitive
    behavior.</span>

  - [](#republicans-focused-on-bias-concerns-about-platforms)
    
    <span>Republicans focused on bias concerns about platforms.</span>

  - [](#heres-which-tech-ceo-was-asked-the-most-questions-by-lawmakers)
    
    <span>Here’s which tech C.E.O. was asked the most questions by
    lawmakers.</span>

  - [](#questions-on-google-focused-on-its-search-engine-and-relationship-with-pentagon)
    
    <span>Questions on Google focused on its search engine and
    relationship with
    Pentagon.</span>

  - [](#lawmakers-said-documents-show-facebook-tried-to-neutralize-a-competitive-threat)
    
    <span>Lawmakers said documents show Facebook tried to neutralize a
    “competitive threat.”</span>

  - [](#what-ceos-said)
    
    <span>Here’s a final tally of the C.E.O.s’ catchphrases.</span>

  - [](#what-to-expect-from-the-hearing)
    
    <span>What to expect from the
hearing.</span>

<div class="live-blog-post css-10d3q4a" data-test-id="live-blog-post" data-source-id="100000007262736">

<div id="democrats-dug-in-with-accusations-of-anticompetitive-behavior" class="css-608m5d">

</div>

<div class="css-j3uhc5">

<div class="css-bd1680">

## [Democrats dug in with accusations of anticompetitive behavior.](#democrats-dug-in-with-accusations-of-anticompetitive-behavior)

<span class="css-uj8f8v" data-aria-live="polite">Copied to
clipboard.</span>

</div>

</div>

Democrats on the committee quickly dug into the issue of competition,
citing documents obtained from inside the tech companies that they said
showed their anti-competitive conduct.

Representative David Cicilline, the chairman of the antitrust
subcommittee, grilled Sundar Pichai, Google’s chief executive, about how
Google steers traffic to its own search pages and products.
Representative Jerrold Nadler of New York asked Mark Zuckerberg,
Facebook’s top executive, about emails he wrote describing Instagram as
a potentially disruptive competitor before the company acquired the
firm. And Representative Hank Johnson of Georgia pushed Tim Cook of
Apple on whether his company exerts unfair dominance over app developers
in its app store.

In multiple cases, the chief executives evaded the questions, claiming
not to know specifics about the documents or interactions in question.

Mr. Cicilline, who has led the investigation into the tech giants for
more than a year, opened the hearing with a broadside against the
companies, saying their dominance harms the economy and leaves consumers
with no choice but to use their products.

“Any single action by one of these companies can affect hundreds of
millions of us in profound and lasting ways,” Mr. Cicilline, a Rhode
Island Democrat, said in his opening statement. “Simply put: They have
too much power.”

Mr. Cicilline is in control of many aspects of the hearing, including
how many rounds of questions lawmakers get. That may allow him to extend
lines of questioning in an attempt to dig deeper than an initial five
minutes allows.

Mr. Cicilline, who used to be the mayor of Providence, [has become a
prominent
foe](https://slack-redir.net/link?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion%2F2019%2F12%2F08%2Ftechnology%2FDavid-Cicilline-antitrust-tech.html)
of the technology platforms from his perch as the top Democrat on the
once-quiet subcommittee. For more than a year, his staff has led the
investigation, conducting hundreds of hours of interviews and collecting
1.3 million documents. The team has grown to include Lina Khan, a legal
scholar who wrote a major law review note on Amazon’s power, and Phillip
Berenbroick, previously the policy director at the consumer group Public
Knowledge.

Mr. Cicilline spent recent months negotiating to secure the appearance
by the chief executives. The process was not always friendly. When the
committee demanded that Mr. Bezos testify, Amazon responded with a
noncommittal letter. Mr. Cicilline threatened to subpoena Mr. Bezos
before the company agreed to make him available to answer the panel’s
questions.

“Our founders would not bow before a king,” Mr. Cicilline said
Wednesday. “Nor should we bow before the emperors of the online
economy.”

<div class="css-j3uhc5">

— [<span class="css-1baulvz last-byline" itemprop="name">David
McCabe</span>](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/david-mccabe)

</div>

</div>

<div class="live-blog-post css-10d3q4a" data-test-id="live-blog-post" data-source-id="100000007262813">

<div id="republicans-focused-on-bias-concerns-about-platforms" class="css-608m5d">

</div>

<div class="css-j3uhc5">

<div class="css-bd1680">

## [Republicans focused on bias concerns about platforms.](#republicans-focused-on-bias-concerns-about-platforms)

<span class="css-uj8f8v" data-aria-live="polite">Copied to
clipboard.</span>

</div>

</div>

Republicans spent much of their time steering away from antitrust and
competition, instead asking about the tech giants’ efforts in China and
unproven claims that the companies suppress conservative views.

Representative Jim Jordan of Ohio, the top Republican on the Judiciary
Committee, spent his opening statements listing anecdotes where
Republican officials had been subject to enforcement actions by the
platforms’ rules. (He did not mention that conservative publications and
figures routinely rank among the top performing pages on Facebook and
other platforms.)

“I’ll just cut to the chase, Big Tech’s out to get conservatives,” said
Mr. Jordan. He later asked Mr. Pichai whether or not Google would take
efforts to help Democratic presidential nominee Joseph R. Biden Jr.

The claims about conservative bias are a persistent, if largely
unproven, gripe among Republicans. President Trump, Attorney General
William P. Barr and lawmakers like Mr. Jordan and Senator Ted Cruz of
Texas have all raised concerns that Facebook, Twitter and YouTube
purposely downplay or remove conservative voices on their sites.

The suspicions rise from the accurate perception that Silicon Valley is
dominated by liberal-leaning workers. In November 2018, Facebook removed
an ad by an anti-abortion group endorsing Senator Marsha Blackburn,
Republican of Tennessee. Facebook said it did so because an image on the
ad that appeared to violate its community norms. That example and others
have fueled suspicion of conservative censorship.

Mr. Trump recently issued an executive order curtailing safe harbors for
internet companies in retaliation against his perceptions of bias. The
order was issued after [Twitter
labeled](https://slack-redir.net/link?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion%2F2020%2F05%2F26%2Ftechnology%2Ftwitter-trump-mail-in-ballots.html)
a set of his tweets in late May for misinformation.

Representative Matt Gaetz, a Republican from Florida, asked the chief
executive of Google about the company’s decision to drop a Defense
Department project after employees expressed concerns.

When they were asking about antitrust, some Republicans expressed
caution about tighter regulation.

“Big isn’t inherently bad,” said Representative James Sensenbrenner, a
Wisconsin Republican. Representative Ken Buck, a Republican of Colorado,
said: “Our witnesses have taken ideas born out of a dorm room, a garage.
You have enjoyed the freedom to succeed. I do not believe big is
necessarily bad. In fact, big is often a force for good.”

<div class="css-j3uhc5">

— [<span class="css-1baulvz" itemprop="name">David
McCabe</span>](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/david-mccabe) and
[<span class="css-1baulvz last-byline" itemprop="name">Cecilia
Kang</span>](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/cecilia-kang)

</div>

</div>

<div id="ad-0" class="css-1pmeh62">

<div class="css-142l3g4">

### Advertisement

[Continue reading the main
story](#after-dfp-ad-mid1)

<div id="dfp-ad-mid1" class="ad dfp-ad-mid1-wrapper" style="text-align:center;height:100%;display:block">

</div>

<div id="after-dfp-ad-mid1">

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="live-blog-post css-10d3q4a" data-test-id="live-blog-post" data-source-id="100000007263145">

<div id="heres-which-tech-ceo-was-asked-the-most-questions-by-lawmakers" class="css-608m5d">

</div>

<div class="css-j3uhc5">

<div class="css-bd1680">

## [Here’s which tech C.E.O. was asked the most questions by lawmakers.](#heres-which-tech-ceo-was-asked-the-most-questions-by-lawmakers)

<span class="css-uj8f8v" data-aria-live="polite">Copied to
clipboard.</span>

</div>

</div>

We tracked which tech C.E.O. was under the most scrutiny by tallying the
number of questions they are getting asked. The results were
striking.

<div id="tech-hearing-question-count" class="section interactive-content interactive-size-scoop css-174j8de" data-id="100000007261446">

<div class="css-17ih8de interactive-body" data-sourceid="100000007261446">

<div class="g-story g-freebird g-max-limit" data-preview-slug="2020-07-27-tech-hearing-questions">

<div class="g-container">

<div class="g-asset g-chart g-chart-ceo-questions" style="max-width: 600px">

<div data-role="img">

<div class="g-chart-header">

<div class="g-chart-label" style="width: 150px">

Executive

</div>

<div class="g-chart-label not-first" style="width: calc((100% - 150px)/1 - 20px)">

Number of Questions

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-chart-row g-chart-row-0 inside">

<div class="g-chart-label" style="width: 150px;">

<span class="g-zuck">Mark
Zuckerberg</span>

</div>

<div class="g-chart-bar-container" style="width: calc((100% - 150px)/1 - 20px)">

<div class="g-chart-bar-neg" style="width: 0%">

<div class="g-chart-bar-label out-label">

62

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-chart-bar-pos" style="width: 100%">

<div class="g-chart-bar" style=" width: 100%;
                        
                            background: #7f3636
                        ">

<div class="g-chart-bar-label in-label">

62

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-chart-row g-chart-row-1 inside">

<div class="g-chart-label" style="width: 150px;">

<span class="g-bezos">Jeff
Bezos</span>

</div>

<div class="g-chart-bar-container" style="width: calc((100% - 150px)/1 - 20px)">

<div class="g-chart-bar-neg" style="width: 0%">

<div class="g-chart-bar-label out-label">

59

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-chart-bar-pos" style="width: 100%">

<div class="g-chart-bar" style=" width: 95.16129032258065%;
                        
                            background: #7f3636
                        ">

<div class="g-chart-bar-label in-label">

59

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-chart-row g-chart-row-2 inside">

<div class="g-chart-label" style="width: 150px;">

<span class="g-cook">Tim
Cook</span>

</div>

<div class="g-chart-bar-container" style="width: calc((100% - 150px)/1 - 20px)">

<div class="g-chart-bar-neg" style="width: 0%">

<div class="g-chart-bar-label out-label">

35

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-chart-bar-pos" style="width: 100%">

<div class="g-chart-bar" style=" width: 56.451612903225815%;
                        
                            background: #7f3636
                        ">

<div class="g-chart-bar-label in-label">

35

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-chart-row g-chart-row-3 inside">

<div class="g-chart-label" style="width: 150px;">

<span class="g-pichai">Sundar
Pichai</span>

</div>

<div class="g-chart-bar-container" style="width: calc((100% - 150px)/1 - 20px)">

<div class="g-chart-bar-neg" style="width: 0%">

<div class="g-chart-bar-label out-label">

61

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-chart-bar-pos" style="width: 100%">

<div class="g-chart-bar" style=" width: 98.38709677419355%;
                        
                            background: #7f3636
                        ">

<div class="g-chart-bar-label in-label">

61

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="css-j3uhc5">

— [<span class="css-1baulvz last-byline" itemprop="name">Kellen
Browning</span>](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/kellen-browning)

</div>

</div>

<div class="live-blog-post css-10d3q4a" data-test-id="live-blog-post" data-source-id="100000007262976">

<div id="questions-on-google-focused-on-its-search-engine-and-relationship-with-pentagon" class="css-608m5d">

</div>

<div class="css-j3uhc5">

<div class="css-bd1680">

## [Questions on Google focused on its search engine and relationship with Pentagon.](#questions-on-google-focused-on-its-search-engine-and-relationship-with-pentagon)

<span class="css-uj8f8v" data-aria-live="polite">Copied to
clipboard.</span>

</div>

</div>

![<span class="css-16f3y1r e13ogyst0">Sundar Pichai, Google’s chief
executive, faced questions from Representative Val Demings about user
data and
privacy.</span>](https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/07/29/business/29vid-tech-hearing-1/29vid-tech-hearing-1-videoSixteenByNine3000.jpg)

Sundar Pichai, chief executive of Google’s parent company Alphabet, was
a consistent target of aggressive questions — surprising, given that he
had testified a year ago and that he has the lowest profile of the
executives testifying Wednesday — about its search engine and the
company’s decision to withdraw from a Pentagon project after employee
protests about the work.

Representative David Cicilline, the chairman of the antitrust
subcommittee, accused Google of lifting content from other websites to
keep users within what he called the “walled garden” of its search
engine in order to make more money from advertising.

“The evidence seems very clear to me as Google became the gateway to the
internet, it began to abuse its power and use its surveillance over the
web traffic to identify competitive threats and crush them,” Mr.
Cicilline said.

Mr. Pichai disagreed with that characterization and fell back on the
company’s talking points that Google search has lots of competitors for
specific categories, such as Amazon in shopping. He also said that the
majority of Google’s search results did not carry ads and that it was
acting in the best interest of users when it highlights answers to
queries. Google’s global market share in search is 92 percent, according
to data from Statcounter, an online research tool.

Because Google is so dominant, other websites rely on the search engine
for traffic. In recent years, the Silicon Valley giant has started to
devote real estate at the top of search results to providing its own
answers for information about local businesses, flights and hotels. This
has angered other websites whose traffic has slid as Google surfaces
more information on its own search results.

Republicans zeroed in on [Google pulling out of an
effort](https://slack-redir.net/link?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion%2F2018%2F06%2F01%2Ftechnology%2Fgoogle-pentagon-project-maven.html)
to help the Pentagon build technology systems to analyze drone footage
to identify particular objects like buildings, vehicles and people.
Google’s employees protested the company’s work on the project.

Representatives Ken Buck from Colorado and Matt Gaetz from Florida, two
of the Republicans on the panel, questioned why Google pulled back from
the Pentagon, while continuing to operate an artificial intelligence lab
in China. Mr. Pichai denied one of their accusations that Google still
works with the Chinese military and noted that the company still worked
with the U.S. military, including a cybersecurity project with the
Defense Department.

<div class="css-j3uhc5">

— [<span class="css-1baulvz last-byline" itemprop="name">Daisuke
Wakabayashi</span>](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/daisuke-wakabayashi)

</div>

</div>

<div class="live-blog-post css-10d3q4a" data-test-id="live-blog-post" data-source-id="100000007262969">

<div id="lawmakers-said-documents-show-facebook-tried-to-neutralize-a-competitive-threat" class="css-608m5d">

</div>

<div class="css-j3uhc5">

<div class="css-bd1680">

## [Lawmakers said documents show Facebook tried to neutralize a “competitive threat.”](#lawmakers-said-documents-show-facebook-tried-to-neutralize-a-competitive-threat)

<span class="css-uj8f8v" data-aria-live="polite">Copied to
clipboard.</span>

</div>

</div>

<div class="css-79elbk" data-testid="photoviewer-wrapper">

<div class="css-z3e15g" data-testid="photoviewer-wrapper-hidden">

</div>

<div class="css-1a48zt4 ehw59r15" data-testid="photoviewer-children">

![<span class="css-16f3y1r e13ogyst0" data-aria-hidden="true">Several of
the documents were about Facebook and the desire of its chief executive,
Mark Zuckerberg, to buy the photo-sharing app Instagram as a way of
quashing a competitive
threat.</span><span class="css-cnj6d5 e1z0qqy90" itemprop="copyrightHolder"><span class="css-1ly73wi e1tej78p0">Credit...</span><span><span>Pool
photo by Graeme
Jennings</span></span></span>](https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/07/29/business/29tech-hearing-hotdocs/merlin_175079946_aebc7771-9252-4f51-b55d-0d8de1c69480-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75&auto=webp&disable=upscale)

</div>

</div>

The House judiciary antitrust subcommittee has said it gathered 1.3
million documents about Facebook, Google, Amazon and Apple over the
course of its 13-month investigation into the power of the companies’
businesses. At the hearing, lawmakers began [rolling some of those
documents
out](https://twitter.com/HouseJudiciary/status/1288540745637474306?s=20).

Several of the documents were about Facebook and the desire of its chief
executive, Mark Zuckerberg, to buy the photo-sharing app Instagram as a
way of quashing a competitive threat. The social network [bought
Instagram
in 2012](https://dealbook.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2012/04/09/facebook-buys-instagram-for-1-billion/#:~:text=Facebook%20is%20not%20waiting%20for,stock%2C%20the%20company%20said%20Monday.)
for about $1 billion in cash and stock.

In those documents, which were reviewed by The New York Times, Mr.
Zuckerberg pressed Kevin Systrom, a co-founder of Instagram, to submit
to Facebook’s original acquisition offer of $500 million. In other
correspondence, Facebook’s chief financial officer at the time
specifically pointed at Instagram as a “competitive threat” that needed
to be dealt with.

The documents were evidence that Facebook viewed Instagram as a
“powerful threat that could siphon business away from Facebook,”
Representative Jim Sensenbrenner, Republican of Wisconsin, said in the
hearing. “Rather than compete with it, Facebook bought it.”

In response, Mr. Zuckerberg said that while it seemed in hindsight that
Instagram’s success was an inevitability, it was far from certain at the
time. Instagram had many competitors at that point, he said, including
now defunct start-ups such as Path.

“The acquisition has done wildly well not just because of the founders’
talent, but because we invested heavily in building up the
infrastructure and promoting it,” Mr. Zuckerberg said. “And I think that
this has been an American success story.”

<div class="css-j3uhc5">

— [<span class="css-1baulvz last-byline" itemprop="name">Mike
Isaac</span>](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/mike-isaac)

</div>

</div>

<div id="ad-1" class="css-1pmeh62">

<div class="css-142l3g4">

### Advertisement

[Continue reading the main
story](#after-dfp-ad-mid2)

<div id="dfp-ad-mid2" class="ad dfp-ad-mid2-wrapper" style="text-align:center;height:100%;display:block">

</div>

<div id="after-dfp-ad-mid2">

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="live-blog-post css-10d3q4a" data-test-id="live-blog-post" data-source-id="100000007263173">

<div id="tim-cook-pressed-on-apples-app-store" class="css-608m5d">

</div>

<div class="css-j3uhc5">

<div class="css-bd1680">

## [Tim Cook pressed on Apple’s App Store.](#tim-cook-pressed-on-apples-app-store)

<span class="css-uj8f8v" data-aria-live="polite">Copied to
clipboard.</span>

</div>

</div>

<div class="css-79elbk" data-testid="photoviewer-wrapper">

<div class="css-z3e15g" data-testid="photoviewer-wrapper-hidden">

</div>

<div class="css-1a48zt4 ehw59r15" data-testid="photoviewer-children">

![<span class="css-16f3y1r e13ogyst0" data-aria-hidden="true">Tim Cook,
Apple’s chief executive, said that Apple’s App Store rules were “applied
equally to every
developer.”</span>](https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/07/29/business/29tech-hearing-apple/29tech-hearing-apple-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75&auto=webp&disable=upscale)

</div>

</div>

In the hearing’s first several hours, Apple’s Tim Cook was largely
ignored. In the last hour, he found himself on the defense.

First, Representatives Val Demings and Lucy Kay McBath, Democrats from
Florida and Georgia, needled him on why Apple removed parental-control
apps shortly after Apple introduced its own competing tool in 2018. [The
Times reported about the removal of the apps last
year](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/04/27/technology/apple-screen-time-trackers.html).

Mr. Cook said Apple pulled the apps because of privacy concerns, not
competition. Ms. McBath then pointed to an email that appeared to show a
top Apple executive, Phil Schiller, telling a concerned parent that they
could now use Apple’s parental-control tool instead. Mr. Cook said he
could not see the email on his screen.

Mr. Cook then found himself defending Apple’s recent demands to collect
a commission from Airbnb and ClassPass after the companies shifted to
selling virtual classes because of the pandemic, [as The Times reported
this
week](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/28/technology/apple-app-store-airbnb-classpass.html).

Representative Jerrold Nadler, Democrat of New York, asked: “Isn’t this
pandemic profiteering?”

Mr. Cook responded that Apple’s rules require companies that sell
digital services to pay Apple’s commission, but that Apple was working
with companies that had made business changes because of the pandemic.

Apple told The Times this week that it was still negotiating with Airbnb
and ClassPass on the fees. Earlier this month, ClassPass pulled its
virtual classes from its iPhone app because Apple told the company that
its deadline for complying with the rule had passed, according to a
person close to ClassPass who spoke on the condition of anonymity to
discuss private negotiations.

Apple faces accusations that it arbitrarily enforces its rules on app
developers, killing some of their businesses on a whim.

In Tim Cook’s opening statement, he said that Apple’s App Store rules
are “applied equally to every developer.”

Earlier in the hearing, Democrats on the House antitrust subcommittee
tried to show that wasn’t true.

Representative Hank Johnson, Democrat of Georgia, asked if Baidu, the
Chinese search giant, got special treatment. Mr. Cook responded that he
wasn’t sure. The committee then released documents that appeared to show
Mr. Cook telling Baidu’s chief executive in a 2014 email that Baidu
would be on an “app review fast track” and that two employees would help
manage the process.

<div class="css-nj25e3">

> Documents from the Hearing on “Online Platforms and Market Power:
> Examining the Dominance of Amazon, Apple, Facebook and Google"
> [pic.twitter.com/E8auYYSeMn](https://t.co/E8auYYSeMn)
> 
> — House Judiciary Dems (@HouseJudiciary)
> [July 29, 2020](https://twitter.com/HouseJudiciary/status/1288543144158597124?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw)

</div>

Mr. Johnson later pointed out that Apple now lets Amazon avoid Apple’s
30 percent commission on its video-streaming service — one of the main
complaints against Apple by developers — in exchange for making Amazon
and Apple products work better together. Mr. Cook responded that any
other company could get the same deal.

Mr. Cook argued that Apple had to treat app developers fairly and had to
be competitive in the commission it charges. “We have fierce competition
at the developer side and the customer side,” he said. “It’s so
competitive, I would describe it as a street fight for market share in
the smartphone business.”

In reality, the market for smartphone software is a clear duopoly. Apple
and Google make the software that underpins virtually every smartphone
in the world.

<div class="css-j3uhc5">

— [<span class="css-1baulvz last-byline" itemprop="name">Jack
Nicas</span>](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/jack-nicas)

</div>

</div>

<div class="live-blog-post css-10d3q4a" data-test-id="live-blog-post" data-source-id="100000007260489">

<div id="bezos-got-pushed-on-amazons-relationship-with-third-party-sellers" class="css-608m5d">

</div>

<div class="css-j3uhc5">

<div class="css-bd1680">

## [Bezos got pushed on Amazon’s relationship with third-party sellers.](#bezos-got-pushed-on-amazons-relationship-with-third-party-sellers)

<span class="css-uj8f8v" data-aria-live="polite">Copied to
clipboard.</span>

</div>

</div>

![<span class="css-16f3y1r e13ogyst0">Jeff Bezos of Amazon faced
questions from Representative Mary Gay Scanlon about how his company
drives up prices through eliminating
competition.</span>](https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/07/29/business/29vid-tech-hearing-2/29vid-tech-hearing-2-videoSixteenByNineJumbo1600-v2.jpg)

Facing Congress for the first time, Jeff Bezos, Amazon’s founder and
chief executive, was forced to defend one of Amazon’s sources of great
pride: its relationship with the many third-party sellers whose products
fill its online store.

At the start of the hearing, Mr. Bezos introduced himself as a lucky and
humble example of the success of American democracy — the son of a
plucky mother and a supportive, immigrant father who “fostered my
curiosity and encouraged me to dream big.” He said he brought that ethos
to Amazon, saying the company’s growth has benefited Americans.

“Customer obsession has driven our success,” he said.

But once Mr. Bezos faced questions, almost entirely from Democrats, he
had to respond to whether Amazon harms the sellers whose products make
up about 60 percent of its sales.

Representative Pramila Jayapal, a Democrat whose district includes
Amazon’s Seattle headquarters, said former Amazon employees told the
committee that employees treat proprietary seller data like “a candy
shop” they can mine to develop products Amazon’s own, competing house
brand. Representative Lucy McBath said that, when sellers talked to the
committee, “they use the words like bullying, fear, and panic to
describe their relationship with Amazon.” Representative David
Cicilline, the chairman of the antitrust subcommittee, said one seller
compared Amazon to a drug dealer.

Mr. Bezos said he disagreed with Mr. Cicilline’s characterization, and
he told Ms. McBath that “third party sellers in aggregate are doing
extremely well on Amazon.” He said to Ms. Jayapal that Amazon has “a
policy against using seller-specific data to aid our private label
business, but I can’t guarantee you that that policy has never been
violated.”

He several times said that sellers have benefited from Amazon’s growth
and investment. He said when Amazon decided two decades ago to invite
third-party sellers to offer products on its retail website, Amazon
thought that more selection would let both Amazon and the sellers
thrive.

When faced with data from Mr. Cicilline that Amazon controls 75 percent
of all online marketplace sales, Mr. Bezos responded, “With great
respect, I do have a different opinion on that.” He said that sellers
have “a lot of options. “I believe Amazon is a great one and we have
worked very hard,” he said. “I think we are the best one.”

Ms. Jayapal pushed Mr. Bezos on what happens to employees who violate
its internal policies. She said Amazon has “access to data that far
exceeds the sellers on your platforms with whom you compete,” such as
how many shoppers looked at an item but did not buy it.

Mr. Bezos began responding that he was “very proud of what we have done
for third-party sellers on this platform,” before Ms. Jayapal cut him
off saying she was running out of time.

<div class="css-j3uhc5">

— [<span class="css-1baulvz last-byline" itemprop="name">Karen
Weise</span>](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/karen-weise)

</div>

</div>

<div class="live-blog-post css-10d3q4a" data-test-id="live-blog-post" data-source-id="100000007261598">

<div id="what-ceos-said" class="css-608m5d">

</div>

<div class="css-j3uhc5">

<div class="css-bd1680">

## [Here’s a final tally of the C.E.O.s’ catchphrases.](#what-ceos-said)

<span class="css-uj8f8v" data-aria-live="polite">Copied to
clipboard.</span>

</div>

</div>

How often do tech titans repeat themselves? How many times did the chief
executives fall back on buzzwords and catchphrases? And how frequently
did they bring up their rivals (TikTok\! Walmart\! Each other\!) to
downplay their companies’ power?

To answer these questions, we kept track of how often Jeff Bezos of
Amazon, Sundar Pichai of Google, Tim Cook of Apple and Mark Zuckerberg
of Facebook used certain arguments and phrases throughout the course of
the antitrust
hearing.

<div id="tech-hearing-phrases" class="section interactive-content interactive-size-scoop css-174j8de" data-id="100000007261403">

<div class="css-17ih8de interactive-body" data-sourceid="100000007261403">

<div class="g-story g-freebird g-max-limit" data-preview-slug="2020-07-27-tech-hearing-bingo">

<div class="g-container">

<div class="g-container g-tally-wide-parent">

<div class="g-container g-tally-wide">

<div class="g-asset g-table" style="max-width: 600px">

### We Are Not That Big

#### Each time a C.E.O. argued that his company was not actually that powerful because its market share was small or its influence was limited.

<div data-role="img">

| **On Repeat**                               | **Count** |
| ------------------------------------------- | --------- |
| <span class="g-zuck">Mark Zuckerberg</span> | 2         |
| <span class="g-bezos">Jeff Bezos</span>     | 1         |
| <span class="g-cook">Tim Cook</span>        | 3         |
| <span class="g-pichai">Sundar Pichai</span> | 3         |

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-asset g-table" style="max-width: 600px">

### We Are Good for America

#### Each time a C.E.O. boasted about how his company has added jobs, fueled economic growth, accelerated innovation or otherwise helped the country.

<div data-role="img">

| **On Repeat**                               | **Count** |
| ------------------------------------------- | --------- |
| <span class="g-zuck">Mark Zuckerberg</span> | 4         |
| <span class="g-bezos">Jeff Bezos</span>     | 3         |
| <span class="g-cook">Tim Cook</span>        | 6         |
| <span class="g-pichai">Sundar Pichai</span> | 11        |

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-container g-tally-wide">

<div class="g-asset g-table" style="max-width: 600px">

### We Will Get Back to You

#### Each time a C.E.O. didn’t directly answer a question, saying instead that he would respond after the company looked into the matter.

<div data-role="img">

| **On Repeat**                               | **Count** |
| ------------------------------------------- | --------- |
| <span class="g-zuck">Mark Zuckerberg</span> | 7         |
| <span class="g-bezos">Jeff Bezos</span>     | 3         |
| <span class="g-cook">Tim Cook</span>        | 3         |
| <span class="g-pichai">Sundar Pichai</span> | 13        |

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-asset g-table" style="max-width: 600px">

### We Are Not the Ones to Worry About

#### Each time a C.E.O. tried to shift attention by citing a competitor or the specter of how China could dominate tech if their own companies were curtailed.

<div data-role="img">

| **On Repeat**                               | **Count** |
| ------------------------------------------- | --------- |
| <span class="g-zuck">Mark Zuckerberg</span> | 6         |
| <span class="g-bezos">Jeff Bezos</span>     | 10        |
| <span class="g-cook">Tim Cook</span>        | 13        |
| <span class="g-pichai">Sundar Pichai</span> | 8         |

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="css-j3uhc5">

— [<span class="css-1baulvz last-byline" itemprop="name">Kellen
Browning</span>](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/kellen-browning)

</div>

</div>

<div id="ad-2" class="css-1pmeh62">

<div class="css-142l3g4">

### Advertisement

[Continue reading the main
story](#after-dfp-ad-mid3)

<div id="dfp-ad-mid3" class="ad dfp-ad-mid3-wrapper" style="text-align:center;height:100%;display:block">

</div>

<div id="after-dfp-ad-mid3">

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="live-blog-post css-10d3q4a" data-test-id="live-blog-post" data-source-id="100000007263127">

<div id="tech-executives-looked-like-they-work-in-well-tech-offices" class="css-608m5d">

</div>

<div class="css-j3uhc5">

<div class="css-bd1680">

## [Tech executives looked like they work in, well, tech offices.](#tech-executives-looked-like-they-work-in-well-tech-offices)

<span class="css-uj8f8v" data-aria-live="polite">Copied to
clipboard.</span>

</div>

</div>

In the pandemic era, videoconferencing has become a primary means of
conversation. Also, we’ve become very judgmental about the decor of our
co-workers. So how did Big Tech’s executives fare in their congressional
hearing on Wednesday?

We were inspired by the [popular Twitter account
RoomRater](https://slack-redir.net/link?url=https%3A%2F%2Ftwitter.com%2Fratemyskyperoom),
which judges and rates the backgrounds of people on video calls on a
scale of one to 10. In that spirit, here are our armchair ratings for
the rooms in which the C.E.O.s of Google, Apple, Amazon and Facebook
appeared during their
testimonies.

<div class="css-1xdhyk6 erfvjey0">

<span class="css-1ly73wi e1tej78p0">Image</span>

<div class="css-zjzyr8">

<div data-testid="lazyimage-container" style="height:265.5111111111111px">

</div>

</div>

</div>

<span class="css-cnj6d5 e1z0qqy90" itemprop="copyrightHolder"><span class="css-1ly73wi e1tej78p0">Credit...</span><span>Pool
photo by Mandel Ngan</span></span>

**Sundar Pichai:** Tasteful minimalism, muted and cold color palette.
Sitting in front of a midcentury modern bureau, with a small stack of
unidentified books and small pottery with a pleasant aloe plant. Reading
from printed documents. Textured wall hanging, likely of stone.

*7/10 for being relatable without going over the
top.*

<div class="css-1xdhyk6 erfvjey0">

<span class="css-1ly73wi e1tej78p0">Image</span>

<div class="css-zjzyr8">

<div data-testid="lazyimage-container" style="height:217.82222222222222px">

</div>

</div>

</div>

**Tim Cook:** Extremely minimal background, even for Apple. Opted for
bare, taupe-colored walls with a slate planter flanking him. A
smattering of greenery livens up the background, but not too wild as if
it were a jungle. The hint of a computer screen — a Macbook — in front
of him for notes.

*6/10 because we expected something more sleek from
Apple.*

<div class="css-1xdhyk6 erfvjey0">

<span class="css-1ly73wi e1tej78p0">Image</span>

<div class="css-zjzyr8">

<div data-testid="lazyimage-container" style="height:227.48888888888888px">

</div>

</div>

</div>

**Jeff Bezos:** The warmest setting of the bunch. Mr. Bezos sat in what
looks like his Seattle office, backed by a full wall of built-in
bookcases. Gold-plated statue looks kind of like a funky atom or a
scientific award. Nice pottery and vases.

*8/10 for the cool Pacific Northwest dad office vibes. Two points
subtracted for his connectivity
issues.*

<div class="css-1xdhyk6 erfvjey0">

<span class="css-1ly73wi e1tej78p0">Image</span>

<div class="css-zjzyr8">

<div data-testid="lazyimage-container" style="height:217.82222222222222px">

</div>

</div>

</div>

**Mark Zuckerberg:** Almost completely devoid of character. Stark white
wooden plank background — perhaps shiplap, the favorite of home
decorating star Joanna Gaines? The only distinguishing marks are two
little knobs in the wood that look like drawer handles. No plants, no
books, no warmth. Reading from a teleprompter. The setting is so
inoffensive it borders on offensive. But points for whoever staged his
lighting and camera. The focus is, unavoidably, Mr. Zuckerberg.

*4/10 for its complete lack of personality. (Next time show us a
bookshelf.)*

<div class="css-j3uhc5">

— [<span class="css-1baulvz last-byline" itemprop="name">Mike
Isaac</span>](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/mike-isaac)

</div>

</div>

<div class="live-blog-post css-10d3q4a" data-test-id="live-blog-post" data-source-id="100000007262919">

<div id="the-ceos-dressed-to-project-humility-our-fashion-critic-writes" class="css-608m5d">

</div>

<div class="css-j3uhc5">

<div class="css-bd1680">

## [The C.E.O.s dressed to project humility, our fashion critic writes.](#the-ceos-dressed-to-project-humility-our-fashion-critic-writes)

<span class="css-uj8f8v" data-aria-live="polite">Copied to
clipboard.</span>

</div>

</div>

<div class="css-79elbk" data-testid="photoviewer-wrapper">

<div class="css-z3e15g" data-testid="photoviewer-wrapper-hidden">

</div>

<div class="css-1a48zt4 ehw59r15" data-testid="photoviewer-children">

![<span class="css-16f3y1r e13ogyst0" data-aria-hidden="true">From left,
Mark Zuckerberg of Facebook, Sundar Pichai of Google, Tim Cook of Apple
and Jeff Bezos of Amazon answered questions from House lawmakers about
their business practices via
videoconference.</span>](https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/07/30/fashion/30ZOOMSUITS-COMBO/29ZOOMSUITS-COMBO-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75&auto=webp&disable=upscale)

</div>

</div>

They didn’t look like titans. They didn’t look like masters of the
universe. They didn’t look like “emperors of the online economy,” as
Representative David Cicilline, chairman of the House Judiciary
Committee and Democrat from Rhode Island, called them.

“They” — the four chief executives of Big Tech, Jeff Bezos of Amazon;
Mark Zuckerberg of Facebook; Tim Cook of Apple; and Sundar Pichai of
Alphabet, the parent company of Google — didn’t even look all that big.

In fact, beamed in from their offices because of coronavirus concerns,
facing down the mask-clad congressmen who were socially distanced from
each other on the wood-paneled stage of the hearing room in the Rayburn
office building like an establishment army, they looked more like boys
dressed up in their graduation suits than the four horsemen of the
digital apocalypse whose planetary power was a threat to us all.

The costumes were donned with purpose.

Mr. Zuckerberg, for example, framed against a plain white background
that resembled barn siding, wore a blue suit and a blue and white
checked tie that had been pulled down and was slightly askew, as though
he had stuck one finger inside so he could take a deep breath.

Mr. Cook chose a light gray tie — the same gray as his glasses frames —
the knot listing just off to one side, and a dark gray suit, with a
whole Zen planter’s worth of verdant greenery spilling out behind him.
He sipped from a mug of tea.

Mr. Pichai also appeared in a subtly patterned gray tie, though his
echoed the patterned artwork on the wall behind him and perfectly
matched his gray suit. Which matched his hair and beard, which matched
the gray pottery on the filing cabinet behind him, out of which bloomed
his own healthily lush green plant — one part of an artistic and minimal
still life. He sat with his hands clasped on the desk in front of him,
radiating a sort of beneficent calm.

And Mr. Bezos, in his first-ever appearance in Congress, offset his dark
suit and tie with some homey light wood shelving, scattered with vases
and other decorative objects, and sustained himself with snacks kept
just offscreen.

Snacks\! He’s just like you and me.

Which was, of course, the point. If you are trying to convince a group
of lawmakers that the words they keep using to describe you —
“dominant,” “power,” “billions,” “trillions” — are not nearly the
whole story, you don’t want to limit your message to your humble
beginnings and crazy dreams. You want to channel Clark Kent, rather than
Superman.

<div class="css-j3uhc5">

— [<span class="css-1baulvz last-byline" itemprop="name">Vanessa
Friedman</span>](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/vanessa-friedman)

</div>

</div>

<div class="live-blog-post css-10d3q4a" data-test-id="live-blog-post" data-source-id="100000007262381">

<div id="there-are-many-investigations-into-the-tech-companies-heres-where-they-all-stand" class="css-608m5d">

</div>

<div class="css-j3uhc5">

<div class="css-bd1680">

## [There are many investigations into the tech companies. Here’s where they all stand.](#there-are-many-investigations-into-the-tech-companies-heres-where-they-all-stand)

<span class="css-uj8f8v" data-aria-live="polite">Copied to
clipboard.</span>

</div>

</div>

<div class="css-79elbk" data-testid="photoviewer-wrapper">

<div class="css-z3e15g" data-testid="photoviewer-wrapper-hidden">

</div>

<div class="css-1a48zt4 ehw59r15" data-testid="photoviewer-children">

![<span class="css-16f3y1r e13ogyst0" data-aria-hidden="true">The
Federal Trade Commission is preparing to depose Mark Zuckerberg, the
chief executive of Facebook, for its investigation of the social
network.</span><span class="css-cnj6d5 e1z0qqy90" itemprop="copyrightHolder"><span class="css-1ly73wi e1tej78p0">Credit...</span><span><span>Pete
Marovich for The New York
Times</span></span></span>](https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/07/29/business/29tech-hearing-inquiries/merlin_163192332_bc0f35e4-7fc0-481a-bec0-f76d02126a92-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75&auto=webp&disable=upscale)

</div>

</div>

The tech giants are under investigation from numerous federal and state
antitrust officials, as well as by the lawmakers holding today’s
hearing.

The Justice Department’s investigation of Google appears to be the
furthest along. [The agency is expected to soon announce a case against
Google](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/25/technology/barr-google-investigation.html),
focusing on alleged antitrust violations in online advertising.

The Federal Trade Commission is[preparing to
depose](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/17/technology/ftc-facebook-investigation.html)Mark
Zuckerberg, the chief executive of Facebook, and other top executives at
the company for its investigation of the social network. That inquiry
appears to focus on whether Facebook illegally maintained a monopoly in
social networking by killing off competition through its acquisitions of
Instagram and WhatsApp. That investigation may not wrap up before the
end of the year.

Other investigations are moving forward, but not as swiftly as the
Google investigation. The Justice Department is also investigating
Apple’s power over the app store, along with state attorneys general.
The agency has Facebook under review as well, looking at the company’s
position in online advertising. But that investigation appears to be
moving slowly.

State investigators have been [looking into whether Amazon abuses its
power](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/12/technology/state-inquiry-antitrust-amazon.html)
over sellers on the tech giant’s site. The F.T.C. is also investigating
Amazon, but that appears to be moving slowly.

<div class="css-j3uhc5">

— [<span class="css-1baulvz last-byline" itemprop="name">Cecilia
Kang</span>](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/cecilia-kang)

</div>

</div>

<div class="live-blog-post css-10d3q4a" data-test-id="live-blog-post" data-source-id="100000007262654">

<div id="trump-administration-asks-fcc-to-narrow-protections-for-tech-companies" class="css-608m5d">

</div>

<div class="css-j3uhc5">

<div class="css-bd1680">

## [Trump administration asks F.C.C. to narrow protections for tech companies.](#trump-administration-asks-fcc-to-narrow-protections-for-tech-companies)

<span class="css-uj8f8v" data-aria-live="polite">Copied to
clipboard.</span>

</div>

</div>

The Trump administration asked the Federal Communications Commission
this week to narrow its interpretation of a law that shields internet
platforms like Facebook and YouTube from certain lawsuits over the
content they host.

The request, which stems from an executive order President Trump signed
in May, is part of a growing push by the president and his allies, who
say that tech companies are removing or suppressing conservative
content. Despite evidence that conservative sites and figures perform
well online, the president, along with much of his conservative base,
have repeatedly criticized the platforms over instances in which
conservative content was removed or otherwise moderated for violating a
platform’s rules.

In a petition on Monday, the Department of Commerce asked the commission
to clarify that the law, known as Section 230, does not protect a
platform when it moderates or highlights user content based on a
“reasonably discernible viewpoint or message, without having been
prompted to, asked to, or searched for by the user.” It would also limit
the circumstances under which platforms are protected from liability
over their users’ content.

Kayleigh McEnany, the White House spokeswoman, said in a statement on
Wednesday morning that the president wants the F.C.C. “to clarify that
Section 230 does not permit social media companies that alter or
editorialize users’ speech to escape civil liability.”

Mr. Trump weighed in later on Twitter:

<div class="css-nj25e3">

> If Congress doesn’t bring fairness to Big Tech, which they should have
> done years ago, I will do it myself with Executive Orders. In
> Washington, it has been ALL TALK and NO ACTION for years, and the
> people of our Country are sick and tired of it\!
> 
> — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump)
> [July 29, 2020](https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/1288506554585505793?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw)

</div>

The petition is now in the hands of the F.C.C., an independent agency
currently led by a Republican chairman, Ajit Pai, who was appointed to
the position by Mr. Trump. “The F.C.C. will carefully review the
petition,” said Brian Hart, a spokesman for the commission.

<div class="css-j3uhc5">

— [<span class="css-1baulvz last-byline" itemprop="name">David
McCabe</span>](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/david-mccabe)

</div>

</div>

<div class="live-blog-post css-10d3q4a" data-test-id="live-blog-post" data-source-id="100000007262537">

<div id="dont-only-blame-congress-if-this-hearing-goes-off-the-rails" class="css-608m5d">

</div>

<div class="css-j3uhc5">

<div class="css-bd1680">

## [Don’t (only) blame Congress if this hearing goes off the rails.](#dont-only-blame-congress-if-this-hearing-goes-off-the-rails)

<span class="css-uj8f8v" data-aria-live="polite">Copied to
clipboard.</span>

</div>

</div>

Members of Congress have been
[mocked](https://www.thewrap.com/senator-orrin-hatch-facebook-biz-model-zuckerberg/)
for asking ridiculous questions in technology hearings like these. That
might happen again today, but it won’t be entirely their fault.

These big tech companies intentionally make themselves hard to
understand.

Few people outside these companies can truly examine how Amazon
influences prices of products we buy on its site or[at other
retailers](https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2019-08-05/amazon-is-squeezing-sellers-that-offer-better-prices-on-walmart);
or assess fears that Google[funnels people to its own
websites](https://themarkup.org/google-the-giant/2020/07/28/google-search-results-prioritize-google-products-over-competitors),
Apple[steers people to its own
apps](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/09/09/technology/apple-app-store-competition.html)
or Facebook peers into what we do online to [squash its
rivals](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/12/05/technology/facebook-emails-privacy-data.html).
All of this is, by design, shrouded in secrecy and mystery.

Big Tech shouldn’t want it to stay that way. Even companies like
Facebook and Google are asking for more government guidance and rules
around thorny topics like protecting elections and preventing hate
speech on their sites. That means that the public and the tech companies
have a vested interest in making these fact-finding sessions as
productive as possible.

[Read more in On
Tech](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/29/technology/congress-big-tech.html).

*You can* [*sign up
here*](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/signup/OT) *for On
Tech with Shira Ovide, a newsletter each weekday about how technology is
reshaping our lives and world.*

<div class="css-j3uhc5">

— [<span class="css-1baulvz last-byline" itemprop="name">Shira
Ovide</span>](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/shira-ovide)

</div>

</div>

<div id="ad-0" class="css-4dvyd6">

<div class="css-142l3g4">

### Advertisement

[Continue reading the main
story](#after-dfp-ad-mid1)

<div id="dfp-ad-mid1" class="ad dfp-ad-mid1-wrapper" style="text-align:center;height:100%;display:block">

</div>

<div id="after-dfp-ad-mid1">

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="live-blog-post css-10d3q4a" data-test-id="live-blog-post" data-source-id="100000007256302">

<div id="the-executives-are-testifying-remotely-using-ciscos-webex-videoconferencing" class="css-608m5d">

</div>

<div class="css-j3uhc5">

<div class="css-bd1680">

## [The executives are testifying remotely, using Cisco’s Webex videoconferencing.](#the-executives-are-testifying-remotely-using-ciscos-webex-videoconferencing)

<span class="css-uj8f8v" data-aria-live="polite">Copied to
clipboard.</span>

</div>

</div>

<div class="css-79elbk" data-testid="photoviewer-wrapper">

<div class="css-z3e15g" data-testid="photoviewer-wrapper-hidden">

</div>

<div class="css-1a48zt4 ehw59r15" data-testid="photoviewer-children">

![<span class="css-16f3y1r e13ogyst0" data-aria-hidden="true">Webex has
been used to conduct more than 100 congressional hearings during the
pandemic.</span><span class="css-cnj6d5 e1z0qqy90" itemprop="copyrightHolder"><span class="css-1ly73wi e1tej78p0">Credit...</span><span><span>Anna
Moneymaker for The New York
Times</span></span></span>](https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/07/29/business/29tech-hearing-webex/merlin_174831297_dbba0a25-3406-4981-8177-40356c08d534-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75&auto=webp&disable=upscale)

</div>

</div>

Congressional hearings usually involve witnesses appearing in dark
suits, with their entourages sitting behind them and lawmakers
questioning them from above as phalanxes of photographers snap pictures
and videographers stream the proceedings from a cavernous room at the
Capitol.

Not this time.

The C.E.O.s of Amazon, Apple, Facebook and Google are all appearing on
Wednesday before a House subcommittee
virtually<span class="css-8l6xbc evw5hdy0"> </span>because of the
coronavirus pandemic. Remotely beaming into the hearing adds a wrinkle
of digital complexity, with any note-passing from aides and underlings
most likely happening off-camera.

And while many of the tech giants make [their own video-calling
software](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/24/technology/zoom-rivals-virus-facebook-google.html),
none will be using their own tools. Instead, they will all be joining
via Cisco’s Webex videoconferencing service.

Webex has been the go-to service for Congress since the pandemic began.
It has been certified by the House’s administration committee for being
secure and meeting “business and technical requirements,” a House
administration spokesman, Peter Whippy, said.

In that time, Webex has been used for more than 100 congressional
hearings, said Jean Rosauer, Webex’s head of government sector. Cisco
added that it had experienced more than triple its normal volume of
virtual meetings through Webex in recent months.

“Congressional hearings — such as the upcoming House Judiciary Committee
hearing — have traditions, policies and procedures, and we had to ensure
those could be conducted virtually and securely,” Ms. Rosauer said in a
statement. She added that Cisco was “incredibly proud” to play a role in
keeping Congress connected.

<div class="css-j3uhc5">

— [<span class="css-1baulvz last-byline" itemprop="name">Kellen
Browning</span>](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/kellen-browning)

</div>

</div>

<div class="live-blog-post css-10d3q4a" data-test-id="live-blog-post" data-source-id="100000007262539">

<div id="watch-live-lawmakers-restart-grilling-of-executives" class="css-608m5d">

</div>

<div class="css-j3uhc5">

<div class="css-bd1680">

## [Watch live: Lawmakers restart grilling of executives.](#watch-live-lawmakers-restart-grilling-of-executives)

<span class="css-uj8f8v" data-aria-live="polite">Copied to
clipboard.</span>

</div>

</div>

![<span class="css-16f3y1r e13ogyst0">Jeff Bezos of Amazon, Tim Cook of
Apple, Mark Zuckerberg of Facebook and Sundar Pichai of Google will
answer questions from House lawmakers about their business
practices.</span><span class="css-cch8ym"><span class="css-1dv1kvn">Credit</span><span class="css-cnj6d5 e1z0qqy90" itemprop="copyrightHolder"><span class="css-1ly73wi e1tej78p0">Credit...</span><span>Pool
photo by Mandel
Ngan</span></span></span>](https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/07/29/us/29antitrust-vidcover/29hpantitrust-videoSixteenByNine3000-v2.jpg)

<div class="css-j3uhc5">

</div>

</div>

<div>

</div>

<div class="live-blog-post css-10d3q4a" data-test-id="live-blog-post" data-source-id="100000007262384">

<div id="big-techs-rivals-spoke-out-ahead-of-the-hearing" class="css-608m5d">

</div>

<div class="css-j3uhc5">

<div class="css-bd1680">

## [Big Tech’s rivals spoke out ahead of the hearing.](#big-techs-rivals-spoke-out-ahead-of-the-hearing)

<span class="css-uj8f8v" data-aria-live="polite">Copied to
clipboard.</span>

</div>

</div>

<div class="css-79elbk" data-testid="photoviewer-wrapper">

<div class="css-z3e15g" data-testid="photoviewer-wrapper-hidden">

</div>

<div class="css-1a48zt4 ehw59r15" data-testid="photoviewer-children">

![<span class="css-16f3y1r e13ogyst0" data-aria-hidden="true">Kevin
Mayer, the chief executive of TikTok, issued a statement on Wednesday
addressing how the video app has been dealing with scrutiny because of
its Chinese
ownership.</span><span class="css-cnj6d5 e1z0qqy90" itemprop="copyrightHolder"><span class="css-1ly73wi e1tej78p0">Credit...</span><span><span>Jesse
Grant/Getty
Images</span></span></span>](https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/07/29/business/29tech-hearing-rivals/merlin_164279103_480dfcec-5c97-492c-b524-1e7885551ae2-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75&auto=webp&disable=upscale)

</div>

</div>

Many competitors to Google, Facebook, Apple and Amazon have been busy
talking to House lawmakers for months about those companies’ power. And
some deliberately spoke out this week to position themselves for how
they would be portrayed in the hearing and to influence the questioning.

TikTok, the Chinese-owned video app, issued a statement from [its chief
executive](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/18/business/media/tiktok-ceo-kevin-mayer.html),
Kevin Mayer, on Wednesday morning. In it, he addressed how the app —
which Facebook is likely to cite in the hearing as an example of how
competition in social networking is thriving — has been dealing with
scrutiny because of its Chinese ownership.

“We have received even more scrutiny due to the company’s Chinese
origins,” Mr. Mayer said [in the
statement](https://newsroom.tiktok.com/en-us/fair-competition-and-transparency-benefits-us-all).
“We accept this and embrace the challenge of giving peace of mind
through greater transparency and accountability. We believe it is
essential to show users, advertisers, creators and regulators that we
are responsible and committed members of the American community that
follows U.S. laws.”

He also pointed to Facebook’s willingness to launch “copycat products,”
like Reels, a TikTok look-alike. Facebook has had a history of emulating
competing products.

“Let’s focus our energies on fair and open competition in service of our
consumers, rather than maligning attacks by our competitor — namely
Facebook — disguised as patriotism and designed to put an end to our
very presence in the U.S.,” Mr. Mayer said.

Other tech companies also seized on the hearing to air their thoughts.
Tim Sweeney, chief executive of Epic Games, the Cary, N.C.-based maker
of [the hit game
Fortnite](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/07/25/arts/what-is-fortnite-battle-royale-nyt.html),
lashed out at Apple and Google for price gouging and unfair policies in
what he called their “app store monopolies.”

“Both stores significantly obstruct competition,” Mr. Sweeney said in an
interview on Tuesday. He particularly criticized Apple’s 30 percent fee
on payments for digital goods, which he said made it difficult for
smaller players to offer artists a better deal.

Apple has said the [30 percent commission it takes from many
apps](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/28/technology/apple-app-store-airbnb-classpass.html)
in its App Store is a standard fee. Mr. Sweeney called that argument
“silly nonsense.” Epic’s version of an app store charges its
developers a 12 percent fee.

Mr. Sweeney, who began programming on an Apple II Plus computer in 1982
and founded Epic nine years later, said he felt a responsibility to
speak out.

“Every tech company that does business in this world is going to have to
live with the power we give these other companies,” he said.

<div class="css-j3uhc5">

— [<span class="css-1baulvz" itemprop="name">Mike
Isaac</span>](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/mike-isaac) and
[<span class="css-1baulvz last-byline" itemprop="name">Erin
Griffith</span>](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/erin-griffith)

</div>

</div>

<div id="ad-1" class="css-4dvyd6">

<div class="css-142l3g4">

### Advertisement

[Continue reading the main
story](#after-dfp-ad-mid2)

<div id="dfp-ad-mid2" class="ad dfp-ad-mid2-wrapper" style="text-align:center;height:100%;display:block">

</div>

<div id="after-dfp-ad-mid2">

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="live-blog-post css-10d3q4a" data-test-id="live-blog-post" data-source-id="100000007255877">

<div id="what-to-expect-from-the-hearing" class="css-608m5d">

</div>

<div class="css-j3uhc5">

<div class="css-bd1680">

## [What to expect from the hearing.](#what-to-expect-from-the-hearing)

<span class="css-uj8f8v" data-aria-live="polite">Copied to
clipboard.</span>

</div>

</div>

<div class="css-79elbk" data-testid="photoviewer-wrapper">

<div class="css-z3e15g" data-testid="photoviewer-wrapper-hidden">

</div>

<div class="css-1a48zt4 ehw59r15" data-testid="photoviewer-children">

![<span class="css-16f3y1r e13ogyst0" data-aria-hidden="true">The chief
executives of Amazon, Apple, Facebook and Google will testify before
Congress at 1 p.m on
Wednesday.</span>](https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/07/29/business/29tech-hearing-ledeall/29tech-hearing-ledeall-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75&auto=webp&disable=upscale)

</div>

</div>

After lawmakers collected hundreds of hours of interviews and obtained
more than 1.3 million documents about Amazon, Apple, Facebook and
Google, their chief executives will testify before Congress at 1 p.m. on
Wednesday to defend their powerful businesses.

The captains of the New Gilded Age — [Jeff Bezos of
Amazon](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/27/business/jeff-bezos-amazon-congress.html),
Tim Cook of Apple, Mark Zuckerberg of Facebook and Sundar Pichai of
Google — will appear together before Congress for the first time to
justify their business practices. Members of the House judiciary’s
antitrust subcommittee [have investigated the internet
giants](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/06/11/technology/antitrust-hearing.html)
for more than a year on accusations that they have stifled rivals and
harmed consumers. The exact contents of the documents they’ve collected
are unknown, although they are said to include documents related to some
of the companies’ acquisitions and internal communications among top
executives.

It is set to be a bizarre spectacle, with four men who run companies
worth nearly $5 trillion combined — and who include two of the world’s
richest individuals — primed to argue that their businesses are not
really that powerful after all.

And it will be a first in another way: Mr. Zuckerberg, Mr. Pichai, Mr.
Bezos and Mr. Cook will all be testifying via videoconference, rather
than rising side-by-side for a swearing-in at a witness table in
Washington.

At the hearing, the 15 members of the antitrust subcommittee will have
five minutes for each question. Representative David Cicilline, Democrat
of Rhode Island and the chairman of the subcommittee, will control the
number of rounds of questioning, potentially stretching the hearing into
the evening.

The antitrust issues facing Apple, Facebook, [Google and
Amazon](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/06/02/business/google-antitrust-investigation.html)
are complex and vastly different.

Amazon is accused of abusing its role as both a retailer and a platform
hosting third-party sellers on its marketplace. Apple has been accused
of unfairly using its clout over its App Store to block rivals and to
force apps to pay high commissions. Rivals have said Facebook has a
monopoly in social networking. Alphabet, the parent company of Google,
is dealing with multiple antitrust allegations because of Google’s
dominance in online advertising, search and smartphone software.

Democrats may also veer off the topic of antitrust and bring up concerns
about misinformation on social media. Some Republicans are expected to
sidetrack discussion with their concerns of liberal bias at the Silicon
Valley companies and accusations that conservative voices are censored.

<div class="css-j3uhc5">

— [<span class="css-1baulvz" itemprop="name">Cecilia
Kang</span>](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/cecilia-kang),
[<span class="css-1baulvz" itemprop="name">Jack
Nicas</span>](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/jack-nicas) and
[<span class="css-1baulvz last-byline" itemprop="name">David
McCabe</span>](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/david-mccabe)

</div>

</div>

<div class="live-blog-post css-10d3q4a" data-test-id="live-blog-post" data-source-id="100000007255828">

<div id="todays-hearing-has-echoes-of-bill-gates-22-years-ago" class="css-608m5d">

</div>

<div class="css-j3uhc5">

<div class="css-bd1680">

## [Today’s hearing has echoes of Bill Gates, 22 years ago.](#todays-hearing-has-echoes-of-bill-gates-22-years-ago)

<span class="css-uj8f8v" data-aria-live="polite">Copied to
clipboard.</span>

</div>

</div>

<div class="css-79elbk" data-testid="photoviewer-wrapper">

<div class="css-z3e15g" data-testid="photoviewer-wrapper-hidden">

</div>

<div class="css-1a48zt4 ehw59r15" data-testid="photoviewer-children">

![<span class="css-16f3y1r e13ogyst0" data-aria-hidden="true">Bill Gates
had his own turn in the hot seat in
1998.</span><span class="css-cnj6d5 e1z0qqy90" itemprop="copyrightHolder"><span class="css-1ly73wi e1tej78p0">Credit...</span><span><span>Douglas
Graham/Congressional Quarterly, via Getty
Images</span></span></span>](https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/03/business/03tech-hearing-gates/03tech-hearing-gates-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75&auto=webp&disable=upscale)

</div>

</div>

The tech industry is an engine of innovation, job creation and American
economic prowess. Competition is flourishing, and just a click away.
Sure, we do well, but consumers are the big winners.

That was the gist of [Bill Gates’s
testimony](https://archive.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/library/tech/98/03/biztech/articles/04microsoft.html)
before a Senate panel more than two decades ago. And it’s a safe bet the
same themes will feature prominently when the leaders of Amazon, Apple,
Facebook and Google testify on Wednesday.

There are differences, but this week’s appearance by tech executives is
reminiscent of the congressional grilling Microsoft’s chief faced 22
years ago.

In 1998, the spotlight was squarely on Mr. Gates, co-founder of
Microsoft, the tech behemoth of the personal computer era. This time,
the leaders of four big technology companies will be in the dock,
appearing remotely because of a pandemic.

Today, more issues are in play. In the late 1990s, the concern was that
Microsoft would use its dominance in the PC market to stifle internet
upstarts. The sheer market muscle of today’s tech giants is a worry, but
so is the role they play broadly in commerce and communication,
influencing public opinion and politics.

When Mr. Gates testified, a formal investigation of Microsoft by federal
regulators and dozens of states was well underway. The same is true now
for Google and Facebook, while Amazon and Apple are also facing
antitrust scrutiny.

There can be gotcha moments. Under pointed questioning, Mr. Gates
rhetorically bobbed and weaved, refusing to use the M-word: monopoly.

But when Jim Barksdale, head of Netscape, the internet company most in
Microsoft’s sights, testified that day, he asked the spectators to raise
their hands if they used a PC.

About three-quarters of the room did. Then, how many of them used
Microsoft’s Windows operating system? Almost the same number of hands
flew up again.

“That,” Mr. Barksdale said, “is a monopoly.”

<div class="css-j3uhc5">

— [<span class="css-1baulvz last-byline" itemprop="name">Steve
Lohr</span>](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/steve-lohr)

</div>

</div>

<div>

</div>

</div>

## Site Index

<div>

</div>

## Site Information Navigation

  - [© <span>2020</span> <span>The New York Times
    Company</span>](https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice)

<!-- end list -->

  - [NYTCo](https://www.nytco.com/)
  - [Contact
    Us](https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us)
  - [Work with us](https://www.nytco.com/careers/)
  - [Advertise](https://nytmediakit.com/)
  - [T Brand Studio](http://www.tbrandstudio.com/)
  - [Your Ad
    Choices](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy#how-do-i-manage-trackers)
  - [Privacy](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy)
  - [Terms of
    Service](https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service)
  - [Terms of
    Sale](https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale)
  - [Site
    Map](https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion)
  - [Help](https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us)
  - [Subscriptions](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW)

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>
