Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}Who Is Jennifer Williams?
Pence Aide Listened to Trump-Zelensky Call

\url{https://nyti.ms/2pxcGoZ}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{who-is-jennifer-williams-pence-aide-listened-to-trump-zelensky-call}{%
\section{Who Is Jennifer Williams? Pence Aide Listened to Trump-Zelensky
Call}\label{who-is-jennifer-williams-pence-aide-listened-to-trump-zelensky-call}}

Ms. Williams, a veteran Foreign Service officer, testified that she
found President Trump's call with Ukraine's president ``unusual and
inappropriate.''

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2019/11/20/nyregion/20impeachment-mug-williams/00DC-WILLIAMS-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/michael-d-shear}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/06/13/multimedia/author-michael-d-shear/author-michael-d-shear-thumbLarge-v2.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/michael-d-shear}{Michael D. Shear}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Nov. 19, 2019
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

WASHINGTON --- As the special adviser on Europe and Russia for Vice
President Mike Pence,
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/11/19/us/politics/impeachment-hearings.html}{Jennifer
Williams} was one of a handful of national security officials who
listened in real time to
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/11/19/us/politics/impeachment-hearings.html}{President
Trump's} July 25 telephone call with
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/11/19/us/politics/impeachment-hearings.html}{Volodymyr
Zelensky}, the president of
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/11/19/us/politics/impeachment-hearings.html}{Ukraine}.

Her recollections of that call --- based in part on extensive notes she
took as the two leaders spoke --- have made the veteran Foreign Service
officer a key witness in the Democratic-led inquiry into whether Mr.
Trump should be impeached for trying to pressure Ukraine to open
investigations into his political rivals.

In closed-door testimony last month,
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/11/19/us/politics/impeachment-hearings.html}{Ms.
Williams} told lawmakers that she was taken aback by Mr. Trump's
insistence during the call that Mr. Zelensky open investigations into
former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr., a candidate for president in
2020, and his son Hunter Biden, who served on the board of a Ukrainian
energy company while his father was in office. She said that the
conversation with Mr. Zelensky was ``more political in nature'' than
other calls with foreign leaders that she had listened to and that she
felt it was ``unusual and inappropriate.''

Ms. Williams noted in particular the mention of ``Burisma,'' the name of
the company that employed Hunter Biden.

The
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2019/09/25/us/politics/trump-ukraine-transcript.html}{reconstructed
transcript of the July 25 call} released by the White House did not
include the word ``Burisma.'' But Lt. Col. Alexander S. Vindman, the top
Ukraine expert on the National Security Council, also testified that
when Mr. Zelensky is shown to have referred to ``the company you
mentioned,'' he actually said ``Burisma.'' Colonel Vindman said
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/10/29/us/politics/alexander-vindman-trump-ukraine.html}{his
attempt to correct the record of the call} to include the company's
name, and to reflect that Mr. Trump said that he had recordings of Mr.
Biden, failed.

On Tuesday, Ms. Williams is scheduled to testify in public, becoming the
latest in a series of diplomats to express their concerns about the
call.

Over the weekend, Mr. Trump lashed out at Ms. Williams --- ``whoever
that is,''
\href{https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/1196155347117002752?s=20}{he
tweeted} --- saying that she should read the transcripts of the July 25
call and another one between the two leaders that took place in April.
``Then she should meet with the other Never Trumpers, who I don't know
\& mostly never even heard of, \& work out a better presidential
attack!'' Mr. Trump wrote. A spokeswoman for Mr. Pence said merely,
``Jennifer is a State Department employee.''

A White House official said some were not surprised by Mr. Trump's
attack on Ms. Williams, whom the official described as an innocent
bystander in the impeachment mess, and expressed disappointment that
senior staff on Mr. Pence's team did nothing to defend her. The official
spoke on condition of anonymity to offer a candid assessment. The person
said it reflected poorly on the vice president that he was apparently
unable to protect Ms. Williams from being publicly disparaged by the
president.

Ms. Williams joined the Foreign Service in 2006 after spending a year as
a political appointee working for Michael Chertoff, the secretary of
homeland security, in George W. Bush's administration. In addition to
serving in Jamaica under Mr. Bush and in Beirut, Lebanon, under
President Barack Obama, Ms. Williams spent about three years working for
the State Department on the humanitarian crisis involving refugees in
Syria. Six months before Mr. Trump became president, Ms. Williams was
transferred to London to work as the deputy spokeswoman at the embassy
there.

But in April, she was assigned to Mr. Pence's staff, becoming one of his
top foreign policy advisers even as the campaign intensified by Rudolph
W. Giuliani, the president's personal lawyer, to pressure Ukraine on the
investigations that the president wanted.

Democrats are interested in what Mr. Pence knew about the effort to
withhold security aid in exchange for a commitment to investigate the
Bidens. During the closed-door deposition, Ms. Williams told lawmakers
that she was not aware that the vice president was involved in any
discussions about the investigations. She said Mr. Pence did not mention
investigations to Mr. Zelensky.

But Ms. Williams did shed light on one mystery related to Mr. Pence: why
he abruptly canceled his planned trip to Ukraine to attend Mr.
Zelensky's inaugural. Ms. Williams told lawmakers that an assistant to
the vice president's chief of staff, Marc Short, told her in mid-May
that Mr. Trump had asked Mr. Pence to stay home.

Ms. Williams said she was never given a reason for the president's
change of mind. The decision not to have Mr. Pence attend the inaugural
celebration in late May was cited by the anonymous C.I.A. whistle-blower
in the complaint that prompted Speaker Nancy Pelosi to officially begin
impeachment proceedings.

Mark Mazzetti contributed reporting.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{Â©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
