<div id="app">

<div id="standalone-header">

</div>

<div id="site-content" role="main">

# How ACT UP Remade Political Organizing in America

<div class="css-1vegfwe interactive-byline-container">

<div class="interactive-byline css-103zbxs">

April 13, 2020

</div>

</div>

<div id="interactive-standalone-sharetools" class="css-wkcogx">

<div>

<div class="interactive-sharetools css-9z2bwm" role="toolbar" data-aria-label="Social Media Share buttons, Save button, and Comments Panel with current comment count" data-testid="share-tools">

  - 
  - 
  - 
  - 
    
    <div class="css-6n7j50">
    
    </div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

The coalition that fought against AIDS stigma and worked to slow the
plague changed patients’ rights and contemporary protest movements.

<div id="act-up-aids" class="section css-l08pwh interactive-minimal interactive-content interactive-size-medium">

<div class="css-17ih8de interactive-body">

<div class="rad-article g-article-ch3" data-chapter="ch3" data-slug="13tmag-actup">

<div class="g-header">

<div class="g-header-meta">

###### [We Are Family](https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/culture-issue-2020.html)

##### <span class="rad-ch-label">Chapter 3: </span><span>Legends</span> <span>Pioneers and</span> <span>Survivors</span>

</div>

<div class="g-header-nav">

##### Previous

##### Next

</div>

</div>

<div class="rad-cover stacked-cover">

<div class="rad-cover-main">

<div class="rad-head-wrap">

# How ACT UP Remade Political Organizing in America

## <span>The Activists</span>

How ACT UP — the coalition that fought against AIDS stigma and won
medications that slowed the plague — forever changed patients’ rights,
protests and American political organizing as it’s practiced today.

<span class="g-byline-name" itemprop="name">By David France</span>

</div>

<div class="rad-byline-wrap">

<div class="rad-date-share">

April 13, 2020

<span>SHARE</span>

</div>

</div>

![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)

</div>

</div>

<div class="rad-story-body">

SUBMICROSCOPIC INFECTIOUS agents have a way of revealing the worst in
us, and the best. That is the [story of the AIDS
epidemic](https://www.nytimes.com/2018/04/27/t-magazine/times-journalists-aids-gay-history.html)
generally, and in particular of [ACT UP](https://actupny.com/) — the
33-year-old radical direct-action group formally and loftily called the
AIDS Coalition to Unleash Power. For nearly a decade in the 1980s and
1990s, ACT UP was a ubiquitous and unnerving presence, not only in
America but in 19 countries worldwide. At its peak, it claimed 148
chapters, and though its ranks remained relatively small — numbering
perhaps no more than 10,000 — it terrified and angered much of the
population, whether by halting rush-hour traffic and taking over public
spaces with “die-ins” and “kiss-ins,” at which members laid on the
ground or made out with one another, or by disrupting scientific
conferences and political affairs with foghorns, fake blood and smoke
bombs (even, in one instance, overturning banquet tables).

Generally, the news media didn’t think much of their work, branding the
group both vulgar and counterproductive. “Far from inspiring sympathy,”
The New York Times
[said](https://www.nytimes.com/1989/12/12/opinion/the-storming-of-st-pat-s.html)
of ACT UP in 1989, their methods were “another reason to reject both the
offensive protesters and their ideas.” Coverage wasn’t much warmer in
some gay newspapers, which were owned by older and more conservative
types who saw them as churlish mobsters, spoiled and rude. ACT UP didn’t
entirely disagree. They were, as their motto goes, “united in anger.”

<div class="rad-related">

<div class="rad-related-header">

###### The T List |

Sign up here

</div>

<div class="rad-related-items">

</div>

</div>

And there was much to be angry about. It’s hard to remember now how
criminally inept the establishment’s reaction was to a disease that
disproportionately affected gay men. It took four years after the
virus’s discovery for President Ronald Reagan even to mention AIDS in
public, in 1985, and almost 600 American deaths for The Times to give it
a front-page headline. Congress, barely acknowledging the problem,
attached anti-queer provisions to public health budgets while some
states considered proposals to quarantine those who were H.I.V.
positive. It’s also hard to remember that on the night ACT UP was
founded, in 1987 — six years into the epidemic and 15,000 American
deaths later — there was still not a single pill on the market to
prescribe. It sure seemed likely that every gay man would perish without
a tear from the rest of the world.

At least that was the nightmare scenario of the playwright [Larry
Kramer](https://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/28/nyregion/coronavirus-larry-kramer-aids.html).
In New York in those days, Kramer had a certain reputation for screaming
about AIDS when everyone else was crying about it. While so many of us
were caring for the dying and mourning the dead, he ranted at the White
House and City Hall and lashed out at his beloved gay community, whose
members he denounced as useless “sissies” incapable of fighting for our
own survival. His fury did little to galvanize people behind him.
Instead, it got him removed from the board of Gay Men’s Health Crisis,
an AIDS services agency he’d co-founded in 1982, and frozen out of gay
society. But it wasn’t long before more people were ready to listen to
him: By the time he was asked to give a talk at the Lesbian and Gay
Community Services Center in 1987 — he was a substitute that night;
[Nora Ephron](https://www.nytimes.com/topic/person/nora-ephron) had
canceled — the virus had found a second generation. These younger
queers, many of them in their 20s, had a certain feeling of entitlement
that eluded people who’d come of age before Stonewall, and they were
furious — shocked, even — to realize how the health establishment had
forsaken them.

<div class="g-ad rad-ad-wrapper">

<div id="mid19" class="place-ad" data-position="mid19" data-size-key="default">

</div>

</div>

![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)

In New York City, their weekly meetings quickly became the epicenter for
all information about the disease, the World Wide Web for rumors and
facts about new drug compounds and warnings about political perils, the
text thread for strategizing our collective survival. Doctors and
researchers from neighborhood hospitals made sojourns to ACT UP’s
run-down meeting hall at the center on West 13th Street with news from
the front. Elected officials and community organizers market-tested new
policies there. And ordinary people — mostly white gay men at first, but
always alongside a strong contingent of lesbians and people of color —
came looking for ways to respond. They soon diversified as their numbers
grew, from 50 to 350 to 800 and more.

They had little in common beyond what political scientists call a linked
fate: Everyone in those meetings knew someone who was dying or had died,
or else they were marked for death themselves. This brought a ferocious
urgency into the room. With no formal leadership (unlike many civil
rights movements that came before, but much like most of today’s protest
groups), ACT UP was the kind of chaotic public square that Hollywood
screenwriters might dream up, an unruly Athenian democracy where ideas
were aired and debated and where people thought — and screamed, and
cried — out loud. It was where *anger* was converted to *action*.
Protests were planned for nearly every week, against targets ranging
from City Hall to Wall Street, hospitals to homeless shelters.
Brandishing instantly iconic banners and posters — like the arresting
one-sheet that warned that “Silence = Death” — the group’s members took
over evening news broadcasts and shut down Grand Central Terminal and
St. Patrick’s Cathedral in highly photographed interventions that proved
the effectiveness of their methods and their design-driven messaging.
Not even Cosmopolitan magazine was spared, not even the Mets (the former
for telling young women they weren’t at risk, and the latter more
opportunistically: showing up at the stadium got their point — “Men, Use
Condoms or Beat It\!” — on national television). ACT UP was a place to
find a sense of empowerment, if not always power itself.

DESPITE THESE MUTINOUS mobilizations, little changed in those first
years. Just one pill materialized — called AZT and released in 1987, it
was the most expensive medication ever marketed — but it did nothing to
extend life. Congressional spending was woefully inadequate.
Pharmaceutical companies lacked the necessary urgency. The nation’s
leading Catholic cardinal still inveighed against condom use and gay
rights. Televangelists still welcomed our deaths.

In the face of frustration, ACT UP pivoted brilliantly. Instead of
demanding action from others, they took on the work themselves. Breaking
down the myriad problems inhibiting the response to AIDS, the group spun
off into committees to address them one by one: a women’s committee,
because women were excluded from drug trials and disease statistics; a
needle-exchange committee, because no one else was trying to prevent the
spread of disease among IV-drug users; a committee concentrated on
minorities, because cases were growing in those communities; a housing
committee, because so many lost their homes after lengthy
hospitalizations; even a science committee, because the labyrinthine
research institutions lacked a cogent agenda. Each group functioned
autonomously, but all were bound together by ACT UP’s belief that,
through deep self-study, its members could bring the pandemic under
control.

<div id="100000007066391" class="rad-diptych" data-slug="13tmag-actup-slide-ULN9">

![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)

![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)

</div>

And that is indeed what they did. Members went on to write (and help
push through) legislation redirecting federal funding, change the ways
insurance companies function and build housing for the homeless.
Eventually, ACT UP and its spinoffs proved to be full partners in
bringing effective antiretroviral drugs to market in 1996. Along the
way, they revolutionized how pharmaceutical sciences are practiced and
health care is provided. Today, patients of most diagnoses are involved
in research through formal advisory boards, a legacy of ACT UP’s
citizen-science activism. Roughly 23 million people are alive today
thanks to the drugs that members helped pioneer; few human beings can
claim such a massive humanitarian impact. They did this not by being
nice — oh, they were never nice — but by being right. And by helping
their adversaries find their way as well. Many people the organization
targeted because of their inaction, from Dr. Anthony Fauci at the
National Institutes of Health (now [back in the
news](https://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/28/technology/coronavirus-fauci-trump-conspiracy-target.html),
with Covid-19) to politicians like [Jesse
Helms](https://www.nytimes.com/topic/person/jesse-helms) and drug
companies like Merck & Co., had an eventual change of heart. Even
President Reagan came around, though tepidly, and not until he was long
out of power and more than 90,000 Americans had already died.

In the meantime, ACT UP had also turbocharged the L.G.B.T.Q. movement in
ways that no one dreamed possible, fueling one of the fastest social
transformations in human history. When the group began, homosexuality
was illegal in half of U.S. states and much of the world. Today,
marriage equality is legal in 28 countries. “We saw there was a degree
of possibility in life that we didn’t expect as a community of queers,”
says the New York artist [Robert
Vazquez-Pacheco](http://www.actuporalhistory.org/interviews/video/vazquez.html),
who attended his first ACT UP meeting in 1988. “We saw that things could
change.”

WHAT LESSONS CAN these alumni, most now in their senior years, pass
along to people craving change today? For starters, please remain calm.
(Coincidentally, “Please Remain Calm” is the title of early member
[Peter
Staley](https://www.nytimes.com/2019/03/21/podcasts/the-daily/hiv-aids-cure.html)’s
upcoming memoir.) In a piece of good timing, new books are impending
from several ACT UP veterans, including [Garance
Franke-Ruta](https://twitter.com/thegarance), [Mark
Harrington](https://www.treatmentactiongroup.org/about-us/staff/mark-harrington/),
[Sarah
Schulman](https://www.nytimes.com/2018/04/16/t-magazine/1980s-protest-movements.html)
and [Ron Goldberg](https://c4aa.org/2016/04/ron-goldberg), who was
responsible for ACT UP’s most memorable protest chants. Inside the chaos
of this mass-death experience, people found that being a part of a group
steadied their minds. “ACT UP didn’t just save lives of people with
H.I.V., to the extent that it did that,” says Franke-Ruta, who joined
ACT UP in 1988 and is now a political journalist. “It also saved a lot
of other people who otherwise would have been overwhelmed by the times.”

It wasn’t always easy to keep levelheaded in ACT UP meetings, which
could devolve into fractious infighting and bitter turf wars. But for
eight years, the group’s members managed to come together again and
again, keeping a steady focus on the plague. It’s worth noting that ACT
UP never did stop meeting. Though only a handful of chapters remain
active, the core New York group still gathers every Monday night in the
same West Village space, now glamorously renovated. And many original
members continue to fight AIDS in numerous related ways — as leaders of
powerful agencies like [amfAR](https://www.amfar.org/), [Housing
Works](https://www.housingworks.org/) and [Treatment Action
Group](https://www.treatmentactiongroup.org/) — and even unrelated ones:
[Sean Strub](http://www.seanstrub.com/), who went on to found POZ
magazine in 1994 and publish his own book, “Body Counts: A Memoir of
Politics, Sex, AIDS and Survival,” in 2014, now battles AIDS stigma as
the mayor of Milford, Pa. Their work is not over.

![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)

Which leads to a second lesson: Be patient. And to a third: Don’t be
intimidated by experts; anybody can become an expert. These principles
have certainly influenced the [Black Lives
Matter](https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/28/insider/black-lives-matter-stress.html)
movement, which has continued to evolve since 2013. Like ACT UP, it
brings together people tackling a waterfront of disparate issues:
everything from voting rights to gender justice, health care,
decarceration and immigration, says the Columbia law professor [Kendall
Thomas](https://www.law.columbia.edu/faculty/kendall-thomas), whose ACT
UP bona fides date to 1987. “The movement for black lives would look
very different if its thought leaders — many of whom are self-identified
black queer people — hadn’t been able to draw on the example of ACT UP,”
he says. “Black activists and their allies now understand that the
struggle for black freedom has to make connections across many different
constituencies and concerns that used to be seen as different and
disconnected.”

You can find ACT UP’s DNA in other contemporary movements as well. The
ill-fated [Occupy Wall
Street](https://www.nytimes.com/topic/organization/occupy-movement-occupy-wall-street)
protests that began in 2011 have regrown into an array of splinter
groups battling income inequality, student debt, the gun lobby and
climate change. How much does the “Greta Thunberg effect” owe to ACT UP
in its success in launching a global student movement to fight
carbon-dioxide emissions? Like their forebears, Thunberg and her
followers — mostly teenagers — know the scientific literature
thoroughly, leaving detractors little to attack them with besides ad
hominems.

Add to ACT UP’s offspring the gun-control activists whose numbers [grew
following the Parkland
massacre](https://www.nytimes.com/2019/02/13/us/parkland-shooting.html)
in 2018, the growing global movement to end transgender murders, the
[Women’s
Marchers](https://www.nytimes.com/2017/01/21/us/womens-march.html) and
even those working independently across nations to develop safety
strategies during the [current Covid-19
pandemic](https://www.nytimes.com/news-event/coronavirus). Progressive
activism owes a debt to these survivors of the AIDS crisis, these
stalwarts from ACT UP, for their legacy has left us all better equipped
to “challenge and reconfigure” power imbalances, as Thomas sees it. “We
have this archive of a political practice that is available to
everybody.” ACT UP’s veterans, aging as they may be, aren’t yet finished
unleashing power.

David France is the author of “How to Survive a Plague” and the director
of the forthcoming documentary “Welcome to Chechnya.” Rosie Marks is a
documentary photographer. Her first book, “08.14-10.19,” will be
published this year. Photo assistants: Evie Shandilya and Tucker Wyden.

<div class="rad-related">

<div class="rad-related-items">

[](https://www.nytimes.com/2020/04/13/t-magazine/act-up-members.html)

#### 12 People on Joining ACT UP: ‘I Went to That First Meeting and Never Left’<span class="rad-related-date">April 13, 2020</span>

![](https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/04/13/t-magazine/art/13tmag-actup-slide-NNCT/13tmag-actup-slide-NNCT-mediumThreeByTwo210.jpg)
[](https://www.nytimes.com/2018/04/27/t-magazine/times-journalists-aids-gay-history.html)

#### Six Times Journalists on the Paper’s History of Covering AIDS and Gay Issues<span class="rad-related-date">April 27, 2018</span>

![](https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/04/27/t-magazine/mini-essays-slide-5TZT/mini-essays-slide-5TZT-mediumThreeByTwo210-v2.jpg)
[](https://www.nytimes.com/2018/04/13/t-magazine/nyt-writers-80s-coverage.html)

#### 5 New York Times Writers on What They Got Right and Wrong in the Early ’80s<span class="rad-related-date">April 13, 2018</span>

![](https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/04/04/t-magazine/04tmag-reconsiderations-slide-T3RJ-copy/04tmag-reconsiderations-slide-T3RJ-copy-mediumThreeByTwo210-v2.jpg)
[](https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2018/04/17/t-magazine/aids-epidemic-deaths-new-york.html)

#### Those We Lost to the AIDS Epidemic<span class="rad-related-date">April 17, 2018</span>

![](https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/04/17/t-magazine/17tmag-lostpromo/17tmag-lostpromo-mediumThreeByTwo210.jpg)

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="rad-article-credits">

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-nav">

<div class="g-chapter ch1">

### We Are Family

#### Chapter 1: <span>Heirs and</span> <span>Alumni</span>

<div class="g-chapter-inner">

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/black-art-galleries.html)

##### The Artists

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/italian-fashion-design-houses.html)

##### The Dynasties

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/gordon-parks.html)

##### The Directors

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/enrique-olvera-chef.html)

##### The Disciples

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/royal-academy-antwerp.html)

##### The Graduates

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-chapter ch2">

#### Chapter 2: <span>Reunions</span> <span>and Reconsiderations</span>

<div class="g-chapter-inner">

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/ninth-street-greenwich-village-neighbors.html)

##### The Neighbors

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/omen-restaurant-nyc.html)

##### The Regulars

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/hair-musical-broadway.html)

##### Hair (1967)

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/sweeney-todd-revival.html)

##### Sweeney Todd (2005 Revival)

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/daughters-of-the-dust.html)

##### Daughters of the Dust (1991)

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-chapter ch3">

#### Chapter 3: <span>Legends</span> <span>Pioneers and</span> <span>Survivors</span>

<div class="g-chapter-inner">

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/butch-stud-lesbian.html)

##### The Renegades

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/act-up-aids.html)

##### The Activists

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/artist-recluse.html)

##### The Shadows

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/black-actresses-bassett-berry-blige-henson-whitfield-elise.html)

##### The Veterans

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-chapter ch4">

#### Chapter 4: <span>The New</span> <span>Guard</span>

<div class="g-chapter-inner">

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/asian-american-fashion-designers.html)

##### The Designers

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](13tmag-beauties.html)

##### The Beauties

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/nyc-downtown-nightlife-party-scene.html)

##### The Scenemakers

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/maria-cornejo-olivier-rousteing-telfar-clemens-alessandro-michele.html#olivier-rousteing-and-co)

##### Olivier Rousteing and Co.

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/maria-cornejo-olivier-rousteing-telfar-clemens-alessandro-michele.html#maria-cornejo-and-co)

##### Maria Cornejo and Co.

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/maria-cornejo-olivier-rousteing-telfar-clemens-alessandro-michele.html#telfar-clemens-and-co)

##### Telfar Clemens and Co.

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/maria-cornejo-olivier-rousteing-telfar-clemens-alessandro-michele.html#alessandro-michele-and-co)

##### Alessandro Michele and Co.

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/foreign-correspondents.html)

##### The Journalists

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div id="standalone-footer">

<div>

<div>

<div id="interactive-footer-wrapper">

<div class="css-i29ckm">

<div class="interactive-sharetools css-9z2bwm" role="toolbar" data-aria-label="Social Media Share buttons, Save button, and Comments Panel with current comment count" data-testid="share-tools">

  - 
  - 
  - 
  - 
    
    <div class="css-6n7j50">
    
    </div>

</div>

</div>

<div>

</div>

<div id="bottom-wrapper" class="css-1ede5it">

<div id="bottom-slug" class="css-l9onyx">

Advertisement

</div>

[Continue reading the main story](#after-bottom)

<div id="bottom" class="ad bottom-wrapper" style="text-align:center;height:100%;display:block;min-height:90px">

</div>

<div id="after-bottom">

</div>

</div>

## Site Index

<div>

</div>

## Site Information Navigation

  - [© <span>2020</span> <span>The New York Times
    Company</span>](https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice)

<!-- end list -->

  - [NYTCo](https://www.nytco.com/)
  - [Contact
    Us](https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us)
  - [Work with us](https://www.nytco.com/careers/)
  - [Advertise](https://nytmediakit.com/)
  - [T Brand Studio](http://www.tbrandstudio.com/)
  - [Your Ad
    Choices](https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy#how-do-i-manage-trackers)
  - [Privacy](https://www.nytimes.com/privacy)
  - [Terms of
    Service](https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service)
  - [Terms of
    Sale](https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale)
  - [Site Map](https://spiderbites.nytimes.com)
  - [Help](https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us)
  - [Subscriptions](https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW)

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>
