<div id="app">

<div id="standalone-header">

</div>

<div id="site-content" role="main">

# How a Trio of Black-Owned Galleries Changed the Art World

<div class="css-1vegfwe interactive-byline-container">

<div class="interactive-byline css-103zbxs">

April 13, 2020

</div>

</div>

<div id="interactive-standalone-sharetools" class="css-wkcogx">

<div>

<div class="interactive-sharetools css-9z2bwm" role="toolbar" data-aria-label="Social Media Share buttons, Save button, and Comments Panel with current comment count" data-testid="share-tools">

  - 
  - 
  - 
  - 
    
    <div class="css-6n7j50">
    
    </div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

In the 1960s and ’70s, Brockman Gallery, Gallery 32 and JAM led the way
in showing the work of artists now among the most influential of our
time.

<div id="black-art-galleries" class="section css-l08pwh interactive-minimal interactive-content interactive-size-medium">

<div class="css-17ih8de interactive-body">

<div class="rad-article g-article-ch1" data-chapter="ch1" data-slug="13tmag-jam">

<div class="g-header">

<div class="g-header-meta">

###### [We Are Family](https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/culture-issue-2020.html)

##### <span class="rad-ch-label">Chapter 1: </span><span>Heirs and</span> <span>Alumni</span>

</div>

<div class="g-header-nav">

##### Previous

##### Next

</div>

</div>

<div class="rad-cover stacked-cover">

<div class="rad-cover-main">

<div class="rad-head-wrap">

# How a Trio of Black-Owned Galleries Changed the Art World

## <span>The Artists</span>

For decades, the art world ignored artists of color — an institutional
neglect it’s now trying to correct. But in the 1960s and ’70s, in Los
Angeles and New York, three galleries led the way in showing the work of
black artists, many of whom are now among the most influential of our
time.

<span class="g-byline-name" itemprop="name">By [M.H.
Miller](https://www.nytimes.com/by/m-h-miller)</span>

</div>

<div class="rad-byline-wrap">

<div class="rad-date-share">

April 13, 2020

<span>SHARE</span>

</div>

</div>

![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)

</div>

</div>

<div class="rad-story-body">

IN THE PAST few years, cultural institutions have been trying to create
a more inclusive narrative of contemporary art history, one that
contains more women and people of color — people who were denied
successful careers a half-century ago simply because they weren’t white
men. Today, it’s not uncommon to see black artists with solo shows at
museums and galleries that just five years ago might have ignored them
entirely.

Despite this correction, black-owned commercial galleries remain
rarities in America. For a brief period in the 1960s and ’70s, however,
there was an alternative art world — first in Los Angeles, then in New
York — that offered a view of contemporary art that was vibrant and
welcoming. Five decades later, it’s even more influential than it was
then.

The first major gallery run by and for black artists was Brockman
Gallery, founded in 1967 by two artist brothers, Alonzo Davis and Dale
Brockman Davis, in Los Angeles’s Leimert Park neighborhood. As the
historian Kellie Jones notes in her 2017 study, “[South of Pico: African
American Artists in Los Angeles in the 1960s
and 1970s](https://read.dukeupress.edu/books/book/2349/South-of-PicoAfrican-American-Artists-in-Los),”
storefront space was easy to come by in the wake of the [Watts
rebellion](https://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/11/us/50-years-after-watts-riots-a-recovery-is-in-progress.html),
a series of riots that took place in August 1965 in predominantly black
Los Angeles communities. The Davis brothers overcame difficult odds to
run their own business, having grown up in the Jim Crow South, where
being an artist, not to mention a black artist, was unheard-of. Over the
next 23 years, Brockman — which was named for the brothers’ maternal
grandmother — helped cultivate a roster of young, mostly unknown artists
who are now familiar names, among them Dan Concholar, [David
Hammons](https://www.nytimes.com/2019/07/15/t-magazine/most-important-contemporary-art.html),
Maren Hassinger, Ulysses Jenkins, Senga Nengudi, John Outterbridge and
Noah Purifoy.

<div class="rad-related">

<div class="rad-related-header">

###### The T List |

Sign up here

</div>

<div class="rad-related-items">

</div>

</div>

![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)

The same year the Davises opened their gallery, a young painter and
ballet dancer named Suzanne Jackson arrived in Los Angeles from San
Francisco. In 1968, she began taking figure-drawing classes at the Otis
Art Institute with Charles White, the best-known black artist of the
’40s and ’50s, who became a mentor to many of the city’s younger
talents. The art community was so small that Jackson encountered Alonzo
Davis at an artist’s house in Echo Park not long after moving to the
city, and later met Hammons in one of White’s classes. At the time, she
was searching for a new studio and found one not far from the school,
just west of downtown. To sign the lease, she told her landlord she was
going to open a gallery, thinking the landlord wouldn’t understand the
concept of an artist’s studio. “I was just going to use the space to
paint,” she said, but Hammons — “being kind of nosy, he was always
around,” Jackson said of him — encouraged her to actually use the
building as she promised her landlord she would. Named after its
address, Gallery 32 opened in March 1969 and created an energized
community of artists who had previously been relegated to showing their
work at community centers or in people’s backyards.

<div class="g-ad rad-ad-wrapper">

<div id="mid8" class="place-ad" data-position="mid8" data-size-key="default">

</div>

</div>

Hammons was just one unifying thread of this community, though there
were others. Brockman and Gallery 32 usually coordinated their openings
to fall on the same weekends, and they shared collectors and artists as
well, including [Betye
Saar](https://www.nytimes.com/2019/09/04/arts/design/betye-saar.html),
Timothy Washington and Nengudi. After a year and a half of losing money
on postage and printing invitations, Jackson closed her space in 1970
but later worked for Brockman Gallery.

THEN, IN THE 1970S, Hammons moved to New York and became a major reason
a young single mother named [Linda Goode
Bryant](https://www.nytimes.com/2019/10/11/nyregion/linda-goode-bryant-project-eats.html)
opened her own gallery, Just Above Midtown (known as JAM): In 1973,
Bryant was working as the director of education at the Studio Museum in
Harlem, another important touchstone for black artists of the era. She
was familiar with Hammons’s work and asked if he’d ever show in a New
York gallery. He told Bryant, “I don’t show in white galleries.” Her
response: “Well, I guess I have to start a gallery.” She was the only
black gallery owner in a building on 57th Street full of exhibition
spaces. (Bryant recalls that whenever she ran into Allan Frumkin, a
dealer of mostly realist paintings, he’d tell her, “You don’t belong
here.”)

<div id="100000007076512" class="rad-slideshow swiper-container" data-slug="13tmag-galleries-slide-JOTT">

<div class="swiper-wrapper">

<div id="100000007076512" class="rad-slideshow-item swiper-slide image" data-slug="13tmag-galleries-slide-JOTT">

<div class="rad-asset-wrapper" style="background-color: ">

<div class="rad-spinner">

</div>

![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)

</div>

<div class="rad-caption">

<div class="rad-caption-wrapper">

<span class="rad-caption-text">An exterior view of Brockman Gallery on
the opening night of the first gallery exhibition in 1967. The gallery
was located at 4334 Degnan Boulevard in the Leimert Park neighborhood of
Los Angeles.</span>
<span class="rad-credit" itemprop="copyrightHolder">Los Angeles Public
Library Special Collections</span>

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div id="100000007076513" class="rad-slideshow-item swiper-slide image" data-slug="13tmag-galleries-slide-AKW4">

<div class="rad-asset-wrapper" style="background-color: ">

<div class="rad-spinner">

</div>

![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)

</div>

<div class="rad-caption">

<div class="rad-caption-wrapper">

<span class="rad-caption-text">A poster for “Contemporary Black Imagery”
at Brockman Gallery, a group exhibition featuring work by Herman Bailey,
David Bradford, Elizabeth Catlett, David Hammons, Suzanne Jackson,
Timothy Washington and Roland Welton.</span>
<span class="rad-credit" itemprop="copyrightHolder">Los Angeles Public
Library Special Collections</span>

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div id="100000007076514" class="rad-slideshow-item swiper-slide image" data-slug="13tmag-galleries-slide-BS8V">

<div class="rad-asset-wrapper" style="background-color: ">

<div class="rad-spinner">

</div>

![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)

</div>

<div class="rad-caption">

<div class="rad-caption-wrapper">

<span class="rad-caption-text">In an undated photograph, Dale Brockman
Davis is shown at top right with the Bell Tower group installation in
Watts, Los Angeles.</span>
<span class="rad-credit" itemprop="copyrightHolder">Los Angeles Public
Library Special Collections</span>

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div id="100000007076515" class="rad-slideshow-item swiper-slide image" data-slug="13tmag-galleries-slide-N4Q8">

<div class="rad-asset-wrapper" style="background-color: ">

<div class="rad-spinner">

</div>

![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)

</div>

<div class="rad-caption">

<div class="rad-caption-wrapper">

<span class="rad-caption-text">An undated poster for an exhibition at
Brockman Gallery featuring the artists Noah Purifoy and David
Hammons.</span> <span class="rad-credit" itemprop="copyrightHolder">Los
Angeles Public Library Special Collections</span>

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div id="100000007076516" class="rad-slideshow-item swiper-slide image" data-slug="13tmag-galleries-slide-C7ZV">

<div class="rad-asset-wrapper" style="background-color: ">

<div class="rad-spinner">

</div>

![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)

</div>

<div class="rad-caption">

<div class="rad-caption-wrapper">

<span class="rad-caption-text">An undated poster for a show at Gallery
32 featuring a photo of Annie Bianucci, George Evans Jr. and Suzanne
Jackson by Greg Edwards.</span>
<span class="rad-credit" itemprop="copyrightHolder">Photo © Gregory
Wiley Edwards. Courtesy of Suzanne Jackson</span>

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div id="100000007076517" class="rad-slideshow-item swiper-slide image" data-slug="13tmag-galleries-slide-4CC9">

<div class="rad-asset-wrapper" style="background-color: ">

<div class="rad-spinner">

</div>

![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)

</div>

<div class="rad-caption">

<div class="rad-caption-wrapper">

<span class="rad-caption-text">On the reverse side of an exhibition
poster for Gallery 32, a hand-drawn map by Suzanne Jackson depicting the
gallery’s location.</span>
<span class="rad-credit" itemprop="copyrightHolder">Courtesy of Suzanne
Jackson</span>

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div id="100000007076518" class="rad-slideshow-item swiper-slide image" data-slug="13tmag-galleries-slide-AD22">

<div class="rad-asset-wrapper" style="background-color: ">

<div class="rad-spinner">

</div>

![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)

</div>

<div class="rad-caption">

<div class="rad-caption-wrapper">

<span class="rad-caption-text">A poster for a show at Gallery 32
featuring David Hammons.</span>
<span class="rad-credit" itemprop="copyrightHolder">Courtesy of Suzanne
Jackson</span>

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div id="100000007076533" class="rad-slideshow-item swiper-slide image" data-slug="13tmag-galleries-slide-RJ4W">

<div class="rad-asset-wrapper" style="background-color: ">

<div class="rad-spinner">

</div>

![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)

</div>

<div class="rad-caption">

<div class="rad-caption-wrapper">

<span class="rad-caption-text">A poster for an exhibition at Gallery 32
featuring a photograph by Phillip Jackson of a sculpture by Timothy
Washington.</span>
<span class="rad-credit" itemprop="copyrightHolder">Courtesy of Suzanne
Jackson</span>

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div id="100000007078215" class="rad-slideshow-item swiper-slide image" data-slug="13tmag-galleries-slide-A6LH">

<div class="rad-asset-wrapper" style="background-color: ">

<div class="rad-spinner">

</div>

![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)

</div>

<div class="rad-caption">

<div class="rad-caption-wrapper">

<span class="rad-caption-text">Emory Douglas’s “See Revolutionary Art
Exhibit” (1969), held at Gallery 32.</span>
<span class="rad-credit" itemprop="copyrightHolder">Collection of the
Center for the Study of Political Graphics. © 2018 Emory Douglas/Artist
Rights Society (ARS), New York</span>

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div id="100000007080879" class="rad-slideshow-item swiper-slide image" data-slug="13tmag-galleries-slide-MRP9">

<div class="rad-asset-wrapper" style="background-color: ">

<div class="rad-spinner">

</div>

![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)

</div>

<div class="rad-caption">

<div class="rad-caption-wrapper">

<span class="rad-caption-text">An installation view from David Hammons’s
1975 JAM show, “Greasy Bags and BBQ Bones.”</span>
<span class="rad-credit" itemprop="copyrightHolder">Courtesy Linda Goode
Bryant</span>

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div id="100000007078462" class="rad-slideshow-item swiper-slide image" data-slug="13tmag-galleries-slide-GFQV">

<div class="rad-asset-wrapper" style="background-color: ">

<div class="rad-spinner">

</div>

![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)

</div>

<div class="rad-caption">

<div class="rad-caption-wrapper">

<span class="rad-caption-text">Lorraine O’Grady’s “Untitled (Mlle
Bourgeoise Noire Shouts Out Her Poem)” (1980-83/2009), performances made
with unannounced appearances at openings at both Just Above Midtown
(JAM) and the New Museum of Contemporary Art.</span>
<span class="rad-credit" itemprop="copyrightHolder">Courtesy Alexander
Gray Associates, New York. © Lorraine O’Grady/Artists Rights Society
(ARS), New York</span>

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div id="100000007079974" class="rad-slideshow-item swiper-slide image" data-slug="13tmag-galleries-slide-ZAVU">

<div class="rad-asset-wrapper" style="background-color: ">

<div class="rad-spinner">

</div>

![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)

</div>

<div class="rad-caption">

<div class="rad-caption-wrapper">

<span class="rad-caption-text">A postcard for the artist Senga Nengudi’s
1977 exhibition “R.S.V.P” at JAM.</span>
<span class="rad-credit" itemprop="copyrightHolder">Senga Nengudi
papers, 1947, circa 1962-2017, Archives of American Art, Smithsonian
Institution</span>

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div id="100000007079971" class="rad-slideshow-item swiper-slide image" data-slug="13tmag-galleries-slide-3XCF">

<div class="rad-asset-wrapper" style="background-color: ">

<div class="rad-spinner">

</div>

![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)

</div>

<div class="rad-caption">

<div class="rad-caption-wrapper">

<span class="rad-caption-text">An undated color photocopy with
installation instructions for Nengudi’s 1977 “R.S.V.P” exhibit at
JAM.</span> <span class="rad-credit" itemprop="copyrightHolder">Senga
Nengudi papers, 1947, circa 1962-2017, Archives of American Art,
Smithsonian Institution</span>

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div id="100000007078256" class="rad-slideshow-item swiper-slide image" data-slug="13tmag-galleries-slide-LALN">

<div class="rad-asset-wrapper" style="background-color: ">

<div class="rad-spinner">

</div>

![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)

</div>

<div class="rad-caption">

<div class="rad-caption-wrapper">

<span class="rad-caption-text">Nengundi’s artist’s questionnaire for
JAM, circa 1977.</span>
<span class="rad-credit" itemprop="copyrightHolder">Senga Nengudi
papers, 1947, circa 1962-2017, Archives of American Art, Smithsonian
Institution</span>

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="swiper-pagination">

</div>

<div class="swiper-button-prev">

</div>

<div class="swiper-button-next">

</div>

</div>

Many of the artists who first worked with Brockman and Gallery 32 went
on to show with JAM, which was, for a time, the only place in New York
that would give them an arena. Each of these places was as important a
gallery as the most storied exhibition spaces of the ’60s and ’70s: Los
Angeles’s Ferus Gallery, where many West Coast artists (Ed Ruscha,
Robert Irwin, Larry Bell) debuted, and Leo Castelli’s townhouse on East
77th Street, which introduced New York to [Jasper
Johns](https://www.nytimes.com/2019/02/18/t-magazine/jasper-johns.html),
[Robert
Rauschenberg](https://www.nytimes.com/topic/person/robert-rauschenberg)
and [Andy Warhol](https://www.nytimes.com/topic/person/andy-warhol).
There remains a consensus that these galleries were legendary, though
both largely overlooked artists of color. (According to the critic
Miranda Sawyer, Castelli, who ran his space from 1957 until his death in
1999, even rejected Jean-Michel Basquiat, who in the 1980s became the
most famous black artist to show in white galleries, as “too
troublesome.”) Castelli became shorthand for the rapidly growing
commercial market of contemporary art, but not 20 blocks away was an
entirely different world, one that was largely ignored by the
traditional power brokers; The Times, for instance, did not review any
JAM gallery shows. The artists who got their starts here — Bryant would
also give [Dawoud
Bey](https://www.nytimes.com/2019/05/01/arts/design/dawoud-bey-david-hammons-jam-frieze.html),
Lorraine O’Grady, [Howardena
Pindell](https://www.nytimes.com/2019/03/23/arts/design/black-artists-older-success.html)
and Fred Wilson their first shows before closing her space in 1986 — are
now canonical.

As a result, anecdotes from this era take on an almost mythological
quality. In 1975, Bryant was preparing a show of Hammons’s body prints,
works on paper that the artist made by covering his body in margarine or
grease. He’d press himself against the paper, and then dust the
impression with ground pigment, producing a ghostlike image that was
somewhere between a self-portrait and a Rorschach test. Hammons had been
showing these works in Los Angeles, and they had become popular with
collectors, so to cover postage for her announcement cards and to pay
her printer, Bryant got people to commit to buying new body-print works
in advance, before Hammons arrived to install the show. When she called
Hammons to discuss logistics, she asked him how many body prints he was
bringing.

“I ain’t doing that anymore,” Hammons told her.

“Oh,” Bryant replied, trying to mask her anxiety. “What *are* you
doing?”

“Brown paper bags, barbecue bones, grease and hair,” he said. He was
making sculptures out of these materials, gathering hair from the floors
of Harlem barbershops.

“Oh really?” Bryant said into the phone, and then covered the mouthpiece
to shout an expletive.

There had been a longstanding division between black artists who made
figurative work and black artists who worked in abstraction, and people
from both camps came to the opening of the show, which was called,
appropriately, “Greasy Bags and Barbecue Bones.” “The place was packed,”
Bryant said. All of them felt a little betrayed. The figurative artists
were upset that Hammons had turned his back on the form, and the
abstract artists felt he was debasing their work by using such blatantly
discarded materials. Tensions were high, so Bryant hushed the group and
suggested everyone “sit down and just talk.” They did, while Hammons
stood on the sidelines, not speaking, only listening, and at the end of
the night, “the artists that worked figuratively and the artists that
worked abstractly shook hands and walked out the door,” Bryant said. The
rift between the two sides was resolved. “That was the end of that
debate.” In the end, she wasn’t able to pay her printer.

M.H. Miller is a features director at T Magazine. Wayne Lawrence is a
documentary photographer. L.A. grooming: Olivia Fischa at
celestineagency.com. L.A. production: Peter McClafferty. N.Y. grooming:
Laura de Leon at Joe Management. Grooming assistants: Emily Klein,
Robert Reyes, Jo Franco and Destiny Venice.

<div class="rad-related">

<div class="rad-related-items">

[](https://www.nytimes.com/2019/11/19/t-magazine/suzanne-jackson-artist.html)

#### An Artist Who Makes Paintings Without a Canvas<span class="rad-related-date">Nov. 19, 2019</span>

![](https://static01.nyt.com/images/2019/11/19/t-magazine/19tmag-jackson-slide-USMT/19tmag-jackson-slide-USMT-mediumThreeByTwo210-v2.jpg)
[](https://www.nytimes.com/2018/09/28/t-magazine/art/charles-white-moma-retrospective.html)

#### The Man Who Taught a Generation of Black Artists Gets His Own Retrospective<span class="rad-related-date">Sept. 28, 2018</span>

![](https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/09/28/t-magazine/art/charles-white-slide-7RSF/charles-white-slide-7RSF-mediumThreeByTwo210.jpg)
[](https://www.nytimes.com/2018/06/20/t-magazine/black-art-dealers.html)

#### Why Have There Been No Great Black Art Dealers? <span class="rad-related-date">June 20, 2018</span>

![](https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/06/21/t-magazine/art/art-dealers-slide-21LU/art-dealers-slide-21LU-mediumThreeByTwo210.jpg)

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="rad-article-credits">

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-nav">

<div class="g-chapter ch1">

### We Are Family

#### Chapter 1: <span>Heirs and</span> <span>Alumni</span>

<div class="g-chapter-inner">

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/black-art-galleries.html)

##### The Artists

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/italian-fashion-design-houses.html)

##### The Dynasties

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/gordon-parks.html)

##### The Directors

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/enrique-olvera-chef.html)

##### The Disciples

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/royal-academy-antwerp.html)

##### The Graduates

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-chapter ch2">

#### Chapter 2: <span>Reunions</span> <span>and Reconsiderations</span>

<div class="g-chapter-inner">

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/ninth-street-greenwich-village-neighbors.html)

##### The Neighbors

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/omen-restaurant-nyc.html)

##### The Regulars

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/hair-musical-broadway.html)

##### Hair (1967)

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/sweeney-todd-revival.html)

##### Sweeney Todd (2005 Revival)

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/daughters-of-the-dust.html)

##### Daughters of the Dust (1991)

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-chapter ch3">

#### Chapter 3: <span>Legends</span> <span>Pioneers and</span> <span>Survivors</span>

<div class="g-chapter-inner">

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/butch-stud-lesbian.html)

##### The Renegades

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/act-up-aids.html)

##### The Activists

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/artist-recluse.html)

##### The Shadows

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/black-actresses-bassett-berry-blige-henson-whitfield-elise.html)

##### The Veterans

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-chapter ch4">

#### Chapter 4: <span>The New</span> <span>Guard</span>

<div class="g-chapter-inner">

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/asian-american-fashion-designers.html)

##### The Designers

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](13tmag-beauties.html)

##### The Beauties

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/nyc-downtown-nightlife-party-scene.html)

##### The Scenemakers

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/maria-cornejo-olivier-rousteing-telfar-clemens-alessandro-michele.html#olivier-rousteing-and-co)

##### Olivier Rousteing and Co.

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/maria-cornejo-olivier-rousteing-telfar-clemens-alessandro-michele.html#maria-cornejo-and-co)

##### Maria Cornejo and Co.

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/maria-cornejo-olivier-rousteing-telfar-clemens-alessandro-michele.html#telfar-clemens-and-co)

##### Telfar Clemens and Co.

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/maria-cornejo-olivier-rousteing-telfar-clemens-alessandro-michele.html#alessandro-michele-and-co)

##### Alessandro Michele and Co.

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/foreign-correspondents.html)

##### The Journalists

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div id="standalone-footer">

<div>

<div>

<div id="interactive-footer-wrapper">

<div class="css-i29ckm">

<div class="interactive-sharetools css-9z2bwm" role="toolbar" data-aria-label="Social Media Share buttons, Save button, and Comments Panel with current comment count" data-testid="share-tools">

  - 
  - 
  - 
  - 
    
    <div class="css-6n7j50">
    
    </div>

</div>

</div>

<div>

</div>

<div id="bottom-wrapper" class="css-1ede5it">

<div id="bottom-slug" class="css-l9onyx">

Advertisement

</div>

[Continue reading the main story](#after-bottom)

<div id="bottom" class="ad bottom-wrapper" style="text-align:center;height:100%;display:block;min-height:90px">

</div>

<div id="after-bottom">

</div>

</div>

## Site Index

<div>

</div>

## Site Information Navigation

  - [© <span>2020</span> <span>The New York Times
    Company</span>](https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice)

<!-- end list -->

  - [NYTCo](https://www.nytco.com/)
  - [Contact
    Us](https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us)
  - [Work with us](https://www.nytco.com/careers/)
  - [Advertise](https://nytmediakit.com/)
  - [T Brand Studio](http://www.tbrandstudio.com/)
  - [Your Ad
    Choices](https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy#how-do-i-manage-trackers)
  - [Privacy](https://www.nytimes.com/privacy)
  - [Terms of
    Service](https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service)
  - [Terms of
    Sale](https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale)
  - [Site Map](https://spiderbites.nytimes.com)
  - [Help](https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us)
  - [Subscriptions](https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW)

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>
