<div id="app">

<div id="standalone-header">

<div class="css-11kjks6" role="region" data-aria-label="comments panel" tabindex="-1">

<div class="css-1h21wu5">

<div class="css-akb3vb">

<div>

<div class="css-1yip8nf">

## [Comments](#commentsContainer)

[The Esteemed Black Actresses Who Finally Have the Spotlight]()[Skip to
Comments]()

<div class="css-c32q7m">

The comments section is closed. To submit a letter to the editor for
publication, write to <letters@nytimes.com>.

</div>

</div>

<div class="css-1bxnhxc">

</div>

<div class="css-1yip8nf">

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div id="site-content" role="main">

# The Esteemed Black Actresses Who Finally Have the Spotlight

<div class="css-1vegfwe interactive-byline-container">

<div class="interactive-byline css-103zbxs">

April 13, 2020

</div>

</div>

<div id="interactive-standalone-sharetools" class="css-wkcogx">

<div>

<div class="interactive-sharetools css-9z2bwm" role="toolbar" data-aria-label="Social Media Share buttons, Save button, and Comments Panel with current comment count" data-testid="share-tools">

  - 
  - 
  - 
  - 
    
    <div class="css-6n7j50">
    
    </div>

  - *<span class="css-1dtr3u3">+</span>*

</div>

</div>

</div>

Though their journey in Hollywood has been hard and steep, a number of
women have made it to the top. And they’re not done yet.

<div id="black-actresses-bassett-berry-blige-henson-whitfield-elise" class="section css-l08pwh interactive-minimal interactive-content interactive-size-medium">

<div class="css-17ih8de interactive-body">

<div class="rad-article g-article-ch3" data-chapter="ch3" data-slug="13tmag-veterans">

<div class="g-header">

<div class="g-header-meta">

###### [We Are Family](https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/culture-issue-2020.html)

##### <span class="rad-ch-label">Chapter 3: </span><span>Legends</span> <span>Pioneers and</span> <span>Survivors</span>

</div>

<div class="g-header-nav">

##### Previous

##### Next

</div>

</div>

<div class="rad-cover stacked-cover">

<div class="rad-cover-main">

<div class="rad-head-wrap">

# The Esteemed Black Actresses Who Finally Have the Spotlight

## <span>The Veterans</span>

The journey of black actresses in Hollywood is hard and steep, though a
number of women have fought the odds to the top over long and
distinguished careers. They’re not done yet.

<span class="g-byline-name" itemprop="name">By Brian Keith
Jackson</span>

</div>

<div class="rad-byline-wrap">

<div class="rad-date-share">

April 13, 2020

<span>SHARE</span>

</div>

</div>

<div class="rad-video-wrapper" data-safe-area="{&quot;top&quot;:0,&quot;right&quot;:0,&quot;bottom&quot;:0,&quot;left&quot;:0}">

<div id="rad-video-black-actresses" class="rad-vhs-video" name="black-actresses" data-env="" data-cinemagraph="false" loop="false" muted="false" autoplay="false" controls="true" data-loader="true" data-ratio="none">

</div>

</div>

<div class="rad-caption">

<div class="rad-caption-wrapper">

<span class="rad-caption-text">Extraordinary African-American actresses,
including Halle Berry, Angela Bassett and Taraji P. Henson, remember
their first roles and discuss the solidarity they feel with one
another.</span>
<span class="rad-credit" itemprop="copyrightHolder">Video by Scott J.
Ross</span>

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="rad-story-body">

IN 2002, WHEN [Halle
Berry](https://tmagazine.blogs.nytimes.com/2012/10/18/roles-of-a-lifetime-halle-berry/)
became the first black woman to win a best actress Academy Award for her
role as the forever-yearning widow Leticia Musgrove in “[Monster’s
Ball](https://www.nytimes.com/watching/titles/movies/1000037537),” she
wept as she accepted her golden statue. Many black Americans immediately
identified with that well of emotion, which reflected both the toll of
her journey and the hope for more change to come.

But Hollywood has always been a mercurial experiment, with white men
holding the reins of power, making progress, inclusion and diversity at
best a seasonal proposition. Almost 20 years on, Berry remains the only
African-American woman to win a best actress Oscar. And yet there is an
increasing sense that it is the Academy that is behind the times. We are
living in an age in which some of our greatest, most successful actors
are black women, near 50 or older, veterans who have fought against an
industry that for much of its history would have rather ignored them.
Some of them, like [Taraji P.
Henson](https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2016/12/08/magazine/great-performers-la-noir-photo-essay.html)
and Berry, began with bit parts on TV. Others, like [Viola
Davis](https://www.nytimes.com/2014/09/14/magazine/viola-davis.html),
who got her start in the theater, or [Mary J.
Blige](https://www.nytimes.com/2016/05/19/t-magazine/entertainment/90s-hip-hop-stylist-misa-hylton.html),
who had almost 10 years of hit singles to her name before being cast in
her first film role, came to cinema later in their careers. Many of
these actresses were first reliable character actors or supporting
players in the 1980s and ’90s, during a shift in what studios deemed
bankable, a time that saw a spate of films targeted to black audiences:
“Jungle Fever” (1991), Berry’s big-screen debut; “[What’s Love Got to
Do With It](https://www.nytimes.com/watching/titles/movies/1000188146)”
(1993), with [Angela
Bassett](https://www.nytimes.com/2019/07/26/arts/angela-bassett-otherhood-911-black-panther.html)’s
star-making turn as [Tina
Turner](https://www.nytimes.com/topic/person/tina-turner); “[Set It
Off](https://www.nytimes.com/watching/titles/movies/1000104774)” (1996),
with [Kimberly Elise](https://www.imdb.com/name/nm0253708/) as a bank
robber; and “[Eve’s
Bayou](https://www.nytimes.com/watching/titles/eves-bayou)” (1997), with
[Lynn Whitfield](https://www.imdb.com/name/nm0005551/) as the matriarch
of an upper-middle-class Southern family. This was a kind of golden era,
allowing this generation of black American actresses — women who also
include [Alfre
Woodard](https://www.nytimes.com/2020/01/03/movies/alfre-woodard-clemency.html),
[Regina
King](https://www.nytimes.com/2016/03/06/arts/television/regina-king-profile.html)
and [Queen
Latifah](https://www.nytimes.com/2015/05/10/arts/television/queen-latifah-stars-in-bessie-on-hbo.html)
— to showcase their depth on a scale previously unimaginable.

![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)

When money for projects with black casts dried up in Hollywood by the
end of the ’90s, these actresses carried on, forced to look farther down
the thoroughfare than merely the steps they could see. To be a black
woman in Hollywood is to have to be steadfast in the pursuit of one’s
craft, in the search for basic opportunities. They have had to toil
through the intricacies of a doubly marginalized existence — being black
and being a woman — and have rarely been allowed to fully extol the
complexities of their truth for the screen.

<div class="rad-related">

<div class="rad-related-header">

###### The T List |

Sign up here

</div>

<div class="rad-related-items">

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-ad rad-ad-wrapper">

<div id="mid5" class="place-ad" data-position="mid5" data-size-key="default">

</div>

</div>

THIS HAS BEEN the historical situation for women of color in Hollywood,
all of whom are cupped in the palms of mighty forebears. There was
Hattie McDaniel, the first African-American [to win an Academy
Award](https://www.hollywoodreporter.com/features/oscars-first-black-winner-accepted-774335),
for her role as “Mammy” in “[Gone With the
Wind](https://www.nytimes.com/watching/titles/gone-with-the-wind)”
(1939). Then there was the singer and actress [Lena
Horne](https://www.nytimes.com/2010/05/10/arts/music/10horne.html) of
“[Stormy
Weather](https://www.nytimes.com/watching/titles/stormy-weather)” and
“[Cabin in the
Sky](https://www.nytimes.com/watching/titles/movies/1000118508),” both
from 1943 and early exceptions in mainstream Hollywood as popular films
with black casts. Or [Diahann
Carroll](https://www.nytimes.com/2019/10/04/arts/television/diahann-carroll-dead.html),
the star of the sitcom “Julia” (1968-71), the first black woman to lead
a network series. And of course, there’s [Dorothy
Dandridge](https://www.nytimes.com/1965/09/09/archives/dorothy-dandridge-found-dead-a-t-her-apartment-in-hollywood-singer.html),
the first black woman nominated for a best actress Oscar for her role in
1954’s “[Carmen
Jones](https://www.nytimes.com/watching/titles/movies/1000018520),” a
woman presciently portrayed by Berry in a 1999 biopic, and [Cicely
Tyson](https://www.nytimes.com/2013/09/29/fashion/for-cicely-tyson-and-kerry-washington-roles-of-a-lifetime.html),
who at 95 has played strong leading roles throughout her nearly
seven-decade career. Like their predecessors, these women were
journeymen out of necessity, often lone souls in their creative
environments.

![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)

As the Hollywood landscape is, again, recognizing the need for diversity
in front of and behind the camera, it is these same veterans who have
gone from supporting players to marquee names, the ones who have proven
themselves able to carry a film or show to commercial and critical
success almost single-handedly. They have always had the range and
ability to do so, but now they also have leverage. Bassett, Davis and
Henson all helm major network dramas, and last year, King starred in the
limited-series adaptation of
“[Watchmen](https://www.nytimes.com/2019/10/16/arts/television/watchmen-comic-history.html).”
Blige was nominated for an Oscar for her role in the 2017 period drama
“[Mudbound](https://www.nytimes.com/watching/titles/mudbound).” Their
persistence has rippled outward, altering the entire industry, forcing a
conversation about power in Hollywood. The last few years have also seen
a surge in black women — including Berry, [Ava
DuVernay](https://www.nytimes.com/2019/06/20/movies/ava-duvernay-movies.html),
[Shonda
Rhimes](https://www.nytimes.com/2018/07/20/business/media/shonda-rhimes-netflix-series.html)
and [Lena
Waithe](https://www.nytimes.com/2019/12/02/movies/lena-waithe-queen-and-slim.html)
— serving as producers, directors and show runners.

The notion of having a critical mass of black actresses over the age of
50 isn’t something we could have fathomed three decades ago. It would
have been hard to predict even when Berry was accepting her best actress
Oscar. In her speech, she dedicated her win to “every nameless, faceless
woman of color that now has a chance because this door tonight has been
opened.” [That door is still
closed](https://www.nytimes.com/2020/02/07/movies/essence-lunch-alfre-woodard.html)
for many, and in an era where [\#OscarsSoWhite trends
annually](https://www.nytimes.com/2020/02/06/movies/oscarssowhite-history.html),
there is still work to be done. But in refusing to be sidelined, these
women charted a map of an altogether new territory — and changed the
terms of who gets to be at the top.

Not pictured: Debbie Allen, **** Regina King, Queen Latifah, ****
Mo’Nique, Phylicia Rashad, Jill Scott and Cicely Tyson.

Brian Keith Jackson is a novelist and essayist. Racquel Chevremont is a
collector, art adviser and co-founder of Deux Femmes Noires, a platform
that brings visibility to artists of color and queer artists. Mickalene
Thomas is an award-winning multidisciplinary artist who addresses female
sexuality, beauty and power in her work. She is the co-founder of Deux
Femmes Noires. Producer: 3 Star Productions. On the cover only: Viola
Davis: Hair: Jamika Wilson. Makeup: Autumn Moultrie at the Wall Group.
In the group photo, from left to right: Taraji P. Henson: Hair: Tym
Wallace. Makeup: Ashunta Sheriff. Mary J. Blige: Hair: Tym Wallace.
Makeup: D’Andre Michael. Angela Bassett: Hair: Randy Stodghill at Opus
Beauty using Oribe. Makeup: D’Andre Michael. Lynn Whitfield: Hair: Larry
Sims. Makeup: Rebekah Aladdin. Makeup assistant: Rachel Aladdin. Halle
Berry: Hair: Sara Seward. Makeup: Jorge Monroy. Manicure: Nettie Davis.
Kimberly Elise: Hair: Nina J Potts at SixK.LA. Makeup: Kym Nicole Oubre.
Set braids: Courtney Elzy. Set design by Jill Nicholls.

<div class="rad-related">

<div class="rad-related-items">

[](https://www.nytimes.com/2018/08/09/t-magazine/allison-janney-idina-menzel-female-actresses.html)

#### These Actresses Dominate Not Just the Stage, but the Screen Too<span class="rad-related-date">Aug. 9, 2018</span>

![](https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/08/09/t-magazine/09tmag-women/09tmag-women-mediumThreeByTwo210.jpg)

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="rad-corrections">

##### **Correction** April 13, 2020

*An earlier version of this video included a picture caption that
misidentified an actress. She is Nia Long, not Regina Hall. (The video
now includes an image of Regina Hall.)*

</div>

<div class="rad-article-credits">

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-nav">

<div class="g-chapter ch1">

### We Are Family

#### Chapter 1: <span>Heirs and</span> <span>Alumni</span>

<div class="g-chapter-inner">

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/black-art-galleries.html)

##### The Artists

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/italian-fashion-design-houses.html)

##### The Dynasties

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/gordon-parks.html)

##### The Directors

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/enrique-olvera-chef.html)

##### The Disciples

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/royal-academy-antwerp.html)

##### The Graduates

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-chapter ch2">

#### Chapter 2: <span>Reunions</span> <span>and Reconsiderations</span>

<div class="g-chapter-inner">

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/ninth-street-greenwich-village-neighbors.html)

##### The Neighbors

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/omen-restaurant-nyc.html)

##### The Regulars

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/hair-musical-broadway.html)

##### Hair (1967)

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/sweeney-todd-revival.html)

##### Sweeney Todd (2005 Revival)

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/daughters-of-the-dust.html)

##### Daughters of the Dust (1991)

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-chapter ch3">

#### Chapter 3: <span>Legends</span> <span>Pioneers and</span> <span>Survivors</span>

<div class="g-chapter-inner">

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/butch-stud-lesbian.html)

##### The Renegades

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/act-up-aids.html)

##### The Activists

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/artist-recluse.html)

##### The Shadows

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/black-actresses-bassett-berry-blige-henson-whitfield-elise.html)

##### The Veterans

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-chapter ch4">

#### Chapter 4: <span>The New</span> <span>Guard</span>

<div class="g-chapter-inner">

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/asian-american-fashion-designers.html)

##### The Designers

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](13tmag-beauties.html)

##### The Beauties

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/nyc-downtown-nightlife-party-scene.html)

##### The Scenemakers

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/maria-cornejo-olivier-rousteing-telfar-clemens-alessandro-michele.html#olivier-rousteing-and-co)

##### Olivier Rousteing and Co.

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/maria-cornejo-olivier-rousteing-telfar-clemens-alessandro-michele.html#maria-cornejo-and-co)

##### Maria Cornejo and Co.

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/maria-cornejo-olivier-rousteing-telfar-clemens-alessandro-michele.html#telfar-clemens-and-co)

##### Telfar Clemens and Co.

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/maria-cornejo-olivier-rousteing-telfar-clemens-alessandro-michele.html#alessandro-michele-and-co)

##### Alessandro Michele and Co.

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/foreign-correspondents.html)

##### The Journalists

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div id="interactive-footer-container" class="css-ovgi28 interactive-footer-container">

<div id="interactive-addendum-list" class="css-1yiqkdd interactive-addendum-list">

<div class="interactive-addendum-item">

**Correction:** April 13, 2020

An earlier version of this video included a picture caption for an image
of a black actress. She is Nia Long, not Regina Hall.

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div id="standalone-footer">

<div>

<div>

<div id="interactive-footer-wrapper">

<div class="css-i29ckm">

<div class="css-1oeie6n">

Write a comment

</div>

<div class="interactive-sharetools css-9z2bwm" role="toolbar" data-aria-label="Social Media Share buttons, Save button, and Comments Panel with current comment count" data-testid="share-tools">

  - 
  - 
  - 
  - 
    
    <div class="css-6n7j50">
    
    </div>

</div>

</div>

<div>

</div>

<div id="bottom-wrapper" class="css-1ede5it">

<div id="bottom-slug" class="css-l9onyx">

Advertisement

</div>

[Continue reading the main story](#after-bottom)

<div id="bottom" class="ad bottom-wrapper" style="text-align:center;height:100%;display:block;min-height:90px">

</div>

<div id="after-bottom">

</div>

</div>

## Site Index

<div>

</div>

## Site Information Navigation

  - [© <span>2020</span> <span>The New York Times
    Company</span>](https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice)

<!-- end list -->

  - [NYTCo](https://www.nytco.com/)
  - [Contact
    Us](https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us)
  - [Work with us](https://www.nytco.com/careers/)
  - [Advertise](https://nytmediakit.com/)
  - [T Brand Studio](http://www.tbrandstudio.com/)
  - [Your Ad
    Choices](https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy#how-do-i-manage-trackers)
  - [Privacy](https://www.nytimes.com/privacy)
  - [Terms of
    Service](https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service)
  - [Terms of
    Sale](https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale)
  - [Site Map](https://spiderbites.nytimes.com)
  - [Help](https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us)
  - [Subscriptions](https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW)

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>
