<div id="app">

<div id="standalone-header">

</div>

<div id="site-content" role="main">

# How ‘Daughters of the Dust’ Sent Ripples Through the Film World

<div class="css-1vegfwe interactive-byline-container">

<div class="interactive-byline css-103zbxs">

April 13, 2020

</div>

</div>

<div id="interactive-standalone-sharetools" class="css-wkcogx">

<div>

<div class="interactive-sharetools css-9z2bwm" role="toolbar" data-aria-label="Social Media Share buttons, Save button, and Comments Panel with current comment count" data-testid="share-tools">

  - 
  - 
  - 
  - 
    
    <div class="css-6n7j50">
    
    </div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

With her lyrical work, made in 1991, Julie Dash and her collaborators
recentered the black female gaze.

<div id="daughters-of-the-dust" class="section css-l08pwh interactive-minimal interactive-content interactive-size-medium">

<div class="css-17ih8de interactive-body">

<div class="rad-article g-article-ch2" data-chapter="ch2" data-slug="13tmag-daughters">

<div class="g-header">

<div class="g-header-meta">

###### [We Are Family](https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/culture-issue-2020.html)

##### <span class="rad-ch-label">Chapter 2: </span><span>Reunions</span> <span>and Reconsiderations</span>

</div>

<div class="g-header-nav">

##### Previous

##### Next

</div>

</div>

<div class="rad-cover stacked-cover">

<div class="rad-cover-main">

<div class="rad-head-wrap">

**<span>The forerunners</span>**
![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)

# How ‘Daughters of the Dust’ Sent Ripples Through the Film World

Every now and then, a piece of American performance is so memorable that
it both redefines its medium and reframes the culture at large. Here, an
appraisal of one such enduring and heavily referenced work — a seminal
1991 film that centered the black female experience and gaze — alongside
a gathering of the stars who not only made it but were made by it, too.

<span class="g-byline-name" itemprop="name">By [A.O.
Scott](https://www.nytimes.com/by/a-o--scott)</span>

</div>

<div class="rad-byline-wrap">

<div class="rad-date-share">

April 13, 2020

<span>SHARE</span>

</div>

</div>

![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)

</div>

</div>

<div class="rad-story-body">

ONE OF THE sharpest memories of my first year living in New York is
standing in a line stretching from the [Film
Forum](https://www.nytimes.com/topic/organization/film-forum) box office
along West Houston Street all the way to Sixth Avenue. This was 1992,
before movie tickets were bought on the internet, and the occasion was
the opening run of “[Daughters of the
Dust](https://www.nytimes.com/watching/titles/daughters-of-the-dust),”
[Julie
Dash](https://www.nytimes.com/2016/11/20/movies/julie-dash-daughters-of-the-dust.html)’s
first feature.

The film, which takes place on a single day in 1902, on an island off
the coast of South Carolina, was a watershed — part of the larger
blossoming of black independent cinema whose most famous exponents were
[Spike Lee](https://www.nytimes.com/topic/person/spike-lee) and [John
Singleton](https://www.nytimes.com/2019/05/14/style/john-singleton-black-film-movies.html),
and a unique, unprecedented work of art in its own right. Dash and her
collaborators (some of whom are pictured here) offered a new approach to
historical narrative, a new kind of feminist filmmaking, a new way of
thinking about the American past and a new visual aesthetic. You left
the theater trailing memories of surf and slanting light, of women in
pale cotton frocks trading gossip and wisdom on a wide beach, of time
seeming to stand still even as it moved relentlessly forward.

<div class="rad-related">

<div class="rad-related-header">

###### The T List |

Sign up here

</div>

<div class="rad-related-items">

</div>

</div>

<div id="100000007057192" class="rad-diptych" data-slug="13tmag-cultureimages-slide-HNO3">

![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)

![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)

</div>

In most previous Hollywood depictions of the Old South, Dash said in a
recent interview, “we were used to seeing tropes. Someone always had to
pull out a harmonica.” She was determined to avoid clichés about
Southern rural life, and to sidestep the usual conventions of
high-minded period entertainment. “We shared intimate stories,” she
tells me, “profound moments that connect us to the history of the
diaspora — without explaining, without going all National Geographic. A
meditative type of thing, structured the way an African griot would
narrate a family’s history over days and days.” The story, set in the
early 20th-century past, reaches even further back, concerning itself
with the structure of memory and the transmission of ancient communal
knowledge.

<div class="g-ad rad-ad-wrapper">

<div id="mid18" class="place-ad" data-position="mid18" data-size-key="default">

</div>

</div>

If “Daughters” isn’t a standard costume drama, the costumes — especially
those long-sleeved white cotton dresses worn by the women who are its
central characters — are integral to its look and meaning. The world of
Dataw Island, a [Gullah-Geechee Sea
Island](https://www.nytimes.com/2019/04/15/travel/south-carolina-gullah-geechee-low-country.html)
inhabited by people formerly enslaved on indigo plantations and their
children and grandchildren, is recreated with both painstaking fidelity
to detail and thrilling imaginative freedom. The multistranded story
emerges from the daily patterns of work, play and ritual, all of which
are observed with documentary precision and lyrical intensity: Instead
of images of whip-scarred backs to convey the cruelty of enslavement,
Dash showed hands dyed blue by the harsh indigo plant.

<div class="rad-video-wrapper" data-safe-area="{&quot;top&quot;:0,&quot;right&quot;:0,&quot;bottom&quot;:0,&quot;left&quot;:0}">

<div id="rad-video-13tmag-daughters01" class="rad-vhs-video" name="13tmag-daughters01" data-env="" data-cinemagraph="false" loop="false" muted="false" autoplay="false" controls="true" data-loader="true" data-ratio="16:9">

</div>

</div>

<div class="rad-caption">

<div class="rad-caption-wrapper">

<span class="rad-caption-text">Courtesy of Cohen Film Collection</span>
<span class="rad-credit" itemprop="copyrightHolder"></span>

</div>

</div>

The movie itself, shot on location and using natural light, arose from
the fusion of deep scholarship and an almost mystical sense of place. “I
had put together these pamphlets — sort of little journals — for
everyone on the history of the Sea Islands,” Dash says. “The sun was
coming up, we’d be getting ready to shoot at 5 a.m., knowing this was
hallowed ground, this was our Ellis Island. The waves would be rolling
in, and sometimes people would be weeping.”

IT MAKES SENSE that a film devoted to the power and resilience of
collective experience was born in such inspired collaboration, drawing
on the talent and discipline of more than a few extraordinary artists.
[Arthur
Jafa](https://www.nytimes.com/2019/08/14/t-magazine/arthur-jafa-in-bloom.html),
the director of photography, would go on to a career as a groundbreaking
cinematographer and video artist, working with Spike Lee,
[Jay-Z](https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2017/11/29/t-magazine/jay-z-dean-baquet-interview.html),
[Beyoncé](https://www.nytimes.com/2014/06/03/t-magazine/beyonce-the-woman-on-top-of-the-world.html)
and [Solange
Knowles](https://www.nytimes.com/2018/10/15/t-magazine/solange-interview.html).
Alva Rogers, who played Eula Peazant (one of the film’s several
matriarchal figures), is a theater artist. Cheryl Lynn Bruce, whose
Viola Peazant is one of the principal daughters, has long been a
mainstay of the Chicago stage. Her husband, [Kerry James
Marshall](https://www.nytimes.com/2016/10/17/t-magazine/kerry-james-marshall-artist.html),
the production designer, is now one of the most important living
American painters. His career retrospective, “Mastry,” which I saw at
the [Metropolitan Museum of
Art](https://www.nytimes.com/topic/organization/metropolitan-museum-of-art)
in 2017, was a life changer, a cultural event not unlike the first
screenings of “Daughters of the Dust” all those years ago.

<div id="100000007057195" class="rad-diptych" data-slug="13tmag-cultureimages-slide-BG48">

![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)

![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)

</div>

The movie itself has sent ripples of influence through the culture. It’s
an explicit point of reference in Beyoncé’s “Lemonade,” with its
elliptical approach to African-American memory and its dreamy images of
women on the beach, and a benchmark for younger black filmmakers such as
[Dee
Rees](https://www.nytimes.com/2020/02/06/magazine/dee-rees-black-female-director.html)
and [Barry
Jenkins](https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2018/10/04/magazine/barry-jenkins-james-baldwin-if-beale-street-could-talk.html).
Dash, along with many of her peers, was trying to fulfill an imperative
famously enunciated by [Toni
Morrison](https://www.nytimes.com/topic/person/toni-morrison): to make
work that would not solicit or rely upon the white gaze. Not that white
audiences and artists weren’t paying attention. The films of [Sofia
Coppola](https://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/17/t-magazine/alice-alba-rohrwacher.html),
especially “[The Virgin
Suicides](https://www.nytimes.com/watching/titles/the-virgin-suicides),”
“[Marie
Antoinette](https://www.nytimes.com/watching/titles/marie-antoinette)”
and “[The
Beguiled](https://www.nytimes.com/watching/titles/the-beguiled),” unfold
in languid, feminine spaces conceptually (though not culturally)
adjacent to the live-oak and palmetto-shaded groves of Dataw Island.

The other thing that distinguishes “Daughters of the Dust” is its
perspective. It is not about explaining black history to white people,
or making an appeal for recognition. It’s about opening up a space of
memory and feeling within a larger history that had been misunderstood,
marginalized and erased outright by the dominant culture. Much is to be
learned from watching it — about kinship and spiritual life in the Sea
Islands, about how the enslaved tried to protect their families and
shared memories from annihilation — but the spirit of the lesson is the
warm rigor of a family member rather than the cold didacticism of a
professor. The film’s beauty is its argument; its radical politics
reside in its aesthetic boldness.

<div class="rad-video-wrapper" data-safe-area="{&quot;top&quot;:0,&quot;right&quot;:0,&quot;bottom&quot;:0,&quot;left&quot;:0}">

<div id="rad-video-13tmag-daughters02" class="rad-vhs-video" name="13tmag-daughters02" data-env="" data-cinemagraph="false" loop="false" muted="false" autoplay="false" controls="true" data-loader="true" data-ratio="16:9">

</div>

</div>

<div class="rad-caption">

<div class="rad-caption-wrapper">

<span class="rad-caption-text">Courtesy of Cohen Film Collection</span>
<span class="rad-credit" itemprop="copyrightHolder"></span>

</div>

</div>

Not that anyone needs to take my word for it. I am well aware, as I was
when I lined up on Houston Street almost three decades ago, of being in
possession of a white gaze, and that when I say that “Daughters of the
Dust” is one of the movies of my life, I may be summoning the dreaded
specter of cultural appropriation. So let me be as clear as I can be.
What I am trying to articulate here is not the appreciation or approval
of a critic, which this film hardly needs. This is nothing more, and
nothing less, than an attempt to give voice to 28 years of awe.

A.O. Scott is a critic at large at The New York Times and the author of
“Better Living Through Criticism.” David Chow is a food, lifestyle and
travel photographer. Andres Gonzalez’s most recent book, “American
Origami,” received the 2019 Light Work Photobook Award. He is a visiting
lecturer at the San Francisco Art Institute. Portraits taken in Los
Angeles, Chicago, New York and Atlanta on March 6, 11, 13 and 16, 2020.
Hair and makeup for Cheryl Lynn Bruce and Kerry James Marshall: Sydney
Zenon at Mastermind Management Group. Hair and makeup for Alva Rogers:
Aichatou Kamate at the Teknique Agency. Hair and makeup for Julie Dash:
Brittany Hervey.

<div class="rad-related">

<div class="rad-related-items">

[](https://www.nytimes.com/2019/08/14/t-magazine/arthur-jafa-in-bloom.html)

#### Arthur Jafa in Bloom<span class="rad-related-date">Aug. 14, 2019</span>

![](https://static01.nyt.com/images/2019/08/18/t-magazine/18tmag-jafa-slide-YAWD/18tmag-jafa-slide-YAWD-mediumThreeByTwo210-v2.jpg)
[](https://www.nytimes.com/2016/10/17/t-magazine/kerry-james-marshall-artist.html)

#### Kerry James Marshall Is Shifting the Color of Art History<span class="rad-related-date">Oct. 17, 2016</span>

![](https://static01.nyt.com/images/2016/10/17/t-magazine/17tmag-kjmpromo/17tmag-kjmpromo-mediumThreeByTwo210.jpg)

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="rad-article-credits">

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-nav">

<div class="g-chapter ch1">

### We Are Family

#### Chapter 1: <span>Heirs and</span> <span>Alumni</span>

<div class="g-chapter-inner">

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/black-art-galleries.html)

##### The Artists

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/italian-fashion-design-houses.html)

##### The Dynasties

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/gordon-parks.html)

##### The Directors

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/enrique-olvera-chef.html)

##### The Disciples

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/royal-academy-antwerp.html)

##### The Graduates

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-chapter ch2">

#### Chapter 2: <span>Reunions</span> <span>and Reconsiderations</span>

<div class="g-chapter-inner">

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/ninth-street-greenwich-village-neighbors.html)

##### The Neighbors

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/omen-restaurant-nyc.html)

##### The Regulars

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/hair-musical-broadway.html)

##### Hair (1967)

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/sweeney-todd-revival.html)

##### Sweeney Todd (2005 Revival)

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/daughters-of-the-dust.html)

##### Daughters of the Dust (1991)

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-chapter ch3">

#### Chapter 3: <span>Legends</span> <span>Pioneers and</span> <span>Survivors</span>

<div class="g-chapter-inner">

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/butch-stud-lesbian.html)

##### The Renegades

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/act-up-aids.html)

##### The Activists

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/artist-recluse.html)

##### The Shadows

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/black-actresses-bassett-berry-blige-henson-whitfield-elise.html)

##### The Veterans

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-chapter ch4">

#### Chapter 4: <span>The New</span> <span>Guard</span>

<div class="g-chapter-inner">

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/asian-american-fashion-designers.html)

##### The Designers

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](13tmag-beauties.html)

##### The Beauties

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/nyc-downtown-nightlife-party-scene.html)

##### The Scenemakers

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/maria-cornejo-olivier-rousteing-telfar-clemens-alessandro-michele.html#olivier-rousteing-and-co)

##### Olivier Rousteing and Co.

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/maria-cornejo-olivier-rousteing-telfar-clemens-alessandro-michele.html#maria-cornejo-and-co)

##### Maria Cornejo and Co.

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/maria-cornejo-olivier-rousteing-telfar-clemens-alessandro-michele.html#telfar-clemens-and-co)

##### Telfar Clemens and Co.

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/maria-cornejo-olivier-rousteing-telfar-clemens-alessandro-michele.html#alessandro-michele-and-co)

##### Alessandro Michele and Co.

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/foreign-correspondents.html)

##### The Journalists

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div id="standalone-footer">

<div>

<div>

<div id="interactive-footer-wrapper">

<div class="css-i29ckm">

<div class="interactive-sharetools css-9z2bwm" role="toolbar" data-aria-label="Social Media Share buttons, Save button, and Comments Panel with current comment count" data-testid="share-tools">

  - 
  - 
  - 
  - 
    
    <div class="css-6n7j50">
    
    </div>

</div>

</div>

<div>

</div>

<div id="bottom-wrapper" class="css-1ede5it">

<div id="bottom-slug" class="css-l9onyx">

Advertisement

</div>

[Continue reading the main story](#after-bottom)

<div id="bottom" class="ad bottom-wrapper" style="text-align:center;height:100%;display:block;min-height:90px">

</div>

<div id="after-bottom">

</div>

</div>

## Site Index

<div>

</div>

## Site Information Navigation

  - [© <span>2020</span> <span>The New York Times
    Company</span>](https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice)

<!-- end list -->

  - [NYTCo](https://www.nytco.com/)
  - [Contact
    Us](https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us)
  - [Work with us](https://www.nytco.com/careers/)
  - [Advertise](https://nytmediakit.com/)
  - [T Brand Studio](http://www.tbrandstudio.com/)
  - [Your Ad
    Choices](https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy#how-do-i-manage-trackers)
  - [Privacy](https://www.nytimes.com/privacy)
  - [Terms of
    Service](https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service)
  - [Terms of
    Sale](https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale)
  - [Site Map](https://spiderbites.nytimes.com)
  - [Help](https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us)
  - [Subscriptions](https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW)

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>
