<div id="app">

<div id="standalone-header">

</div>

<div id="site-content" role="main">

# The Family-Run Italian Design Houses That Became Cultural Dynasties

<div class="css-1vegfwe interactive-byline-container">

<div class="interactive-byline css-103zbxs">

April 13, 2020

</div>

</div>

<div id="interactive-standalone-sharetools" class="css-wkcogx">

<div>

<div class="interactive-sharetools css-9z2bwm" role="toolbar" data-aria-label="Social Media Share buttons, Save button, and Comments Panel with current comment count" data-testid="share-tools">

  - 
  - 
  - 
  - 
    
    <div class="css-6n7j50">
    
    </div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

For centuries, Italy has prized the art of fashion and furniture design
like no other country in the world, with generations dedicated to
traditional craftsmanship and continuity.

<div id="italian-fashion-design-houses" class="section css-l08pwh interactive-minimal interactive-content interactive-size-medium">

<div class="css-17ih8de interactive-body">

<div class="rad-article g-article-ch1" data-chapter="ch1" data-slug="13tmag-dynasties">

<div class="g-header">

<div class="g-header-meta">

###### [We Are Family](https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/culture-issue-2020.html)

##### <span class="rad-ch-label">Chapter 1: </span><span>Heirs and</span> <span>Alumni</span>

</div>

<div class="g-header-nav">

##### Previous

##### Next

</div>

</div>

<div class="rad-cover stacked-cover">

<div class="rad-cover-main">

<div class="rad-head-wrap">

# The Family-Run Italian Design Houses That Became Cultural Dynasties

## <span>The Dynasties</span>

For centuries, Italy has prized the art of fashion and furniture design
— and like no other country in the world, its makers have served as
cultural custodians, with generations dedicated to the craftsmanship,
continuity and traditions of the family-run company.

<span class="g-byline-name" itemprop="name">By [Nancy
Hass](https://www.nytimes.com/by/nancy-hass)</span>

</div>

<div class="rad-byline-wrap">

<div class="rad-date-share">

April 13, 2020

<span>SHARE</span>

</div>

</div>

![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)

</div>

</div>

<div class="rad-story-body">

IN AMERICA, where industrialization long ago eclipsed craft, children
are often taught that success means escaping the family trade for law,
medicine or Wall Street. But to the Italian clans at the pinnacle of
fashion and design, such thinking confounds: Why flee the family firm
when you can create things of beauty? Although several of Italy’s
venerable makers have been absorbed by luxury conglomerates in the past
few decades, a remarkable array — including the major fashion houses
[Giorgio Armani](https://www.armani.com/us/armanicom),
[Prada](https://www.prada.com/us/en.html), [Salvatore
Ferragamo](https://www.ferragamo.com/shop/us/en),
[Canali](https://www.canali.com/en_us/homepage.html),
[Etro](https://www.etro.com/us-en/) and
[Missoni](https://www.missoni.com/us) — have remained under family
control; they have diversified, expanded and grown increasingly
sophisticated with each successive generation. Many were begun in the
wake of World War II, when a generation of new consumers and the advent
of manufacturing technology allowed clothing, textiles and
furniture-making to expand beyond small workshops. Now, as international
brands, they thread the needle in ways both literal and figurative: How
do you preserve a handmade ethos in the face of giant competitors and a
tide of mass production? How do you maintain a familial atmosphere not
merely among yourselves but with younger generations of employees who
may not care about keeping alive the workbench tradition of their
forebears?

<div class="rad-related">

<div class="rad-related-header">

###### The T List |

Sign up here

</div>

<div class="rad-related-items">

</div>

</div>

That the tradition of multigenerational artisanal enterprises has
endured in Italy perhaps longer than in any other industrialized Western
nation is not surprising. Because of its unique history of independent
city-states, the country’s craft culture, especially in the north —
where there have long been woolen mills, leather-tanning and woodworking
— flourished for centuries in discrete regions. Even the fracas that
ensued when Austria and Napoleon annexed huge chunks of northern Italy
in the 18th and 19th centuries failed to destroy its system of highly
localized family-oriented workshops, in which entire clans were involved
in a single activity. Over the decades, Lake Como became [known
for](https://www.nytimes.com/1991/11/10/travel/shopper-s-world-silk-on-lake-como-s-shores.html)
fine silk; Vicenza
[for](https://www.nytimes.com/2018/09/22/style/jewelry-vicenza-italy-roberto-coin.html)
goldsmiths and jewelry. Brianza, 10 miles north of Milan, first became a
hub of woodworking in the 1770s, when Archduke Ferdinand of
Austria-Este, who controlled the region, needed furniture for Villa
Reale, the monumental palace he constructed in Monza, the area’s largest
town. In the 20th century, entrepreneurs turned Brianza into the
epicenter of modern Italian design by building on the region’s expertise
in fine carpentry and upholstery. Today, the area remains home to dozens
of furniture and design houses, including [Molteni &
C](https://www.molteni.it/us/) and
[Poliform](https://www.poliform.it/en-us/poliform) — often run by the
children and grandchildren of their founders.

TO SUCH FAMILIES, the border between blood relation and community is
fairly porous; unlike at American corporations that largely have
forsaken the concept of the [company
town](https://www.nytimes.com/2019/08/28/t-magazine/olivetti-typewriters-ivrea-italy.html),
there remains here an enduring sense of responsibility. For example,
[Brunello Cucinelli](https://www.brunellocucinelli.com/en/), who in 1978
began an eponymous knitwear business specializing in cashmere — his
daughters, Camilla, 37, and Carolina, 29, now work with him — has made
it a family project to resuscitate the medieval village of Solomeo,
where the company is headquartered (his wife, Federica, was born and
raised there; he grew up in a house without running water just 13 miles
away). They have built a new theater, torn down industrial warehouses in
the surrounding valley to create parks and turned a castle into a school
to train artisans in the ancient crafts. Similarly, the fashion designer
[Alberta Ferretti](https://www.albertaferretti.com/us_en/) and her
brother Massimo, who founded their company, Aeffe, in 1980 in their
hometown, Cattolica, in Emilia-Romagna, where Alberta still runs her
design studio, led a 10-year restoration of the nearby hamlet of
Montegridolfo.

> To such families, the border between blood relation and community is
> fairly porous; there remains here an enduring sense of responsibility.

The lines between the personal and the professional in such clans are,
as might be expected, as permeable as linen dipped in dye. Two of the
four adult children of Gerolamo Etro, known as “Gimmo,” all of whom now
work for the company their father started in 1968, live in the Milan
duplex they grew up in, which has been split in half to accommodate
them. In a single telephone call with her daughter
[Margherita](https://www.nytimes.com/2018/01/02/t-magazine/margherita-missoni-amos-juice-recipe.html),
37, [Angela
Missoni](https://www.nytimes.com/2016/12/05/t-magazine/fashion/angela-missoni-hand-collection.html),
61 — the creative force behind the knitwear company started by her
parents, Ottavio and
[Rosita](https://www.nytimes.com/2017/07/11/t-magazine/rosita-missoni-garden-home.html),
in 1953 (her brother Vittorio was the C.E.O. until he was killed in a
plane crash in 2013) — can toggle between discussing her grandchildren
and analyzing plans to expand the brand’s lower-priced line, M Missoni,
to which Margherita was appointed creative director in 2018. At Molteni
& C, founded by Angelo and Giuseppina Molteni in 1934, where a third
generation of cousins has joined the business, “whenever we are
together, our conversation is about work,” says Andrea Molteni, 42, who
is the head of product development at
[Dada](https://www.dada-kitchens.com/us/), the company’s kitchen brand.
“It is very natural for us, very comfortable. We were raised like
this, and this is how all of us have chosen to live.”

<div class="g-ad rad-ad-wrapper">

<div id="mid9" class="place-ad" data-position="mid9" data-size-key="default">

</div>

</div>

Nancy Hass is a writer at large for T Magazine. Simon Watson specializes
in portrait, interiors and travel photography. Production: Lumen Lab.
Hair: Gianmarco Grazi at Atomo Management. Makeup: Misaki Kato at Atomo
Management. Set design: Enrico Pompili and Valentina Cameranesi.

<div class="rad-related">

<div class="rad-related-items">

[](https://www.nytimes.com/2018/11/19/t-magazine/giorgio-armani-home-broni-italy.html)

#### At Giorgio Armani’s Weekend Retreat, Live Swans and Gilded Arches<span class="rad-related-date">Nov. 19, 2018</span>

![](https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/11/21/t-magazine/tktmag-armani-slide-4Q84-copy/tktmag-armani-slide-4Q84-copy-mediumThreeByTwo210-v3.jpg)
[](https://www.nytimes.com/2019/09/25/t-magazine/margherita-maccapani-missoni-fashion-week.html)

#### Margherita Maccapani Missoni Takes on a New Challenge, by Looking Back<span class="rad-related-date">Sept. 25, 2019</span>

![](https://static01.nyt.com/images/2019/09/24/t-magazine/fashion/24tmag-Missoni-slide-VHHY/24tmag-Missoni-slide-VHHY-mediumThreeByTwo210.jpg)
[](https://www.nytimes.com/2019/09/06/t-magazine/brunello-cucinelli.html)

#### Brunello Cucinelli, Renaissance Man<span class="rad-related-date">Sept. 6, 2019</span>

![](https://static01.nyt.com/images/2019/09/06/t-magazine/06tmag-brunello-slide-L1SP/06tmag-brunello-slide-L1SP-mediumThreeByTwo210.jpg)
[](https://www.nytimes.com/2018/08/14/t-magazine/angela-missoni-fashion-designer-inspiration.html)

#### Inside Angela Missoni’s Rainbow-Colored World <span class="rad-related-date">Aug. 14, 2018</span>

![](https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/08/14/t-magazine/14tmag-missoni-slide-D31N/14tmag-missoni-slide-D31N-mediumThreeByTwo210.jpg)
[](https://www.nytimes.com/2019/02/05/t-magazine/silvia-venturini-fendi-inspiration.html)

#### Silvia Venturini Fendi’s Playful Sort of Luxury<span class="rad-related-date">Feb. 5, 2019</span>

![](https://static01.nyt.com/images/2019/02/05/t-magazine/05tmag-fendi-slide-4HOJ/05tmag-fendi-slide-4HOJ-mediumThreeByTwo210-v3.jpg)

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="rad-corrections">

##### **Correction** April 13, 2020

An earlier version of the picture caption with this article included
several errors. It misspelled the given name of the Flexform export
sales director. He is Giuliano Galimberti, not Guiliano. It misstated
Alberta Ferretti’s title with Aeffe. She is the vice president and
creative director, not the product director. It misstated Stefano
Canali’s title with Canali. He is the president and chief executive
officer, not the general manager. And it misstated the brand for which
Andrea Molteni is the director of product development. It is Molteni & C
Dada, not Molteni & C.

</div>

<div class="rad-article-credits">

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-nav">

<div class="g-chapter ch1">

### We Are Family

#### Chapter 1: <span>Heirs and</span> <span>Alumni</span>

<div class="g-chapter-inner">

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/black-art-galleries.html)

##### The Artists

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/italian-fashion-design-houses.html)

##### The Dynasties

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/gordon-parks.html)

##### The Directors

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/enrique-olvera-chef.html)

##### The Disciples

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/royal-academy-antwerp.html)

##### The Graduates

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-chapter ch2">

#### Chapter 2: <span>Reunions</span> <span>and Reconsiderations</span>

<div class="g-chapter-inner">

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/ninth-street-greenwich-village-neighbors.html)

##### The Neighbors

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/omen-restaurant-nyc.html)

##### The Regulars

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/hair-musical-broadway.html)

##### Hair (1967)

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/sweeney-todd-revival.html)

##### Sweeney Todd (2005 Revival)

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/daughters-of-the-dust.html)

##### Daughters of the Dust (1991)

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-chapter ch3">

#### Chapter 3: <span>Legends</span> <span>Pioneers and</span> <span>Survivors</span>

<div class="g-chapter-inner">

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/butch-stud-lesbian.html)

##### The Renegades

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/act-up-aids.html)

##### The Activists

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/artist-recluse.html)

##### The Shadows

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/black-actresses-bassett-berry-blige-henson-whitfield-elise.html)

##### The Veterans

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-chapter ch4">

#### Chapter 4: <span>The New</span> <span>Guard</span>

<div class="g-chapter-inner">

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/asian-american-fashion-designers.html)

##### The Designers

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](13tmag-beauties.html)

##### The Beauties

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/nyc-downtown-nightlife-party-scene.html)

##### The Scenemakers

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/maria-cornejo-olivier-rousteing-telfar-clemens-alessandro-michele.html#olivier-rousteing-and-co)

##### Olivier Rousteing and Co.

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/maria-cornejo-olivier-rousteing-telfar-clemens-alessandro-michele.html#maria-cornejo-and-co)

##### Maria Cornejo and Co.

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/maria-cornejo-olivier-rousteing-telfar-clemens-alessandro-michele.html#telfar-clemens-and-co)

##### Telfar Clemens and Co.

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/maria-cornejo-olivier-rousteing-telfar-clemens-alessandro-michele.html#alessandro-michele-and-co)

##### Alessandro Michele and Co.

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/foreign-correspondents.html)

##### The Journalists

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div id="standalone-footer">

<div>

<div>

<div id="interactive-footer-wrapper">

<div class="css-i29ckm">

<div class="interactive-sharetools css-9z2bwm" role="toolbar" data-aria-label="Social Media Share buttons, Save button, and Comments Panel with current comment count" data-testid="share-tools">

  - 
  - 
  - 
  - 
    
    <div class="css-6n7j50">
    
    </div>

</div>

</div>

<div>

</div>

<div id="bottom-wrapper" class="css-1ede5it">

<div id="bottom-slug" class="css-l9onyx">

Advertisement

</div>

[Continue reading the main story](#after-bottom)

<div id="bottom" class="ad bottom-wrapper" style="text-align:center;height:100%;display:block;min-height:90px">

</div>

<div id="after-bottom">

</div>

</div>

## Site Index

<div>

</div>

## Site Information Navigation

  - [© <span>2020</span> <span>The New York Times
    Company</span>](https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice)

<!-- end list -->

  - [NYTCo](https://www.nytco.com/)
  - [Contact
    Us](https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us)
  - [Work with us](https://www.nytco.com/careers/)
  - [Advertise](https://nytmediakit.com/)
  - [T Brand Studio](http://www.tbrandstudio.com/)
  - [Your Ad
    Choices](https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy#how-do-i-manage-trackers)
  - [Privacy](https://www.nytimes.com/privacy)
  - [Terms of
    Service](https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service)
  - [Terms of
    Sale](https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale)
  - [Site Map](https://spiderbites.nytimes.com)
  - [Help](https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us)
  - [Subscriptions](https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW)

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>
