Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}Lev Parnas Says He Has
Recording of Trump Calling for Ambassador's Firing

\url{https://nyti.ms/38C5gl5}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{lev-parnas-says-he-has-recording-of-trump-calling-for-ambassadors-firing}{%
\section{Lev Parnas Says He Has Recording of Trump Calling for
Ambassador's
Firing}\label{lev-parnas-says-he-has-recording-of-trump-calling-for-ambassadors-firing}}

The former associate of Rudolph W. Giuliani said through his lawyer that
he had given the recording to the House Intelligence Committee for use
in the impeachment inquiry.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/01/24/us/politics/24dc-recording/24dc-recording-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/kenneth-p-vogel}{Kenneth P. Vogel}
and \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/ben-protess}{Ben Protess}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Published Jan. 24, 2020Updated Jan. 26, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

WASHINGTON --- A former associate of Rudolph W. Giuliani, President
Trump's personal lawyer, said on Friday that he had turned over to
congressional Democrats a recording from 2018 of the president ordering
the removal of Marie L. Yovanovitch as the United States ambassador to
Ukraine.

The associate, Lev Parnas, who worked with Mr. Giuliani to oust the
ambassador and to pressure the Ukrainian government to pursue
investigations to help Mr. Trump, located the recording on Friday after
its existence was
\href{https://abcnews.go.com/Politics/recording-appears-capture-trump-private-dinner-ukraine-ambassador/story?id=68506437}{first
reported by ABC News}, said Joseph A. Bondy, Mr. Parnas's lawyer.

Mr. Bondy said the recording was ``of high materiality to the
impeachment inquiry'' of Mr. Trump and that he had provided it to the
House Intelligence Committee, whose chairman, Representative Adam B.
Schiff, is leading the impeachment managers in their presentation of the
case.

The recording emerged as Democrats continued to press the Senate to call
more witnesses and seek additional evidence for the trial.

\emph{{[}Six}
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/01/26/us/politics/trump-recording-parnas-ukraine.html}{\emph{revelatory
moments}} \emph{from the video of Trump's private donor dinner.{]}}

While it does not appear to provide any substantive new information
about the effort to oust Ms. Yovanovitch, the possibility of the
recording being played in public could provide a powerful political
moment for Democrats by hammering home Mr. Trump's personal involvement.
It also illustrates that there could be more revelations from untapped
evidence, even as Democrats are wrapping up their case in the Senate.

That was precisely the argument they made on Friday as they sought to
overcome Republican resistance to seeking new information and extending
the trial.

Patrick Boland, a spokesman for the Intelligence Committee, declined to
comment.

In the recording, ABC News reported, Mr. Parnas can be heard saying that
``the biggest problem there, I think where we need to start is we gotta
get rid of'' Ms. Yovanovitch.

``She's basically walking around telling everybody, `Wait, he's gonna
get impeached, just wait,''' Mr. Parnas says on the recording, according
to ABC News.

``Get rid of her!'' a voice that sounds like Mr. Trump's responds,
according to ABC News. ``Get her out tomorrow. I don't care. Get her out
tomorrow. Take her out. O.K.? Do it.''

Those comments were directed at one of Mr. Trump's aides who was in the
room at the time, Mr. Parnas has previously said.

Ms. Yovanovitch remained in her job for another year after Mr. Trump's
remarks until she was recalled on the White House's orders, according to
testimony in the impeachment inquiry. It is not clear whether the
president changed his mind, forgot about his order or was talked out of
dismissing her.

Asked about the recording by Fox News, Mr. Trump said he was ``not a big
fan'' of Ms. Yovanovitch. ``I want ambassadors that are chosen by me,''
he said. ``I have a right to hire and fire ambassadors, and that's a
very important thing.''

The campaign to remove Ms. Yovanovitch is among the central elements of
the Democratic case that Mr. Trump abused his power in an effort to
pressure Ukraine's government into announcing investigations into
purported meddling in the 2016 election and into former Vice President
Joseph R. Biden Jr. and his diplomacy in Ukraine.

Mr. Parnas had
\href{https://www.msnbc.com/rachel-maddow/watch/parnas-describes-how-trump-struggled-to-fire-amb-yovanovitch-76929093782}{previously
recounted} how he and another associate of Mr. Giuliani's, Igor Fruman,
had met with Mr. Trump during a dinner for a small group of donors in a
private suite at the Trump International Hotel in Washington in late
April 2018. At that dinner,
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/12/19/nyregion/lev-parnas-igor-fruman.html}{Mr.
Parnas relayed a rumor} that Ms. Yovanovitch, then the American
ambassador in Kyiv, was bad-mouthing the president --- an
unsubstantiated claim that Ms. Yovanovitch has denied.

Republicans have sought to challenge Mr. Parnas's credibility by noting
that he is under indictment. But the recording seemed to buttress his
claims that he had discussions with Mr. Trump about ousting Ms.
Yovanovitch, who Mr. Parnas and Mr. Giuliani later came to believe was
blocking their efforts to press the Ukrainians to commit to the
investigations.

Mr. Parnas and Mr. Fruman had obtained direct access to the president by
donating to Republican committees, and the recording suggests he spoke
in front of them in a remarkably unfiltered and undiplomatic way, given
their relative obscurity.

The April 2018 meeting came months before Mr. Giuliani began working
with Mr. Parnas and Mr. Fruman to win support in Ukraine for
investigations that could have helped Mr. Trump's re-election prospects.
Mr. Giuliani came to believe that Ms. Yovanovitch was blocking his
efforts to advance the investigations. By early last year, Mr. Parnas
had become a key intermediary between Mr. Giuliani and Ukrainian
officials, including
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/10/05/world/europe/ukraine-prosecutor-trump.html}{Yuriy
Lutsenko}, the country's chief prosecutor at the time, who was also
seeking Ms. Yovanovitch's ouster.

Mr. Trump has repeatedly said he does not know Mr. Parnas or Mr. Fruman,
who are
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/10/10/us/politics/lev-parnas-igor-fruman-arrested-giuliani.html}{facing
federal campaign finance charges} brought by prosecutors in Manhattan.
They have pleaded not guilty. Mr. Giuliani is
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/10/11/us/politics/rudy-giuliani-investigation.html}{under
investigation} by the same prosecutors, who are examining his efforts to
remove Ms. Yovanovitch.

Mr. Parnas has broken with Mr. Giuliani and Mr. Trump. He has provided
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/01/17/us/politics/democrats-lev-parnas-material.html}{reams
of records and data} to House impeachment investigators and signaled his
willingness to cooperate with the prosecutors in Manhattan. Mr. Fruman's
legal team is working closely with lawyers for Mr. Giuliani --- ``they
talk two, three times a week'' --- according to Mr. Giuliani, the former
New York City mayor.

The recording was captured on Mr. Fruman's phone, according to people
familiar with the matter.

A lawyer for Mr. Fruman declined to comment.

Mr. Parnas and his legal team did not provide the recording to ABC News,
Mr. Bondy said.

After ABC News's report, Mr. Bondy said Mr. Parnas ``undertook a renewed
search of his iCloud accounts and found a copy of the recording.''

The recording ``appears to corroborate'' Mr. Parnas's recollection of
the April 2018 gathering at which Mr. Trump issued the order, Mr. Bondy
said.

In an
\href{http://www.msnbc.com/transcripts/rachel-maddow-show/2020-01-16}{interview}
with the MSNBC host Rachel Maddow last week, Mr. Parnas said that Mr.
Trump had tried to recall Ms. Yovanovitch ``at least four, five times.''
Mr. Parnas said he had personally spoken ``once or twice'' to the
president ``about firing her,'' including at the dinner, which he said
was also attended by Mr. Trump's son Donald Trump Jr.

``I don't know how the issue is --- the conversation came up, but I do
remember me telling the president the ambassador was bad-mouthing him
and saying he was going to get impeached, something to that effect,''
Mr. Parnas recalled. ``And at that time, he turned around'' to an aide
``and said, `fire her.' And we all --- there was a silence in the
room.''

Mr. Parnas added that Mr. Trump raised the subject again: ``I don't know
how many times at that dinner, once or twice or three times. But he
fired her several times.''

Ms. Yovanovitch came into Mr. Parnas's sights at least partly because he
had come to believe that she was opposed to his business efforts in
Ukraine, where he and Mr. Fruman had hoped to
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/10/07/us/politics/rick-perry-ukraine.html}{break
into the natural gas market}, according to associates of the two men,
both of whom are Soviet-born American citizens.

Prosecutors have accused Mr. Parnas and Mr. Fruman of donating money and
pledging to raise additional funds in 2018 --- some violating legal
limits --- for a congressman who was then enlisted in the campaign to
oust Ms. Yovanovitch.

While the congressman is not named in court filings, campaign finance
records identify him as former
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/10/10/us/politics/pete-sessions-ukraine.html}{Representative
Pete Sessions}, Republican of Texas, who lost his re-election bid in
2018.

Less than two weeks after his dinner with Mr. Trump, Mr. Parnas met with
Mr. Sessions to discuss his gas venture in Ukraine, and the meeting
eventually turned to Ms. Yovanovitch. After the meeting, Mr. Sessions
wrote a letter to Secretary of State Mike Pompeo saying that Ms.
Yovanovitch should be fired for privately expressing ``disdain'' for the
current administration.

Mr. Sessions has said that he wrote the letter independently of Mr.
Parnas and Mr. Fruman, but when Ms. Yovanovitch was not removed, Mr.
Sessions provided Mr. Parnas with a copy of the letter, signing his name
across the back of the envelope. ``Mr. President'' appeared across the
front.

Photographs appearing to show the signed envelope --- and Mr. Parnas
presenting it to Mr. Trump --- were included in a
\href{https://docs.house.gov/meetings/JU/JU00/20191211/110331/HMKP-116-JU00-20191211-SD9011.pdf}{batch
of records} provided earlier this month by Mr. Parnas to the House
Intelligence Committee.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
