Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/11/us/trump-vs-biden?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Election
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/election-states-biden-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Paths
  to 270}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/us/elections/2020-presidential-election-calendar.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Key
  Dates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/31/us/politics/vote-by-mail-deadlines.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Voting
  by Mail}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Politics
  Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{trump-calls-himself-great-environmentalist-in-florida-and-makes-appeal-to-military-in-nc}{%
\section{Trump Calls Himself `Great Environmentalist' in Florida and
Makes Appeal to Military in
N.C.}\label{trump-calls-himself-great-environmentalist-in-florida-and-makes-appeal-to-military-in-nc}}

Last Updated

Sept. 11, 2020, 5:01 p.m. ET

Sept. 11, 2020, 5:01 p.m. ET

President Trump and Joe Biden were virtually deadlocked in a new poll
out of Florida. In a New Hampshire primary, Democrats are choosing a
challenger to Gov. Chris Sununu.

\emph{This briefing has ended. Follow}
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/09/us/trump-vs-biden}{\emph{our
latest coverage of the Biden vs. Trump 2020 election here}}\emph{.}

\hypertarget{heres-what-you-need-to-know}{%
\subsubsection{Here's what you need to
know:}\label{heres-what-you-need-to-know}}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{trump-brags-about-killing-isis-leader-at-north-carolina-rally-as-he-tries-to-fortify-his-military-support}{}

  Trump brags about killing ISIS leader at North Carolina rally as he
  tries to fortify his military support.
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{trump-whose-administration-proposed-opening-offshore-waters-to-drilling-now-claims-credit-for-issuing-a-moratorium}{}

  Trump, whose administration proposed opening offshore waters to
  drilling, now claims credit for issuing a moratorium.
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{a-new-poll-finds-the-candidates-tied-in-florida-but-with-shifting-sources-of-support}{}

  A new poll finds the candidates tied in Florida, but with shifting
  sources of support.
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{after-reports-of-a-campaign-cash-crunch-trump-says-he-may-fund-the-race-with-his-own-money}{}

  After reports of a campaign cash crunch, Trump says he may fund the
  race with his own money.
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{the-president-denounces-coronavirus-restrictions-biden-has-questions-about-proposed-vaccine}{}

  The president denounces coronavirus restrictions. Biden has questions
  about proposed vaccine.
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{ohio-could-take-several-weeks-to-certify-a-winner-in-the-presidential-election}{}

  Ohio could take several weeks to certify a winner in the presidential
  election.
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{new-hampshires-primaries-will-test-the-influence-of-trump-and-bernie-sanders}{}

  New Hampshire's primaries will test the influence of Trump and Bernie
  Sanders.
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{kanye-west-is-denied-a-spot-on-the-arizona-ballot-by-the-state-supreme-court}{}

  Kanye West is denied a spot on the Arizona ballot by the state Supreme
  Court.
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{trump-brags-about-killing-isis-leader-at-north-carolina-rally-as-he-tries-to-fortify-his-military-support}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{trump-brags-about-killing-isis-leader-at-north-carolina-rally-as-he-tries-to-fortify-his-military-support}{Trump
brags about killing ISIS leader at North Carolina rally as he tries to
fortify his military
support.}}{Trump brags about killing ISIS leader at North Carolina rally as he tries to fortify his military support.}}\label{trump-brags-about-killing-isis-leader-at-north-carolina-rally-as-he-tries-to-fortify-his-military-support}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/09/08/us/politics/08elections-briefing-trump-rally/08elections-briefing-trump-rally-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

President Trump traveled to North Carolina, a battleground state with a
large military presence, and talked up his administration's killing of
two key terrorists as he campaigned in the wake of a damaging report
that has raised questions about his respect for American troops.

``We killed the vicious founder and leader of ISIS,'' Mr. Trump said,
speaking to a large gathering of enthusiastic supporters at an airport
hangar in Winston-Salem, N.C. ``Why didn't Biden get him? The world's
number one terrorist and the mass murder of American troops. We got him
too.''

Mr. Trump was talking about the killing of Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi, the
leader of the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria, and of
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/01/03/world/middleeast/suleimani-dead.html}{Maj.
Gen. Qassim Suleimani,} the Iranian commander who had been designated a
terrorist by the United States. He accused former Vice President Joseph
R. Biden Jr. of voting for the Iraq War (Mr. Trump routinely claims,
inaccurately, that he opposed the invasion in 2003).

``He opposed the mission to take out Osama bin Laden,'' Mr. Trump said
of his Democratic rival. ``He oversaw the rise of ISIS. And for eight
years he cannot find or kill the founder of ISIS. They looked, they
could not find him. I found him and we hit him good. We hit him good.''

Mr. Trump also claimed credit for keeping America out of new wars and
said that he was ``bringing our troops back home.'' His appearance in a
key battleground state, home to more active duty troops stationed at
Fort Bragg than any other Army base in the country, came after the
president spent the weekend angrily denying a report in The Atlantic
that he had privately referred to American troops killed in combat as
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/04/us/politics/trump-veterans-losers.html}{``losers''
and ``suckers.''}

In many ways, the rally felt like an old school Trump performance, the
kind that regularly punctuated his week before the coronavirus halted
rallies for months. ``They impeached me for making a phone call that was
perfect,'' he said, resuscitating one of his favorite old tropes from
last year, calling himself ``the only president in history that got
impeached for making an absolutely perfect phone call.'' He singled out
for ridicule Senator Mitt Romney of Utah and House Speaker Nancy Pelosi
--- two foils he regularly derided before he had a main political
opponent to focus on.

And at an outdoor gathering with a large crowd, where many of his
supporters did not wear masks, he appeared to relish mispronouncing the
name of Senator Kamala Harris of California, Mr. Biden's counterpart on
the Democratic presidential ticket.

But in between his expected meandering stories and asides, the president
appeared to be focused on making his pitch to a military community whose
support he is counting on. ``We gave our great warriors their largest
pay raises in many, many decades,'' he said, reiterating a false claim
he has been making for years. Members of the military have, in fact,
received pay raises every year for decades.

He also described Mr. Biden as a ``global sellout who spent his career
laying waste to American communities'' and accused him, again, of
``undermining scientists'' with ``anti-vaccine rhetoric'' because he has
raised questions about whether Mr. Trump is rushing a vaccine out to
help his political chances in November.

--- \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/annie-karni}{Annie
Karni}

\hypertarget{trump-whose-administration-proposed-opening-offshore-waters-to-drilling-now-claims-credit-for-issuing-a-moratorium}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{trump-whose-administration-proposed-opening-offshore-waters-to-drilling-now-claims-credit-for-issuing-a-moratorium}{Trump,
whose administration proposed opening offshore waters to drilling, now
claims credit for issuing a
moratorium.}}{Trump, whose administration proposed opening offshore waters to drilling, now claims credit for issuing a moratorium.}}\label{trump-whose-administration-proposed-opening-offshore-waters-to-drilling-now-claims-credit-for-issuing-a-moratorium}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/09/08/us/politics/08elections-briefing-trumpenvironment/merlin_176738187_f6e1814f-cea7-49ab-822f-a5928061fc9c-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

President Trump, who has
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/11/04/climate/trump-paris-agreement-climate.html}{exited
the Paris Agreement}, loosened restrictions on
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/04/climate/trump-environment-coronavirus.html}{toxic
air pollution}, rolled back
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/01/22/climate/trump-environment-water.html}{clean
water protections} and removed climate change from a
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/07/30/opinion/trump-climate-change.html}{list
of national security threats}, on Tuesday stood in front of supporters
in Jupiter, Fla., and declared himself ``a great environmentalist.''

Mr. Trump was speaking at an official presidential event, where he
endorsed a 10-year moratorium on oil and gas drilling off the state's
coastline as well as the Georgia and South Carolina coasts --- a feat of
political jujitsu, since
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/01/04/climate/trump-offshore-drilling.html}{his
administration is the one that proposed lifting the moratorium}.

(In 2018, the Trump administration only
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/01/09/climate/trump-florida-offshore-drilling.html}{dropped
Florida from a list of places} where it wanted to lift a moratorium on
all offshore oil drilling after strong opposition from the state's
Republican governor at the time, Rick Scott.)

But his appearance in the battleground state he has adopted as his own,
where recent polls show him deadlocked with his Democratic rival, Joseph
R. Biden Jr., also doubled as a campaign stop. It was also an
extraordinary attempt to recast his environmental record in a state
battered by hurricanes and coastal flooding, where voters of both
parties express widespread concern about climate change.

Standing behind a podium with a presidential seal, Mr. Trump claimed,
with no evidence, that electing Mr. Biden would leave the environment
``permanently injured.''

``The left's agenda isn't about protecting the environment,'' he
claimed. ``It is about punishing America.''

There are few other policy arenas where a rewrite of the last three and
a half years could be so jarring. His portrayal of his administration's
response to the coronavirus has at times strained credulity. His claims
of a legislative record second to no other president have been greeted
by scoffs. He has said repeatedly that he has done more for Black
Americans than any president, except perhaps Abraham Lincoln.

But the environment is in a category on its own, because in claiming the
mantle of environmentalism, he is in fact repudiating one of his
administration's undeniable accomplishments: the stunning roll back in
one presidential administration of environmental regulations that go
back decades.

Mr. Trump has called climate change a hoax, weakened
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/05/02/climate/offshore-drilling-safety-rollback-deepwater-horizon.html}{oversight
of drilling} in federal waters,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/17/climate/alaska-oil-drilling-anwr.html}{opened
up the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge} to oil and gas companies and
moved to repeal about
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/climate/trump-environment-rollbacks.html}{100
environmental regulations}.

Yet on Tuesday, he congratulated his administration for what he called
``our incredible record of natural conservation and environmental
protection.''

--- \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/annie-karni}{Annie
Karni} and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/lisa-friedman}{Lisa
Friedman}

\hypertarget{advertisement}{%
\subsubsection{Advertisement}\label{advertisement}}

\protect\hyperlink{after-dfp-ad-mid1}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{a-new-poll-finds-the-candidates-tied-in-florida-but-with-shifting-sources-of-support}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{a-new-poll-finds-the-candidates-tied-in-florida-but-with-shifting-sources-of-support}{A
new poll finds the candidates tied in Florida, but with shifting sources
of
support.}}{A new poll finds the candidates tied in Florida, but with shifting sources of support.}}\label{a-new-poll-finds-the-candidates-tied-in-florida-but-with-shifting-sources-of-support}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/09/08/us/politics/08elections-briefing-floridapoll/merlin_176738679_b55ad9c3-b92b-41e1-b145-23f166c0a2ff-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

President Trump and former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. are tied
in the perennially close state of Florida, according to
\href{https://www.nbcnews.com/politics/meet-the-press/poll-trump-biden-are-tied-battleground-florida-n1239510}{an
NBC News/Marist poll} released Tuesday, and there were signs that some
of the state's old alliances were shifting.

Both Trump and Biden had the support of 48 percent of likely
voters\href{https://www.documentcloud.org/documents/7203771-NBC-News-Marist-Poll-FL-Annotated-Questionnaire.html}{according
to the poll}, which had a margin of error of plus or minus 4.5
percentage points. It was released on a day that Mr. Trump traveled to
Florida, now his home state, to court voters.

But if the poll's top line seemed familiar --- Florida has come to
define close presidential elections at least since the contested 2000
race between George W. Bush and Al Gore --- the poll suggested that the
sources of each candidate's support were evolving this year.

The candidates are virtually tied among likely voters 65 and older, with
Mr. Biden edging out Mr. Trump by 49 percent to 48 percent, it found.
That was a big shift from four years ago, when Mr. Trump won a majority
of the age group in Florida,
according\href{https://www.nbcnews.com/politics/2016-election/fl/}{to
exit polls.} The candidates were tied among likely voters under 45, the
poll found. Four years ago Hillary Clinton carried young voters in the
state by double digits, according to exit polls.

In another major shift, the poll found Mr. Trump was narrowly leading
Mr. Biden among likely Latino voters, by 50 percent to 46 percent. Mrs.
Clinton won among Latino voters in Florida four years ago by 62 percent
to 35 percent, according to exit polls.

--- \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/michael-cooper}{Michael
Cooper}

\hypertarget{after-reports-of-a-campaign-cash-crunch-trump-says-he-may-fund-the-race-with-his-own-money}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{after-reports-of-a-campaign-cash-crunch-trump-says-he-may-fund-the-race-with-his-own-money}{After
reports of a campaign cash crunch, Trump says he may fund the race with
his own
money.}}{After reports of a campaign cash crunch, Trump says he may fund the race with his own money.}}\label{after-reports-of-a-campaign-cash-crunch-trump-says-he-may-fund-the-race-with-his-own-money}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/09/08/us/08live-trump/merlin_176728536_66bdf2bf-0394-4abc-a78c-256b9fd07a17-videoSixteenByNine3000.jpg}

President Trump said on Tuesday he was considering putting his own money
into the 2020 campaign --- ``If I have to, I will,'' he said --- as his
campaign manager did not dispute
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/07/us/politics/trump-election-campaign-fundraising.html}{a
report} that his campaign is facing a cash crunch.

Of the \$1.1 billon his campaign and the party raised from the beginning
of 2019 through July, more than \$800 million has already been spent.
Now some people inside the campaign are forecasting what was once
unthinkable: a cash crunch with less than 60 days until the election,
according to Republican officials briefed on the matter.

Mr. Trump put more than \$50 million into his 2016 primary run but
declined to fund his campaign in the general election. He has not put
any of his own funds into his 2020 campaign so far.

``Whatever it takes, we have to win,'' Mr. Trump told reporters as he
prepared to depart on a trip to Florida.

He later wrote on Twitter that he did not expect to need to put in his
own money, writing ``If more money is needed, which I doubt it will be,
I will put it up!''

\begin{quote}
....Like I did in the 2016 Primaries, if more money is needed, which I
doubt it will be, I will put it up!

--- Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump)
\href{https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/1303368660736598016?ref_src=twsrc\%5Etfw}{September
8, 2020}
\end{quote}

After The New York Times reported that the Trump campaign
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/07/us/politics/trump-election-campaign-fundraising.html?action=click\&module=RelatedLinks\&pgtype=Article}{had
lost its financial advantage due to profligate spending}, Bill Stepien,
who took over as campaign manager in July, did not deny that the
campaign was facing a cash crunch in a strategy call with reporters on
Tuesday.

``If money was the only factor determining winners and losers in
politics, Jeb Bush would have been the nominee in 2016. And we'd have a
second President Clinton right now in the Oval Office,'' Mr. Stepien
said. ``Reminder,'' he added, ``Candidate Trump was outspent \$1.2
billion-\$646 million in 2016. So just keep that in the back of your
minds.''

Mr. Stepien emphasized that the Trump campaign had far more money on
hand than in 2016.

''We are now carefully managing the budget,'' he said, something he
called among ``the most important tasks for any campaign manager.
Creating or recreating the budget was the first thing that I did upon
becoming the campaign manager and it's something that we, as a team,
manage every single day.''

Mr. Stepien has imposed a series of changes that affected staff travel,
hiring and the ad budget, as the Trump campaign sharply reduced its
television ad buy in late August.

He said that the campaign's early spending on field programs was not
something the Democrats could match. ``Our early investment in states is
going to move the needle in a way that Joe Biden's campaign just can't
do, even if they tried starting now,'' Mr. Stepien said.

--- \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/shane-goldmacher}{Shane
Goldmacher} and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/maggie-haberman}{Maggie
Haberman}

Ad Watch

\hypertarget{trump-raises-hopes-for-a-coronavirus-vaccine-in-his-latest-campaign-ad}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{trump-raises-hopes-for-a-coronavirus-vaccine-in-his-latest-campaign-ad}{Trump
raises hopes for a coronavirus vaccine in his latest campaign
ad.}}{Trump raises hopes for a coronavirus vaccine in his latest campaign ad.}}\label{trump-raises-hopes-for-a-coronavirus-vaccine-in-his-latest-campaign-ad}}

The Trump campaign has inserted one of the country's greatest hopes for
overcoming the coronavirus pandemic --- the push to develop an effective
vaccine --- into the presidential race with its latest campaign ad.

\hypertarget{the-message}{%
\subsubsection{The Message}\label{the-message}}

For months, the Trump campaign has struggled to lock in a cohesive
message on the pandemic. After the administration downplayed and bungled
the early response to the coronavirus, there has been little success for
President Trump to tout in his re-election campaign.

So his campaign is trading instead on a hope for a vaccine, and a
promise to rebuild the economy.

The ad opens with the camera panning across bottles labeled ``COVID-19
Coronavirus Vaccine'' while a narrator claims that ``the finish line is
approaching'' for a vaccine. That is quickly followed by a promise to
bring back ``the greatest economy the world has ever seen,'' a promise
that hinges more on the president's hope than on any tangible plans or
platforms that he has released.

The ad attempts to draw a contrast between Mr. Trump's pledge to rebuild
the economy and remarks from Joseph R. Biden Jr., using a selectively
edited clip that shows Mr. Biden saying he would ``shut it down.'' (The
clip comes from an interview in which Mr. Biden said he would only shut
down the country again
\href{https://www.cnn.com/2020/08/22/politics/biden-coronavirus-shutdown/index.html}{if
scientists recommended doing so}.)

The ad fits into a broader arc that the Trump campaign is trying to
sell: a pitch that the worst of the coronavirus is behind the country,
and that the president is the best candidate to rebuild the economy.

\hypertarget{fact-check}{%
\subsubsection{Fact Check}\label{fact-check}}

The ad claims that the ``finish line is approaching'' for a vaccine.
Earlier this month, the C.D.C. notified public health officials that
they should prepare to begin distributing a coronavirus vaccine to some
high-risk groups
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/02/health/covid-19-vaccine-cdc-plans.html}{as
soon as late October or early November}. But Dr. Moncef Slaoui, the top
scientist on Operation Warp Speed, recently warned in
\href{https://www.npr.org/2020/09/03/909312697/operation-warp-speed-top-adviser-on-the-status-of-a-coronavirus-vaccine}{an
interview with National Public Radio} that the chance of successful
vaccine results by October was ``very, very low.'' Health officials have
also raised concerns that the Trump administration is seeking to rush a
vaccine
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/02/health/covid-19-vaccine-cdc-plans.html}{before
Election Day on Nov. 3}.

The ad boasts about adding 1.37 million jobs in August, but
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/04/business/economy/jobs-report.html?utm_source=ground.news\&utm_medium=referral}{that
was down from the gains} in the three previous months, and included the
hiring of nearly a quarter-million temporary census workers.

And Mr. Biden does not plan to shut the country down. He said that he
would only do so, if elected, if scientists and health experts told him
it was necessary.

\hypertarget{where-its-running}{%
\subsubsection{Where It's Running}\label{where-its-running}}

The ad is currently running in five battleground states: Florida, North
Carolina, Georgia, Wisconsin and Michigan. More may be added in the
coming days.

\hypertarget{the-takeaway}{%
\subsubsection{The Takeaway}\label{the-takeaway}}

While the most vocal message out of the Trump campaign has been a
strident stoking of racial divisions amid the protests against racism
and police brutality around the country, the new ad is a recognition
that the president's re-election bid cannot simply ignore the
coronavirus pandemic, particularly as many polls find the virus to still
be the top concern of voters around the country.

--- \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/nick-corasaniti}{Nick
Corasaniti}

\hypertarget{advertisement-1}{%
\subsubsection{Advertisement}\label{advertisement-1}}

\protect\hyperlink{after-dfp-ad-mid2}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{the-president-denounces-coronavirus-restrictions-biden-has-questions-about-proposed-vaccine}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{the-president-denounces-coronavirus-restrictions-biden-has-questions-about-proposed-vaccine}{The
president denounces coronavirus restrictions. Biden has questions about
proposed
vaccine.}}{The president denounces coronavirus restrictions. Biden has questions about proposed vaccine.}}\label{the-president-denounces-coronavirus-restrictions-biden-has-questions-about-proposed-vaccine}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/09/08/us/08live-trumpmasks/merlin_176699229_d6f93380-e3b3-4331-818f-f5bc5b5d7f8c-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

As the presidential campaign entered the post-Labor Day sprint to the
finish line, President Trump returned to a familiar theme this week:
minimizing the threat posed by the coronavirus, sometimes in ways that
contradict the advice of federal health authorities.

Mr. Trump took to Twitter on Tuesday morning to insist that ``New York
City
\href{https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/1303305303249870854?s=20}{must
stop the Shutdown now}'' and then to claim that virus restrictions in
other states were ``only being
\href{https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/1303313054281666584?s=20}{done
to hurt the economy prior} to the most important election, perhaps, in
our history.''

A day earlier he criticized a reporter for wearing a mask at a White
House news conference,
despite\href{https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/prevent-getting-sick/prevention.html}{guidance
from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention} that ``everyone
should wear a mask in public settings and when around people who don't
live in your household.''

It was part of a familiar pattern for Mr. Trump, who back in March began
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/24/us/politics/trump-coronavirus-easter.html}{pushing
for states to reopen by Easter, on April 12}. (More than 160,000 people
have died of the coronavirus in the United States since Easter,
according to a New York Times database.) In mid-April Mr. Trump sided
with protesters who were chafing at virus restrictions, calling to
``LIBERATE'' several states including
\href{https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/1251168994066944003}{Minnesota}
and
\href{https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/1251169987110330372}{Virginia},
which both saw cases rise in subsequent weeks. And in June he held an
in-person campaign rally in Tulsa, Okla.,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/08/us/politics/coronavirus-tulsa-trump-rally.html}{which
local health officials said likely contributed to more cases} there.

The outbreak in the United States is one of
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/world/coronavirus-maps.html}{the
worst in the world}: it has the most reported total cases, more 6.3
million, and the most reported deaths, more than 189,000, according to
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html}{a
New York Times database}. And it has lagged other wealthy nations
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/06/us/coronavirus-us.html}{when
it has come to taming the virus}.

Mr. Trump, who rarely wears masks, made fun of his Democratic opponent,
former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr., last week for wearing one,
suggesting that it stemmed from a psychological
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/03/us/trump-vs-biden\#at-a-latrobe-pa-rally-trump-boasts-of-getting-along-with-russia}{need
to feel safe}. At a White House news conference on Monday, he asked a
reporter, Jeff Mason of Reuters, to take his mask off as he asked a
question.

Mr. Mason kept his mask on. ``I'll speak a lot louder,'' he said.

A little later, another reporter took his mask off to ask Mr. Trump a
question, pleasing the president. ``You sound so clear, as opposed to
everybody else where they refuse,'' he said.

Mr. Biden's campaign, meanwhile, aimed to send a warning shot about any
possible coronavirus vaccine approved on Mr. Trump's watch.

``President Donald Trump and Vice President Mike Pence see a Covid-19
vaccine as a political tool,'' Mr. Biden and his running mate, Senator
Kamala Harris of California, said in a joint statement. ``We see it as a
product of science and research. Its timing, approval and distribution
should be without regard to political calculation.''

They laid out three questions that, they said, the Trump administration
``must answer.''

Those questions were, what criteria would be used to make sure that a
vaccine met scientific safety and efficacy standards; who will ensure
that any ``decision to greenlight a Covid-19 vaccine is driven by
science and not political motivation''; and how would such a vaccine be
allocated and distributed cost-free and fairly?

The political clash came as the chief executives of nine pharmaceutical
companies
\href{https://www.pfizer.com/news/press-release/press-release-detail/biopharma-leaders-unite-stand-science}{signed
a pledge on Tuesday to ``stand with science''} and not to rush to bring
to market a vaccine until it had been vetted for safety.

One of the companies that signed the pledge, AstraZeneca, on Tuesday put
the brakes on a late-stage global vaccine trial after one of the
participants had experienced serious side effects. It was not
immediately clear how long the trial would be halted.

--- \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/michael-cooper}{Michael
Cooper} and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/neil-vigdor}{Neil Vigdor}

\hypertarget{ohio-could-take-several-weeks-to-certify-a-winner-in-the-presidential-election}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{ohio-could-take-several-weeks-to-certify-a-winner-in-the-presidential-election}{Ohio
could take several weeks to certify a winner in the presidential
election.}}{Ohio could take several weeks to certify a winner in the presidential election.}}\label{ohio-could-take-several-weeks-to-certify-a-winner-in-the-presidential-election}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/09/08/us/politics/08elections-ohio/merlin_170593782_44114607-b5be-4bab-a71b-262154781706-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

The top election official in Ohio is warning that the state, a key
pathway to the presidency over the decades, could be hanging in the
balance for several weeks while absentee ballots are counted.

Frank LaRose, the Republican secretary of state, said during a
\href{https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WHN2Ol58SEA}{news conference on
Tuesday} that there would probably be hundreds of thousands of absentee
ballots that will not have been counted by Election Day on Nov. 3.

Absentee ballots, which a large number of voters are expected to make
use of this year because of the coronavirus pandemic, can trickle into
county election boards in Ohio for up to 10 days after the election
under a state law. They have to be postmarked by Election Day.

``The numbers will change between election night and the final
certification,'' Mr. LaRose said. ``That's not a sign of something
nefarious happening. In fact, quite the contrary. It's a sign that the
system is working as it's supposed to.''

In Ohio, absentee ballot request forms have been sent to all 7.8 million
registered voters in the state, according to Mr. Rose, whose office is
seeking budgetary approval to spend \$3 million it has collected in fees
to pay for the return postage for the ballots. The first ballots will be
mailed on Oct. 6.

Election officials plan to report the number of outstanding absentee
ballots on election night, Mr. LaRose said. But he acknowledged that it
could be a ``nightmare scenario'' if the Trump or Biden campaigns
declared victory in Ohio based on unofficial results that showed them
with a narrow lead.

``We've gotten very accustomed to sort of knowing who's going to be the
next president before we go to bed on election night,'' Mr. LaRose said.
``That may not be the case this year.''

--- \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/neil-vigdor}{Neil
Vigdor}

\hypertarget{with-labor-day-behind-them-the-candidates-ramp-up-travel-to-battleground-states}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{with-labor-day-behind-them-the-candidates-ramp-up-travel-to-battleground-states}{With
Labor Day behind them, the candidates ramp up travel to battleground
states.}}{With Labor Day behind them, the candidates ramp up travel to battleground states.}}\label{with-labor-day-behind-them-the-candidates-ramp-up-travel-to-battleground-states}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/09/08/us/politics/08elections-briefing-intro/merlin_176706153_28d4e980-f154-4c23-a3d8-168d0818ce92-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

After almost entirely avoiding air travel for the last six months and
ceding the opportunity to campaign in far-flung swing states, Joseph R.
Biden Jr., the Democratic presidential nominee, and his running mate,
Senator Kamala Harris, will be traversing the map this week in a manner
vaguely reminiscent of a normal presidential campaign.

Mr. Biden is due in Michigan on Wednesday, while Ms. Harris will be
campaigning on Thursday in Florida. And Jill Biden, the former second
lady, will visit Minnesota --- a blue-tinted state that President Trump
barely lost in 2016.

Of course, their activities on the ground are unlikely to look much like
a traditional presidential race, judging by their travels so far. When
Mr. Biden visited Pennsylvania on Labor Day, his activities were limited
to a socially distanced meeting with workers in a backyard and a virtual
town hall hosted from the Harrisburg headquarters of the state
A.F.L.-C.I.O. Ms. Harris kept a similarly restrained itinerary in her
Monday trip to Milwaukee.

Still, that they are hitting the road at all represents a significant
shift in their joint posture --- a welcome one for swing-state
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/07/us/trump-vs-biden/in-the-final-stretch-biden-is-defending-his-lead-against-a-gop-onslaught}{Democrats
who worry} that voters are growing impatient with Mr. Biden's abstemious
approach to the trail.

The Republican ticket will be no less active this week, though for Mr.
Trump and Vice President Mike Pence that is not a departure from the
norm. Their campaign has been behaving for some time as though the
coronavirus is a fading consideration, holding rallies at airport
hangars where social distancing and mask-wearing are hardly the rule.

Mr. Trump starts his week Tuesday visiting Florida and North Carolina
and ends it Saturday in Nevada, another state he lost by a small margin
in 2016.

In some respects, the mode of campaigning is the message for both
tickets: The Democrats have made Mr. Trump's mishandling of the
coronavirus the central theme of their general-election campaign, while
Mr. Trump and Mr. Pence have been promising the pandemic will soon be a
thing of the past.

But as always, the political subject of the week remains a question mark
until Mr. Trump next speaks. Few in either party expected to spend the
end of last week addressing allegations that the president had derided
American war dead, and about as many could have predicted that his Labor
Day message would include
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/07/us/politics/wisconsin-biden-harris-trump-pence.html}{a
sharp swipe at Pentagon leaders} for allegedly being in league with the
arms industry.

---
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/alexander-burns}{Alexander
Burns}

\hypertarget{advertisement-2}{%
\subsubsection{Advertisement}\label{advertisement-2}}

\protect\hyperlink{after-dfp-ad-mid3}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{after-trump-suggests-trying-to-vote-by-mail-and-in-person-georgia-threatens-to-prosecute-voters-who-acted-similarly}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{after-trump-suggests-trying-to-vote-by-mail-and-in-person-georgia-threatens-to-prosecute-voters-who-acted-similarly}{After
Trump suggests trying to vote by mail and in person, Georgia threatens
to prosecute voters who acted
similarly.}}{After Trump suggests trying to vote by mail and in person, Georgia threatens to prosecute voters who acted similarly.}}\label{after-trump-suggests-trying-to-vote-by-mail-and-in-person-georgia-threatens-to-prosecute-voters-who-acted-similarly}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/09/08/us/08GEORGIA-VOTING/08virus-georgia-videoSixteenByNine3000.jpg}

The authorities in Georgia are threatening criminal action against 1,000
voters in Georgia who voted twice this year --- once by mail and once in
person at polling places.

Brad Raffensperger, the Georgia secretary of state, held a news
conference Tuesday to announce that investigations were under way in 100
of the state's 159 counties following the discovery of 1,000 instances
of double voting in the state's June primary and August run-off
elections.

``We will prosecute,'' said Mr. Raffensperger, a Republican, noting that
double voting in Georgia carries a penalty of one to 10 years in prison
and a fine of up to \$100,000. He noted that double-voting hadn't
changed the outcome of any races.

The scenario Mr. Raffensperger described appeared to be identical to
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/02/us/politics/trump-people-vote-twice.html}{the
one suggested by President Trump last week}, when he told reporters in
North Carolina that voters should test the integrity of the election
system by voting by mail and then subsequently appearing at the polls in
person.

Safeguards are supposed to flag such discrepancies so that double votes
aren't counted.

Elections officials nationwide said that
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/03/us/politics/people-voting-twice-trump.html}{Mr.
Trump's comments had created confusion among voters} in an already
stressful election year.

It was not clear how many of the 1,000 instances of double voting were
intentional efforts to vote twice and how many were done by people who
had submitted an absentee ballot but did not know whether it had arrived
and been counted.

``At the end of the day, the voter was responsible and the voters know
what they were doing,'' Mr. Raffensperger said. ``A double voter knows
exactly what they were doing, diluting the votes of each and every voter
that follows the law.''

---
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/stephanie-saul}{Stephanie
Saul}

\hypertarget{amid-a-pandemic-and-fears-of-mail-delays-new-york-will-install-drop-boxes-for-absentee-ballots}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{amid-a-pandemic-and-fears-of-mail-delays-new-york-will-install-drop-boxes-for-absentee-ballots}{Amid
a pandemic and fears of mail delays, New York will install drop boxes
for absentee
ballots.}}{Amid a pandemic and fears of mail delays, New York will install drop boxes for absentee ballots.}}\label{amid-a-pandemic-and-fears-of-mail-delays-new-york-will-install-drop-boxes-for-absentee-ballots}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/09/08/us/politics/08elections-briefing-cuomo-08-12-29/merlin_172393161_8b967a0d-c690-4fc7-881a-1788aa934d83-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo said officials would place hundreds of drop boxes
for absentee ballots at voting sites around New York, adopting a method
already in practice in other states.

The decision comes on the heels of another by Mr. Cuomo to sign a bill
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/20/nyregion/vote-by-mail-new-york.html?searchResultPosition=4}{to
allow voters to request absentee ballots} for the November election if
they fear contracting or spreading an illness, a harsh reality in a
state that continues to rebound from a spring surge of the coronavirus,
which killed more than 30,000 people in New York. Absentee ballots can
also be requested
\href{https://absenteeballot.elections.ny.gov/Home/Search?aspxerrorpath=/\%e2\%80\%8b}{online}.

The new executive order would permit voters to drop ballots at early
voting sites during a nine-day period, from Oct. 24 to Nov. 1, before
the Nov. 3 election. Such ballots can also be dropped at county Board of
Elections offices immediately, and at in-person polling sites on
Election Day.

New York was widely criticized by Republicans, including President
Trump, for its handling of the June primary, when there were tens of
thousands of disqualified ballots and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/17/nyregion/election-absentee-ballots-primary.html}{weeks
of delays} before official results were announced in some races.
Election officials attributed the problems to a record number of
absentee ballots as voters sought to avoid crowds --- and possible
infection --- at polling sites.

New York had long lagged behind other states in voting reforms before a
successful push for changes by Democratic lawmakers last year. And since
the June primary and its problems, a number of other changes have been
passed, as Mr. Cuomo has also used executive orders to try to address
increase staffing and voter awareness.

``We want fair voting, we want easy voting,'' Mr. Cuomo said on Tuesday.
``And we want accurate voting.''

--- \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/jesse-mckinley}{Jesse
McKinley}

\hypertarget{new-hampshires-primaries-will-test-the-influence-of-trump-and-bernie-sanders}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{new-hampshires-primaries-will-test-the-influence-of-trump-and-bernie-sanders}{New
Hampshire's primaries will test the influence of Trump and Bernie
Sanders.}}{New Hampshire's primaries will test the influence of Trump and Bernie Sanders.}}\label{new-hampshires-primaries-will-test-the-influence-of-trump-and-bernie-sanders}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/09/08/us/08live-nhri/merlin_175236483_e77984d3-361a-4e4b-8f2f-c235f11521d7-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

New Hampshire primary voters are casting ballots on Tuesday in contests
that test the power of
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/donald-trump.html}{President
Trump}'s endorsement and, on the Democratic side, resemble
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/05/us/politics/election-primary-results.html}{other
recent primaries} that have revealed the staying power of the Bernie
Sanders wing of the party.

In the Republican Senate primary, Mr. Trump
\href{https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/1271482304716845057}{endorsed}
Corky Messner, a wealthy lawyer who moved full-time to the state from
Denver only in 2018 and has fought off accusations of carpetbagging. Mr.
Messner led his rival, Don Bolduc, a retired Army general, by a healthy
margin in a
\href{https://scholars.unh.edu/survey_center_polls/606/}{Granite State
Poll} last week.

The primary winner will almost certainly take on Senator Jeanne Shaheen,
a Democratic former governor and two-term incumbent, who in the same
poll, conducted by the University of New Hampshire Survey Center, held
more than a 15-percentage-point lead in matchups with both Republican
rivals.

The second most closely watched race is the Democratic primary for
governor. Dan Feltes, the State Senate majority leader, is in a tight
race with Andru Volinsky, a lawyer and education activist who was
endorsed by Mr. Sanders, the Vermont senator. The support of Mr.
Sanders,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/02/11/us/politics/bernie-sanders-new-hampshire-primary.html}{who
won New Hampshire's presidential primary} in February, has helped rally
progressive voters in a contest that has been little noticed compared
with other face-offs this year between the Democratic left wing and the
party establishment.

Mr. Volinsky broke with New Hampshire Democratic tradition and refused
to take
\href{https://www.nhpr.org/post/nh-democrats-running-office-political-pull-pledge-remains-strong\#stream/0}{``the
pledge},'' a promise not to introduce sales or state income taxes. ``We
are the last Bernie candidate standing,'' said Irene Lin, Mr. Volinsky's
campaign manager.

Despite being outspent by Mr. Feltes, Mr. Volinsky had
\href{https://scholars.unh.edu/survey_center_polls/605/}{a slight
two-point lead} in the Granite State Poll, within the margin of error.

But again, the primary winner is likely to face a popular incumbent,
Gov. Chris Sununu, a Republican. Largely driven by his response to the
coronavirus outbreak, Mr. Sununu's stock has risen all year; he now has
the approval of seven in 10 New Hampshire voters.

--- \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/trip-gabriel}{Trip
Gabriel}

\hypertarget{advertisement-3}{%
\subsubsection{Advertisement}\label{advertisement-3}}

\protect\hyperlink{after-dfp-ad-mid4}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{kanye-west-is-denied-a-spot-on-the-arizona-ballot-by-the-state-supreme-court}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{kanye-west-is-denied-a-spot-on-the-arizona-ballot-by-the-state-supreme-court}{Kanye
West is denied a spot on the Arizona ballot by the state Supreme
Court.}}{Kanye West is denied a spot on the Arizona ballot by the state Supreme Court.}}\label{kanye-west-is-denied-a-spot-on-the-arizona-ballot-by-the-state-supreme-court}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/09/08/us/politics/08elections-kanye/merlin_174748251_559d48c4-1f0a-44cb-b543-da6386b48452-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Kanye West won't be joining President Trump and former Vice President
Joseph R. Biden Jr. on the ballot in Arizona, where the state Supreme
Court ruled on Tuesday that the hip-hop artist had failed to meet the
qualifications for establishing his independent candidacy in the
presidential battleground.

The setback, which was similar to one faced by Mr. West in Virginia,
came on the same day that the rapper
\href{https://www.sos.ms.gov/content/documents/elections/2020\%20Candidate\%20Qualifying\%20List.pdf}{qualified
for the ballot in Mississippi}.

The Arizona Supreme Court said that Mr. West, whom critics maintain
could play the role of spoiler in a tight race,
\href{https://arizonaslaw.blogspot.com/2020/09/breaking-kanye-loses-arizona-supreme.html}{did
not file a statement of interest with election officials} before his
campaign started gathering signatures of voters for him to appear on the
ballot.

The ruling upheld a decision last Thursday by a Superior Court judge in
Maricopa County that Mr. West appealed to the state's highest court.

Despite collecting nearly 58,000 nominating signatures in Arizona, well
more than the 39,000 needed to get onto the ballot, Mr. West was
\href{https://www.fox6now.com/news/lawsuit-seeks-to-ban-kanye-west-from-appearing-on-arizona-ballot-for-president}{sued
by a resident of the state who challenged his eligibility as a
candidate}.

The lawsuit asserted that Mr. West could not run as an independent
because he was registered as a Republican in Wyoming and that all but
one of the electors that he had chosen to represent him in Arizona were
registered as Republicans. It also made the contention that Mr. West had
not filed the statement of interest.

Mr. Biden
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/03/us/politics/biden-trump-polling.html}{led
Mr. Trump by 9 percentage points in a recent Fox News poll in Arizona},
a state that Mr. Trump won by 3 percentage points over Hillary Clinton
in the 2016 election.

Republican operatives have
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/04/us/politics/kanye-west-president-republicans.html}{rendered
aid to Mr. West in at least half a dozen states} to try to get him onto
the ballot.

--- \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/neil-vigdor}{Neil
Vigdor}

\hypertarget{sarah-huckabee-sanders-makes-a-misleading-claim-to-defend-trump-from-reports-that-he-belittled-american-troops}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{sarah-huckabee-sanders-makes-a-misleading-claim-to-defend-trump-from-reports-that-he-belittled-american-troops}{Sarah
Huckabee Sanders makes a misleading claim to defend Trump from reports
that he belittled American
troops.}}{Sarah Huckabee Sanders makes a misleading claim to defend Trump from reports that he belittled American troops.}}\label{sarah-huckabee-sanders-makes-a-misleading-claim-to-defend-trump-from-reports-that-he-belittled-american-troops}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/09/08/us/politics/08elections-briefing-sanders/merlin_154561125_dbf47c19-efa5-4d7a-b9c2-4921a7d766cd-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the former White House press secretary, jumped
to President Trump's defense as the administration has tried to cast
doubt on
\href{https://www.theatlantic.com/politics/archive/2020/09/trump-americans-who-died-at-war-are-losers-and-suckers/615997/}{a
damning report in The Atlantic} that Mr. Trump had privately referred to
American troops killed in combat as ``losers'' and ``suckers.''

In \href{https://twitter.com/SarahHuckabee/status/1302756376448561153}{a
video she posted online} that had 3.4 million views by Tuesday
afternoon, Ms. Sanders claimed, ``I've also sat in the room when the
president had to make the most difficult calls of his presidency: when
he had to let a parent know that their son had been killed in the line
of duty.''

``That's a call no president wants to make,'' she said. ``In those
moments, I saw the president's heart. And I also saw his commitment to
the men and women of our great military.''

In fact, that's not a call that any president ever makes.

The news of a death is never delivered on the phone.

Each branch of the military has its own protocols for notifying next of
kin, but all require a field grade officer of equal or higher grade than
the member whose death they are notifying to do so in person. A chaplain
or medical personnel is also expected to attend, in person, if possible,
but notification is expected to be completed within eight hours of
learning about the casualty.

Ms. Sanders said in a text message on Tuesday that the calls she was
referring to in the video were condolence calls, not notification calls.

She also spoke about watching the president make notification calls
during an interview on ``Good Morning America'' on Tuesday, where she
appeared as part of her national book tour for a new memoir, ``Speaking
for Myself.''

``I sat with him in the Oval Office as he had to make that awful call to
let a parent know that their son had been killed in Afghanistan,'' she
said. After the anchor, George Stephanopoulos, asked for a clarification
she said that she meant to say ``a condolence call after that individual
had been notified.'' Ms. Sanders, a Fox News contributor, is considering
a run for governor of her home state of Arkansas in 2023.

During her tenure as press secretary, Ms. Sanders admitted to
investigators that she made a
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/04/19/us/politics/sarah-sanders-mueller-report.html}{false
statement in the White House briefing room} when she claimed she had
personally heard from ``countless'' rank-and-file F.B.I. agents who had
lost confidence in James Comey, the former F.B.I. director fired by the
president. A footnote in the Mueller Report, however, said that she
recalled that the statement was made in the ``heat of the moment'' and
was ``not founded on anything.''

--- \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/annie-karni}{Annie
Karni}

\hypertarget{obama-gives-harris-the-inside-scoop-on-bidens-interests-ice-cream-is-big}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{obama-gives-harris-the-inside-scoop-on-bidens-interests-ice-cream-is-big}{Obama
gives Harris the inside scoop on Biden's interests: `Ice cream is
big.'}}{Obama gives Harris the inside scoop on Biden's interests: `Ice cream is big.'}}\label{obama-gives-harris-the-inside-scoop-on-bidens-interests-ice-cream-is-big}}

There was talk of how to stay fit on the campaign trail and what music
to listen to during down time. And then Senator Kamala Harris, the
Democratic nominee for vice president, had a request.

``So,'' she said to former President Barack Obama, ``tell me about
Joe.''

In a roughly
\href{https://twitter.com/BarackObama/status/1303302067847663617}{five-minute
video produced by the Biden campaign and posted by Mr. Obama} on Twitter
Tuesday, Ms. Harris and Mr. Obama held a conversation in which the
former president offered his insights about Ms Harris's running mate ---
a man who was formerly his vice president.

\begin{quote}
Great to catch up with our next Vice President,
\href{https://twitter.com/KamalaHarris?ref_src=twsrc\%5Etfw}{@KamalaHarris}.
I wanted to make sure to share a few tips about serving alongside our
friend
\href{https://twitter.com/JoeBiden?ref_src=twsrc\%5Etfw}{@JoeBiden}.
\href{https://t.co/ncidvmylch}{pic.twitter.com/ncidvmylch}

--- Barack Obama (@BarackObama)
\href{https://twitter.com/BarackObama/status/1303302067847663617?ref_src=twsrc\%5Etfw}{September
8, 2020}
\end{quote}

Their first order of business, as it turned out, was to discuss Mr.
Biden's favorite foods.

``Ice cream is big,'' Mr. Obama said. ``Pasta with red sauce, he can go
deep on that.''

Mr. Obama also made mention of Mr. Biden's penchant for aviator glasses
--- ``he knows he looks good in them'' --- before turning a tad more
serious.

``The main thing to know about Joe is that Joe has never lost his sense
of why we do this,'' Mr. Obama said.

Ms. Harris and Mr. Obama also compared exercise routines on the trail.
For months amid the coronavirus pandemic, Ms. Harris said, hand weights
had been sold out. So she filled liter bottles with water and lifted
those; Mr. Obama recalled that when he would visit small towns in Iowa,
he would search out a treadmill, even if that meant running on one in
the back of a beauty salon.

``You are doing great,'' Mr. Obama told Ms. Harris. ``Make sure, though,
you get those workouts in.''

--- \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/matt-stevens}{Matt
Stevens}

\hypertarget{our-2020-election-guide}{%
\section{Our 2020 Election Guide}\label{our-2020-election-guide}}

Updated ~Sept. 11, 2020

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

\begin{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{the-latest}{%
  \subsection{The Latest}\label{the-latest}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Joe Biden and President Trump put
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/11/us/politics/shanksville-trump-biden.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{hostilities
    on hold today to travel to ground zero and then to Shanksville, Pa.,
    where they separately honored 9/11 victims}.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{how-to-win-270}{%
  \subsection{How to Win 270}\label{how-to-win-270}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Joe Biden and Donald Trump need 270 electoral votes to reach the
    White House. Try building
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/election-states-biden-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{your
    own coalition of battleground states}~to see potential outcomes.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{voting-by-mail}{%
  \subsection{Voting by Mail}\label{voting-by-mail}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Will you have enough time to vote by mail in your state? Yes, but
    it's risky to procrastinate.
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/31/us/politics/vote-by-mail-deadlines.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Check
    your state's deadline.}
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/joe-biden.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{}

    \hypertarget{joe-biden}{%
    \section{Joe Biden}\label{joe-biden}}

    \hypertarget{democrat}{%
    \subsection{Democrat}\label{democrat}}

    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/donald-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{}

    \hypertarget{donald-trump}{%
    \section{Donald Trump}\label{donald-trump}}

    \hypertarget{republican}{%
    \subsection{Republican}\label{republican}}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \hypertarget{keep-up-with-our-coverage}{%
  \subsection{Keep Up With Our
  Coverage}\label{keep-up-with-our-coverage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Get an
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{email}~recapping
    the day's news
  \item
    Download our mobile app on
    \href{https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nytimes/id284862083?ls=1\&mat_click_id=5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\&referrer=mat_click_id\%3D5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\%26link_click_id\%3D722930677036718082}{iOS}~and
    \href{http://a.localytics.com/android?id=com.nytimes.android\&referrer=utm_source\%3Dother_nyt_mobile_web\%26utm_medium\%3DWeb\%2520page\%26utm_term\%3DGeneral\%2520Mobile\%2520Page\%26utm_campaign\%3DNYT\%2520Mobile\%2520General\%2520Page}{Android}~and
    turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
