Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/opinion}{Opinion}\textbar{}Mike Pompeo Is the Worst
Secretary of State Ever

\href{https://nyti.ms/3emWdr2}{https://nyti.ms/3emWdr2}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

\href{/section/opinion}{Opinion}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{mike-pompeo-is-the-worst-secretary-of-state-ever}{%
\section{Mike Pompeo Is the Worst Secretary of State
Ever}\label{mike-pompeo-is-the-worst-secretary-of-state-ever}}

Where's the Republican uproar over what's gone on under his watch?

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/thomas-l-friedman}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/04/02/opinion/thomas-l-friedman/thomas-l-friedman-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/thomas-l-friedman}{Thomas L.
Friedman}

Opinion Columnist

\begin{itemize}
\item
  May 26, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/05/26/opinion/26friedmanWeb/merlin_153290268_82e5031c-e906-490d-aa75-7ec5ee5bdf7c-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

If you thought the volume on the Trump-Twitter-Fox noise distraction
machine was turned up extra loud in the past few weeks, it was not only
to deflect attention from the nearly 100,000 Americans who've died from
Covid-19, but also from the confirmation that on President Trump's watch
our country suffered the \emph{first deadly terrorist attack on U.S.
soil since 9/11 that was planned abroad.}

You read that right. Last week, Attorney General William Barr and the
F.B.I. said that data from cellphones of a Saudi Air Force trainee who
killed three U.S. sailors and wounded eight others at a Navy air base in
Pensacola, Fla., on Dec. 6 confirmed that it was an act of
foreign-planned ``terrorism.''

The phone data
\href{https://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/attorney-general-william-p-barr-and-fbi-director-christopher-wray-announce-significant}{``definitively
establishes''} that the trainee, Mohammed Saeed Alshamrani, had
``significant ties to Al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula --- not only
before the attack, but before he even arrived in the United States'' in
August 2017. He had actually joined the Saudi military to carry out a
``special operation.''

That Alshamrani was able to kill three sailors at an American base was a
massive failure of U.S. and Saudi intelligence. I mean, who should be
getting more scrutinized before they come train in the U.S. on an air
base than Saudi pilots?

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/05/26/opinion/26friedman2/merlin_172611966_52f75821-4f2f-455b-b9ca-0dad59581a9c-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

The Trump administration clearly had no idea what was happening under
its nose.

As
\href{https://www.washingtonpost.com/national-security/fbi-links-al-qaeda-to-saudi-gunman-who-killed-three-us-sailors-in-pensacola-last-year/2020/05/18/b34e3f7a-990f-11ea-89fd-28fb313d1886_story.html}{The
Washington Post noted}: After the attack, investigators found evidence
that 17 fellow Saudi students ``had shared Islamist militant or
anti-American material on social media, and others had possessed or
shared child pornography. As a result, 21 cadets from Saudi Arabia were
disenrolled from the training program and sent home.''

That sort of intelligence failure --- \emph{the first foreign-planned
terrorist attack on U.S. shores since 9/11} --- is something you'd
expect Secretary of State Mike Pompeo to be particularly upset about.
After all, it was Pompeo, when he was in Congress, who spearheaded the
investigations into then-Secretary of State Hillary Clinton's supposed
responsibility for the death of four U.S. diplomats in a terrorist
attack on the U.S. Consulate in Benghazi, Libya, on Sept. 11, 2012.

Oh, you forgot about Congressman Pompeo's endless campaign to nail
Hillary with Benghazi? Well, let me jog your memory. Here is how The
Guardian
\href{https://www.theguardian.com/us-news/2016/jun/28/house-benghazi-report-clinton-attack-military}{described
the conclusion} of the 800-page, House select committee investigation on
Benghazi, led by a Republican representative, Trey Gowdy, and issued on
July 28, 2016:

It ``found no new evidence to conclude that Hillary Clinton, secretary
of state at the time, was culpable in the deaths.'' A few hours later,
the Obama White House ``noted tersely that this was the eighth
congressional committee to investigate the attacks and went on longer
than the 9/11 commission and the committees designated to look at Pearl
Harbor, the assassination of President John F Kennedy, the Iran-contra
affair and Watergate.''

So, let's do some math here: Then-Congressman Pompeo led the utterly
contrived campaign to blame Hillary for the Benghazi deaths --- a charge
that a \emph{Republican-led committee} found to be without merit. But
Pompeo used his crusade to gain the attention, via Fox News, of Trump
and was named Trump's C.I.A. director. And now we learn that while
Pompeo was C.I.A. director, the first foreign-planned terrorist attack
on U.S. soil since 9/11 was being organized here and abroad, and while
he was secretary of state it was carried out.

Now that's something worth investigating.

I don't know much about Pompeo's time as head of the C.I.A., except that
he was notorious for spending long hours at the White House sucking up
to Trump. But I do know he has been the worst secretary of state in
American history, without a single diplomatic achievement.

I know you thought that Rex Tillerson had retired that title. Tillerson
was ineffective, but Tillerson had integrity and ethics. Pompeo has
none. American taxpayers deserve a refund from him for his education at
West Point.

Pompeo's two most notable accomplishments as secretary of state are,
metaphorically speaking, shooting two of his senior State Department
officials in the back.

One was the distinguished U.S. ambassador to Ukraine, Marie Yovanovitch,
whom Pompeo removed on the orders of Trump and Trump's nut-job lawyer
Rudy Giuliani. The other was the department's inspector general, Steve
Linick, whom Pompeo got Trump to fire, reportedly because he was
investigating --- wait for it now --- Pompeo's own efforts to
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/05/16/us/arms-deals-raytheon-yemen.html}{evade
a congressional ban on arms sales} \emph{to Saudi Arabia} and for
improperly
\href{https://www.cnn.com/2019/07/01/politics/pompeo-democrats-whistleblower-claims/index.html}{asking
a State Department employee to run errands} for him and his wife.

Hell, if that were me --- if the first foreign-planned terrorist attack
on American soil since 9/11 developed on my watch and if I had just
gotten rid of the State Department inspector general without explanation
--- I'd also be trying to distract attention.

I mean, if it were me, I might even claim that China concocted the
coronavirus in a lab in Wuhan. Wait --- that's what Pompeo did!

``There is a significant amount of evidence that this came from that
laboratory in Wuhan,'' Pompeo
\href{https://www.state.gov/secretary-michael-r-pompeo-with-martha-raddatz-of-abcs-this-week-with-george-stephanopoulos/}{told
ABC News's ``This Week''} on May 3. ``The best experts so far seem to
think it was man-made. I have no reason to disbelieve that at this
point.''

Pompeo has a well-earned reputation for pushing conspiracy theories. I
certainly think it is possible that a coronavirus from bats being
studied in the Wuhan lab might have escaped by accident. But the
``best'' expert virologists --- and U.S. intelligence agencies --- say
there's no proof it was man-made, which would leave DNA tracks.

When Martha Raddatz, the ABC interviewer, told Pompeo that U.S.
intelligence has said no such thing, he just reversed course and said:
``I've seen what the intelligence community has said. I have no reason
to believe that they've got it wrong.''

What? The secretary of state first accuses China of manufacturing a
virus that has killed over 340,000 people worldwide and then, when
reminded that our intelligence agencies have concluded no such thing, he
backs off with no explanation. Can you be any more unprofessional?

But that's not the only slimeball story that Pompeo wants to distract
attention from. On May 19,
\href{https://www.nbcnews.com/politics/politics-news/pompeo-s-elite-taxpayer-funded-dinners-raise-new-concerns-n1210746}{NBC
News revealed} that since 2018 he and his wife, Susan, had held some two
dozen ``elaborate, unpublicized'' dinners ``in the historic Diplomatic
Reception Rooms on the government's dime. State Department officials
involved in the dinners said they had raised concerns internally that
the events were essentially using federal resources to cultivate a donor
and supporter base for Pompeo's political ambitions.''

Image

Mr. Pompeo and his wife, Susan, have been accused of misusing the State
Department staff.Credit...Odd Andersen/Agence France-Presse --- Getty
Images

Pompeo and his wife are widely rumored to harbor White House dreams. And
it showed. NBC said ``the records show that about 29 percent of the
invitees came from the corporate world, while about a quarter of them
hailed from the media or entertainment industries, with conservative
media members heavily represented. About 30 percent work in politics or
government, and just 14 percent were diplomats or foreign officials.
Every single member of the House or the Senate who has been invited is a
Republican.''

With a president, a Senate majority and Fox News always at the ready to
defend him, Pompeo couldn't care less about any of these stories. He
just smirks and marches on. But every American should care. The morale
and effectiveness of our State Department --- and our standing in the
world --- are both the worse for him.

\emph{The Times is committed to publishing}
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/01/31/opinion/letters/letters-to-editor-new-york-times-women.html}{\emph{a
diversity of letters}} \emph{to the editor. We'd like to hear what you
think about this or any of our articles. Here are some}
\href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014925288-How-to-submit-a-letter-to-the-editor}{\emph{tips}}\emph{.
And here's our email:}
\href{mailto:letters@nytimes.com}{\emph{letters@nytimes.com}}\emph{.}

\emph{Follow The New York Times Opinion section on}
\href{https://www.facebook.com/nytopinion}{\emph{Facebook}}\emph{,}
\href{http://twitter.com/NYTOpinion}{\emph{Twitter (@NYTopinion)}}
\emph{and}
\href{https://www.instagram.com/nytopinion/}{\emph{Instagram}}\emph{.}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
