Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/climate}{Climate}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/climate}{Climate}\textbar{}E.P.A. Proposes Airplane
Emission Standards That Airlines Already Meet

\url{https://nyti.ms/3hpet4x}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/climate?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Climate
and Environment}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/30/climate/sea-level-inland-floods.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Rising
  Seas}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/climate/trump-environment-rollbacks.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Trump's
  Changes}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/04/19/climate/climate-crash-course-1.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Climate
  101}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2018/08/30/climate/how-much-hotter-is-your-hometown.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Is
  Your Hometown Hotter?}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/climate-change?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{epa-proposes-airplane-emission-standards-that-airlines-already-meet}{%
\section{E.P.A. Proposes Airplane Emission Standards That Airlines
Already
Meet}\label{epa-proposes-airplane-emission-standards-that-airlines-already-meet}}

Staving off a lawsuit, the Environmental Protection Agency has proposed
new regulations to hold airlines to the carbon dioxide emissions
standards they created.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/07/22/climate/22CLI-AIRPLANES1/merlin_171045672_cce93e9c-e49d-45f9-af91-2894f34d5670-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/coral-davenport}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/10/03/multimedia/author-coral-davenport/author-coral-davenport-thumbLarge-v2.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/coral-davenport}{Coral
Davenport}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  July 22, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

WASHINGTON --- The Trump administration on Wednesday made public the
federal government's first proposal to control planet-warming pollution
from airplanes, but the draft regulation would not push the airlines
beyond emissions limits they have set for themselves.

President Trump is still pressing forward on his three-and-a-half-year
rollback of environmental standards, and the proposed airline rule would
stave off an impending lawsuit by putting the federal government in
compliance with a legal requirement that it regulate airplane greenhouse
emissions.

``This is the third time in the past two years that this administration
has taken major action to regulate greenhouse gases in a way that is
legally defensible, reduces CO2 and protects American jobs,'' Andrew
Wheeler, the head of the Environmental Protection Agency, said on a
telephone call with reporters Wednesday morning.

Mr. Wheeler said he was referring to a
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/06/19/climate/epa-coal-emissions.html}{2019
regulation on greenhouse emissions from power plants}and an
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/30/climate/trump-fuel-economy.html}{April
rule governing emissions from vehicle tailpipes}. Both of those rules
replaced far more stringent climate change standards developed by the
Obama administration, and in both cases the new rules allow for more
planet-warming emissions than their predecessors.

The airline rules would be similar; critics say the substance of the
proposal does little more than codify a set of standards largely created
by the aviation industry itself, and is unlikely to diminish the
industry's contribution to global warming.

The new proposal on airplane emissions, which would be open to public
comment before being legally finalized, is modeled after
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2016/02/09/business/energy-environment/un-agency-proposes-limits-on-airlines-carbon-emissions.html}{a
plan drafted largely by international airline companies and adopted in
2016 by the International Civil Aviation Organization, a United Nations
body.} That plan required a 4-percent reduction in fuel consumption of
new aircraft starting in 2028 compared with 2015 deliveries.

``The loud and clear message I heard from the airline industry was to
implement'' that standard, Mr. Wheeler said.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/climate?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_keepup}{}

\hypertarget{climate-and-environment-}{%
\subsubsection{Climate and Environment
â€º}\label{climate-and-environment-}}

\hypertarget{keep-up-on-the-latest-climate-news}{%
\paragraph{Keep Up on the Latest Climate
News}\label{keep-up-on-the-latest-climate-news}}

Updated July 30, 2020

Here's what you need to know about the latest climate change news this
week:

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/30/climate/bangladesh-floods.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_keepup}{Floods
    in}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/30/climate/bangladesh-floods.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_keepup}{Bangladesh}
    are punishing the people least responsible for climate change.
  \item
    As climate change raises sea levels,
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/30/climate/sea-level-inland-floods.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_keepup}{storm
    surges and high tides} are likely to push farther inland.
  \item
    The E.P.A. inspector general plans to investigate whether a rollback
    of fuel efficiency standards
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/27/climate/trump-fuel-efficiency-rule.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_keepup}{violated
    government rules}.
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Airline manufacturers praised the rule. Bryan Watt, a spokesman for
Boeing, called the new rule ``a major step forward for protecting the
environment and supporting sustainable growth of commercial aviation and
the United States economy.''

Environmentalists have long said aviation emissions need to be reduced
to prevent the worst effects of global warming. Air travel accounts for
about 2.5 percent of global carbon dioxide emissions, a far smaller
share than emissions from passenger cars or power plants. But those
emissions are projected to triple by 2050, according to the
International Civil Aviation Organization.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/07/22/climate/22CLI-AIRPLANES2/merlin_172676196_96ac55d0-3bc6-4a6a-8cd6-b341ea3ad540-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Analysts and environmentalists said the neither the existing United
Nations standard nor its formal adoption by the United States would do
anything to lower aviation emissions because the airline industry met
that standard years ago.

``Those standards are just a joke,'' said Clare Lakewood, an attorney
with the Center for Biological Diversity, an advocacy group. ``They
don't require any meaningful emissions reductions.''

Daniel Rutherford, program director for aviation with the International
Council for Clean Transportation, said the standard would not require
any new investment in fuel-efficient technology. According to an
upcoming analysis by Mr. Rutherford's group, new aircraft had met the
2028 standard by 2016.

The future of the proposal will be determined by the results of the
November election. It is unlikely that the rule will be finalized before
the end of this year, and former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. has
campaigned on
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/15/climate/trump-biden-environment.html}{a
platform of aggressive climate action}. If he wins the presidency, his
administration would most likely ignore the Trump proposal and write a
new, more stringent one.

The Trump administration's adoption of the aviation pollution standard
appears timed to avoid a lawsuit that would compel it to begin
regulating airplane emissions.

Because the aircraft manufacturers around the world must demonstrate
that they are in compliance with the United Nations standard, airlines
in the United States had asked the Trump administration to enact a
domestic version of that standard. That way, companies could continue to
sell American-made planes abroad.

Last year, Nancy Young, the vice president for environmental affairs at
Airlines for America, a group that lobbies for the airline industry,
testified to Congress that her members needed the federal government to
create a legal certification demonstrating that American-made aircraft
comply with the international standard.

``If U.S. aircraft manufacturers cannot have their products certified to
the internationally agreed standards, U.S. airlines will not be able to
purchase these aircraft for international service,'' she said.

In 2016,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2016/07/26/us/politics/epa-airplane-pollution.html}{the
Obama administration released a legal conclusion known as an
``endangerment finding,'' which determined that the planet-warming
pollution produced by airplanes endangers human health by contributing
to climate change}. The endangerment finding did not include the details
of a regulation, but it set off a legal requirement under the Clean Air
Act for the E.P.A. to establish a rule.

In January, several environmental groups filed a legal notice of their
intent to sue the Trump administration for its failure to meet that
requirement, giving 180 days notice. That notice expires on July 28, but
with the release of the draft rule, the environmental groups no longer
have grounds to sue the administration to release a regulation on
aviation pollution.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{Â©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
