Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}University of Michigan
Withdraws From Hosting Trump-Biden Debate

\url{https://nyti.ms/3hKMb5A}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/20/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{D.N.C.
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/20/us/politics/biden-presidential-nomination-dnc.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Biden's
  Speech}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/us/elections/2020-presidential-election-calendar.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Election
  Calendar}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/11/us/politics/vote-by-mail-us-states.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Voting
  by Mail}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Politics
  Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{university-of-michigan-withdraws-from-hosting-trump-biden-debate}{%
\section{University of Michigan Withdraws From Hosting Trump-Biden
Debate}\label{university-of-michigan-withdraws-from-hosting-trump-biden-debate}}

The decision comes amid concerns about holding a large gathering during
the coronavirus pandemic. The debate, scheduled for Oct. 15, will
instead be held in Miami.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/06/22/us/politics/22biden-debates/merlin_170553522_c6d3f9df-2004-4ac7-986e-561024decca2-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/reid-j-epstein}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2019/06/25/reader-center/author-reid-epstein/9e877853d8234217b58e5762253aa771-thumbLarge.png}}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/matt-stevens}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2019/04/03/multimedia/author-matt-stevens/author-matt-stevens-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/reid-j-epstein}{Reid J.
Epstein} and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/matt-stevens}{Matt Stevens}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  June 22, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

\emph{{[}View our NYTimes/Siena College poll in which}
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/24/us/politics/trump-biden-poll-nyt-upshot-siena-college.html}{\emph{Biden
leads Trump by 14 points}}\emph{.{]}}

The University of Michigan said Tuesday it would withdraw from hosting a
presidential debate in October, citing concerns about bringing large
numbers of national and international media and campaign officials to
the campus amid the coronavirus pandemic.

The debate, scheduled for Oct. 15, will be moved to Miami's Adrienne
Arsht Center for the Performing Arts,
\href{https://www.debates.org/2020/06/23/statement-second-presidential-debate/}{according
to the Commission on Presidential Debates,}which oversees debates in a
presidential general-election race. The Miami arts center was the site
of the 2020 Democratic primary season last summer.

``It is with great disappointment that I must ask for the University of
Michigan to be released from its agreement with the Commission on
Presidential Debates to host the Presidential Debate on Oct. 15, 2020,''
Michigan's president, Mark Schlissel,
\href{https://record.umich.edu/articles/u-m-no-longer-hosting-oct-15-presidential-debate/}{said
in a statement Tuesday.}

He added: ``In consideration of the public health guidelines in our
state as well as advice from our own experts --- we feel it is not
feasible for us to safely host the presidential debate as planned.''

The Detroit Free Press
\href{https://www.freep.com/story/news/education/2020/06/22/u-m-withdraw-hosting-october-presidential-debate/3239836001/}{first
reported Michigan would withdraw} from hosting the debate.

The move comes as President Trump has sought to alter the debate
schedule, add a fourth debate to the planned three and exert more
control over the selection of moderators, which is typically handled by
the Commission on Presidential Debates, the nonprofit organization that
sponsors presidential general election debates.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-2020-election}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/19/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: 2020
Election}}{Latest Updates: 2020 Election}}\label{latest-updates-2020-election}}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/19/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#night-3-featured-more-policy-a-focus-on-women-and-a-full-throated-rejection-of-trump-by-his-predecessor}{7h
ago}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/19/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#night-3-featured-more-policy-a-focus-on-women-and-a-full-throated-rejection-of-trump-by-his-predecessor}{Night
3 featured more policy, a focus on women and a full-throated rejection
of Trump by his predecessor.}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/19/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#trump-live-tweeted-obamas-speech-tonight-hell-appear-on-fox-news-right-before-bidens-tomorrow}{9h
ago}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/19/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#trump-live-tweeted-obamas-speech-tonight-hell-appear-on-fox-news-right-before-bidens-tomorrow}{Trump
live-tweeted Obama's speech tonight. He'll appear on Fox News right
before Biden's tomorrow.}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/19/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#advocates-for-domestic-violence-survivors-praised-biden-in-a-video}{9h
ago}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/19/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#advocates-for-domestic-violence-survivors-praised-biden-in-a-video}{Advocates
for domestic violence survivors praised Biden in a video.}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/19/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

The campaign of Mr. Trump's opponent, former
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/30/us/politics/biden-transition-team.html}{Vice
President Joseph R. Biden Jr}., has rebuffed his proposals, dismissing
them as a ``distraction.''

Presidential general election debates cost their hosts millions of
dollars, sums universities typically raise from their own large donors
in order to bask in the prestige of hosting an event that draws
international attention. But with the coronavirus pandemic stretching
budgets and making large gatherings of students and donors on campus not
viable, some of the value in hosting a major debate may be lost.

The debate will become the second major presidential campaign event to
move to Florida after officials elsewhere raised concerns about large
gatherings being safe during the coronavirus pandemic. After officials
in North Carolina, including Gov. Roy Cooper, a Democrat, sought
assurances that delegates would adhere to social distancing at the
Republican National Convention in Charlotte, the Trump campaign
announced that Mr. Trump would instead accept the G.O.P. nomination in
Jacksonville, Fla.

In a letter on Monday to the Commission on Presidential Debates, Jen
O'Malley Dillon, Mr. Biden's campaign manager, asked for information
about what protocols debate hosts would put in place to assure the
safety of the candidates, moderators and attendees.

Ms. O'Malley Dillon also wrote that Mr. Biden was committed to debating
Mr. Trump on
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/us/elections/2020-presidential-election-calendar.html}{Sept.
29, Oct. 15, and Oct. 22}, and that his yet-to-be-selected
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/biden-vice-president-2020.html}{running
mate} would take part in the vice-presidential debate scheduled for Oct.
7.

``Our position is straightforward and clear: Joe Biden will accept the
Commission's debates, on the Commission's dates, under the Commission's
established format and the Commission's independent choice of
moderators,'' Ms. O'Malley Dillon said
\href{https://int.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/data/documenthelper/7038-biden-letter-to-debate-commission/94c02d45d35cdd5b9865/optimized/full.pdf\#page=1}{in
the letter}, which was obtained by The New York Times. ``Donald Trump
and Mike Pence should do the same.''

``Any `debate proposals' in lieu of that are just an effort to change
the subject, avoid debates, or create a distracting `debate about
debates,''' she added.

The details of the letter were first reported
\href{https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/biden-campaign-confirms-he-will-attend-three-debates-with-trump-criticizes-the-president-for-flipping-on-his-debate-stance/2020/06/22/b48be3a0-b49a-11ea-a510-55bf26485c93_story.html}{by
The Washington Post}.

The letter came four days after
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/18/us/politics/trump-presidential-debates-2020.html}{The
Times reported} that top aides to Mr. Trump had held an online meeting
with officials overseeing the debates, in which they pushed for a fourth
debate between Mr. Trump and Mr. Biden and argued that the events should
take place sooner than planned in order to accommodate voters wishing to
cast their ballots early. (Mr. Trump, meanwhile, has
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/02/us/politics/republicans-mail-voting-trump.html}{repeatedly
and falsely claimed} that mail-in voting is rife with fraud.)

Rudolph W. Giuliani, Mr. Trump's personal lawyer, was in the meeting and
also proposed a system allowing both campaigns to recommend a set number
of moderators and then strike some of them from their opponent's lists
until an agreement was reached.

In her letter, Ms. O'Malley Dillon noted that the Trump campaign's
position was
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/12/12/us/politics/trump-presidential-debate-democrat.html}{a
shift from months earlier}, when the president's advisers were
discussing whether Mr. Trump would take part in debates sponsored by the
commission at all. ``The Trump position seems to be saying that he will
debate if he can pick the moderators,'' she wrote.

The commission, which has produced the general election debates since
the 1988 campaign, typically spends months negotiating the details with
representatives for the candidates. The group did not respond to a
request for comment.

The Trump campaign's proposal for an extra debate came as a
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/09/upshot/polling-trump-erosion-support.html}{wave
of recent polls showed the president trailing Mr. Biden} both nationally
and in key swing states, suggesting that Mr. Trump's advisers viewed the
debates as a possible turnaround opportunity.

``An earlier and longer debate schedule is necessary so Americans can
see the clear difference between President Trump's vibrant leadership
and Biden's confused meandering,'' said Tim Murtaugh, a Trump campaign
spokesman.

Ms. O'Malley Dillon said in her letter that even if the coronavirus
remained prevalent in the months ahead, she hoped that the second debate
--- originally set to be held in Michigan --- would follow a
town-hall-style format as has been customary in recent years, enabling
voters to ask questions of the candidates directly.

``We know that voters have many, many questions for the president,'' she
wrote.

Jonathan Martin and Maggie Haberman contributed reporting.

\hypertarget{our-2020-election-guide}{%
\section{Our 2020 Election Guide}\label{our-2020-election-guide}}

Updated Aug. 20, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{convention-recap}{%
  \subsection{Convention Recap}\label{convention-recap}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Joe Biden accepted the Democratic nomination, urging Americans to
    have faith that they could
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/20/us/politics/Joe-Biden-accepts-democratic-nomination.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{``overcome
    this season of darkness.''}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{news-analysis}{%
  \subsection{News Analysis}\label{news-analysis}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Looming over Mr. Biden's nomination was the ever-present shadow of
    another man who's poised to dominate the campaign:
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/20/us/politics/biden-dnc-speech-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Donald
    J. Trump}.
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{keep-up-with-our-coverage}{%
  \subsection{Keep Up With Our
  Coverage}\label{keep-up-with-our-coverage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Get an
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{email}
    recapping the day's news
  \end{itemize}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Download our mobile app on
    \href{https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nytimes/id284862083?ls=1\&mat_click_id=5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\&referrer=mat_click_id\%3D5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\%26link_click_id\%3D722930677036718082}{iOS}
    and
    \href{http://a.localytics.com/android?id=com.nytimes.android\&referrer=utm_source\%3Dother_nyt_mobile_web\%26utm_medium\%3DWeb\%2520page\%26utm_term\%3DGeneral\%2520Mobile\%2520Page\%26utm_campaign\%3DNYT\%2520Mobile\%2520General\%2520Page}{Android}
    and turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
