Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}Marjorie Taylor Greene, a
QAnon Supporter, Wins House Primary in Georgia

\url{https://nyti.ms/2ChkWj8}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{marjorie-taylor-greene-a-qanon-supporter-wins-house-primary-in-georgia}{%
\section{Marjorie Taylor Greene, a QAnon Supporter, Wins House Primary
in
Georgia}\label{marjorie-taylor-greene-a-qanon-supporter-wins-house-primary-in-georgia}}

Ms. Greene's victory came as six states were holding elections on
Tuesday, with Ilhan Omar holding off a well-funded primary challenge in
Minnesota.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/11/us/politics/11elections-ledeall/11elections-ledeall-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/matthew-rosenberg}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/06/12/multimedia/author-matthew-rosenberg/author-matthew-rosenberg-thumbLarge-v2.png}}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/astead-w-herndon}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/09/14/us/author-head-astead/author-head-astead-thumbLarge-v2.png}}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/nick-corasaniti}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/06/13/multimedia/author-nick-corasaniti/author-nick-corasaniti-thumbLarge-v2.png}}

By
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/matthew-rosenberg}{Matthew
Rosenberg},
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/astead-w-herndon}{Astead W.
Herndon} and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/nick-corasaniti}{Nick
Corasaniti}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Aug. 11, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Conspiracy theorists won a major victory on Tuesday as a Republican
supporter of
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/08/01/us/politics/what-is-qanon.html}{the
convoluted pro-Trump movement QAnon} triumphed in her House primary
runoff election in Georgia, all but ensuring that she will represent a
deep-red district in Congress.

The ascension of Marjorie Taylor Greene, who
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/14/us/politics/qanon-politicians-candidates.html}{embraces
a conspiracy theory} that the F.B.I. has labeled a potential domestic
terrorism threat, came as six states held primary and runoff elections
on Tuesday.

Those races included a well-funded Democratic primary challenge to
Representative Ilhan Omar of Minnesota,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/11/us/politics/ilhan-omar-minnesota-primary-election.html}{who
emerged victorious} to secure a clean sweep of re-election fights for
the group of first-term Democratic congresswomen of color known as the
Squad.

The voting unfolded as elections officials across the country continue
to grapple with the challenges of the coronavirus pandemic, using
primaries as lower-turnout dry runs for the November general election.
The electoral contests on Tuesday in
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/09/us/politics/wisconsin-election-absentee-coronavirus.html}{Wisconsin}
and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/25/us/politics/georgia-election-voting-problems.html}{Georgia}
bore particular scrutiny after voting meltdowns in each state earlier
this year. The balloting in both places appeared to be unfolding more
smoothly this time, though there were worries about the number of
absentee ballots still in the mail in Wisconsin.

In Georgia, Ms. Greene defeated John Cowan, a neurosurgeon who is no
less conservative or pro-Trump, according to The Associated Press,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/11/us/elections/results-georgia-house-district-14-republican-primary-runoff-election.html}{holding
a lead of roughly 15 percentage points} early Wednesday. The result is
likely to unsettle mainstream Republicans, who have sought to publicly
distance themselves from QAnon supporters running for congressional
office this cycle even as they quietly support some of them.

Now, with Georgia's 14th Congressional District, one of the most
Republican in the country, likely to vote red in November, Ms. Greene is
all but assured of getting the chance to put into action her talk of
rooting out an imagined deep-state cabal of pedophile Satanists who are
trying to take down
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/donald-trump.html}{President
Trump}.

QAnon, a conspiracy theory that has attracted a fervent following since
it emerged from the troll-infested fringes of the internet nearly three
years ago, has already inspired real-world violence, including
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/07/21/nyregion/gambino-shooting-anthony-comello-frank-cali.html}{the
killing of a mob boss}. Its supporters are
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/14/us/politics/qanon-politicians-candidates.html}{slowly
becoming a political force} that some Republicans feel they cannot
afford to alienate, even as the party struggles to distance itself from
racist and anti-Semitic conspiracy theories.

More than a dozen candidates who have expressed some degree of support
for QAnon are running for Congress as Republicans, their path cleared by
Mr. Trump's own espousal of conspiracy theories.

Most are going to lose. But a few, Ms. Greene foremost among them, have
managed to win. Declaring victory on Tuesday night, she said she was
``just as fed up with what I've seen from spineless Republicans'' as she
was with Democrats.

``The Republican establishment was against me,'' Ms. Greene said. ``The
D.C. swamp is against me. And the lying fake news media hates my guts.
It's a badge of honor. It's not about me winning. This is a referendum
on every single one of us, on our beliefs.''

On Wednesday morning, Mr. Trump
\href{https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/1293525010523578375?s=20}{tweeted}:
``Congratulations to future Republican Star Marjorie Taylor Greene on a
big Congressional primary win in Georgia against a very tough and smart
opponent. Marjorie is strong on everything and never gives up --- a real
WINNER!''

During his campaign, Mr. Cowan had adopted a slogan that summed up the
predicament that Ms. Greene posed for Republicans: ``All of the
conservative, none of the embarrassment.''

``She is not conservative --- she's crazy,'' Mr. Cowan
\href{https://www.politico.com/news/2020/08/09/republicans-marjorie-taylor-greene-392735}{told
Politico before the runoff}. ``She deserves a YouTube channel, not a
seat in Congress. She's a circus act.''

Mr. Cowan was not alone in his assessment of Ms. Greene, who runs a
construction company with her husband. She earned a rebuke from
Republican congressional leaders this year after Facebook videos showed
her making
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/17/us/marjorie-taylor-greene-georgia.html}{offensive
remarks about Black people, Jews and Muslims}. Representative Steve
Scalise of Louisiana, the House minority whip, publicly campaigned for
Mr. Cowan and helped him raise money.

The Republican Party, though, was hardly uniform in its opposition to
Ms. Greene's candidacy. The leadership officially remained neutral, and
Mr. Trump's only comment on the race
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/14/us/politics/qanon-politicians-candidates.html}{came
in the form of a congratulatory tweet} after her strong showing in the
first-round primary in June, when she nearly doubled Mr. Cowan's vote
total.

Ms. Greene raised thousands of dollars from Representative Jim Jordan of
Ohio, a high-profile Republican lawmaker and a favorite of the
president, and a political action committee with which he is associated,
the House Freedom Fund. She also secured modest four-figure donations
from political action committees associated with Mark Meadows, a former
North Carolina representative who is now Mr. Trump's chief of staff, and
Koch Industries, a financial mainstay of the Republican Party. The Koch
PAC said that it had requested a refund of its donation in June, though
it was not clear whether the money was returned.

In Minnesota, Democrats had rallied to Ms. Omar's aid in recent weeks,
making bedfellows of progressives such as Representative Alexandria
Ocasio-Cortez and establishment leaders like Speaker Nancy Pelosi.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/11/us/politics/11elections-ledeall-02/merlin_175582245_d91d7649-a326-4cf6-a7f8-c25bd71c0f4e-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Leading up to the primary, Ms. Omar's unabashed embrace of left-wing
politics had won her loyal followers in Minnesota and across the
country. She had, however, also become a lightning rod for conservatives
and has faced criticism from some Democrats, particularly after several
episodes in 2019 in which she was accused of making anti-Semitic
remarks.

But in the end voters rewarded her representation of the district and
her calls for far-reaching progressive change.

``In Minnesota, we know that organized people will always beat organized
money,'' Ms. Omar
\href{https://twitter.com/IlhanMN/status/1293372617957740544?s=20}{wrote
on Twitter} on Tuesday night. ``Tonight, our movement didn't just win.
We earned a mandate for change. Despite outside efforts to defeat us, we
once again broke turnout records. Despite the attacks, our support has
only grown.''

At a Tuesday evening campaign event in Dinkytown, a Minneapolis
neighborhood where Ms. Omar likes to spend election nights talking to
voters, young supporters gathered as people in cars drove past yelling
``Ilhan!'' and ``We love you!''

Britt D'Arezzo, 22, said national perceptions of Ms. Omar didn't account
for her retail politics and her visibility at home.

``They don't know her local activism,'' Ms. D'Arezzo said. ``They don't
see her walking around and just hanging out on corners. They don't see
the way she connects with us.''

In Wisconsin, where worries have persisted over the ability to hold
successful virus-era elections since a voting fiasco in April, there
were no hourslong, mask-dotted lines wrapping around Milwaukee city
blocks.

The city opened more than 150 polling locations, compared with just six
in April, and other municipalities were able to open nearly all of their
normal poll sites. National Guard troops dressed in plainclothes filled
in for poll workers who didn't show up to work.

But one looming concern was the large number of absentee ballots in the
mail. While the April primary eventually settled on a ``postmarked by''
deadline for absentee ballots, meaning any ballot put in the mail by
Election Day would count, no such relief was provided for Tuesday's
election; ballots had to be in clerk's offices by the time polls closed.

In Georgia, the scale of the elections was much smaller than during the
chaotic June primary, with roughly 90 of the state's 159 counties
holding elections on Tuesday.

There were no grueling lines as in June, but election security activists
worried that the low turnout had masked some glitches, largely with the
state's electronic poll books and check-in system.

``The severity of those problems that we saw, while they were not huge
in quantity because of the low level of people voting,'' said Marilyn
Marks, the executive director of the Coalition for Good Governance, an
elections watchdog group in Georgia, ``they clearly are going to create
serious problems in November.''

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
