\href{/section/us}{U.S.}\textbar{}Postal Crisis Ripples Across Nation as
Election Looms

\url{https://nyti.ms/2PUC95f}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/09/08/us/elections/results-new-hampshire-primary-elections.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{New
  Hampshire Results}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/09/us/trump-vs-biden?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Election
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/election-states-biden-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Paths
  to 270}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/31/us/politics/vote-by-mail-deadlines.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Voting
  by Mail}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/us/elections/2020-presidential-election-calendar.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Key
  Dates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Politics
  Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/16/us/politics/16postoffice-print1/merlin_175699341_3178a6d9-98bf-4ca9-8385-5548d46d795a-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Sections

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\hypertarget{postal-crisis-ripples-across-nation-as-election-looms}{%
\section{Postal Crisis Ripples Across Nation as Election
Looms}\label{postal-crisis-ripples-across-nation-as-election-looms}}

President Trump's furious objection to mail-in balloting and a new
Trump-allied postmaster general are raising fears about the election and
the Postal Service.

Mail delivery trucks at the post office in Darby, Pa.~Credit...Michelle
Gustafson for The New York Times

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/luke-broadwater}{Luke
Broadwater},
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/jack-healy}{Jack Healy},
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/michael-d-shear}{Michael D.
Shear} and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/hailey-fuchs}{Hailey Fuchs}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Published Aug. 15, 2020Updated Aug. 18, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

DARBY, Pa. --- Each day, when Nick Casselli, the president of a
Philadelphia postal workers union, sits down at his desk on Main Street
in this historic town where trolley cars still run and the post office
is a source of civic pride, his phone is full of alarmed messages about
increasing
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/21/us/postal-service-mail-rural.html}{delays
in mail delivery}.

Mr. Casselli and his 1,600 members have been in a state of high alert
since Louis DeJoy, a Republican megadonor and an ally of President
Trump's, took over as postmaster general in May. Overtime was
eliminated, prompting backups. Seven mail-sorting machines were removed
from a nearby processing center in West Philadelphia, causing further
delays. Now, post offices are being told to open later and close during
lunch.

``I have some customers banging on my people's doors: `Open up!''' Mr.
Casselli said. ``I've never seen that in my whole 35-year postal
career.''

Similar accounts of slowdowns and curtailed service are emerging across
the country as
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/18/us/politics/postal-service-suspends-changes.html}{Mr.
DeJoy} pushes cost-cutting measures that he says are intended to
overhaul an agency suffering billion-dollar losses. But as
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/18/us/politics/postal-service-suspends-changes.html}{Mr.
Trump} rails almost daily against the service and delays clog the mail,
voters and postal workers warn a crisis is building that could
disenfranchise record numbers of Americans who will be
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/11/us/politics/vote-by-mail-us-states.html}{casting
ballots by mail} in November because of the coronavirus outbreak.

For the most part, experts and employees say, the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/18/us/politics/postal-service-suspends-changes.html}{Postal
Service} is still capable of operating as usual. Yet the agency has
warned states that it may not be able to meet their deadlines for
delivering last-minute ballots. And this week, Mr. Trump said he opposed
new postal funding because of his opposition to mail-in voting, which he
complains will benefit Democrats and claims --- without evidence --- is
riddled with fraud. At risk are not just the ballots --- and medical
prescriptions and paychecks --- of residents around the country, but
also the reputation of the Postal Service as the most popular and
perhaps the least politicized part of the federal government.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/16/us/politics/16postoffice-print2/merlin_175698750_00bbf7b8-94c0-423c-b4cf-26d698d3151c-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.inquirer.com/news/philadelphia/usps-tracking-in-transit-late-mail-delivery-philadelphia-packages-postal-service-20200802.html}{Philadelphia,
a heavily Democratic city in a critical swing state, is a vivid example
of how alarmed people have become.} Representative Brendan Boyle said
his office had received 345 complaints about the Postal Service last
month --- compared with just 17 in July 2019. Elected officials in
several states say they have been flooded by worried calls and emails.

Victoria Brownworth, a freelance journalist in Philadelphia, is among
the residents worried about whether her ballot will be counted --- and,
in her case, also worried about much more.

For Ms. Brownworth, who was paralyzed four years ago, the mail is her
lifeline, delivering prescriptions and checks and mail-in ballots to her
Philadelphia home. But that lifeline has snapped. She said she had
received mail just twice in the past three weeks, and she dreaded
November's election, worried that her ballot would suffer the same fate
as the oxygen tube that she ordered three weeks ago --- and that had
still not arrived.

``It's just terrifying,'' Ms. Brownworth said. ``Every day I ask my
wife, `Did we get any mail?' she says, `No.'''

Mr. DeJoy, the postmaster general, told the Postal Service's board of
governors last week that there would be no slowdown of mail ballots and
promised to deliver votes
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/aponline/2020/08/07/us/politics/bc-us-virus-outbreak-postal-service.html}{``securely
and on time.''}

Experts agree that the Postal Service has the raw capacity to absorb
additional ballots, even if 150 million people decided to vote by mail.
In the month before Christmas every year, carriers deliver billions of
pieces of mail and packages.

``When you think about it from the standpoint of how much mail they
handle, even in their currently diminished state, if every registered
voter in the entire country voted by mail, that would be something they
could still easily handle,'' said Arthur Sackler, who runs the Coalition
for a 21st Century Postal Service, a lobbying group representing bulk
mailers. ``The question is whether these operational changes will have
any impact on their ability to do so.''

``If everything is delayed,'' he added, ``that will include the
ballots.''

Image

Henrietta Dixon, a postal carrier, sorted mail in Philadelphia in May.
The delays in Philadelphia are especially severe.Credit...Matt
Rourke/Associated Press

Still, interviews with mail customers, election officials and postal
workers in six battleground states show that mail delays --- and 2020
worries --- are widespread.

In Ohio, where mail voting is likely to double, piles of undelivered
mail are sitting in a Cleveland distribution center. In rural Michigan,
diabetes medicine that used to arrive in three days now takes almost two
weeks. In the Milwaukee area, dozens of trailers filled with packages
are left behind every day. In New Glarus, Wis., the owners of the Maple
Leaf Cheese and Chocolate Haus are worried their cheese will go bad now
that deliveries that used to take two to three days are taking twice
that.

``I'm definitely concerned that votes won't be counted or that they
won't be able to handle all of the ballots that need to be processed
through the post office,'' said Cynthia Shumway, whose family owns the
shop.

The disturbances have prompted a full-scale political war in Washington,
where Mr. Trump falsely insists that mail-in voting is wracked by fraud
and where billions of dollars in emergency aid that could help stem huge
losses at the Postal Service are caught in a partisan drama.

Democratic lawmakers have accused the president of sabotaging the Postal
Service as a means of voter suppression and have started multiple
investigations and demanded an end to delays. Speaker Nancy Pelosi of
California and other top Democrats in the House have begun discussing
bringing lawmakers back early from their summer recess to address the
issues with the Postal Service, two people familiar with the talks said
on Saturday. On Friday, the postal services's inspector general said she
had opened an inquiry into Mr. DeJoy's actions.

Mr. Boyle, the Philadelphia congressman, for example, said it was no
accident that mail service had become so abysmal in the key Democratic
population center in Pennsylvania.

``There is no plausible way for Donald Trump or Joe Biden to get to 270
electoral votes without Pennsylvania,'' he said.

While Mr. Trump's war on the Postal Service seems aimed at Democrats,
few Americans rely more on the mail than rural residents, many of whom
are Trump voters. As a result, there are also a number of Republicans
uneasy about what's happening with the agency, in particular three
Republican senators from largely rural mail-dependent states who are
facing competitive re-elections this fall: Steve Daines of Montana, Dan
Sullivan of Alaska and Susan Collins of Maine.

Image

Louis DeJoy, a Republican megadonor and ally of President Trump's, took
over as postmaster general in May.Credit...Erin Schaff/The New York
Times

Mr. DeJoy has said he is trying to reform an organization with a
``broken business model'' facing a litany of billion-dollar losses and
declines in mail volumes.

But voters and postal workers said the Postal Service was more than a
business. To Michele Brown, 67, who lives in Morley, Mich., the post
office in the rural community serves as a gathering point and source of
stability, employment and a critical link to the rest of the world.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/2020-election}{Election
2020 ›}

\hypertarget{live-updates}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/09/us/trump-vs-biden}{Live
Updates}}{Live Updates}}\label{live-updates}}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/09/us/trump-vs-biden\#democrats-worry-about-a-partisan-slant-at-the-postal-service-where-trump-allies-dominate-the-board}{}

Sept. 9, 2020, 8:51 a.m. ET

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/09/us/trump-vs-biden\#democrats-worry-about-a-partisan-slant-at-the-postal-service-where-trump-allies-dominate-the-board}{Democrats
worry about a partisan slant at the Postal Service, where Trump allies
dominate the
board.}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/09/us/trump-vs-biden\#the-nras-new-candidate-grades-show-a-continuing-decline}{}

Sept. 9, 2020, 8:19 a.m. ET

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/09/us/trump-vs-biden\#the-nras-new-candidate-grades-show-a-continuing-decline}{The
N.R.A.'s new candidate grades show a continuing
decline.}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/09/us/trump-vs-biden\#biden-announces-a-plan-to-push-companies-to-keep-jobs-in-the-us}{}

Sept. 9, 2020, 8:15 a.m. ET

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/09/us/trump-vs-biden\#biden-announces-a-plan-to-push-companies-to-keep-jobs-in-the-us}{Biden
announces a plan to push companies to keep jobs in the U.S.}

But not lately. Her 73-year-old husband, Bill, went three days without
medication to treat his diabetes as the couple waited nearly two weeks
for it to arrive in the mail from the Department of Veterans Affairs.

``I feel like they're playing games,'' Ms. Brown said. ``The mail had
worked so efficiently. Letters I sent got there the next day. Now you
can't count on any of that.''

Postal workers from small-town post offices to metropolitan distribution
centers say they used to operate along a simple motto: Every piece,
every day, meaning that they did not leave until all of the day's mail
went out the door. No more, they say.

Postal workers say drivers are being sent out according to set
schedules, whether or not all of the morning's mail is ready for them,
and delivery trucks now have strict cutoff times for when they have to
be gone. They say they are already short on staff because of quarantines
and the coronavirus outbreak, and limits on working overtime are pushing
them further behind.

``Mail is coming into the building faster than we can get it out,'' said
Mary DiMarco, who sorts bundles in a Miami postal center. ``I'm
concerned about ballots being handled. That they're not going to be
processed in time.''

The stakes in this year's election are higher than ever. While
\href{https://www.eac.gov/documents/2017/10/17/eavs-deep-dive-early-absentee-and-mail-voting-data-statutory-overview}{nearly
a quarter} of Americans voted absentee or by mail in 2016,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/11/us/politics/vote-by-mail-us-states.html}{millions
more} are expected to mail their ballots this year because of the
coronavirus crisis.

In Ohio, mail-in voting has been common for more than two decades, and a
quarter of the state's voters regularly cast their ballots by mail. But
some postal workers say the recent changes in work rules have
drastically slowed their ability to deliver mail, raising concerns that
votes cast just several days before the election might not make it in
time to be counted.

Daleo Freeman, a 26-year veteran of the Postal Service and now the
president of the local American Postal Workers Union in Cleveland,
described piles of mail stacking up in the regional distribution center
and in postal offices around the region.

``The decisions happened so rapidly --- now we are seeing the effect of
those decisions,'' Mr. Freeman said. ``People are coming in every day
complaining about how long it's taking them to receive everything: `What
the heck is going on?'''

He said further delays had occurred after five mail-sorting machines in
the major Cleveland-area distribution center were dismantled in recent
days. Critics worried that political influence inside the Postal Service
have focused on the removal of 671 sorting machines --- about one-eighth
of its devices --- from facilities across the country.

But a Postal Service spokesman, David A. Partenheimer, disputed that
there was anything out of the ordinary, saying that the agency was
removing the sorting machines because of declines in the volume of mail.
While people are receiving far more packages these days, business and
commercial mail is down sharply.

``The Postal Service routinely moves equipment around its network as
necessary to match changing mail and package volumes,'' Mr. Partenheimer
said.

There have already been problems with this year's elections in which
mail ballots played a more prominent role.

Hundreds of ballots in Wisconsin were left in tubs, unaccounted for, at
the Milwaukee processing and distribution center during the state's
primary in April. About 160 ballots were erroneously returned to a local
election office, while another 390 had issues with the postmark that led
to confusion as to whether they could be counted, according to a report
from the Postal Service inspector general.

Ohio ran a delayed primary election that was marred by widespread
reports of mail slowdowns, especially in Northwest Ohio, prompting
Secretary of State Frank LaRose to urge the Postal Service to devote
additional resources to making sure ballots were delivered on time.

Now, Mr. LaRose, a Republican, said that he was concerned about possible
delays in mail delivery despite assurances from postal officials that
the changes would not affect how quickly ballots were sent.

``On the ground, it seems like that's not necessarily the case --- it
seems like there are impacts,'' he said on Friday. ``They need to be
very careful about making changes to something that we rely on so much
for something as essential as elections administration.''

Image

Experts agree that the Postal Service has the raw capacity to absorb
additional ballots, even if 150 million people decided to vote by mail.
Credit...Paul Ratje/Agence France-Presse --- Getty Images

In Butler County, north of Cincinnati, two postal officials walked into
the election board offices on May 8, more than a week after the April 28
elections, carrying two buckets filled with 317 unopened ballots that
had been discovered too late to be counted.

``We have not received a good explanation yet,'' said Diane Noonan, the
Republican director of the Butler board of elections. ``The thing I was
told that day was that it was found in a corner of a warehouse.''

Ms. Noonan said she was concerned about the possibility that issues with
the mail service could affect the ability of her office to accurately
count the votes in November, especially if voters waited until the last
minute to request a ballot. She has been urging voters to apply early
for a mail ballot and return it immediately.

In Ohio, state law allows voters to request a mail-in ballot up until
noon on Saturday, Oct. 31, just three days before the election. Even
under the best of circumstances, that would leave little time for the
Postal Service to deliver a blank ballot and then turn around and
deliver the completed one by Monday, Nov. 2, the deadline in Ohio.

In Racine, Wis., Melissa Rymsha, a stay-at-home mother of two, does not
want to risk contracting the virus in November, so she plans to vote by
mail. But the face masks she recently ordered have been stuck in transit
for days, and she worries that in several weeks, her ballot could be,
too.

``I'm kind of just going to cross my fingers and hope that it goes
through the way it's supposed to,'' she said. ``I don't really have too
much of an option.''

Luke Broadwater reported from Darby, Pa., Jack Healy from Denver, and
Michael Shear and Hailey Fuchs from Washington. Jonathan Martin, Lucy
Tompkins and Emily Cochrane contributed reporting. Susan Beachy
contributed research.

\hypertarget{our-2020-election-guide}{%
\section{Our 2020 Election Guide}\label{our-2020-election-guide}}

Updated ~Sept. 9, 2020

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

\begin{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{the-latest}{%
  \subsection{The Latest}\label{the-latest}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Joe Biden heads today to Michigan, a battleground state where
    President Trump has resumed advertising ahead of a visit there on
    Thursday.
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/09/us/trump-vs-biden?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Read
    live updates}.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{how-to-win-270}{%
  \subsection{How to Win 270}\label{how-to-win-270}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Joe Biden and Donald Trump need 270 electoral votes to reach the
    White House. Try building
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/election-states-biden-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{your
    own coalition of battleground states}~to see potential outcomes.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{voting-by-mail}{%
  \subsection{Voting by Mail}\label{voting-by-mail}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Will you have enough time to vote by mail in your state? Yes, but
    it's risky to procrastinate.
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/31/us/politics/vote-by-mail-deadlines.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Check
    your state's deadline.}
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/joe-biden.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{}

    \hypertarget{joe-biden}{%
    \section{Joe Biden}\label{joe-biden}}

    \hypertarget{democrat}{%
    \subsection{Democrat}\label{democrat}}

    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/donald-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{}

    \hypertarget{donald-trump}{%
    \section{Donald Trump}\label{donald-trump}}

    \hypertarget{republican}{%
    \subsection{Republican}\label{republican}}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \hypertarget{keep-up-with-our-coverage}{%
  \subsection{Keep Up With Our
  Coverage}\label{keep-up-with-our-coverage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Get an
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{email}~recapping
    the day's news
  \item
    Download our mobile app on
    \href{https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nytimes/id284862083?ls=1\&mat_click_id=5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\&referrer=mat_click_id\%3D5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\%26link_click_id\%3D722930677036718082}{iOS}~and
    \href{http://a.localytics.com/android?id=com.nytimes.android\&referrer=utm_source\%3Dother_nyt_mobile_web\%26utm_medium\%3DWeb\%2520page\%26utm_term\%3DGeneral\%2520Mobile\%2520Page\%26utm_campaign\%3DNYT\%2520Mobile\%2520General\%2520Page}{Android}~and
    turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
