Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}Not the Convention, or the
Election, North Carolina Republicans Hoped For

\url{https://nyti.ms/3gqk1er}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/09/08/us/elections/results-new-hampshire-primary-elections.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{New
  Hampshire Results}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/08/us/trump-vs-biden?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Election
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/election-states-biden-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Paths
  to 270}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/31/us/politics/vote-by-mail-deadlines.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Voting
  by Mail}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/us/elections/2020-presidential-election-calendar.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Key
  Dates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Politics
  Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{not-the-convention-or-the-election-north-carolina-republicans-hoped-for}{%
\section{Not the Convention, or the Election, North Carolina Republicans
Hoped
For}\label{not-the-convention-or-the-election-north-carolina-republicans-hoped-for}}

The G.O.P. was supposed to be celebrating in the state this week.
Instead, it is trying to hold on to a Senate seat and lift President
Trump's low poll numbers.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/23/us/politics/24ncgop2/merlin_169921434_bc87ac64-715f-4f09-a351-570c3140be6c-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/jeremy-w-peters}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/11/06/multimedia/author-jeremy-w-peters/author-jeremy-w-peters-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/jeremy-w-peters}{Jeremy
W. Peters}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Aug. 24, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

\emph{{[}}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/24/us/politics/how-to-watch-the-republican-national-convention.html}{\emph{Our
guide to tonight's RNC schedule and speakers, including where and how to
watch.}}\emph{{]}}

CHARLOTTE, N.C. --- For most of the past decade, North Carolina was a
showcase for the Republican Party's growth --- its strength in the
suburbs, in rural areas and in races up and down the ballot proving that
it could dominate in parts of the country where demographics favored the
Democrats. Now it could be a victim of its own excess.

After victories in 2010, when Republicans took control of the state
legislature for the first time in more than 100 years, and in 2012, when
a Republican won the governor's race, they used their power in the State
Capitol to carry out a sweeping conservative agenda that included tax
cuts, caps on medical malpractice damages and ending tenure for
teachers.

But some of their most contentious moves --- creating highly
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2018/11/29/us/politics/north-carolina-gerrymandering.html}{gerrymandered}
congressional districts;
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2016/03/25/us/north-carolina-law-antidiscrimination-pat-mccrory.html}{restrictions}
on gay and transgender rights that prompted national boycotts; and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2016/12/16/us/pat-mccrory-roy-cooper-north-carolina.html}{curbs}
on the power of the Democratic governor --- backfired with voters and
the courts, which struck down many of them. And after defeating the
Republican governor in 2016, Democrats won enough seats in the
legislature in 2018 to break the supermajority Republicans had for eight
years.

Now, embattled Republican lawmakers find their fates intertwined with
those of President Trump, a deeply polarizing figure who won here in
2016 by three percentage points but has pushed many voters to their
limits with his hectoring style and mismanagement of a coronavirus
outbreak that is still spreading throughout the state.

North Carolina was supposed to be a more promising opportunity for
Republicans, which is why they
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/07/20/us/politics/republican-2020-convention-charlotte.html}{selected
Charlotte}, its largest city, as the site of the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/24/us/politics/how-to-watch-the-republican-national-convention.html}{Republican
National Convention} this year. The presence of tens of thousands of
Trump supporters would be a display of confidence for a party that has
carried the state in all but one presidential election since 1980, and
planned to do so again. But when the pandemic made that kind of mass
gathering unsafe, Mr. Trump got into a spat with state and local
officials and moved the festivities to Jacksonville, Fla., only to
cancel once that plan proved unfeasible.

A much more scaled-down gathering is taking place in Charlotte this week
as several hundred Republican officials from across the country
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/22/us/politics/Republican-delegates-charlotte-trump.html}{meet
to vote} on relatively mundane party matters --- their movements tracked
by Bluetooth sensors and their faces shielded by masks, a must per the
party's rules.

Polls show former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. tied with Mr. Trump
here. And the president's standing is dragging down the incumbent
Republican senator, Thom Tillis, who is trailing his Democratic
opponent, Cal Cunningham, in most polls.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/24/us/politics/24ncgop3/merlin_174874266_e8d0a9f7-1fd4-4627-a855-bff35f660319-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

The challenges in North Carolina are an extension of Republicans'
vulnerabilities in other states across the Sun Belt like Georgia and
Arizona. As these places grow more racially diverse, the Republican
Party has lost support in the fast-growing communities around large
cities by supporting an agenda that some people see as hostile to
minorities, immigrants and women.

``They say most people get more conservative as you age, but I've gotten
more liberal,'' said Cindy Strom, an educational consultant who lives in
the Charlotte suburb of Mooresville after moving from Chicago four years
ago.

In a sense, Ms. Strom is like other recent transplants who are helping
to transform the state's political dynamics by bringing their liberal
sensibilities to a traditionally conservative state. As the mother of a
child with special needs, she said she has come to see Republicans as
the party that doesn't care about people like her. ``You realize not
everybody can pull themselves up by their bootstraps,'' she said as she
stood in the doorway of her house one recent afternoon. ``Some people do
need a helping hand from the government.''

But if the Republican Party and Mr. Trump were more attuned to women and
working families, Ms. Strom said she might not be leaning so much in
favor of the Democrats. ``Had the Republicans run anybody else, I might
not have voted for Hillary,'' she said, referring to the 2016 election,
when Mr. Trump defeated Hillary Clinton in North Carolina. ``But it's
almost not about politics. I don't think he has any morality. I don't
think he's a very good person.''

While Ms. Strom's vote for Mr. Biden is all but certain, she is not as
firm about her vote in the Senate race. Republicans see people like her
as their path to holding the Senate majority. But voters' antipathy for
Mr. Trump, combined with the exhaustion that many say they feel when it
comes to politics, makes it harder for activists like Chris McCoy to
break through.

Mr. McCoy, the state director of the conservative political outfit
Americans for Prosperity, was preparing for an afternoon of door-to-door
canvassing for Mr. Tillis in Ms. Strom's neighborhood recently.
Political division has grown so intense, he said, that many voters have
shut down.

``Even the smallest things that were never political before now have a
slant, and I think people are on overload,'' he said. ``It just never
stops. And you hit a point where some of these folks are thinking they
just want to turn everything off.'' The organization, which is funded by
the libertarian billionaire Charles Koch, has had to refine its
algorithms to find its target voters, fewer of whom are registering with
either of the major parties, Mr. McCoy said.

Americans for Prosperity has said it will not campaign for Mr. Trump or
help with his re-election,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/07/31/us/politics/trump-koch-brothers.html}{a
split} that stems from differences over both substance and style.
Instead, the group is using its super PAC to focus on the Senate, the
battleground where other Republican-friendly organizations like the
United States Chamber of Commerce are also shifting resources in an
attempt to defend the majority and maintain a bulwark against the
Democratic-led House --- and a possible Biden White House. States like
North Carolina, along with Maine and Iowa, are their firewall.

The United States Chamber of Commerce started running an ad this weekend
in the Raleigh market aimed at voters who might be persuaded to vote
Republican even if they had written off the president. There is no
mention in it of Mr. Trump, the Republican Party or bread-and-butter
conservative issues like fiscal responsibility. Instead, the ad focuses
on Mr. Tillis's support for the nearly \$700 billion Paycheck Protection
Program, which has helped small businesses during the pandemic, and it
praises the senator as responsible and reliable. Mr. Tillis is shown
wearing a mask as he meets with constituents and greets them with a
friendly elbow bump.

Image

Cal Cunningham, a Democrat, is ahead of Mr. Tillis in most
polls.Credit...Gerry Broome/Associated Press

In any other year, it might seem strange if allies of a conservative
Republican like Mr. Tillis were highlighting his support for a
deficit-swelling bailout. But there are few Republicans today who
believe the way to winning is through talking about reducing deficits.

``Nobody cares,'' said Scott Reed, chief political strategist for the
United States Chamber of Commerce, adding that what is more important to
voters is believing that someone will help restore a sense of normalcy.
``People want to get back to the new normal,'' Mr. Reed said. ``And
that's how we're trying to present Tillis.''

Republicans hope to capitalize on the relatively unique circumstances of
the Biden-Trump matchup, with many likely Biden voters now saying that
their choice is driven more by opposition to the president than by
affection for Mr. Biden. In private polling, Republicans have found that
as many as 29 percent of Biden supporters in states where there is a
competitive Senate race say they are open to voting for a Republican.

But Democrats are making an aggressive play for traditional Republican
voters in North Carolina, seeing an opportunity to remind voters about
the least popular parts of the Republican agenda.

During a commercial break during Rush Limbaugh's radio show recently, an
ad by an independent group supporting the Democrat running against Mr.
Tillis --- Mr. Cunningham, who is an Army veteran and a former state
senator --- blamed Republican budget cuts for the closure of health care
centers in the rural parts of the state.

``There's a scab there,'' Morgan Jackson, Mr. Cunningham's chief
political strategist, said in an interview. ``And if you pick it, it
will bleed.''

Beyond the rural areas, Mr. Jackson said Democrats had ample
opportunities in the suburbs around Charlotte and Raleigh to pick up
voters whose tolerance for Mr. Trump's style had worn thin.

``Before they didn't like his behavior and they thought his policies
were good,'' Mr. Jackson said. ``But now his policies are hurting them,
and hurting the economy.''

Image

Kirk Domanick with Diane Umbarger, a field director for Americans for
Prosperity.~``Joe Biden is not a bad guy --- he's just not the guy for
now,'' he said.Credit...Travis Dove for The New York Times

Disliking Mr. Trump or how he conducts himself does not always translate
into a vote for Democrats, and many are likely to vote again for the
president in spite of his conduct. Ms. Strom's neighbor Kirk Domanick
told a canvasser from Americans for Prosperity that he was likely to
vote Republican because he was worried that Democrats were going too far
in shutting down the state to stop the spread of the coronavirus.

Mr. Domanick said that Mr. Trump ``needs to shut up sometimes'' but
``does the best he can.''

``Joe Biden is not a bad guy --- he's just not the guy for now,'' he
said, adding a caveat: ``Maybe Joe will surprise me. November is a long
way off.''

Intense interest in the election is expected to drive voter turnout
incredibly high.

So far that interest appears to be helping Democrats. Requests for
mail-in ballots among registered Democrats far exceed requests from
registered Republicans, according to
\href{http://www.oldnorthstatepolitics.com/2020/08/NC-ABM-ballot-requests-Aug-10.html\#more}{state
records reviewed by Michael Bitzer}, a professor at Catawba College in
North Carolina. Compared with 2016, Mr. Bitzer said, Democrats have
requested 16 times as many ballots while Republican requests are up only
fivefold. The two parties are typically on par with each other, he
added.

That doesn't necessarily mean people are making straight party line
decisions, though. When an Americans for Prosperity canvasser asked Ms.
Strom, the relatively recent Charlotte-area transplant, if she would
accept a door hanger with Mr. Tillis's picture on it that listed his
policy positions on a number of issues, Ms. Strom agreed and glanced at
it.

Image

Charlotte was supposed to host the Republican National Convention. A
scaled-down gathering is taking place there this week.Credit...Travis
Dove for The New York Times

She said she didn't believe Mr. Tillis was as bad as Mr. Trump. The
stakes of this election are so high, she added, that her vote will
ultimately come down to a judgment of who is best qualified to make
things normal again.

``We need someone who can save us,'' Ms. Strom said.

\hypertarget{our-2020-election-guide}{%
\section{Our 2020 Election Guide}\label{our-2020-election-guide}}

Updated ~Sept. 8, 2020

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

\begin{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{the-latest}{%
  \subsection{The Latest}\label{the-latest}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    President Trump and his party are using a playbook that aims to
    alarm people about crime in their backyards. It didn't work in 2018,
    but
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/08/us/politics/trump-republicans-fear-strategy.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{both
    parties think it could resonate more this year}.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{how-to-win-270}{%
  \subsection{How to Win 270}\label{how-to-win-270}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Joe Biden and Donald Trump need 270 electoral votes to reach the
    White House. Try building
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/election-states-biden-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{your
    own coalition of battleground states}~to see potential outcomes.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{voting-by-mail}{%
  \subsection{Voting by Mail}\label{voting-by-mail}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Will you have enough time to vote by mail in your state? Yes, but
    it's risky to procrastinate.
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/31/us/politics/vote-by-mail-deadlines.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Check
    your state's deadline.}
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/joe-biden.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{}

    \hypertarget{joe-biden}{%
    \section{Joe Biden}\label{joe-biden}}

    \hypertarget{democrat}{%
    \subsection{Democrat}\label{democrat}}

    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/donald-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{}

    \hypertarget{donald-trump}{%
    \section{Donald Trump}\label{donald-trump}}

    \hypertarget{republican}{%
    \subsection{Republican}\label{republican}}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \hypertarget{keep-up-with-our-coverage}{%
  \subsection{Keep Up With Our
  Coverage}\label{keep-up-with-our-coverage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Get an
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{email}~recapping
    the day's news
  \item
    Download our mobile app on
    \href{https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nytimes/id284862083?ls=1\&mat_click_id=5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\&referrer=mat_click_id\%3D5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\%26link_click_id\%3D722930677036718082}{iOS}~and
    \href{http://a.localytics.com/android?id=com.nytimes.android\&referrer=utm_source\%3Dother_nyt_mobile_web\%26utm_medium\%3DWeb\%2520page\%26utm_term\%3DGeneral\%2520Mobile\%2520Page\%26utm_campaign\%3DNYT\%2520Mobile\%2520General\%2520Page}{Android}~and
    turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
