Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}Trump Keeps Promoting a Drug
Order That No One Has Seen

\url{https://nyti.ms/32jLs4B}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/11/us/trump-vs-biden?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Election
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/election-states-biden-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Paths
  to 270}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/us/elections/2020-presidential-election-calendar.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Key
  Dates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/31/us/politics/vote-by-mail-deadlines.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Voting
  by Mail}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Politics
  Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{trump-keeps-promoting-a-drug-order-that-no-one-has-seen}{%
\section{Trump Keeps Promoting a Drug Order That No One Has
Seen}\label{trump-keeps-promoting-a-drug-order-that-no-one-has-seen}}

The president's campaign has made his efforts to lower prescription drug
prices a centerpiece of his re-election pitch, but the executive order
remains unseen.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/24/us/politics/24dc-drugs/merlin_174919182_3cbefeaf-258f-4b8a-80bc-e272efad8afc-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/sheryl-gay-stolberg}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/11/26/multimedia/author-sheryl-gay-stolberg/author-sheryl-gay-stolberg-thumbLarge.png}}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/margot-sanger-katz}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2019/12/13/reader-center/author-margot-sanger-katz/author-margot-sanger-katz-thumbLarge.png}}

By
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/sheryl-gay-stolberg}{Sheryl
Gay Stolberg} and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/margot-sanger-katz}{Margot
Sanger-Katz}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Aug. 24, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

WASHINGTON ---
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/26/us/politics/trump-convention-night-2.html}{President
Trump} has made his executive order tying prescription drug prices in
the United States to the prices paid in Europe and other developed
nations --- and the ensuing war that has broken out with the
pharmaceutical industry --- a centerpiece of his campaign for
re-election.

The problem: No such executive order has been released.

A month after a big
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/24/us/politics/trump-drug-prices-coronavirus.html}{White
House signing ceremony}, where Mr. Trump stood in front of a mock
pharmacy and
\href{https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefings-statements/remarks-president-trump-signing-executive-orders-lowering-drug-prices/}{promised}
to ``end global freeloading on the backs of American patients and
American seniors,'' the text of his directive remains largely a secret.

He has boasted of his efforts in
\href{https://host2.advertisinganalyticsllc.com/admo/viewer/a3536be1-fa99-41cd-96dd-f3a33180c0dc/}{campaign
advertising}, on the official
\href{https://www.whitehouse.gov/articles/congress-didnt-act-on-prescription-drug-prices-so-president-trump-did/}{White
House website} and on
\href{https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/1297329827859632130}{Twitter}.
But despite the president's vow that he would issue the order on
``August 24th at 12 o'clock'' if the drug companies did not act on their
own, the public's only glimpse has come from an Associated Press
photographer, who captured its first and last pages.

A White House spokesman declined to comment on the missing order.

The directive, which Mr. Trump refers to as a ``favored nations
clause,'' was one of four executive orders announced at the signing
ceremony on July 24. They are all aimed at lowering drug prices in
various ways.

The first three have been made public but require the Department of
Health and Human Services to undertake a lengthy rule-making process
before they will have any effect on drug prices. Mr. Trump described the
fourth order, the one linking American drug prices to those in other
nations, as ``the granddaddy of them all.'' But he said he would
postpone carrying it out in order to give the pharmaceutical industry
time to negotiate.

The president also said he would meet with executives the week after the
signing ceremony. Such a meeting never occurred. However, one person
familiar with the issue said the White House had been meeting with the
pharmaceutical manufacturers' trade association to try to come to terms
on a joint statement.

In the meantime, Mr. Trump has been boasting about his plans as if they
were in place and drastically affecting drug prices. His campaign has
spent \$668,000 over 11 days on a new advertisement suggesting that his
Democratic opponent, former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr., is the
favored candidate of the drug industry, attacking the companies and Mr.
Biden in one fell swoop.

``Here's what President Trump's plan really does,'' the ad says.
``Reduces Medicare and prescription drug prices. Reduces the cost of
insulin. Cuts the cost of lifesaving medicine. That's why Big Pharma is
attacking President Trump. They liked it better with Joe Biden.''

In a recent tweet, the president also claimed --- inaccurately --- that
the ``favored nations clause'' order had already lowered drug prices.
(It also inaccurately described the timing of the signing.)

At the ceremony on July 24, Mr. Trump promised that he was ``doing
something that is going to be incredible for the American public,''
taking a worn page from old Democratic playbooks, which have had that
party's candidates campaigning on drug prices for years. Mr. Trump in
2016 embraced a Democratic plan to allow the federal government to
negotiate drug prices. But in the face of opposition from his party, his
promise took a novel turn: He would allow European countries, many of
them social democracies, to negotiate prices, then latch on to the price
points they secured.

While the president has implied that his ``favored nations'' order would
affect all pharmaceuticals, in reality it would affect only a small
fraction of drugs: those, like chemotherapy infusions, that are
administered in a doctor's office. Even to do that, an order alone would
not be enough to change policy; that would require notice-and-comment
rule-making that could take months or longer.

Sections of Mr. Trump's document visible in the photograph, and
\href{https://www.modernhealthcare.com/politics-policy/heres-peek-white-houses-unreleased-drug-pricing-order}{transcribed
by a reporter at Modern Healthcare} magazine, make reference to this
need for ``rule-making.''

``It's very frustrating to see the president tweeting as if this has
already happened, because it has not,'' said Rachel Sachs, an associate
professor of law at Washington University in St. Louis, who studies
pharmaceutical policy.

Phillip J. Cooper, a professor of public administration at Portland
State University and the author of ``By Order of the President,'' a book
about presidential documents, said that federal law required signed
executive orders to be published in the Federal Register. No ``favored
nation'' order has appeared, so the missing order either violates the
law or is incomplete.

``If it was publicly signed, I have no idea what the ground would be for
withholding it,'' Mr. Cooper said.

Mr. Trump has embraced the issue of high drug prices since his 2016
campaign, promising that he will fight the powerful pharmaceutical
industry to deliver relief to American consumers. But the administration
has delivered little policy on drug prices. The courts overturned its
effort to require drugmakers to publicize the list prices of
medications. Other efforts, like the one to establish an international
price index for certain drugs, were proposed and shelved.

The president has spoken intermittently about his
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/07/05/upshot/trump-drug-prices-executive-order.html}{desire
to peg the price of prescription drugs} to the prices paid by other
countries, which are typically lower than those in the United States. An
earlier
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/10/25/us/politics/medicare-prescription-drug-costs-trump.html}{proposal}
from the Department of Health and Human Services would have established
a pilot program where certain drugs were priced based on an average of
foreign prices. Mr. Trump's remarks suggest that he now prefers a policy
where drugs would be priced according to the lowest price paid by peer
nations.

The pharmaceutical industry has always opposed the policy.

``The `most favored nation' executive order is an irresponsible and
unworkable policy that will give foreign politicians a say in how
America provides access to treatments and cures for seniors and people
struggling with devastating diseases,'' said Nicole Longo, a spokeswoman
for PhRMA, the largest industry trade group.

The industry's opposition to international index pricing is shared by
many Republicans in Congress, who say they think adopting drug prices
from countries where prices are set by the government is effectively
importing socialism. Joel White, a Republican strategist, called it
``really bad policy,'' because it amounted to ``importing other
countries' price controls,'' and ``misguided'' because it was targeted
at medicines given in doctors' offices or hospitals.

``People are concerned about what they pay for pills at the pharmacy
counter,'' he said.

Polls have consistently shown that the public trusts Democrats more than
Republicans on matters related to health care. Democrats rode their
emphasis on health care to control of the House in 2018, and they expect
to make it a major issue again this year.

At the end of 2019,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/12/12/us/politics/house-prescription-drug-prices.html}{the
House passed a bill} aimed at lowering all drug costs by empowering the
government to negotiate with pharmaceutical manufacturers --- a policy
Mr. Biden has embraced --- but the bill stalled in the Senate.

The House bill would also link prices for up to 250 common drugs in the
United States to prices overseas. It would also apply the benchmarking
more broadly, to include retail drugs and to apply to drugs bought by
people with private insurance, not just those in Medicare.

``This is a winning issue for us because we have a track record of
delivering, and Republicans have a track record of taking health care
away,'' Representative Cheri Bustos, Democrat of Illinois and the
chairwoman of the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee, said in a
recent interview.

Nick Corasaniti contributed reporting from New York.

\hypertarget{our-2020-election-guide}{%
\section{Our 2020 Election Guide}\label{our-2020-election-guide}}

Updated ~Sept. 11, 2020

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

\begin{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{the-latest}{%
  \subsection{The Latest}\label{the-latest}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Joe Biden and President Trump put
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/11/us/politics/shanksville-trump-biden.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{hostilities
    on hold today to travel to ground zero and then to Shanksville, Pa.,
    where they separately honored 9/11 victims}.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{how-to-win-270}{%
  \subsection{How to Win 270}\label{how-to-win-270}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Joe Biden and Donald Trump need 270 electoral votes to reach the
    White House. Try building
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/election-states-biden-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{your
    own coalition of battleground states}~to see potential outcomes.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{voting-by-mail}{%
  \subsection{Voting by Mail}\label{voting-by-mail}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Will you have enough time to vote by mail in your state? Yes, but
    it's risky to procrastinate.
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/31/us/politics/vote-by-mail-deadlines.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Check
    your state's deadline.}
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/joe-biden.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{}

    \hypertarget{joe-biden}{%
    \section{Joe Biden}\label{joe-biden}}

    \hypertarget{democrat}{%
    \subsection{Democrat}\label{democrat}}

    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/donald-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{}

    \hypertarget{donald-trump}{%
    \section{Donald Trump}\label{donald-trump}}

    \hypertarget{republican}{%
    \subsection{Republican}\label{republican}}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \hypertarget{keep-up-with-our-coverage}{%
  \subsection{Keep Up With Our
  Coverage}\label{keep-up-with-our-coverage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Get an
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{email}~recapping
    the day's news
  \item
    Download our mobile app on
    \href{https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nytimes/id284862083?ls=1\&mat_click_id=5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\&referrer=mat_click_id\%3D5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\%26link_click_id\%3D722930677036718082}{iOS}~and
    \href{http://a.localytics.com/android?id=com.nytimes.android\&referrer=utm_source\%3Dother_nyt_mobile_web\%26utm_medium\%3DWeb\%2520page\%26utm_term\%3DGeneral\%2520Mobile\%2520Page\%26utm_campaign\%3DNYT\%2520Mobile\%2520General\%2520Page}{Android}~and
    turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
