Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}Biden Camp Finds Selling
Point in Ailing Economy: His Work on 2009 Recovery

\url{https://nyti.ms/2SEt8z8}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/09/us/trump-vs-biden?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Election
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/09/08/us/elections/results-new-hampshire-primary-elections.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{New
  Hampshire Results}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/election-states-biden-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Paths
  to 270}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/31/us/politics/vote-by-mail-deadlines.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Voting
  by Mail}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/us/elections/2020-presidential-election-calendar.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Key
  Dates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Politics
  Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

The Long Run

\hypertarget{biden-camp-finds-selling-point-in-ailing-economy-his-work-on-2009-recovery}{%
\section{Biden Camp Finds Selling Point in Ailing Economy: His Work on
2009
Recovery}\label{biden-camp-finds-selling-point-in-ailing-economy-his-work-on-2009-recovery}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/05/05/multimedia/05BidenStimulus-01/merlin_29378305_6f1c4407-b876-43f4-95b6-97ada5eadd7d-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/glenn-thrush}{Glenn
Thrush}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Published May 4, 2020Updated June 11, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Joseph R. Biden Jr. had just been sworn in as vice president. All he
needed now was a job.

During the 2008 campaign, Barack Obama had assured Mr. Biden that he
would be consulted on every major decision. But many on the new
president's team were still Biden-skeptical, and Mr. Obama was not sure
the meandering former senator had the discipline to be an effective
governing partner, people close to both men said.

So, during a private lunch in February 2009, Mr. Biden slid a memo
across the table to Mr. Obama, outlining a role to erase those doubts:
quarterbacking the implementation of the \$787 billion economic stimulus
that had been rammed through Congress a few days earlier in the depths
of recession.

``Sounds good to me,'' said Mr. Obama, barely glancing at the memo,
according to two people familiar with the exchange.

Mr. Obama was already pivoting to health care reform, so why not
encharge Mr. Biden? As it turned out, Mr. Biden's work on the rollout,
implementation, oversight and selling of the 2009 stimulus ---
officially the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act --- was the most
sustained, and perhaps the most significant, assignment of his time in
office.

Eleven years later, in an election season defined by pandemic,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/11/us/politics/joe-biden-campaign-economy.html}{economic
collapse and a far-larger relief package}, Mr. Biden's campaign is
hoping to leverage his stewardship of the 2009 stimulus as a point of
contrast with President Trump --- whose White House is pushing back at
congressional oversight of \$2.7 trillion in new spending even as a host
of problems has emerged, especially
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/26/business/ppp-small-business-loans.html}{chaos
in the small-business loan program}.

``The central question of this election will be who can dig us out of a
historic economic hole, so his leadership of the recovery act should be
his core résumé selling point,'' said David Plouffe, Mr. Obama's top
political adviser and a Biden surrogate.

An examination of that critical two-year period, drawn from interviews
with 30 people involved in the effort, offers a glimpse of Mr. Biden's
strengths as a manager --- his enthusiasm, focus on detail and knack for
leading a first-rate team that moved the money out quickly and minimized
waste and fraud. It was ``one big competence test,'' and Mr. Biden aced
it, his longtime lieutenant, Ron Klain, said in an interview.

But the stimulus says more about the kind of vice president Mr. Biden
was than about the kind of president he would be. While he became the
expediter-in-chief and offered Mr. Obama advice and tactical
suggestions, he made none of the major strategic calls about the size
and composition of the program, aides said. Nor did he seriously push
Mr. Obama ---
\href{https://www.politico.com/news/2020/04/25/joe-biden-green-stimulus-207848}{as
he is now pressuring Mr. Trump} --- to fight for a bigger funding
package, even though former officials said he conceded the stimulus was
probably too small.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/05/05/multimedia/05BidenStimulus-04/merlin_171866301_4cb83ecb-bf24-4b21-afd1-89594b7137a4-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

There was nothing ambiguous, though, about the impact of the stimulus on
Mr. Biden's political fortunes.

``It sort of made him, to be honest, in the eyes of the Obama people,''
said Ray LaHood, a former Republican congressman who served as Mr.
Obama's transportation secretary.

Mr. Obama picked Mr. Biden, in part, because
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/08/16/us/politics/biden-obama-history.html}{he
viewed him as a past-tense presidential aspirant}. Yet if overseeing the
stimulus proved Mr. Biden was a team player, his pursuit of the
assignment --- and he wanted it badly --- was also a sign that he had
never entirely abandoned his own political ambitions. In the end, the
stimulus catalyzed his emergence as Mr. Obama's trusted partner and,
eventually, set him up as a presidential contender.

Mr. Biden mentioned the stimulus only in passing on the 2020 trail, when
there was a trail, and has only recently begun invoking it as a campaign
theme. There is broad agreement that the program had a positive impact
on an economy in free fall, with the nonpartisan Congressional Budget
Office concluding that \href{https://www.cbo.gov/publication/25099}{it
created between two million and 4.8 million full-time jobs}.

But it left a bittersweet aftertaste, attacked by progressives as
insufficiently bold and savaged by Republicans to this day as a
boondoggle --- with the Republican National Committee chairwoman, Ronna
McDaniel, saying in an email last week that the stimulus ``proves'' Mr.
Biden cannot run a government. For much of the public, however, it is a
half-forgotten episode, wedged between the deeply unpopular Bush
administration bank bailout and the polarizing war over Obamacare.

``The big problem, when you get right down it, is that we succeeded in
making the situation less bad rather than good --- so how do you sell
that?'' said Jared Bernstein, Mr. Biden's top economic adviser during
his vice presidency.

Image

Former President Barack Obama signing the recovery bill at the beginning
of his first term.Credit...Ruth Fremson/ The New York Times

\hypertarget{787-billion-to-spend}{%
\subsection{\$787 Billion to Spend}\label{787-billion-to-spend}}

The stimulus was born on a snow-sodden December day at Mr. Obama's
Chicago headquarters, a few weeks after the 2008 election.

There had been earlier talk of a smaller package, but the Obama economic
team, led by Mr. Bernstein and Christina Romer, incoming chairwoman of
the Council of Economic Advisers, said many, many hundreds of billions
were needed immediately to prevent a second Great Depression.

Mr. Biden, participants recalled, spoke up for pro-worker provisions,
funding for green energy projects and light rail. Later, he would
intervene to insert \$10 billion in additional funding for the National
Institutes of Health. But he mainly supported the work of Mr. Bernstein,
who played a central role in formulating the menu of infrastructure
projects, payroll-tax cuts and aid to localities.

Mr. Obama's top advisers were initially optimistic about winning
Republican backing, telling aides to Nancy Pelosi, the speaker of the
House, that they could secure up to 80 votes in the Senate. Mr. Biden
knew better, telling the speaker and Mr. Obama they would snag four or
five Republicans at most.

``Don't listen to any of this happy-talk crap,'' he said, according to a
senior Obama adviser.

Ultimately three Republicans voted for the bill, and only after Mr.
Biden helped wheedle a yes from his close friend Arlen Specter, a
moderate from Pennsylvania.

Once the fight was over, Mr. Biden's chief of staff, Mr. Klain, who had
held the same post for Vice President Al Gore, drafted the
implementation plan that Mr. Obama did not need to read. It amounted to
a congenial power grab, giving Mr. Biden expansive influence over which
projects, submitted by local officials and cabinet departments, would be
funded.

Mr. Biden's first priority, according to Mr. Klain, was creating a
central management structure, aimed at avoiding the kind of confusion
that has thus far plagued the financial response to the coronavirus
crisis under Mr. Trump.

Image

Ron Klain helped Mr. Biden draft the recovery plan while serving as his
chief of staff.Credit...Jabin Botsford/The New York Times

Mr. Klain and his team broke their mission into three parts: identifying
``shovel-ready'' projects, minimizing misuse of the funding (including
the creation of an online transaction tracker, Recovery.gov) and trying
to muster public enthusiasm.

Mr. Biden started by auditioning veteran state and federal officials for
the 10-person operation that would oversee the effort, attacking the
task with an abrasive impatience that belied his jovial ``Uncle Joe''
image. ``He was a yeller,'' one adviser recalled. He wanted an exemption
from Obama administration rules that banned ex-lobbyists from being
hired for their expertise, but was quickly shot down --- although he
often grumbled about it, another aide recalled.

A federal official who had business with the new vice president in early
2009 described the following the scene: Mr. Biden arrived 15 minutes
late, ripped off his suit jacket and began rattling off questions in
front of a roaring fire that turned his office into a furnace --- to the
stifling discomfort of his visitor, who did not have the option of
taking off his coat.

He left much of the initial vetting of projects to his team, and spent
much of his time pressuring mayors, governors and cabinet officials to
accelerate work that would create jobs and momentum for the besieged
administration.

``He was very impatient at first,'' said G. Edward DeSeve, a veteran
federal oversight specialist recruited by Mr. Biden. ``But it didn't
take him too long to gain an understanding of just how big a task it was
to run something on this scale.''

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/2020-election}{Election
2020 ›}

\hypertarget{live-updates}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/09/us/trump-vs-biden}{Live
Updates}}{Live Updates}}\label{live-updates}}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/09/us/trump-vs-biden\#polls-show-biden-maintaining-a-narrow-lead-in-wisconsin-and-widening-his-advantage-in-pennsylvania}{}

Sept. 9, 2020, 2:31 p.m. ET

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/09/us/trump-vs-biden\#polls-show-biden-maintaining-a-narrow-lead-in-wisconsin-and-widening-his-advantage-in-pennsylvania}{Polls
show Biden maintaining a narrow lead in Wisconsin and widening his
advantage in
Pennsylvania.}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/09/us/trump-vs-biden\#trumps-campaign-was-badly-outraised-by-biden-and-the-democrats-last-month}{}

Sept. 9, 2020, 2:07 p.m. ET

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/09/us/trump-vs-biden\#trumps-campaign-was-badly-outraised-by-biden-and-the-democrats-last-month}{Trump's
campaign was badly outraised by Biden and the Democrats last
month.}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/09/us/trump-vs-biden\#a-new-poll-shows-most-voters-think-trump-did-a-bad-job-on-the-virus-and-doubt-he-can-help-the-country-recover}{}

Sept. 9, 2020, 1:15 p.m. ET

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/09/us/trump-vs-biden\#a-new-poll-shows-most-voters-think-trump-did-a-bad-job-on-the-virus-and-doubt-he-can-help-the-country-recover}{A
new poll shows most voters think Trump did a bad job on the virus and
doubt he can help the country recover.}

A frequent source of heartburn, aides said, was the water and sewer
projects overseen by the Environmental Protection Agency, which were
subject to an array of federal and local regulations. A
multibillion-dollar effort to weatherize homes, considered a fast way to
inject cash into the economy, became tangled in red tape, in part
because of labor protections Mr. Biden had
\href{https://abcnews.go.com/WN/Politics/stimulus-weatherization-jobs-president-obama-congress-recovery-act/story?id=9780935}{championed
during the transition}.

A marquee project in Mr. Biden's birthplace state, Pennsylvania, was a
\$1.7 million replacement of the bridge over Conodoguinet Creek near
Harrisburg. It, too, seemed like a straightforward-enough proposition,
and Mr. Biden hoped to kick off a national barnstorming tour there
within weeks.

No go, state officials shot back. The earliest date was several months
out.

Nothing proved quite so nettlesome as the project closest to Mr. Biden's
heart. He had successfully lobbied to include \$8 billion for high-speed
rail projects, but his plans were slowed when two conservative
Republican governors riding the Tea Party backlash, Rick Scott of
Florida and Scott Walker of Wisconsin, rejected the cash.

``It would have required a major investment by the state at a time when
we were dealing with our own budget crisis,'' said Mr. Scott, now a
senator, explaining his decision to turn down \$2 billion for a route
connecting Tampa and Orlando. The money was eventually diverted to other
states.

The desire for speed contributed to what would become the centerpiece of
Republican efforts to discredit the stimulus --- the collapse of
Solyndra, a California-based solar-panel manufacturer that went bankrupt
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2011/09/01/business/energy-environment/solyndra-solar-firm-aided-by-federal-loans-shuts-doors.html}{after
receiving \$527 million in loan guarantees}.

Mr. Biden's advisers placed the blame on China, for glutting the market
with cheap panels. But the nonpartisan Government Accountability Office,
describing the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2011/09/23/us/politics/in-rush-to-assist-solyndra-united-states-missed-warning-signs.html}{rushed
review process as ``alarming},'' concluded that the Energy Department
had given preliminary loan approvals before completing detailed
assessments of the company's projects.

For all that, the episode was more exception than norm. By September
2010, a panel monitoring allegations of fraud and abuse concluded
stimulus had a 0.2 percent incidence of
\href{https://obamawhitehouse.archives.gov/the-press-office/2010/10/01/vice-president-biden-delivers-new-report-president-recovery-act-progress}{waste
and fraud}. That finding was not seriously contested by Republican
investigators in Congress, and an 18-month congressional inquiry into
Solyndra found
\href{https://thehill.com/policy/energy-environment/241869-gop-report-solyndra-collapse-a-cautionary-tale-of-political-pressures}{no
evidence of malfeasance or favoritism}.

Image

Senators John McCain, right, and Tom Coburn were some of the sharpest
critics of the stimulus program.Credit...Luke Sharrett for The New York
Times

\hypertarget{mixed-political-impact}{%
\subsection{Mixed Political Impact}\label{mixed-political-impact}}

Still, the drip-drip of Republican attacks was quickly turning the
program into a political liability.

The sharpest attacks came from friends of the president and vice
president, Senators Tom Coburn of Oklahoma and John McCain of Arizona,
who began scouring Recovery.com for projects they deemed silly or
wasteful, including an online dance course and a study of the effects of
\href{https://edition.cnn.com/2010/POLITICS/08/03/senators.stimulus.spending.hfr/?hpt=Sbin\#fbid=ArbgvoCEUuW}{cocaine
on monkeys}.

Nitpicks weren't the biggest problem, though. Numbers were.

Mr. Biden's team achieved its goal of spending 70 percent, or roughly
\$550 billion, of the stimulus funding in the first 18 months. But it
took longer than the White House had expected for its effects to be
felt. Republicans seized on a January 2009 report in which Biden
economic advisers had predicted
\href{https://www.politifact.com/factchecks/2010/jul/13/george-will/will-obama-said-stimulus-would-cap-unemployment-8-/}{unemployment
would peak at around 8 percent under the stimulus}. By October 2009 the
rate had hit 10 percent, and it would not fall below the 8 percent
benchmark until September 2012.

Mr. Obama's own approval numbers were sagging, too. ``The only thing
that is more unpopular than me right now is the stimulus,'' Mr. Obama
tartly declared at a cabinet meeting around that time, as Mr. Biden
listened in silence, according to a person in the room. Eventually, the
president dropped the word ``stimulus'' from his speeches, one former
adviser said.

Against that backdrop, Mr. Biden, anointed salesman of the stimulus, was
crisscrossing the country trying to gin up excitement, and focusing on
what he could control, like making sure the recovery act signs on
highway projects were large enough to be seen by motorists. (He also
viewed his trips to Midwestern battleground states as opportunities to
cement his connection to blue-collar voters, should he ever run for
president again, several people close to him said, and he would invoke
the stimulus during the 2012 re-election campaign.)

At the same time, he was quietly pressuring Mr. Obama to take more
public credit for the one element of the stimulus that put \$400 to
\$800 in tax credits directly into people's pockets. Writing a single
check to taxpayers might have been better politics, but Mr. Obama's
economics working group decided it was better to distribute the money in
small increments to encourage spending.

Mr. Klain was livid that the ``nerds'' had won the argument, a former
aide said, and Mr. Biden turned to a plan from another old friend, Gov.
Ed Rendell of Pennsylvania.

``Let's have Treasury send a letter to every taxpayer saying, `President
Obama wants you to spend this money immediately,''' Mr. Rendell recalled
in a recent interview. ``It wasn't like Trump putting his name on the
check, but it let people know Obama had done this thing for them.''

Mr. Biden brought the idea to Mr. Obama, and there it remained. ``Jesus,
that was dumb,'' Mr. Rendell said.

By the fall of 2009, the external narrative --- that the stimulus had
significant economic value but little political currency --- seemed set.
At the same time, an internal narrative was falling into place: Joe
Biden could be trusted.

It has proved to be a durable story line, at least inside the party.
``Joe led with integrity, which is an enormous contrast from the current
administration,'' Senator Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts, who cited
the stimulus in her recent endorsement of Mr. Biden, wrote in an email.

Mr. Trump, whose 2017 national
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2017/07/23/us/trump-infrastructure-program.html}{infrastructure
plan collapsed} because of inattention and muddled planning, has
dismissed Mr. Biden's work on the stimulus.
``\href{https://www.npr.org/2017/04/05/522629542/fact-check-trumps-claim-2009-stimulus-measure-built-nothing}{I
haven't heard of anything that's been built},'' he said last month.

Image

Mr. Trump at a signing ceremony for the coronavirus relief bill in
March.Credit...Erin Schaff/The New York Times

The two coronavirus rescue packages differ from the Obama stimulus in
significant ways, with most cash being sent directly to taxpayers and
businesses. Still, both were backstops against economic calamity, and
the new law contains
\href{https://oversight.house.gov/news/press-releases/coronavirus-package-includes-oversight-and-accountability-measures}{accountability
provisions modeled on the 2009 legislation}.

But Mr. Trump has not embraced oversight as Mr. Obama did, nor has he
deployed Vice President Mike Pence in the Biden watchdog role, leaving
the task to various administration officials, like
\href{https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2020-04-24/mnuchin-asks-for-equity-stakes-in-exchange-for-17-billion-aid}{Treasury
Secretary Steven Mnuchin}.

This is not lost on Mr. Biden. Just as Mr. Trump signed the first
coronavirus bill, an aide called to inform Mr. Biden that the president
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/27/us/trump-signing-statement-coronavirus.html}{planned
to resist crucial congressional oversight provisions} on constitutional
grounds.

Mr. Biden, already annoyed at having to campaign from his basement in
Delaware, exploded: ``What a joke! You've got to be kidding me!'' he
shouted, inserting expletives, according to two people who talked with
him.

\hypertarget{our-2020-election-guide}{%
\section{Our 2020 Election Guide}\label{our-2020-election-guide}}

Updated ~Sept. 9, 2020

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

\begin{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{the-latest}{%
  \subsection{The Latest}\label{the-latest}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Joe Biden heads today to Michigan, a battleground state where
    President Trump has resumed advertising ahead of a visit there on
    Thursday.
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/09/us/trump-vs-biden?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Read
    live updates}.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{how-to-win-270}{%
  \subsection{How to Win 270}\label{how-to-win-270}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Joe Biden and Donald Trump need 270 electoral votes to reach the
    White House. Try building
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/election-states-biden-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{your
    own coalition of battleground states}~to see potential outcomes.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{voting-by-mail}{%
  \subsection{Voting by Mail}\label{voting-by-mail}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Will you have enough time to vote by mail in your state? Yes, but
    it's risky to procrastinate.
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/31/us/politics/vote-by-mail-deadlines.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Check
    your state's deadline.}
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/joe-biden.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{}

    \hypertarget{joe-biden}{%
    \section{Joe Biden}\label{joe-biden}}

    \hypertarget{democrat}{%
    \subsection{Democrat}\label{democrat}}

    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/donald-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{}

    \hypertarget{donald-trump}{%
    \section{Donald Trump}\label{donald-trump}}

    \hypertarget{republican}{%
    \subsection{Republican}\label{republican}}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \hypertarget{keep-up-with-our-coverage}{%
  \subsection{Keep Up With Our
  Coverage}\label{keep-up-with-our-coverage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Get an
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{email}~recapping
    the day's news
  \item
    Download our mobile app on
    \href{https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nytimes/id284862083?ls=1\&mat_click_id=5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\&referrer=mat_click_id\%3D5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\%26link_click_id\%3D722930677036718082}{iOS}~and
    \href{http://a.localytics.com/android?id=com.nytimes.android\&referrer=utm_source\%3Dother_nyt_mobile_web\%26utm_medium\%3DWeb\%2520page\%26utm_term\%3DGeneral\%2520Mobile\%2520Page\%26utm_campaign\%3DNYT\%2520Mobile\%2520General\%2520Page}{Android}~and
    turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
