Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/style}{Style}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/style}{Style}\textbar{}Arturo Castro, Star of
`Alternatino,' Names a Cocktail After Himself

\href{https://nyti.ms/2S3x4Ic}{https://nyti.ms/2S3x4Ic}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

ENcounters

\hypertarget{arturo-castro-star-of-alternatino-names-a-cocktail-after-himself}{%
\section{Arturo Castro, Star of `Alternatino,' Names a Cocktail After
Himself}\label{arturo-castro-star-of-alternatino-names-a-cocktail-after-himself}}

The actor and comedian, a favorite of ``Broad City,'' mixes mezcal and
jokes at an East Village speakeasy.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2019/07/07/fashion/12encounters1/merlin_156070239_74e1f2ee-dfb5-432f-a81c-2df9782a37b9-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/max-berlinger}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/11/05/multimedia/author-max-berlinger/author-max-berlinger-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/max-berlinger}{Max Berlinger}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  July 5, 2019
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

``I love speakeasies,'' said Arturo Castro. ``All around New York, I
love finding the most hidden spots.''

Which is why, one June afternoon, he was at
\href{http://www.pdtnyc.com/}{Please Don't Tell}, the East Village
cocktail lounge tucked behind a hot dog joint on St. Marks Place.
Despite the heat and humidity, he wore a dark long-sleeve shirt, black
jeans and boots, topped off with a green fedora.

He was there for a mixology lesson from
\href{https://www.instagram.com/akhada07/}{A-K Hada}, the head
bartender, hoping to glean a few tricks for entertaining at home. In the
spring, he had hosted ``Game of Thrones'' viewing parties at his
apartment in the Williamsburg section of Brooklyn.

``I make cocktails, but not as elaborately as they make them here,'' he
said. ``And I'm a raging alcoholic,'' he added, jokingly.

While he may not be a master of elaborate artisanal libations, Mr.
Castro does have a party trick: ``If you shake it, even a little bit,
people are like, `Wow, is that a cocktail?' Truth is, it's straight
vodka.''

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2019/07/12/fashion/12encounters3/merlin_156069669_73177049-9cb6-475d-9b37-0ee54b4f4b01-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Image

Measuring out the liquor.~Credit...Dolly Faibyshev for The New York
Times

Mr. Castro, 33, stepped behind the bar as Ms. Hada prepared the
ingredients for a Mezcal Mule, a riff on the classic drink traditionally
made with vodka. ``The most important thing about cocktails is
balance,'' she said, holding two double-sided measuring jiggers. ``You
want to still taste the spirit but then get all the other flavors.''

To start things off, she asked Mr. Castro to muddle some cucumber with a
masher, which he did violently, cursing the gourd with an expletive as
he asserted his dominance over it.

Mr. Castro will be familiar to fans of
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2014/01/22/arts/television/broad-city-brings-a-female-twist-to-failure.html}{``Broad
City,''} the Comedy Central show in which he played the hysteric gay
roommate Jaime (pronounced HI-may). In real life, the actor is far
mellower than Jaime, though he is every bit as quick-witted.

He now stars on his own sketch comedy show,
\href{http://www.cc.com/shows/alternatino}{``Alternatino''} --- he is
also one of its writers and executive producers --- which takes a
humorous look at being a Latino today. It finds laughs in cultural
clichés and stereotypes, and even in the fun-house mirror horrors of
Trump-era politics.

One sketch, for example, addresses the immigration crisis at the border.
Playing a blond immigration agent named Bryce J. Korn, Mr. Castro extols
the conditions under which children are being held after being
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/09/12/us/migrant-children-detention.html}{separated
from their families}.

They're not in cages, he explains, but ``free range.'' In the
background, detained children wander a field fenced in with electrified
barbed wire.

``I'm not a very politically motivated person, but that changed when
they started caging kids,'' Mr. Castro said, his cherubic face turning
suddenly serious. ``Having a platform, it would be irresponsible not to
say stuff like that. This is a Latino show, that's my angle. And if the
comedy pushes buttons, well, that's the point.''

Ms. Hada had Mr. Castro measure out a half-ounce of agave syrup,
explaining that it's best to build a drink starting with the least
expensive ingredients first. ``That way if you mess up, you don't have
to pour out all the mezcal,'' she said. Next was lime juice, then
passion fruit purée and ginger beer.

``The fresh ingredients make a huge difference,'' Mr. Castro said, even
though both he and Ms. Hada admitted their own refrigerators were not
well stocked. ``I barely have ice,'' he said.

Image

Credit...Dolly Faibyshev for The New York Times

Image

Credit...Dolly Faibyshev for The New York Times

Image

``Being an actor, you just wait around for a phone call to change your
life,'' Mr. Castro said. ``It's a high-low that drives people
nuts.''Credit...Dolly Faibyshev for The New York Times

Mr. Castro was born in Guatemala and caught the acting bug when he was
12, after performing in local theater productions. After hosting a TV
show there called ``Conexion,'' he moved to New York, where he made
professional inroads by acting in commercials and performing in plays.
Landing the role of Jaime in ``Broad City,'' which ended its five-season
run this year, was his big break.

``Being an actor, you just wait around for a phone call to change your
life,'' he said. ``It's a high-low that drives people nuts. That's part
of what inspired me to create my own show. Instead of waiting by the
phone for someone who's written something that's right for me, I should
just write it, and, hopefully, someone will make it.''

It was time for the star ingredient: mezcal. ``So we're balancing the
sugar, the acid and the booze,'' Ms. Hada said. The shaker was filled
with ice, the drink poured and given a vigorous up-and-down shake by Mr.
Castro. The gyration made its way from his arms to his shoulders to his
hips, and soon he was doing a salsa-style dance. Then the singing
started. ``\emph{Dessssss}-pa-cito,'' he crooned.

Lastly, a piece of ginger and slice of cucumber were added as garnish
and a metal straw was plopped in. (``We've been using them for years,
before they got trendy,'' Ms. Hada noted.) The drink was passed around
and received warmly.

``Mmm. You nailed it,'' Ms. Hada said.

For an encore, Ms. Hada went with a much simpler concoction: Zacapa and
coconut water. ``This one's mad easy,'' she said. ``Zacapa is an aged
Guatemalan rum, made and aged at a very high altitude.''

Mr. Castro piped up. ``I know the family who made it,'' he said. ``Some
of them are really sweet. They're, like, Guatemalan royalty. We were all
privy to it growing up.'' In fact there's a sketch in ``Alternatino'' in
which rum is given the royal treatment in a United Nations-like summit.
``You'll watch it, you'll love it,'' Mr. Castro said.

The second drink was refreshing and had a little tropical bite. Best of
all, it was practically foolproof to make. Ms. Hada and Mr. Castro
clinked glasses and took sips.

``Mmm this is really good!'' she said again.

He raised his drink. ``From this day forth, this is called the Arturo
Castro!''

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
