Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}U.S. Weighs Sweeping Travel
Ban on Chinese Communist Party Members

\url{https://nyti.ms/32j1DRf}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/news-event/coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{The
Coronavirus Outbreak}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  live\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/01/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Latest
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Maps
  and Cases}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Vaccine
  Tracker}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/07/29/us/schools-reopening-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{What
  School May Look Like}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/live/2020/07/31/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Economy}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{us-weighs-sweeping-travel-ban-on-chinese-communist-party-members}{%
\section{U.S. Weighs Sweeping Travel Ban on Chinese Communist Party
Members}\label{us-weighs-sweeping-travel-ban-on-chinese-communist-party-members}}

The presidential order under consideration would be based on the same
statute in the Immigration and Nationality Act used in a 2017 travel ban
on several predominantly Muslim countries.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/07/15/us/politics/15dc-chinaban-1/15dc-chinaban-1-articleLarge-v3.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/paul-mozur}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/10/15/multimedia/author-paul-mozur/author-paul-mozur-thumbLarge.png}}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/edward-wong}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/09/24/multimedia/author-edward-wong/author-edward-wong-thumbLarge-v5.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/paul-mozur}{Paul Mozur} and
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/edward-wong}{Edward Wong}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  July 15, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://cn.nytimes.com/usa/20200716/china-travel-ban/}{阅读简体中文版}\href{https://cn.nytimes.com/usa/20200716/china-travel-ban/zh-hant/}{閱讀繁體中文版}

The Trump administration is considering a sweeping
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/16/world/asia/china-communist-party-travel-ban-explain.html}{ban
on travel to the United States by members of the Chinese Communist
Party} and their families, according to people familiar with the
proposal, a move that would almost certainly prompt retaliation against
Americans seeking to enter or remain in China and exacerbate
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/23/world/asia/us-china-consulate.html}{tensions
between the two nations}.

The presidential proclamation, still in draft form, could also authorize
the United States government to revoke the visas of party members and
their families who are already in the country, leading to their
expulsion. Some proposed language is also aimed at limiting travel to
the United States by members of the People's Liberation Army and
executives at state-owned enterprises, though many of them are likely to
also be party members.

Details of the plan, described by four people with knowledge of the
discussions, have not yet been finalized, and President Trump might
ultimately reject it. While the president and his campaign strategists
have been intent on portraying him as tough on China for re-election
purposes, Mr. Trump has vacillated wildly in both his language and
actions on the Chinese government since taking office in 2017. He has
criticized China on some issues, particularly trade. But he has also
lavished praise on President Xi Jinping,
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/18/us/politics/trump-china-bolton.html}{pleaded
with Mr. Xi} to help him win re-election and
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/18/us/politics/trump-china-bolton.html}{remained
silent or even explicitly approved} of the repression in Hong Kong and
Xinjiang.

There are practical issues as well. The Chinese Communist Party has 92
million members. Almost three million Chinese citizens visited the
United States in 2018, though the numbers have plummeted because of the
coronavirus pandemic and the current ban on most travelers from China.
The U.S. government has no knowledge of party status for a vast majority
of them. So trying to immediately identify party members to either
prevent their entry or expel those already in the United States would be
difficult.

The presidential order would cite the same
\href{https://crsreports.congress.gov/product/pdf/LSB/LSB10458}{statute
in the Immigration and Nationality Act} used in a 2017 travel ban on a
number of predominantly Muslim countries that gives the president power
to temporarily block travel to the U.S. by foreign nationals who are
deemed ``detrimental to the interests of the United States.'' The 2017
ban was fought in the courts and expanded this year.

Such a broad ban would be the most provocative action against China by
the United States since the start of the trade war between the two
countries in 2018. It would further poison U.S.-China relations, even
after several years of open clashes over economics, technology and
global influence have led some diplomats and analysts to draw
comparisons to a
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/14/world/asia/cold-war-china-us.html}{new
Cold War}.

Officials at the White House, State Department and Department of
Homeland Security have been involved in the discussion over the ban.
Spokesmen for the White House National Security Council and the State
Department declined to comment on Wednesday, and one for the Department
of Homeland Security did not return a request for comment.

Officials at those agencies also continue to debate a variety of
formulations for banning Chinese travel to the United States short of
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/16/world/asia/china-communist-party-travel-ban-explain.html}{barring
all party members,} such as targeting only the 25 members of the ruling
Politburo and their families.

In recent months, top administration officials have tried to draw a
distinction between party members and other Chinese, saying the party
must be punished for its actions --- and its global ambitions must be
thwarted. They have loudly denounced what they call the evils of the
Chinese Communist Party, pointing to the role of its officials in
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/29/world/asia/coronavirus-china.html}{the
cover-up} of the initial coronavirus outbreak,
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2019/11/16/world/asia/china-xinjiang-documents.html}{the
detentions} of one million or more Muslims in internment camps and
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/29/world/asia/china-hong-kong-security-law-rules.html}{the
dismantling} of civil liberties in Hong Kong.

The
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/01/05/sunday-review/china-military-economic-power.html}{Communist
Party} is both a powerful and mundane part of life in China. While its
leaders maintain control of domestic and foreign policy, those on lower
rungs do everything from supervising schools to managing
neighborhood-level governance. In recent decades, many citizens joined
to get a leg up in a wide range of sectors: business, academia and even
the arts. Many party members do not conform to official ideology; some
are Christians who attend underground churches, for example.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-global-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/01/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: Global Coronavirus
Outbreak}}{Latest Updates: Global Coronavirus Outbreak}}\label{latest-updates-global-coronavirus-outbreak}}

Updated 2020-08-01T19:39:54.177Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/01/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-3ac56579}{Top
  officials work to break impasse over jobless benefit.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/01/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-8796723}{The
  virus picks up dangerous speed in the Midwest, and in areas that had
  seen success.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/01/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-25930521}{Thousands
  in Berlin protest Germany's coronavirus measures.}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/01/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

More live coverage:
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/live/2020/07/31/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Markets}

Many Chinese outside the party praise the top leadership but complain
about corruption among local officials.

Counting party members as well as their families, the ban could
technically bar travel to the United States for as many as 270 million
people, according to one internal administration estimate.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/07/15/us/politics/15dc-chinaban-4/merlin_172914018_e3bc3f11-e9d8-488e-9223-4d86cfccac39-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

``The overwhelming majority of C.C.P. members have no involvement or
input into Beijing's policymaking, so going after the entire party
membership is like China sanctioning all Republicans because of
frustrations with Trump,'' said Jude Blanchette, a China scholar at the
Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington. ``Such a
move would inflame public opinion in China, as this would target nearly
10 percent of the entire Chinese population and would do so based on
blanket assertions of guilt.''

Besides the iterations of the 2017 travel ban, the Trump administration
has put in place other entry restrictions. This year, during the
pandemic, it has banned entry for most citizens of China as well as
those from the
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/23/world/europe/coronavirus-EU-American-travel-ban.html}{European
Union} and some other nations. And last month, it
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/22/us/politics/trump-h1b-work-visas.html}{blocked
employment visas and extended restrictions} on issuance of green cards,
moves that would keep as many as 525,000 foreign workers out of the
United States for the rest of the year.

The State Department has also announced visa restrictions on various
categories of Chinese citizens. These include
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/10/08/business/china-human-rights-technology-xinjiang.html}{officials
responsible} for the mass internment and surveillance of Muslim ethnic
minorities in the Xinjiang region and
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/17/business/media/china-expels-american-journalists.html}{journalists}
working in the United States.

In May, American officials said the government was
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/05/28/us/politics/china-hong-kong-trump-student-visas.html}{canceling
the visas} of graduate or higher-level students in the United States who
had ties to certain Chinese military institutions --- the first ban on a
category of Chinese students, who make up the largest group of
international students in the country.

After Mr. Trump signed the Hong Kong Autonomy Act on Tuesday, the State
Department was expected to propose names of Chinese officials overseeing
repression in Hong Kong for visa and economic sanctions.

Image

The United States government published an interim rule on Tuesday that
would bar Pentagon and NASA contractors from using technology from
Huawei and other Chinese telecommunications companies.Credit...Ng Han
Guan/Associated Press

And on Wednesday, Secretary of State Mike Pompeo announced a ban on some
employees of Chinese technology companies,
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/14/business/huawei-uk-5g.html}{including
Huawei}, that ``provide material support to regimes engaging in human
rights abuses globally.''

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/news-event/coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{}

\hypertarget{the-coronavirus-outbreak-}{%
\subsubsection{The Coronavirus Outbreak
›}\label{the-coronavirus-outbreak-}}

\hypertarget{frequently-asked-questions}{%
\paragraph{Frequently Asked
Questions}\label{frequently-asked-questions}}

Updated July 27, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{should-i-refinance-my-mortgage}{%
  \paragraph{Should I refinance my
  mortgage?}\label{should-i-refinance-my-mortgage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/coronavirus-money-unemployment.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{It
    could be a good idea,} because mortgage rates have
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/16/business/mortgage-rates-below-3-percent.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{never
    been lower.} Refinancing requests have pushed mortgage applications
    to some of the highest levels since 2008, so be prepared to get in
    line. But defaults are also up, so if you're thinking about buying a
    home, be aware that some lenders have tightened their standards.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{what-is-school-going-to-look-like-in-september}{%
  \paragraph{What is school going to look like in
  September?}\label{what-is-school-going-to-look-like-in-september}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    It is unlikely that many schools will return to a normal schedule
    this fall, requiring the grind of
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/05/us/coronavirus-education-lost-learning.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{online
    learning},
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/05/29/us/coronavirus-child-care-centers.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{makeshift
    child care} and
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/03/business/economy/coronavirus-working-women.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{stunted
    workdays} to continue. California's two largest public school
    districts --- Los Angeles and San Diego --- said on July 13, that
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/13/us/lausd-san-diego-school-reopening.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{instruction
    will be remote-only in the fall}, citing concerns that surging
    coronavirus infections in their areas pose too dire a risk for
    students and teachers. Together, the two districts enroll some
    825,000 students. They are the largest in the country so far to
    abandon plans for even a partial physical return to classrooms when
    they reopen in August. For other districts, the solution won't be an
    all-or-nothing approach.
    \href{https://bioethics.jhu.edu/research-and-outreach/projects/eschool-initiative/school-policy-tracker/}{Many
    systems}, including the nation's largest, New York City, are
    devising
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/26/us/coronavirus-schools-reopen-fall.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{hybrid
    plans} that involve spending some days in classrooms and other days
    online. There's no national policy on this yet, so check with your
    municipal school system regularly to see what is happening in your
    community.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{is-the-coronavirus-airborne}{%
  \paragraph{Is the coronavirus
  airborne?}\label{is-the-coronavirus-airborne}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    The coronavirus
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/04/health/239-experts-with-one-big-claim-the-coronavirus-is-airborne.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{can
    stay aloft for hours in tiny droplets in stagnant air}, infecting
    people as they inhale, mounting scientific evidence suggests. This
    risk is highest in crowded indoor spaces with poor ventilation, and
    may help explain super-spreading events reported in meatpacking
    plants, churches and restaurants.
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/06/health/coronavirus-airborne-aerosols.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{It's
    unclear how often the virus is spread} via these tiny droplets, or
    aerosols, compared with larger droplets that are expelled when a
    sick person coughs or sneezes, or transmitted through contact with
    contaminated surfaces, said Linsey Marr, an aerosol expert at
    Virginia Tech. Aerosols are released even when a person without
    symptoms exhales, talks or sings, according to Dr. Marr and more
    than 200 other experts, who
    \href{https://academic.oup.com/cid/article/doi/10.1093/cid/ciaa939/5867798}{have
    outlined the evidence in an open letter to the World Health
    Organization}.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{what-are-the-symptoms-of-coronavirus}{%
  \paragraph{What are the symptoms of
  coronavirus?}\label{what-are-the-symptoms-of-coronavirus}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Common symptoms
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/symptoms-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{include
    fever, a dry cough, fatigue and difficulty breathing or shortness of
    breath.} Some of these symptoms overlap with those of the flu,
    making detection difficult, but runny noses and stuffy sinuses are
    less common.
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/04/27/health/coronavirus-symptoms-cdc.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{The
    C.D.C. has also} added chills, muscle pain, sore throat, headache
    and a new loss of the sense of taste or smell as symptoms to look
    out for. Most people fall ill five to seven days after exposure, but
    symptoms may appear in as few as two days or as many as 14 days.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{does-asymptomatic-transmission-of-covid-19-happen}{%
  \paragraph{Does asymptomatic transmission of Covid-19
  happen?}\label{does-asymptomatic-transmission-of-covid-19-happen}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    So far, the evidence seems to show it does. A widely cited
    \href{https://www.nature.com/articles/s41591-020-0869-5}{paper}
    published in April suggests that people are most infectious about
    two days before the onset of coronavirus symptoms and estimated that
    44 percent of new infections were a result of transmission from
    people who were not yet showing symptoms. Recently, a top expert at
    the World Health Organization stated that transmission of the
    coronavirus by people who did not have symptoms was ``very rare,''
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/09/world/coronavirus-updates.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq\#link-1f302e21}{but
    she later walked back that statement.}
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

He added, ``Telecommunications companies around the world should
consider themselves on notice: If they are doing business with Huawei,
they are doing business with human rights abusers.''

Despite Mr. Trump's admiration for Mr. Xi, national security officials
have tried to push tough policies on China that are designed to counter
what they view as dangerous expansionist actions by Chinese leaders and
agencies. The pandemic and Beijing's recent actions on Hong Kong have
helped push relations between the two nations to
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/22/us/politics/coronavirus-us-china.html}{the
lowest point in decades}.

At the same time, some of Mr. Trump's top economic advisers have
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/05/04/world/asia/trump-china-uighurs-trade-deal.html}{promoted
a softer approach to China}, warning of further damage to the world
economy and falling stock markets. Those advisers and allies among
American executives are likely to oppose a broad visa ban on Communist
Party members, some of whom do business with American corporations.

A broad ban would give the State Department new powers to block top
Chinese political and business leaders and their families from entering
the United States. (Mr. Xi's daughter, Xi Mingze, attended Harvard
University under a pseudonym several years ago.) It would also allow the
department to formalize a process by which American officials could
inquire about party status during visa application interviews and on
forms. Under the draft proclamation, the Department of Homeland Security
would share responsibility for carrying out the ban.

Several Chinese citizens who have traveled to the United States in
recent years said they did not recall any questions on visa applications
asking if they were party members.

Language in the draft proclamation stresses recent egregious behavior by
China, in particular theft of intellectual property by Chinese state
actors and so-called
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/11/25/us/politics/china-exit-ban.html}{exit
bans} used by security officials to prevent some U.S. citizens from
leaving China. This month, the State Department renewed a travel
warning, saying the Chinese authorities engaged in ``arbitrary
enforcement of local laws for purposes other than maintaining law and
order,'' which could include ``detention and the use of exit bans.''

Image

If signed by President Trump, the order would block visas for 92 million
Chinese Communist Party members and their families.Credit...Anna
Moneymaker for The New York Times

On Tuesday, the Trump administration
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/14/us/coronavirus-international-foreign-student-visas.html}{reversed
course on an order} that would have subjected international students to
deportation if they did not physically attend classes during the
pandemic, after American universities filed a lawsuit.

Still, the administration has stood by its visa actions focused more
narrowly on China. The Chinese government has continued with its own
harsh visa actions, and even widened them to the
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/14/business/media/new-york-times-hong-kong.html}{nonrenewal
of work permits} for Western journalists in Hong Kong.

At a
\href{https://www.fmprc.gov.cn/mfa_eng/zxxx_662805/t1796302.shtml}{speech
in Beijing} this month, Wang Yi, the foreign minister of China, said the
China-U.S. relationship was facing its ``most severe challenge'' since
the normalization of diplomatic ties in 1979.

``Some say that China-U.S. relations will not be able to return to its
past,'' he said. ``But that should not mean ignoring the history
altogether and starting all over again, let alone impractical
decoupling. It should mean building on past achievements and keeping
pace with the times.''

Julian E. Barnes contributed reporting.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
