Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/opinion}{Opinion}\textbar{}There Is a `Great Silent
Majority.' But It Stands Against Trump.

\url{https://nyti.ms/2E6j4u7}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

\href{/section/opinion}{Opinion}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{there-is-a-great-silent-majority-but-it-stands-against-trump}{%
\section{There Is a `Great Silent Majority.' But It Stands Against
Trump.}\label{there-is-a-great-silent-majority-but-it-stands-against-trump}}

And the minority he represents.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/column/jamelle-bouie}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2019/01/24/opinion/jamelle-bouie/jamelle-bouie-thumbLarge-v3.png}}

By
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/column/jamelle-bouie}{Jamelle
Bouie}

Opinion Columnist

\begin{itemize}
\item
  July 24, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/07/24/opinion/24bouieWeb/merlin_174475524_6ee6600a-b326-4229-958f-e588dad00032-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

President Trump believes he represents the ``silent majority'' of the
country against a dangerous, radical minority. He says as much on
Twitter, frequently yelling
``\href{https://twitter.com/realdonaldtrump/status/1277219673315119106?s=21}{SILENT
MAJORITY}'' at his followers. Accordingly, his campaign for re-election
has tried to appeal to this ``majority'' with displays tailored to its
perceived interests.

Because Trump believes that this silent majority is protective of
Confederate statues and other monuments, he marked Independence Day with
\href{https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefings-statements/remarks-president-trump-south-dakotas-2020-mount-rushmore-fireworks-celebration-keystone-south-dakota/}{a
speech} on July 3 denouncing ``angry mobs'' for ``defacing our most
sacred memorials'' and ``unleashing a wave of violent crime in our
cities.'' Because he also believes that this silent majority fears
integration and diversity, he has issued constant warnings to the
``\href{https://twitter.com/realdonaldtrump/status/1286372175117791236?s=21}{suburban
housewives of America}'' that Joe Biden, the former vice president who
is his opponent in the election, will destroy their neighborhoods with
affordable housing. ``People have worked all their lives to get into a
community, and now they're going to watch it go to hell,''
\href{https://www.npr.org/2020/07/22/893899254/down-in-the-polls-trump-pitches-fear-they-want-to-destroy-our-suburbs}{he
said} last week. And because he believes that this silent majority is
hostile to protests against police brutality, he has deployed federal
law enforcement officers to Portland and other cities to suppress
``\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/21/us/portland-protests.html}{anarchists}''
and generate ``law-and-order'' images for his campaign.

Unfortunately for Trump, there's quite a bit of distance between his
perception and our reality. Most Americans
\href{https://www.cnn.com/2020/06/18/politics/confederate-statues-removal-robert-e-lee-jefferson/index.html}{support}
efforts to remove Confederate statues and monuments; most Americans
\href{https://www.pewsocialtrends.org/2019/05/08/americans-see-advantages-and-challenges-in-countrys-growing-racial-and-ethnic-diversity/}{welcome}
racial and ethnic diversity and few believe their communities should be
less diverse; and most Americans are supportive of the Black Lives
Matter movement and protests against police brutality --- 67 percent,
\href{https://www.pewsocialtrends.org/2020/06/12/amid-protests-majorities-across-racial-and-ethnic-groups-express-support-for-the-black-lives-matter-movement/}{according
to the Pew Research Center}.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/07/24/opinion/24bouieNew/merlin_174886224_0ef2a196-777b-4841-ad15-ea92df8f4891-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

There is a silent majority in this country, and it is arrayed against a
radical, extremist minority. But it stands against Trump, not the other
away around. He and his allies are and always have been in the minority,
acting in ways that frighten and disturb the broad middle of the
electorate. And as long as Trump cannot see this --- as long as he holds
to his belief in a secret, silent pro-Trump majority --- he and his
campaign will continue to act in ways that diminish his chance of any
legitimate victory in the 2020 presidential election.

It's worth unpacking the phrase ``silent majority.'' It dates back to
\href{http://chnm.gmu.edu/hardhats/silent.html}{a speech} given in late
1969 by Richard Nixon defending the Vietnam War at a moment when antiwar
sentiment was on the rise. ``As president of the United States,'' Nixon
said, ``I would be untrue to my oath of office if I allowed the policy
of this nation to be dictated by the minority who holds that point of
view and who try to impose it on the nation by mounting demonstrations
on the street.'' He continued: ``And so tonight, to you, the great
silent majority, my fellow Americans, I ask for your support.''

Nixon's basic view of American politics was that the country was divided
between a disruptive, countercultural left (enabled by feckless, liberal
elites) and a broad middle of Americans who craved order and stability.
Less than a month before that speech, he convened a secret group he
called the
``\href{https://www.google.com/books/edition/President_Nixon/ajLBlZwwB0IC?hl=en\&gbpv=1\&bsq=\%E2\%80\%9Cmiddle\%20america\%20committee\%E2\%80\%9D}{Middle
America Committee},'' tasked with reaching a ``large and politically
powerful white middle class'' that is ``deeply troubled, primarily over
the erosion of what they consider to be their values.'' These Americans,
in the view of the committee, felt that they had ``lost control of a
complicated and impersonal society which oppresses them with high taxes,
spiraling inflation and enforced integration.''

Nixon identified with that middle --- he spoke directly to its fears and
anxieties about race, crime and rapid cultural change, as well as its
resentments toward those groups (like the Black Power or women's
liberation movement) that might try to overturn the existing social
order.

And he could do this, in part, because the ``the great silent majority''
within Middle America shared a similar position in the social and
economic landscape of the country. They were nearly all white (of
varying ethnic origins); some were college-educated but the vast
majority were not; they had left the cities for the suburbs, part of the
``white flight'' that transformed the built environment of the country.

The silent majority of 1969 was a singular grouping of Americans. The
silent majority of 2020 is not. It is diverse, made up of many millions
of Black, Hispanic and Asian-Americans as well as whites. It is still
largely working and middle-class, and it still lives in the suburbs, but
those suburbs are
\href{https://www.pewsocialtrends.org/2018/05/22/demographic-and-economic-trends-in-urban-suburban-and-rural-communities/}{also
more diverse and heterogeneous}. This ``silent majority'' isn't as
worried about crime and disorder --- violent crime is still near a
30-year-low --- but it is concerned with economic security and the
rising cost of housing, health care and education. Faced with protests
against police brutality, this ``silent majority'' wants reform and
\href{https://t.co/usUGEAif8U}{sees racism as a serious problem for the
country}. And in the midst of a deadly pandemic, it wants the federal
government to take control and manage the crisis as best as it can,
rather than try
\href{https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/2020/07/01/with-new-coronavirus-cases-hitting-new-high-trump-revisits-his-fantasy-virus-will-just-go-away/}{to
wish it away}.

What the silent majority doesn't want are spectacles like the crackdown
in Lafayette Square or the current operation in Portland. What it
doesn't want are endless displays of
\href{https://www.theatlantic.com/ideas/archive/2018/10/the-cruelty-is-the-point/572104/}{cruelty}
for its own sake. Although this silent majority has no uniform view of
how to handle issues like immigration, it stands against the hostile
rhetoric and draconian policies of the present administration.

To Trump and his allies, the country is filled with ``shy'' supporters
just waiting for the right time to reveal themselves; they think they
can rally this public to their side with a violent demonstration of
``law and order.'' They think they can run the Nixon playbook again, not
realizing that to the broad middle of the country, they are the ones who
represent the politics of division, disruption and disorder.

Or maybe they do realize it.
\href{https://www.vox.com/policy-and-politics/2020/7/21/21328714/trump-executive-order-immigration-census-2020-redistricting}{Earlier
this week}, Trump issued a memorandum directing Wilbur Ross, the
Commerce Secretary, who oversees the Census Bureau, to exclude
unauthorized immigrants from the final report for the purposes of
apportionment in the House of Representatives. Like
\href{https://www.scotusblog.com/2019/07/trump-administration-ends-effort-to-include-citizenship-question-on-2020-census/}{last
year's blocked attempt} to add a citizenship question to the census,
this would
\href{https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/2019/06/06/where-citizenship-question-could-cause-census-miss-millions-hispanics-why-thats-big-deal/?arc404=true}{reduce
representation} for states and localities with heavy immigrant
populations --- legal or otherwise --- shifting power to more rural,
more white, more Republican areas of the country.

This is not the move of a president who believes his party holds a
majority of the country. It is the move of a president who knows he is
in the minority, who knows his coalition cannot win a fair fight for
future political power.

The silent majority of the country is against Trump, his allies and his
would-be successors. He is trying to build a world where that doesn't
actually matter.

\emph{The Times is committed to publishing}
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/01/31/opinion/letters/letters-to-editor-new-york-times-women.html}{\emph{a
diversity of letters}} \emph{to the editor. We'd like to hear what you
think about this or any of our articles. Here are some}
\href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014925288-How-to-submit-a-letter-to-the-editor}{\emph{tips}}\emph{.
And here's our email:}
\href{mailto:letters@NYTimes.com}{\emph{letters@NYTimes.com}}\emph{.}

\emph{Follow The New York Times Opinion section on}
\href{https://www.facebookcorewwwi.onion/nytopinion}{\emph{Facebook}}\emph{,}
\href{http://twitter.com/NYTOpinion}{\emph{Twitter (@NYTopinion)}}
\emph{and}
\href{https://www.instagram.com/nytopinion/}{\emph{Instagram}}\emph{.}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
