Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/arts/music}{Music}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/arts/music}{Music}\textbar{}A December Surprise, Without
Whispers (or Leaks)

\url{https://nyti.ms/1j4r1yn}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

Music Review

\hypertarget{a-december-surprise-without-whispers-or-leaks}{%
\section{A December Surprise, Without Whispers (or
Leaks)}\label{a-december-surprise-without-whispers-or-leaks}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2013/12/14/arts/BEYONCE/BEYONCE-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/jon-pareles}{Jon Pareles}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Dec. 13, 2013
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

\href{http://beyonce.com/}{Beyoncé} is flawless so no one else has to
be.

That's the theme of her superb fifth studio album, ``Beyoncé'' (Parkwood
Entertainment/Columbia), which arrives as a feat of both music and
promotion. Its songs are steamy and sleek, full of erotic exploits and
sultry vocals; every so often, for variety, they turn vulnerable,
compassionate or pro-feminist. And with both the songs and the videos,
Beyoncé consolidates one of pop's most finely balanced personas; she is,
at once, glamorous and down-home, carnal and sweet, ``Queen Bey'' and a
diligent trouper, polished and human. ``Underneath the pretty face is
something complicated,'' she sings in ``No Angel.''

Credit...CreditVideo by Beyonce

``Beyoncé'' suddenly appeared in the iTunes music store with no prior
hype --- though plenty thereafter --- at midnight Eastern time on
Thursday. That's the latest iteration of a tactic already used this year
by David Bowie and My Bloody Valentine, who also released albums with no
announcement or buildup. Of course, Beyoncé one-upped them: ``Beyoncé''
includes elaborate videos for every song, many of them made on location
--- in France, Brazil, Australia --- while the multitasking Beyoncé was
taking her ``Mrs. Carter Show'' tour around the world. (It returns to
Barclays Center on Dec. 19 and 22.)

She needed only an \href{http://instagram.com/p/h2YFO6Pw1d/}{Instagram}
announcement to draw international attention, and the album immediately
went to No. 1 in 90 countries on iTunes' rankings. It was no secret that
she had been working for a long time on the album, her first since
``4,'' in 2011. And it arrives at nearly the last possible moment for
the lucrative Christmas season.

But Beyoncé transformed a delay into a selling point. And by not
manufacturing discs until the album appeared online --- they are
promised to retail stores before Christmas --- her label avoided the
leaks that often occur during manufacturing and distribution. Neatly
done.

In a year full of overblown marketing campaigns for albums that were
letdowns --- among them, ``Magna Carta ... Holy Grail,'' by Beyoncé's
husband, Jay Z --- ``Beyoncé'' should long outlast the initial stir. The
songs are alert to the current sound of clubs and radio, but not trapped
by it; the refrains are terse and direct, but what happens between them
isn't formulaic. And while Beyoncé constructed the songs with a phalanx
of collaborators, they all know better than to eclipse her creamy,
soulful voice.

After the scattershot styles on ``4,'' Beyoncé has chosen to stick with
largely electronic R\&B. She worked with longtime hitmakers --- Pharrell
Williams, Timbaland, The-Dream, Justin Timberlake --- and relative
newcomers like Hit-Boy and Boots. Mostly, they supply her with means of
seduction: particularly in ``Rocket,'' an ultraslow tease that looks
back to Prince (by way of the Prince fans Miguel and Mr. Timberlake, who
are among the songwriters), as harmonies blossom all around Beyoncé's
cooing lead vocal.

The even more explicit ``Partition,'' savoring sex in a limo, has a
sparse synthesizer pulse and little swoops before a whispery chorus
joins her. ``Superpower,'' a vow of lasting ``tough love'' that's a duet
with Frank Ocean, gives doo-wop a futuristic sheen, as her voice goes
low and smoky. Meanwhile, ``Jealous'' --- about promises, suspicion and
potential revenge --- turns into an accusatory anthem.

But Beyoncé offers solidarity alongside romance. ``Heaven'' is a
mourning song with hymnlike piano, offering tearful comfort: ``Heaven
couldn't wait for you/So go on, go home''; it may be heard at funerals
for years to come. ``Flawless,'' with a staccato, trap-flavored track,
mixes growling celebrity autobiography --- ``I took some time to live my
life/but don't think I'm just his little wife'' --- with a feminist
speech from a Nigerian author, \href{http://chimamanda.com/}{Chimamanda
Ngozi Adichie,} and a sisterly cheer, ``I look so good tonight!''

The album's opener is ``Pretty Hurts,'' written with Sia Furler, which
denounces ``plastic smiles'' and warns, ``It's the soul that needs the
surgery.'' Its video shows beauty pageant contestants in backstage
distress, and through the album, both video and audio snippets remind us
that Beyoncé has been a performer and contestant since childhood.

``Flawless'' begins and ends with a televised talent contest lost by one
of Beyoncé's many youthful groups, Girls Tyme (raising the hindsight
question of where the winners are now). And while most of the videos
show Beyoncé in elaborate designer luxury with dancers and actors, she
also appears among ordinary people on Coney Island, in Brazil and at a
Houston roller disco.

The full album includes a video of ``Grown Woman'' --- a song that
appeared earlier this year as a Pepsi commercial --- that juxtaposes
images of the wealthy, grown-up Beyoncé, drink in hand, with grainy
shots of her youthful efforts as a performer: eager, smiling, diligent.
Superstar and striver, impossibly accomplished without forgetting a
humble start, Beyoncé has it both ways, and ``Beyoncé'' makes it
believable.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
