<div id="suggestions" class="suggestions messenger nocontent robots-nocontent" style="display:none;">

<div class="message-bed">

<div class="message-container last-message-container">

<div class="message">

<span class="message-content"> **<span class="message-title">NYTimes.com
no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your
browser.</span> [LEARN MORE
»](http://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/content/help/site/ie9-support.html)
</span>

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div id="shell" class="shell">

<div class="container">

<div class="quick-navigation button-group">

**<span class="button-text">Sections</span>

**<span class="button-text">Home</span>

**<span class="button-text">Search</span>

</div>

<div class="branding">

## [<span class="visually-hidden">The New York Times</span>](http://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/)

### <span class="label-text"> [Magazine](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/magazine) </span>

</div>

<div class="story-meta">

###### <span class="kicker-label"> [Magazine](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/magazine) </span> <span class="pipe">|</span>What Survival Looks Like After the Oceans Rise

</div>

<div class="user-tools">

<div id="sharetools-masthead" class="sharetools theme-classic sharetools-masthead" data-aria-label="tools" data-role="group" data-shares="facebook,twitter,email,show-all,save" data-url="https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/04/11/magazine/climate-change-bangladesh-scavenging.html" data-title="What Survival Looks Like After the Oceans Rise" data-author="Photographs by Andrea Frazzetta" data-media="https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/icons/t_logo_291_black.png" data-description="At the site of a Bangladeshi town lost to devastating storms, locals make do by scavenging what remains." data-publish-date="April 11, 2019">

<div class="ad sharetools-inline-article-ad hidden nocontent robots-nocontent">

</div>

</div>

<div class="user-tools-button-group button-group">

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="search-flyout-panel flyout-panel">

**<span class="visually-hidden">Close search</span>

## Site Search Navigation

<div class="control">

<div class="label-container visually-hidden">

Search NYTimes.com

</div>

<div class="field-container">

**<span id="clear-search-input" class="visually-hidden">Clear this text
input</span>

<div class="auto-suggest" style="display: none;">

</div>

Go

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div id="notification-modals" class="notification-modals">

</div>

<span class="story-short-url"><https://nyti.ms/2GjpFAk></span>

## Site Navigation

## Site Mobile Navigation

<div id="page" class="page">

<div id="main" class="main" data-role="main">

<div class="story-meta">

# What Survival Looks Like After the Oceans Rise

<div class="story-meta-footer interactive-meta-footer">

<div class="interactive-byline">

<span class="byline" itemprop="author creator" itemscope="" itemtype="http://schema.org/Person">
Photographs by
<span class="byline-author" data-byline-name="ANDREA FRAZZETTA" itemprop="name">ANDREA
FRAZZETTA</span> </span> APRIL 11, 2019

</div>

<span class="summary-text">At the site of a Bangladeshi town lost to
devastating storms, locals make do by scavenging what
remains.</span>

</div>

</div>

<div id="climate-change-bangladesh-scavenging" class="interactive-graphic">

<div class="topnav" data-slug="14mag-bangladesh-oak">

<div class="topnav__wrapper">

<div class="topnav__kicker">

<span>The Climate Issue</span>

</div>

<div class="topnav__contents">

  - [What Survival Looks Like After the Oceans
    Rise](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/04/11/magazine/climate-change-bangladesh-scavenging.html)
  - [Climate Chaos Is Coming — and the Pinkertons Are
    Ready](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/04/10/magazine/climate-change-pinkertons.html)
  - [How Big Business Is Hedging Against the
    Apocalypse](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/04/11/magazine/climate-change-exxon-renewable-energy.html)
  - [The Next Reckoning: Capitalism and Climate
    Change](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/04/09/magazine/climate-change-capitalism.html)
  - [The Problem With Putting a Price on the End of the
    World](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/04/09/magazine/climate-change-politics-economics.html)
  - [Climate Change Could Destroy His Home in Peru. So He Sued an Energy
    Company in
    Germany.](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/04/09/magazine/climate-change-peru-law.html)

</div>

</div>

[](#)
[](#)

![](https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/04/09/climate2019/51f6a9588f2c17e118fdd8781dfa8806f5d62a95/caret.svg)

</div>

<div class="rad-article" data-slug="14mag-bangladesh-oak">

<div class="rad-cover full-bleed horizontal" style="background-color:white">

![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)

<div class="rad-header-wrapper">

# What Survival Looks Like After the Oceans Rise

At the site of a Bangladeshi town lost to devastating storms, locals
make do by scavenging what remains.

<span class="rad-byline">Photographs By ANDREA FRAZZETTA</span> APRIL
11, 2019 <span class="rad-byline rad-second-byline"></span>

</div>

</div>

<div class="rad-story-body">

Standing sometimes waist-deep in seawater on the shores of the Bay of
Bengal in Bangladesh, they work to find bricks, dig them out of the
sludge and cart them to the side of the road to sell. The job is new, a
result of devastating storm surges a little more than a decade ago. In
2007, and then again in 2009, cyclones battered the coastline just south
of Kuakata, destroying homes and structures and drowning entire
villages. The storms submerged forests of mangroves and left 99 local
residents dead.

The sisters Kulsum and Komola Begum survived. Now they scavenge, looking
for debris. They wait until low tide, when the receding waves reveal the
rubble. Once they’ve wheeled bricks to the embankment, they break them
into small, chestnut-size pieces. These shards are used in the
foundations for homes in the new village, a mile up the shore.

Despite being responsible for only 0.3 percent of the emissions that
cause global warming, Bangladesh is near the top of the Global Climate
Risk Index, a ranking of 183 countries and territories most vulnerable
to climate change. When scientists and researchers predict how global
warming will affect populations, they usually use 20- and 50-year
trajectories. For Bangladesh, the effects of climate change are
happening now. Cyclones are growing stronger as temperatures rise and
are occurring with more frequency.

*\[[Read about new legal strategies to make the world’s biggest
polluters pay for climate
change](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/04/09/magazine/climate-change-peru-law.html).\]*

Researchers warn that within a few decades, Bangladesh may lose more
than 10 percent of its land to sea-level rise, displacing as many as 18
million people. Decisions to leave coastal communities aren’t really
decisions at all. Families leave because there are no other options.
There is no work. There are no homes. Over the past decade, an average
of 700,000 Bangladeshis a year migrated because of natural disasters,
moving to Dhaka to live in sprawling slums as climate refugees. Kulsum
and Komola have managed to forge opportunity from disaster; they will
stay, for now. They will continue to collect bricks to build the new
village, even if the new village will most likely meet the same fate as
the old one. *— Jaime
Lowe*

-----

![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)

#### Making a Living in the Ruins

The sisters Kulsum and Komola Begum make a living scavenging bricks,
which they sell to construction workers for roughly $1.40 a sack.

During monsoon season, when currents are stronger and tides wash away
the sand, the family can bag 60 to 70 sacks. Over all, they earn enough
to send the children to school and buy uniforms and
books.

<div class="rad-diptych" data-id="100000006445202" data-slug="14mag-bangladesh-slidesho-slide-5KS4">

![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)

![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)

</div>

Komola Begum’s sons sometimes help their mother collect the bricks.
“When I can earn, my children can eat. If I don’t, they will starve,”
Komola said. “I do this for my
kids.”

![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)

Her son Nur-un-Nabi plays outside his family’s home, which is surrounded
by fields of rice and grasses. When he is not at school, and not helping
his mother on the shore, Nur-un-Nabi can often be found running on thin
slippery dams, occasionally chasing a water snake slithering out of the
flooded rice
fields.

![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)

The dozen miles of beach crowns the tourist town of Kuakata, roughly two
hundred miles south of Dhaka. The beach is surrounded by forests of
mangroves and palm plantations, which are falling victim to increasingly
aggressive cyclones, tidal surges and rising seas. ‘‘When we were young,
the old people used to say that the sea was very far from here,’’ Komola
said. ‘‘They packed up their meals and walked their way to the sea. But
now you can reach it in no
time.’’

![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)

Komola Begum loads bricks onto a cart that her son Bellal Nabi will
pedal a few hundred yards along a path of hard-beaten earth up to an
embankment where the bricks will be unloaded and broken into smaller
chunks.

![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)

Nur-un-Nabi breaks bricks, while his aunt Kulsum does the same a short
distance away. The piles of bricks rest on an embankment that was
recently raised to make it more resistant to cyclones. The Begum
families’ homes are about a hundred yards from the embankment — which
the more pessimistic local residents expect will withstand just a few
more cyclones before being washed
away.

![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)

Komola and Kulsum Begum load a bag of brick for a client. A bag can be
as heavy as 40 kilos, and the two sisters often help each other with the
task. “It is a good business so far,” Komola said. “Sometimes we get
pre-orders, and this is good
money.”

![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)

At each low tide, new scraps of bricks are revealed in the mud. A few
decades ago, Komola Begum recalled, there were fishing villages here,
and roads, rice fields and plantations.

“Some bricks come from the fishing nets,” where they are used as
weights, she said. “We don’t know where the others come from.” She
assumes that many come from homes that have been swept away. “Now
everything is under the sea,” she said from the beach, pointing toward
the
ocean.

![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)

-----

Photo captions by Jacopo
    Pasotti.

</div>

<div class="rad-article-credits">

</div>

</div>

<div class="mag-logo-wrapper">

</div>

<div class="rad-series-box" data-slug="14mag-bangladesh-oak">

## MORE CLIMATE

<div class="rad-series-link-wrapper">

  - [](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/04/10/magazine/climate-change-pinkertons.html)
    <div class="promo-image">
    ![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)
    </div>
    <div class="promo-info">
    ### Climate Chaos Is Coming — and the Pinkertons Are Ready
    By NOAH GALLAGHER
    SHANNON
    </div>
  - [](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/04/11/magazine/climate-change-exxon-renewable-energy.html)
    <div class="promo-image">
    ![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)
    </div>
    <div class="promo-info">
    ### How Big Business Is Hedging Against the Apocalypse
    By JESSE
    BARRON
    </div>
  - [](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/04/09/magazine/climate-change-capitalism.html)
    <div class="promo-image">
    ![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)
    </div>
    <div class="promo-info">
    ### The Next Reckoning: Capitalism and Climate Change
    By NATHANIEL
    RICH
    </div>
  - [](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/04/09/magazine/climate-change-politics-economics.html)
    <div class="promo-image">
    ![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)
    </div>
    <div class="promo-info">
    ### The Problem With Putting a Price on the End of the World
    By DAVID
    LEONHARDT
    </div>
  - [](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/04/09/magazine/climate-change-peru-law.html)
    <div class="promo-image">
    ![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)
    </div>
    <div class="promo-info">
    ### Climate Change Could Destroy His Home in Peru. So He Sued an Energy Company in Germany.
    By BROOKE
JARVIS
    </div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div id="related-coverage" class="section related-coverage nocontent robots-nocontent">

<div class="nocontent robots-nocontent">

## More on NYTimes.com

</div>

</div>

<div id="BottomAd" class="ad bottom-ad nocontent robots-nocontent">

<div class="accessibility-ad-header">

Advertisement

</div>

</div>

</div>

## Site Information Navigation

  - [©
    <span itemprop="copyrightYear">2020</span><span itemprop="copyrightHolder provider sourceOrganization" itemscope="" itemtype="http://schema.org/Organization" itemid="http://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion"><span itemprop="name">
    The New York Times
    Company</span></span>](https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice)
  - [Home](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion)
  - [Search](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/search/)
  - Accessibility concerns? Email us at <accessibility@NYTimes.com>. We
    would love to hear from you.
  - [Contact
    Us](https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us)
  - [Work with us](https://www.nytco.com/careers/)
  - [Advertise](https://nytmediakit.com/)
  - [Your Ad
    Choices](https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014892108-Privacy-policy#pp)
  - [Privacy](https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014892108-Privacy-policy)
  - [Terms of
    Service](https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service)
  - [Terms of
    Sale](https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale)

## Site Information Navigation

  - [Site Map](https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion)
  - [Help](https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us)
  - [Site
    Feedback](https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us?redir=myacc)
  - [Subscriptions](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW)

</div>

</div>

<div id="Inv1" class="ad inv1-ad hidden">

</div>

<div id="Inv2" class="ad inv2-ad hidden">

</div>

<div id="Inv3" class="ad inv3-ad hidden">

</div>

<div id="ab1" class="ad ab1-ad hidden">

</div>

<div id="ab2" class="ad ab2-ad hidden">

</div>

<div id="ab3" class="ad ab3-ad hidden">

</div>

<div id="prop1" class="ad prop1-ad hidden">

</div>

<div id="prop2" class="ad prop2-ad hidden">

</div>

<div id="Anchor" class="ad anchor-ad hidden">

</div>

<div id="ADX_CLIENTSIDE" class="ad adx-clientside-ad hidden">

</div>
