<div id="app">

<div id="standalone-header">

<div class="interactive-masthead NYTAppHideMasthead css-xuu3c2 e1suatyy0">

<div class="section css-133zg39 e1suatyy2">

<div class="css-eph4ug er09x8g0">

<div class="css-6n7j50">

</div>

<span class="css-1dv1kvn">Sections</span>

<div class="css-10488qs">

<span class="css-1dv1kvn">SEARCH</span>

</div>

[Skip to content](#site-content)[Skip to site
index](#site-index)

</div>

<div class="css-10698na e1huz5gh0">

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="css-11kjks6" data-role="region" data-aria-label="comments panel" tabindex="-1">

<div class="css-1h21wu5">

<div class="css-akb3vb">

<div>

<div class="css-1yip8nf">

## [Comments](#commentsContainer)

[Ben & Jerry’s Radical Ice Cream Dreams]()[Skip to Comments]()

<div class="css-c32q7m">

The comments section is closed. To submit a letter to the editor for
publication, write to <letters@NYTimes.com>.

</div>

</div>

<div class="css-1bxnhxc">

</div>

<div class="css-1yip8nf">

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div id="site-content" data-role="main">

Talk

# Ben & Jerry’s Radical Ice Cream Dreams

<div class="css-1vegfwe interactive-byline-container">

By <span class="css-1baulvz last-byline" itemprop="name">David
Marchese</span>July 27,
2020

</div>

<div id="interactive-standalone-sharetools" class="css-wkcogx">

<div>

<div class="interactive-sharetools css-9z2bwm" data-role="toolbar" data-aria-label="Social Media Share buttons, Save button, and Comments Panel with current comment count" data-testid="share-tools">

  - 
  - 
  - 
  - 
    
    <div class="css-6n7j50">
    
    </div>

  - *<span class="css-1dtr3u3">291</span>*

</div>

</div>

</div>

“There wasn’t any other business talking about dismantling white
supremacy.”

<div id="ben-jerry-interview" class="section css-l08pwh interactive-minimal interactive-content interactive-size-medium" data-id="100000007255988">

<div class="css-17ih8de interactive-body">

<div class="rad-tooltip">

<div class="rad-tooltip-content">

</div>

![Close
X](https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2020/07/09/talk/a28b9c874788a9e2b60f2798087577317201a315/close.svg)

</div>

<div class="rad-article" data-slug="02mag-benandjerry">

<div class="rad-cover headline-image-topper">

<div class="rad-cover-main">

![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)

<div class="rad-head-wrap">

<div class="rad-kicker-wrapper">

**Talk** July 27, 2020

</div>

# Ben & Jerry's Radical Ice Cream Dreams

<div class="rad-byline-wrap">

<span class="g-byline-name" itemprop="name">By David Marchese</span>

<div class="rad-date-share">

</div>

<span>SHARE</span>

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="rad-story-body">

It has now become trendy for corporations to take a stance on
social-justice issues without fear of hurting the bottom line. In fact,
it’s widely seen as a way to do the opposite, and that has a lot to do
with groundwork laid by Ben Cohen and Jerry Greenfield, the founders of
Ben & Jerry’s Homemade ice cream. The two childhood friends started out
making ice cream in 1978, opening their first shop in a remodeled gas
station in Burlington, Vt., and turned their business into one known
around the world — both for its distinct chunk-filled product as well as
for its determination to be a force for good via community involvement,
environmentally sustainable practices and the creation of a
still-lucrative alternative to the simple pursuit of profit. Though
Cohen and Greenfield, both 69, long ago ceded control of the company,
they’re still involved in promoting its social-justice campaigns, and
their spirit is still found in the company’s progressive practices.
(Maybe you saw its [corporate
statement](https://www.benjerry.com/about-us/media-center/dismantle-white-supremacy),
released in response to George Floyd’s killing, about dismantling white
supremacy.) ‘‘Using ice cream to talk about difficult issues creates an
opening,’’ Cohen said. ‘‘You can talk in a way that’s tinged with
lightness, which makes it much more palatable.’’ Which is something he
and Greenfield know a little bit about.

**If you look at the history of Ben & Jerry’s, you always had noble
goals: You wanted to keep control of the company. You wanted the
highest-paid employee to never make more than five times that of the
lowest-paid employee. You didn’t want to keep growing for the sake of
growth. And yet you had to sell the company, that pay ratio wasn’t
maintained and the company just** **[kept
growing.](http://nytimes3xbfgragh.onion#tooltip-1)** **What does that
show us about how capitalism can subsume good intentions?** *Cohen:* The
end result of capitalism is not unlike a Monopoly game. One guy gets all
the bucks, and everybody else loses. What we have in America is a
democracy that’s run for the benefit of corporations. That’s a disaster.
We’re looking at it, we’re living it and it continues to get worse. Does
that answer your question?

**It didn’t really, but I can’t tell if you went off on a tangent or
were being evasive.** *Cohen:* I’m not trying to evade. I was going off
on a tangent. There’s no doubt that Ben & Jerry’s has influenced
capitalism more than capitalism influenced Ben & Jerry’s. Ben & Jerry’s
and a few others — The Body Shop, Patagonia — were pioneers in creating
a model of business that saw making profits to be coequal with its
purpose of improving society beyond just providing jobs. There’s a bunch
of corporations genuinely starting to see the light. Granted, capitalism
subsumed the concept of socially responsible business. Every major
corporation now has a corporate social responsibility officer. The
biggest problem in terms of Ben & Jerry’s being subsumed is that if you
see the major problem in our society as being the continuing
concentration of wealth into fewer hands, that we ended up getting owned
by a [huge multinational](http://nytimes3xbfgragh.onion#tooltip-2) works
against what I believe is needed to create a more equitable society. But
with that exception, the company continues to do as much as it can to
heal the wounds of
capitalism.

![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)

**Is there anything that makes you squeamish about Ben & Jerry’s making
ice cream flavors called Pecan Resist, which is a reference to resisting
certain Trump administration’s policies, or Justice ReMix’d, whose name
alludes to the company’s work in criminal-justice reform? Coming up with
politically driven flavor names was not something you did much of when
you were running things. Isn’t there something glib about it?**
*Greenfield*: It doesn’t make me squeamish if the initiative is genuine.
If you talk about Justice ReMix’d, the flavor is there to call attention
to the issue of criminal-justice reform, and the activities the company
has done — one of them was closing down the Workhouse jail in St. Louis.
*Cohen:* [We won\!](http://nytimes3xbfgragh.onion#tooltip-3)
*Greenfield:* Right, and another was changing the budget in the school
system in Miami and hiring counselors instead of police officers.
*Cohen:*[We half won\!](http://nytimes3xbfgragh.onion#tooltip-4)
*Greenfield:* When those flavors are part of real action that the
company is undertaking in partnership with nonprofits, I think it’s
great to be tying ice cream into social action. *Cohen:* You know, the
company once came out with a flavor called [American
Pie.](http://nytimes3xbfgragh.onion#tooltip-5) The packaging showed the
pie chart of the federal discretionary budget; it was advocating
shifting money out of nuclear weapons into children’s services.
*Greenfield:* A pie chart of the federal discretionary budget is a
well-known marketing technique for selling ice cream.

**I’m salivating just thinking about it. On the subject of flavors —**
*Greenfield:* I want to interrupt you for a second. Ben and I are always
talking about the mission of the company, and people always want to talk
about flavors. People are *fascinated* by flavors.

**So am I. What would go in a Joe Biden flavor, and what would go in a
Donald Trump flavor?** *Cohen:* A Trump flavor, it’s not palatable. You
can’t make Trump into ice cream. You could make him into coal.

**What about Biden?** *Cohen:* It’s an interesting question. \[Sighs.\]
You know, it’d be better than nothing.

**Ben, I know you’re** **[a Bernie Sanders
guy,](http://nytimes3xbfgragh.onion#tooltip-6)** **but what would it
take to get you excited about Biden? As a presidential candidate, not as
a flavor of ice cream.** *Cohen:* If he would essentially adopt Bernie’s
platform. They talk about the Hillary wing of the party and the Bernie
wing of the party. Biden epitomizes the Hillary wing, the wing in which
he went to a group of big-money donors and said: [“Elect me. I guarantee
nothing will change for you.”](http://nytimes3xbfgragh.onion#tooltip-7)
We could go back to a *pre*-Trump country, and we would still need all
the change represented by Bernie’s platform. Going back to a pre-Trump
country will not address systemic problems that our country faces in
terms of fairness, equality, and justice.

<div class="g-ad rad-ad-wrapper">

<div id="mid10" class="place-ad" data-position="mid">

</div>

</div>

**Now I have an ice cream etiquette question. You know how some people
dig the chunks out of Ben & Jerry’s?** *Cohen:* Marriages have split
because of that.

**What’s your position? I think it’s selfish.** *Cohen:* If your partner
also likes the chunks, it’s inconsiderate. But if it’s yourself who’s
doing it, it’s fine. *Greenfield:* The term for this is “mining.” Mining
for chunks. I’ve never been tempted to do it. I don’t see the point.
Although recently Ben & Jerry’s started selling
chocolate-chip-cookie-dough pellets separately from ice cream for those
people who wanted to dig them out. *Cohen:* Who wanted to mainline.
*Greenfield:* *Mainline*? No, Ben.

**And why did Ben & Jerry’s never sell gallons?** **Would they have been
prohibitively expensive?** *Cohen:* Yes, the expense. The other reason
is that as ice cream hangs out in your modern self-defrosting freezer,
it degrades. If it’s in a small package, you finish it quicker, and
there’s less chance of it degrading in quality. *Greenfield:* There’s an
opposing theory, though, Ben. It’s that the more ice cream people have
in their freezer, the more they’ll actually eat. But that only matters
if one were concerned about selling more ice cream, which Ben and I are
not anymore. Now, there was a time when Ben and I were absolutely trying
to sell ice cream. We were out there on the road hawking it. *Cohen:* It
was like an adventure in the wilderness. *Greenfield:* We have
incredible memories of going to restaurants that were going out of
business, and some auction company was selling off their old stuff, and
we were bidding on things and loading them up in a truck and driving
them home. That’s what I remember more fondly than any business
things.

![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)

**Is it right that before you guys started in ice cream, you had some
goofy idea for a business involving delivering bagels and lox and The
New York Times to people?** *Greenfield:* Come on, man. What’s so goofy
about that? *Cohen:* We were calling that business U.B.S., United Bagel
Service. But we wanted to locate our business in a rural college town,
because that’s the kind of place where [Jerry and I wanted to
live.](http://nytimes3xbfgragh.onion#tooltip-8) Eventually we realized
that there weren’t that many people in rural college towns looking to
have the Sunday New York Times and bagels, cream cheese and lox
delivered to their door.

**Maybe I’m too uptight about money, but it’s surprising to me that
you’ve managed to stay such good friends after being in business
together all these years. Money was never an issue?** *Greenfield:* I
don’t think we ever had a disagreement about money. The most famous
disagreement was about the size of the chunks in the ice cream. Ben is
well known for his inability to smell and therefore his inability to
taste. So he was always focused on texture in ice cream. He liked big
chunks of cookies and candies. But I was the one making the ice cream,
and it’s hard to put big chunks in ice cream, which is why no other ice
cream companies do it. I was advocating that a larger number of smaller
chunks be well distributed throughout the ice cream. Ben was insisting
on bigger chunks. Ben was right. *Cohen:* I was eating Coffee Toffee Bar
Crunch last night and was tunneling around for the big chunks.

**I believe the term is mining.** *Greenfield:* Tunneling works also.
*Cohen:* Tunneling works great. But, you know, it’s disappointing when
you keep tunneling around and you never run into what you’re aiming for.
I still think we ought to put a golden cone inside some pint — do the
Willy Wonka golden-ticket thing. I can’t understand how we have yet to
do that. *Greenfield:* Ben, in case you hadn’t figured this out, did all
the marketing for the
company.

![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)

**Jerry, there has been a proliferation of other premium and**
**[ultra-premium](http://nytimes3xbfgragh.onion#tooltip-9)** **ice cream
brands. There’s Ample Hills. There’s Van Leeuwen. There’s Jeni’s
Splendid. And a result is that it’s not uncommon to go into a grocery
store and see a $9 pint of ice cream. What’s your perspective on that
change in the market?** *Greenfield:* It’s kind of crazy for me to say
this, but it seems like a lot of money to pay for a pint of ice cream.
Ben and I remember when Ben & Jerry’s pints of ice cream first started
going over $2 a pint. We were terrified that nobody was going to buy it.
*Cohen:* There’s a bunch of artisanal guys now, and one of the great
things about the ice cream business, which is one of the reasons we got
into it, is that there’s a very low barrier to entry. The equipment to
make very high quality ice cream on a small scale is not very expensive.

**Do either of you have non-Ben & Jerry’s ice creams in your freezers?**
*Cohen:* No. *Greenfield:* No. But if any of those other ice cream
companies wanted to give me some ice cream, I would be all for it.

<div class="g-ad rad-ad-wrapper">

<div id="mid11" class="place-ad" data-position="mid">

</div>

</div>

**To get back to a couple of bigger ideas —** *Greenfield:* The other
thing I want to mention is that Ben and I are sometimes asked, “Why has
Ben & Jerry’s been successful?” We usually say it’s because of three
things: really high quality ice cream, great ingredients, very unusual
flavors – and also the activist social mission of the company. Some
other company *could* start making ice cream with big chunks the same
way Ben & Jerry’s does, but Ben & Jerry’s having this activist,
outspoken social mission — other companies can’t copy that. It’s not
something you can just say. It has to be who the people
are.

![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)

**How close of a connection do you feel to Ben & Jerry’s today?**
*Greenfield:* You may know that Ben and I both still work at the
company. But as we always tell people, we’re not involved in management
or operations. I’m proud of the mission of the company and how it’s
being actualized. Sometimes people ask me, “How do you feel seeing your
name on ice cream containers in stores everywhere?” I don’t feel
anything from that. *Cohen:* It’s like the company is a child who has
moved out of the house and is now on their own. You hope that your child
will have the values that you tried to instill. I’m amazed to see that
the values are there. The regret I have is that the overwhelming problem
in the world is the increasing concentration of wealth in the hands of
fewer entities, and having Ben & Jerry’s owned by one of those is, to
me, unfortunate. When the company was sold, something I resisted, there
were people trying to comfort me by saying, “Now Ben & Jerry’s can
influence Unilever.” I thought that was a bunch of \[expletive\]. But I
think that it *has* had a positive influence on Unilever. I certainly
wouldn’t say Unilever is values-led, but it is starting to integrate
more [social benefits into how it does
business.](http://nytimes3xbfgragh.onion#tooltip-10) That’s good.

**If you two are not in operations and not in management, what exactly
do you do? Are you mascots?** *Cohen:* We have no responsibilities and
no authority, but no, I don’t regard myself as a mascot. I regard myself
as a person [who is focused on
justice.](http://nytimes3xbfgragh.onion#tooltip-11) When Ben & Jerry’s
does something that aligns with my belief in justice, I do everything I
can to support that. **** *Greenfield:* When the company introduced
Justice ReMix’d, Ben and I were involved in that. Last year, the company
introduced a flavor at a United Nations forum in Geneva that was called
Cone Together that was related to refugee rights. Ben and I were
involved in that, too. We also go to the [franchise
meeting](http://nytimes3xbfgragh.onion#tooltip-12) every year and hang
out with the shop owners and talk about our hopes for the company. Even
though we don’t really influence things, people like to hear what we’re
thinking. So, David, can I ask you a question?

**Of course.** *Greenfield:* You’ve done a lot of reading about Ben &
Jerry’s. Is this what you were expecting? Where have we let you
down?

![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)

**You haven’t let me down. But I wonder if there’s more you could be
saying about what Ben & Jerry’s being bought by Unilever ultimately
meant for the values you originally tried to instill in the company.**
*Greenfield:* Well, so, Ben & Jerry’s has been part of Unilever for
about 20 years. For the first number of years, I think Unilever did not
appreciate the mission of Ben & Jerry’s, and its energy went into
integrating Ben & Jerry’s into the Unilever system. During that time,
the social mission of the company suffered. The company as a brand also
suffered. About ten years ago, Unilever named [a new chief executive for
Ben & Jerry’s, Jostein
Solheim,](http://nytimes3xbfgragh.onion#tooltip-13) who told us that his
assignment was to re-radicalize Ben & Jerry’s. And during that time, Ben
& Jerry’s rediscovered its soul. Ben & Jerry’s publicly supported Occupy
Wall Street. Ben & Jerry’s publicly supported Black Lives Matter before
most other companies. Now within Unilever, there’s an incredible amount
of respect for what Ben & Jerry’s has done. I mean, this last statement
by Ben & Jerry’s after the George Floyd killing: There wasn’t any other
business talking about dismantling white supremacy.

**How skeptical, though, should we be of the intentions behind
statements like that? So many socially progressive statements that
companies are making these days obviously also double as marketing.**
*Cohen:* The deal about Ben & Jerry’s is that when your company is
acting on its values and those values resonate with your consumers’
values, it’s an incredibly deep connection based on justice, fairness,
equality — the stuff that we thought the country is supposed to be about
when they taught us in elementary school. The other thing is that
businesses are the most powerful force in our society, and things have
gotten to such a state with Trumpism that businesses — which had always
said, “We’re not going to take political stands” — have to make their
voice heard because there’s no other powerful actor doing it. Money
talks.

![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)

**Do you ever meet people who are surprised that Ben and Jerry are real
guys? And that you’re them? And that you’re still alive?** *Cohen:*
Maybe two years after we started, when the business was this little
homemade ice cream parlor in an old gas station in Burlington, Jerry and
I were hanging around outside the store, and a boy and his father were
walking in. The little boy said, “Daddy, is there really a Ben and a
Jerry?” And the father said, “Maybe many, many years ago.” *Greenfield:*
I’ve had people ask me, “Are you the original Jerry?” I say: “There used
to be another Jerry. I got hired to be the next one.” My wife gets a
kick out of that.

<div class="g-ad rad-ad-wrapper">

<div id="mid12" class="place-ad" data-position="mid">

</div>

</div>

**After all this time in and around the ice cream business, what have
you learned about what ice cream means to Americans?** *Cohen:* It’s
about happiness. Ice cream is present at most any celebration, birthday,
wedding, bar mitzvah. And Americans stock ice cream in their freezers as
a staple. That is very unusual compared with other countries. Around the
world, a huge amount of ice cream is sold in single-unit servings.

**Do you guys ever get sick of ice cream? I worked in an ice cream shop
one summer when I was a teenager, and it put me off ice cream for a
solid year.** *Greenfield:* You were in the industry\! You’ve been
holding back on us\! But no, I never had that. I tended to eat ice cream
more recreationally than Ben. Ben was in charge of quality control,
which meant eating a lot of ice cream. Once we started packaging ice
cream into pints, Ben felt that he had to eat all the way to the bottom.
Any ice cream flavor tastes good for the first couple of spoonfuls. The
real test is how it tastes when you get down to the bottom. *Cohen:*
Yeah, I was sick of it. But now that I’m no longer eating it because my
job requires me to, I don’t get sick of it. I eat a reasonable amount.
Every once in a while I go overboard. *Greenfield:* We both still eat a
*lot* of ice cream.

-----

*This interview has been edited and condensed for clarity from three
conversations.*

</div>

<div class="rad-article-credits">

</div>

<div class="rad-article-credits">

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div id="standalone-footer">

<div>

<div>

<div id="interactive-footer-wrapper">

<div class="css-i29ckm">

<div class="css-1oeie6n">

Read 291
Comments

</div>

<div class="interactive-sharetools css-9z2bwm" data-role="toolbar" data-aria-label="Social Media Share buttons, Save button, and Comments Panel with current comment count" data-testid="share-tools">

  - 
  - 
  - 
  - 
    
    <div class="css-6n7j50">
    
    </div>

</div>

</div>

<div>

</div>

<div id="bottom-wrapper" class="css-1ede5it">

<div id="bottom-slug" class="css-l9onyx">

Advertisement

</div>

[Continue reading the main
story](#after-bottom)

<div id="bottom" class="ad bottom-wrapper" style="text-align:center;height:100%;display:block;min-height:90px">

</div>

<div id="after-bottom">

</div>

</div>

## Site Index

<div>

</div>

## Site Information Navigation

  - [© <span>2020</span> <span>The New York Times
    Company</span>](https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice)

<!-- end list -->

  - [NYTCo](https://www.nytco.com/)
  - [Contact
    Us](https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us)
  - [Work with us](https://www.nytco.com/careers/)
  - [Advertise](https://nytmediakit.com/)
  - [T Brand Studio](http://www.tbrandstudio.com/)
  - [Your Ad
    Choices](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy#how-do-i-manage-trackers)
  - [Privacy](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy)
  - [Terms of
    Service](https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service)
  - [Terms of
    Sale](https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale)
  - [Site
    Map](https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion)
  - [Help](https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us)
  - [Subscriptions](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW)

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>
