Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/realestate}{Real Estate}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/realestate}{Real Estate}\textbar{}Duplex Sells for Almost
\$100 Million at 220 Central Park South

\url{https://nyti.ms/3hKUIEM}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/spotlight/at-home?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=at_home_menu}{At
Home}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/28/books/time-for-a-literary-road-trip.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=at_home_menu}{Take:
  A Literary Road Trip}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/29/magazine/bored-with-your-home-cooking-some-smoky-eggplant-will-fix-that.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=at_home_menu}{Cook:
  Smoky Eggplant}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/27/travel/moose-michigan-isle-royale.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=at_home_menu}{Look
  Out: For Moose}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/at-home/even-more-reporters-editors-diaries-lists-recommendations.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=at_home_menu}{Explore:
  Reporters' Obsessions}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

big ticket

\hypertarget{duplex-sells-for-almost-100-million-at-220-central-park-south}{%
\section{Duplex Sells for Almost \$100 Million at 220 Central Park
South}\label{duplex-sells-for-almost-100-million-at-220-central-park-south}}

The condo, at the pinnacle of the limestone tower, is the year's most
expensive sale. It was one of three big purchases there during July.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/08/02/realestate/31ticket5/merlin_166359507_b95b0005-e6cc-453b-bd60-23ba2fb86809-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/vivian-marino}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/06/13/multimedia/author-vivian-marino/author-vivian-marino-thumbLarge.jpg}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/vivian-marino}{Vivian Marino}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  July 28, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

A sprawling penthouse on the top two floors of 220 Central Park South
sold for
\href{https://a836-acris.nyc.gov/DS/DocumentSearch/DocumentDetail?doc_id=2020072400904001}{\$99.9
million} in July, becoming the year's most expensive closing in New York
City, although overall sales volume continued to slow because of the
coronavirus.

The anonymous buyer was under contract with the developer years before
the pandemic surfaced, as has been the case with many of the recent
closings at the limestone-clad Midtown Manhattan tower. Current sales
contracts throughout the city have dropped off sharply, but are expected
to rebound with the easing of restrictions on real estate activity,
instituted to curb the virus's spread.

The penthouse sale was the third-priciest ever for a single residence in
New York --- behind the hedge fund manager Kenneth Griffin's record
\href{https://a836-acris.nyc.gov/DS/DocumentSearch/DocumentDetail?doc_id=2019012400629002}{\$240
million} purchase of four floors last year, also at 220 Central Park
South, and a duplex at the top of 157 West 57th Street, acquired in 2015
for nearly
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2015/01/25/realestate/100-4-million-dollar-sale-at-one57.html}{\$100.5
million}, reportedly by Michael Dell, the chief executive of Dell
Technologies.

The month's other top sales were also at 220 Central Park South: Two
full-floor apartments sold for
\href{https://a836-acris.nyc.gov/DS/DocumentSearch/DocumentDetail?doc_id=2020072300466001}{\$55.5
million} and nearly
\href{https://a836-acris.nyc.gov/DS/DocumentSearch/DocumentDetail?doc_id=2020072300394001}{\$54
million}, and they, too, went into contract with anonymous buyers before
the coronavirus outbreak.

In other notable transactions in July, Facebook's co-founder Chris
Hughes and his husband, the political activist Sean Eldridge, sold their
red brick, Greek Revival townhouse in Greenwich Village, though at a
loss.

On the Upper West Side, a brownstone that had been rented out for years
for films and TV shows found a new owner. And in the Flatiron
neighborhood, the artists Charline Von Heyl and Christopher Wool
acquired a duplex penthouse.

\textbf{The penthouse at 220 Central Park South,} one of three in the
building, has 8,978 square feet on the 76th and 77th floors. The latest
amended offering plan filed by the developer, Vornado Realty Trust, also
shows that it has four bedrooms, five full baths, two powder rooms and
940 square feet of terraces.

The unit sold for just under the \$100 million asking price. Its buyer
used the Delaware-registered limited partnership 76CPS in the
transaction and went into contract in May 2017, according to property
records. (Late last year, a penthouse duplex on the 73rd and 74th floors
sold for
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/01/03/realestate/the-year-ended-with-another-big-sale-at-220-central-park-south.html}{\$92.7
million}, reportedly to the hedge fund manager Daniel Och.)

The other sales in the building were apartments encompassing the 64th
and 68th floors, each with four bedrooms, five full baths and two half
baths, as well as two 48-square-foot balconies, according to the
offering plan. The buyer of unit No. 68, using the limited liability
company KMZM, was in contract in October 2018; unit 64 went into
contract with 220 CPS 64 LLC back in May 2015, before the building was
completed.

The Central Park South condominium is situated near Columbus Circle,
overlooking the park.

Image

Chris Hughes, above, a founder of Facebook, and his husband, the
political activist Sean Eldridge, sold their townhouse on West 12th
Street in Greenwich Village.Credit...Jeenah Moon for The New York Times

Image

The fully renovated townhouse is four stories high and 20 feet wide, and
sold in July for \$19.5 million. The couple bought the house for \$22.3
million in 2015.Credit...Pablo Enriquez for The New York Times

\textbf{Mr. Hughes} \textbf{and Mr. Eldridge} sold their townhouse at
157 West 12th Street, between Seventh Avenue and the Avenue of the
Americas, for
\href{https://a836-acris.nyc.gov/DS/DocumentSearch/DocumentDetail?doc_id=2020071000364001}{\$19.5
million}. The couple bought the house for
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/13/realestate/greenwich-village-townhouse-for-22-million.html}{\$22.3
million} in September 2015, four months before Mr. Hughes
\href{https://a836-acris.nyc.gov/DS/DocumentSearch/DocumentDetail?doc_id=2016010500865001}{sold}
his sprawling three-bedroom apartment in SoHo. About two years after
moving in, they welcomed a son through a surrogate. The house was
returned to the market last summer with a \$26 million price tag.

The fully renovated structure --- four stories high and 20 feet wide ---
features a classic front stoop, along with a deep, landscaped garden in
the rear and a rooftop terrace. There is also a separate brick carriage
house that could be used as a guest suite or a studio.

The townhouse, with about 3,200 square feet, has six bedrooms, six and a
half bathrooms and six wood-burning fireplaces. The master suite
encompasses the third floor and includes two full baths, a large
dressing room and a terrace overlooking the garden, according to the
\href{https://www.corcoran.com/nyc-real-estate/for-sale/greenwich-village/157-west-12-th-street/5873971}{listing}
with the Corcoran Group. In the basement is a windowed gym, as well as a
screening room and a wine-tasting room.

The buyer, whose identity was shielded by the limited liability company
157 Townhouse, went into contract to buy the house in early July.

Mr. Hughes was a Facebook founder and a roommate at Harvard of Mark
Zuckerberg, the chief executive. More recently, he's been an outspoken
critic of the social media platform, suggesting that it
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/05/09/opinion/sunday/chris-hughes-facebook-zuckerberg.html}{needs
to be broken up}. Mr. Eldridge is the founder of Stand Up America, a
liberal advocacy group; in 2014, he lost a bid for New York's 19th
congressional district.

Image

Sharon and Jess Mogul bought the house on West 87th Street in 2004 for
nearly \$3 million, and rented it out for films and television
shows.Credit...Sasha Maslov for The New York Times

Image

The four-story, 20-foot-wide house has six bedrooms, four full baths and
two powder rooms. The basement is finished with a screening room,
storage and wine room.Credit...Sasha Maslov for The New York Times

\textbf{The much-filmed Upper West Side} brownstone, also with a classic
front stoop and fully renovated, sits at 326 West 87th Street, a
tree-lined block near Riverside Drive; it sold for
\href{https://a836-acris.nyc.gov/DS/DocumentSearch/DocumentDetail?doc_id=2020070200851003}{\$6.7
million.}

The four-story, 20-foot-wide house has 6,577 square feet, with six
bedrooms, four full baths and two powder rooms. The home is well lit,
with two-story glass exterior walls at the rear, and has ample outdoor
space including a roof deck. The basement is also finished with a
screening room, storage and a wine room.

Jess and Sharon Mogul, the sellers, had purchased the home in 2004 for
nearly
\href{https://a836-acris.nyc.gov/DS/DocumentSearch/DocumentDetail?doc_id=2004012300522002}{\$3
million}, and
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2016/03/13/realestate/movies-and-television-filmed-in-new-york-city.html}{rented
it out} for films and shows, including episodes of ``Law \& Order'' and
``The Michael J. Fox Show.''

The new owners, according to property records, are William and Sarah
Long.

\textbf{The Flatiron penthouse loft,} at 73 Fifth Avenue, an 11-story
co-op building on the corner of East 15th Street, was sold for
\href{https://a836-acris.nyc.gov/DS/DocumentSearch/DocumentDetail?doc_id=2020032000639001}{\$7.3
million.}

The 3,850-square-foot apartment, with skylights and high ceilings, has
three bedrooms and three baths over two levels.

The sellers were listed as Robert L. Frank and Rebecca H. Patterson.

Ms. Von Heyl is an abstract artist whose paintings have been shown at
the Whitney Museum of American Art in New York and the Tate Gallery in
London, among others. Her husband, Mr. Wool, is known for his paintings
of bold stenciled text and abstract works.

For weekly email updates on residential real estate news,
\href{http://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/realestate/}{sign up here}.
Follow us on Twitter:
\href{https://twitter.com/nytrealestate}{@nytrealestate}.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
