Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/technology}{Technology}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/technology}{Technology}\textbar{}With India's TikTok Ban,
the World's Digital Walls Grow Higher

\url{https://nyti.ms/2YIkgf4}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{with-indias-tiktok-ban-the-worlds-digital-walls-grow-higher}{%
\section{With India's TikTok Ban, the World's Digital Walls Grow
Higher}\label{with-indias-tiktok-ban-the-worlds-digital-walls-grow-higher}}

Censorship and politics are fracturing the global internet, isolating
users and industries accustomed to ignoring national borders.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/06/30/business/30india-tech-1/30india-tech-1-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/raymond-zhong}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/10/15/multimedia/author-raymond-zhong/author-raymond-zhong-thumbLarge.png}}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/kai-schultz}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2019/11/22/reader-center/author-kai-schultz/author-kai-schultz-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/raymond-zhong}{Raymond Zhong} and
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/kai-schultz}{Kai Schultz}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Published June 30, 2020Updated July 11, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://cn.nytimes.com/technology/20200701/india-china-tiktok/}{阅读简体中文版}\href{https://cn.nytimes.com/technology/20200701/india-china-tiktok/zh-hant/}{閱讀繁體中文版}

The global internet is fracturing. And people like Anusmita Dutta are
paying the price.

Ms. Dutta, 24, joined TikTok three years ago and now has more than
350,000 followers on the video app. From her home in Kolkata, in eastern
India, she records funny skits, monologues, slice-of-life sketches ---
all stuff, she says, that people can easily relate to. She also finds
videos from every corner of the earth using the app's Discover feature.

TikTok makes her feel connected to the wider world. Which is why India's
decision this week to
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/29/world/asia/tik-tok-banned-india-china.html}{ban
TikTok and scores of other Chinese apps} was such a disappointment.

``Real talent came from this app in India,'' Ms. Dutta said. Seeing it
come to a sudden end was ``obviously disheartening.''

TikTok, the first Chinese internet service to have a truly global fan
base, is rapidly falling victim to China's worsening diplomatic
relations around the globe. It is yet another sign that the digital
world, once thought of as a unifying space that transcended old
divisions, is being carved up along the same national lines that split
the physical one.

Tensions between India and China have run hot ever since a
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/16/world/asia/indian-china-border-clash.html}{border
clash in the Himalayas} two weeks ago left 20 Indian soldiers dead. The
government in New Delhi announced
\href{https://pib.gov.in/PressReleasePage.aspx?PRID=1635206}{a ban on 59
Chinese apps} late Monday, saying they were secretly transmitting users'
data to servers outside India.

India's decision strikes at a number of China's leading technology
companies, including Alibaba, Tencent and Baidu. But perhaps none will
be more affected than TikTok and its Beijing-based parent, ByteDance,
which has built a huge audience in India as part of an aggressive and
well-funded expansion around the world. TikTok has been installed more
than 610 million times in India, according to estimates by
\href{https://sensortower.com/blog/tiktok-downloads-2-billion}{the data
firm Sensor Tower}. In the United States, the app has been installed 165
million times.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2016/08/08/business/international/wechat-explainer-still/wechat-explainer-still-videoSixteenByNine3000.jpg}

China itself began putting up walls within the global internet years
ago. By blocking Silicon Valley giants like Google and Facebook, Beijing
created a controlled environment in which homegrown upstarts could
flourish, and where the Communist Party could keep a tight grip on
online conversation.

Now, though, Chinese tech businesses are trying to make it big overseas
even as distrust of the Communist Party is growing in Washington and
other Western capitals. The tensions have
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/11/18/technology/tiktok-alex-zhu-interview.html}{ensnared
ByteDance} as well as companies in computer chips, artificial
intelligence and more. Huawei, the Chinese maker of smartphones and
telecom equipment, has been largely cut off from American technology
suppliers and is fighting to defend its business from accusations that
it is a Trojan horse for Beijing's cyberspies.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/06/30/business/30india-tech-2/merlin_154441491_3bbf667c-8117-4ccb-808c-044d499a144d-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Governments worldwide are also becoming more interested in reclaiming
control over digital speech and commerce, adding to the internet's
increasingly balkanized landscape. The European Union has
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/11/19/technology/tech-regulator-europe.html}{taken
a tough line} on overseeing American giants such as Apple and Google,
forcing them to adapt to local rules.

Dev Khare, a partner at the venture firm Lightspeed India, acknowledged
that India's app ban was a populist, ``feel-good'' step in some ways. He
does not, however, see it as a bolt out of the blue.

``It's something that China did a long time ago,'' Mr. Khare said. ``If
this is what China does to the rest of the world, then the rest of the
world has the right to do it to China.''

As of Tuesday evening, some TikTok users in India were receiving error
messages when they tried to call up the app.

Nikhil Gandhi, the head of TikTok for India,
\href{https://twitter.com/TikTok_IN/status/1277811841364668416}{said in
a statement} that the company had been invited to meet with Indian
officials and respond to the decision. He added that TikTok had not
shared information on its Indian users with the Chinese government or
any other foreign government.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2017/09/21/insider/FB_THUMB/FB_THUMB-videoSixteenByNine3000.jpg}

When it comes to using the consumer marketplace as a geopolitical
cudgel, China is far more used to giving than receiving.

After a National Basketball Association executive tweeted support for
the Hong Kong protests last year, Chinese state-run television canceled
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/02/14/sports/nba-china-hong-kong-protests.html}{broadcasts
of basketball games}. After the police in Canada arrested a Huawei
executive in 2018, Beijing halted shipments of
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/05/16/world/asia/china-canadian-arrested.html}{Canadian
canola oil}. After a committee in Norway awarded the 2010 Nobel Peace
Prize to a Chinese dissident, China curbed imports of Norwegian salmon.

India buys a wide variety of goods from China. But by targeting
Chinese-made mobile apps, the nationalist government of Prime Minister
Narendra Modi has gone after a sector of special importance to Beijing.
China's giant internet companies are running out of new internet users
to win over at home. They see in India a chance to apply lessons from
their growth in China to another huge market brimming with potential.

Indians, in return, have taken to many Chinese apps with gusto ---
TikTok in particular.

Ankush Bahuguna, a TikTok user in New Delhi who is in his late 20s, said
other platforms might be able to scoop up the app's fans in India if
TikTok became unavailable. But it would take time for them to develop
into something as special as TikTok.

``TikTok is one of the most accepting platforms when it comes to
embracing different people,'' Mr. Bahuguna said. ``I've never seen a
platform celebrate so many male belly dancers or male makeup artists or
gay couples. Literally anyone.''

Image

 TikTok has been installed more than 610 million times in India,
according to estimates by Sensor Tower.Credit...Manjunath Kiran/Agence
France-Presse --- Getty Images

TikTok's ease of use made it a uniquely democratic platform for users,
he said. ``It empowered them in a way where you don't really need to
speak English to be a content creator or have a fancy camera.''

One such creator is Saddam Khan, 22, who works as a porter at a New
Delhi railway station and has more than 41,000 TikTok followers. He was
carrying two briefcases on his head for a customer when he heard that
India had banned the app.

``I just wanted to throw the bag away and cry,'' Mr. Khan said.

Having such a large following on TikTok has not yet changed his life, he
said. But he is sad that his shot at fame now seems dashed.

``There is a ripple effect in TikTok,'' Mr. Khan said. ``Boys from small
villages become overnight heroes. It changed their lives. Their status
in society grew.''

Indian officials have long had suspicions about the app. Last year, it
was
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/04/17/business/india-tiktok-children-privacy.html}{removed
from Indian app stores} after a court ruled that the app spread
pornography, though it was later reinstated. Indian politicians have
also criticized the platform for hosting hateful and inflammatory
material.

Executives at Indian internet companies largely cheered the government's
move against their Chinese competitors this week. Naveen Tewari is the
founder and chief executive of InMobi, a company in Bengaluru that
operates two digital platforms, Glance and Roposo.

As tensions between India and China worsened over the past few weeks,
video creators in India had already begun to rethink their choice of
platform and migrate to Roposo, Mr. Tewari said. Now that TikTok seems
down for the count, he is eager to capitalize.

``The first thing we're doing is just to assure the millions of users of
TikTok that they have a platform that is homegrown,'' Mr. Tewari said.
``They can absolutely come there and continue their entertainment that
they always had, probably in a slightly more responsible way.''

Watchdog groups, however, have noted with concern the Modi government's
tendency to use sweeping policy instruments for political ends.

``In terms of being a singular act of web censorship, it's impacted more
Indians than any before,'' said Apar Gupta, executive director of the
Internet Freedom Foundation, which promotes digital liberties in India.

The current political climate in India is one in which nationalist
sentiment is likely to be accommodated above other considerations, Mr.
Gupta said.

``Any kind of public policy response which is premised on grounds of
national security needs to emerge from well-defined criteria, which
seems to be absent here,'' he said.

Sameer Yasir contributed reporting.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
