Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}It's a Question No One Says
They Want to Ask. But the Women Running for President Keep Hearing It.

\url{https://nyti.ms/2XpXJok}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/20/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{D.N.C.
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/20/us/politics/biden-presidential-nomination-dnc.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Biden's
  Speech}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/us/elections/2020-presidential-election-calendar.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Election
  Calendar}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/11/us/politics/vote-by-mail-us-states.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Voting
  by Mail}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Politics
  Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{its-a-question-no-one-says-they-want-to-ask-but-the-women-running-for-president-keep-hearing-it}{%
\section{It's a Question No One Says They Want to Ask. But the Women
Running for President Keep Hearing
It.}\label{its-a-question-no-one-says-they-want-to-ask-but-the-women-running-for-president-keep-hearing-it}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2019/06/30/us/politics/30women1/merlin_156865164_afe3f507-3c2c-42f9-8914-6bd58ecbf0d8-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/lisa-lerer}{Lisa Lerer}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  July 3, 2019
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

GREENVILLE, S.C. --- Some people whisper it, some apologize for it, and
some are very careful to mention their neighbors --- their neighbors
would be the ones to ask.

``Do you really think a woman could be elected president?''

In ways subtle and overt, Democrats keep hearing that same question,
even days after debates where
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/06/27/us/politics/kamala-harris-busing-joe-biden.html}{Senator
Kamala Harris commanded the stage} and Senator Elizabeth Warren
dominated the policy discussion.

It's the anxiety of a party still carrying the scars of its 2016 defeat.

``My colleagues, some have said that to me, and I just have to push back
and say, `Wait just a minute,''' said Representative Barbara Lee of
California, who worked as a young organizer for former Representative
Shirley Chisholm's 1972 presidential bid. ``I'm just quite frankly
shocked to still hear them in 2019.''

Three years after nominating the first woman in history to head a
presidential ticket, nearly six months after a
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2018/11/09/us/women-elected-midterm-elections.html}{wave
of energized women} swept Democrats into power in the House, and as a
record number of women run for president, the party finds itself
grappling with the strangely enduring question of the electability of
women --- and with the challenge for the candidates of refuting it
before it becomes a self-fulfilling prophecy.

\emph{{[}}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?smid=rd?action=click\&module=Intentional\&pgtype=Article}{\emph{Sign
up for our newsletter, On Politics With Lisa Lerer}}\emph{,} \emph{and
join the conversation around the 2020 race.{]}}

Also, before real life descends into parody: ``I Don't Hate Women
Candidates --- I Just Hated Hillary and Coincidentally I'm Starting to
Hate Elizabeth Warren'' was the title of a
\href{https://www.mcsweeneys.net/articles/i-dont-hate-women-candidates-i-just-hated-hillary-and-coincidentally-im-starting-to-hate-elizabeth-warren}{satirical
essay} published late last year on the website McSweeney's that
circulated widely on social media.

Privately, Democratic strategists, candidates and officials say they've
been alarmed by how deeply doubts about female electability have taken
hold. In polling, interviews and focus groups, a portion of the party's
voters suggest they're eager to see a woman on the ticket but fear that
putting her in the top slot could cost them the White House --- again.
The question comes up frequently in early primary states, including at
events organized for female voters.

Much of the concern centers not on what Democratic voters themselves say
they want but a prediction of what they believe others will support.

That left the women in the race with a considerable challenge for last
week's debates: introducing themselves to voters while also finding a
way to tackle the lingering doubt that this country would elect a female
president.

Immediately after the debate, strategists said they succeeded, arguing
the six women onstage left little doubt that a woman could win. The
female candidates spoke, on average, more than their male rivals, and
Ms. Harris's performance was considered by many to be the best of either
night. A
\href{https://www.cnn.com/2019/07/01/politics/2020-democratic-candidates-poll/index.html}{poll
conducted by CNN} in the days after the debate
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/07/02/us/politics/kamala-harris-polls.html}{showed
both Ms. Harris and Ms. Warren making gains}.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2019/06/30/us/politics/30women2/30women2-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Yet echoes of the question persisted.

``Is it time for a female president?'' a reporter asked Senator Kirsten
Gillibrand, interrupting her attack on Mr. Biden's position on gun
control before a crowd of cameras in the spin room Thursday. She shot
back, midsentence: ``It is. It should be me.''

When asked whether she thought about the higher bar she faces to be seen
as presidential while on the stage, Ms. Harris said simply: ``I'm just
being me.''

\hypertarget{latest-updates-2020-election}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/19/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: 2020
Election}}{Latest Updates: 2020 Election}}\label{latest-updates-2020-election}}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/19/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#night-3-featured-more-policy-a-focus-on-women-and-a-full-throated-rejection-of-trump-by-his-predecessor}{7h
ago}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/19/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#night-3-featured-more-policy-a-focus-on-women-and-a-full-throated-rejection-of-trump-by-his-predecessor}{Night
3 featured more policy, a focus on women and a full-throated rejection
of Trump by his predecessor.}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/19/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#trump-live-tweeted-obamas-speech-tonight-hell-appear-on-fox-news-right-before-bidens-tomorrow}{9h
ago}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/19/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#trump-live-tweeted-obamas-speech-tonight-hell-appear-on-fox-news-right-before-bidens-tomorrow}{Trump
live-tweeted Obama's speech tonight. He'll appear on Fox News right
before Biden's tomorrow.}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/19/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#advocates-for-domestic-violence-survivors-praised-biden-in-a-video}{9h
ago}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/19/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#advocates-for-domestic-violence-survivors-praised-biden-in-a-video}{Advocates
for domestic violence survivors praised Biden in a video.}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/19/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

\emph{{[}}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/07/03/us/politics/july-democratic-debate-participants.html}{\emph{Here
are the Democrats at risk of missing the cutoff for the next
debates}}\emph{.{]}}

But the women running for president are not seen as just being
themselves --- or just candidates. They are women candidates. That can
be infuriating to prominent female Democrats, who argue that their party
is adopting a retrograde narrative based in little more than
post-traumatic stress from the last presidential campaign.

``The fact that a woman hasn't won yet does not mean that a woman cannot
win,'' said Senator Patty Murray, the highest-ranking Democratic woman
in Senate leadership. ``I'm confident that, should one get through the
primaries, she will do well.''

For the candidates, the question of whether a woman can win leads to the
challenge of confidently projecting the idea that one can, while also
hoping people simply stop asking.

Ms. Gillibrand, who has made female empowerment a theme of her
candidacy, argued that the 2018 elections showed that voters are
comfortable voting for women --- whether or not the political class
believes it.

``They just need more exposure,'' Ms. Gillibrand said of the female
presidential candidates. ``I truly believe that.''

\emph{{[}}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/07/02/us/politics/kamala-harris-polls.html}{\emph{Ms.
Harris and Ms. Warren gained in post-debate polls}}\emph{.{]}}

For years, organizations that promote women in politics argued that
having multiple women running for president --- rather than the
one-and-only nature of Mrs. Clinton's campaigns --- would demystify the
idea of a female president. Now, with six women running, they are
discussing how to more aggressively dispel questions around whether a
woman could get elected president.

``I'm urging voters and activists, I'm urging donors and I'm urging the
entire Washington press community that this race is wide open,'' said
Stephanie Schriock, president of Emily's List, which supports female
Democratic candidates. ``Don't let yourself get limited by things like
gender.''

In the early months of the contest to choose a candidate to unseat
President Trump, Joseph R. Biden Jr.'s argument that he could woo white
men in the Midwest seemed to hold considerable appeal.

``There are people who are not necessarily strong Biden people, but they
think he's the strongest candidate,'' said Sara Riley, a 59-year-old
lawyer from Cedar Rapids, Iowa, who is a longtime supporter of Mr.
Biden. ``They love Senator Harris or Senator Warren, but they are
concerned about whether they can win.''

Image

Senator Elizabeth Warren campaigns with the message that she can win
tough races, citing the 2012 race that made her the first woman elected
to the Senate from Massachusetts.Credit...Travis Dove for The New York
Times

Since Mrs. Clinton's 2016 defeat, more people have acknowledged the
higher standards faced by female candidates, who research shows are
disproportionately punished for traits that voters accept in male
politicians, including ambition and aggression.

Kathy Sullivan, the former head of the New Hampshire Democratic Party,
said some voters are conflating the fact that Mrs. Clinton lost with the
fact that she was the first woman to get so far, and urged them to
``snap out of it.''

Even some Republicans dismiss the idea: ``I don't believe gender plays a
role in their ability to win,'' said Jeff Roe, a strategist who ran the
presidential campaign of Senator Ted Cruz, Republican of Texas. ``I
think how left-wing loony their ideas have become will be much more
important.''

Yet
a\href{https://www.thedailybeast.com/elizabeth-warren-and-kamala-harris-are-being-held-back-by-sexist-voters-exclusive-poll-finds?ref=home}{recent
poll} conducted by Ipsos for The Daily Beast showed that while
three-quarters of respondents said they were personally comfortable with
a female president, only a third believed their neighbors would feel the
same --- a question pollsters ask to get a sense of opinions that voters
may be embarrassed to tell someone they hold themselves.

Another survey, conducted by Avalanche Strategy, a liberal
communications firm, found that nearly a quarter of voters who initially
picked a male candidate said that if they had a ``magic wand'' to crown
someone president, they would pick a woman.

``Honestly, I love Elizabeth Warren, I just worry that we as a society
are not ready for that,'' said Ann Mason, 44, from Cedar Rapids, after
hearing Ms. Warren and other candidates speak at a state party event
last month. ``This election is far too important. We just have to get
Donald Trump out. From there on, I think the door is open to whoever.''

Senator Mazie Hirono of Hawaii had a message for voters like Ms. Mason:
``We should not do it to ourselves that a woman cannot be a president.''

Still, the widespread nature of the electability question has prompted
many of the female candidates to address the problem.

At an event in Iowa earlier this summer, Ms. Gillibrand put it bluntly:
``To the pundit class who still says, `Can a woman win?' Yes, of course
we can.''

Ms. Warren often mentions her 2012 Senate victory against Scott Brown, a
well-liked Republican incumbent --- a win that made her the first woman
elected to the Senate in Massachusetts history. Her implicit message:
She can win tough races.

Ms. Harris also highlights her barrier-breaking career as the first
female district attorney in San Francisco's history, the first black
female attorney general of California and the second black female
senator. On the campaign stump, she often recounts being asked to
describe ``what it's like to be the first woman fill-in-the-blank.''

Image

Senator Kirsten Gillibrand argued that the 2018 elections showed that
voters are comfortable electing women.Credit...Doug Mills/The New York
Times

``I'd look at them and say, you know, I don't really know how to answer
that question because I've always been one. But I'm sure a man could do
the job just as well,'' she said.

To some voters, her ability to break barriers in the past may not be
enough to dispel concerns about her future.

``I don't think she can win. And I'm sorry to have to say that. She is a
woman and she is black,'' said Shantell Smith, 32, from Greenville,
S.C., who is supporting Ms. Harris. ``As a black woman myself, I think
that as much as we would like to believe there's been this huge shift in
this country, we have seen the reality that people will fight back
against change.''

In Nashville this past weekend,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/07/01/us/politics/kamala-harris-alpha-kappa-alpha.html}{at
a convention of the Alpha Kappa Alpha sorority}, which Ms. Harris joined
as a student at Howard, some of the attendees spoke of their pride in
her run so far, praising her debate performance, but also of their
concerns about electability.

``It's just --- is she going to be able to do it?'' said Kayla Wilson,
who works at a nonprofit in Dallas. ``I've been in America long enough
to know that we've come a long way, but maybe not that far.''

Strategists to the female candidates say they are studying how Barack
Obama overcame skepticism of his 2008 effort to become the country's
first black president. In the fall of 2007, Mr. Obama lagged far behind
Mrs. Clinton, including among black voters. The campaign focused on
Iowa, believing that the question ``Could a black man win?'' could only
be answered there. His poll numbers changed rapidly after he won the
Iowa caucus in January.

``In terms of electability, the best cure of that is winning,'' said
David Axelrod, a former top adviser to Mr. Obama.

And Democrats are focused on that cure. The obsession with predicting
who will win has led to some strange dynamics at this stage of the race.

While the female candidates promote their ability to triumph in tough
races, several of the male candidates, including Senator Cory Booker of
New Jersey and Beto O'Rourke, the former Texas congressman, have all but
promised to select a woman as their vice-presidential nominee.

Picking a woman for the second spot on the ticket comes up frequently at
events for the male candidates. Sarah Barnes and her husband, Phil
McGarvey, braved a cold mist --- while wearing matching orange rain
jackets --- to catch Mr. Biden at an event in Nashua, N.H. in May, a
month before the first debate. Ms. Barnes, 74, suggested what she saw as
the ideal scenario.

``We both want Kamala as a running mate,'' she said.

\hypertarget{our-2020-election-guide}{%
\section{Our 2020 Election Guide}\label{our-2020-election-guide}}

Updated Aug. 20, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{convention-recap}{%
  \subsection{Convention Recap}\label{convention-recap}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Joe Biden accepted the Democratic nomination, urging Americans to
    have faith that they could
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/20/us/politics/Joe-Biden-accepts-democratic-nomination.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{``overcome
    this season of darkness.''}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{news-analysis}{%
  \subsection{News Analysis}\label{news-analysis}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Looming over Mr. Biden's nomination was the ever-present shadow of
    another man who's poised to dominate the campaign:
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/20/us/politics/biden-dnc-speech-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Donald
    J. Trump}.
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{keep-up-with-our-coverage}{%
  \subsection{Keep Up With Our
  Coverage}\label{keep-up-with-our-coverage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Get an
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{email}
    recapping the day's news
  \end{itemize}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Download our mobile app on
    \href{https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nytimes/id284862083?ls=1\&mat_click_id=5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\&referrer=mat_click_id\%3D5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\%26link_click_id\%3D722930677036718082}{iOS}
    and
    \href{http://a.localytics.com/android?id=com.nytimes.android\&referrer=utm_source\%3Dother_nyt_mobile_web\%26utm_medium\%3DWeb\%2520page\%26utm_term\%3DGeneral\%2520Mobile\%2520Page\%26utm_campaign\%3DNYT\%2520Mobile\%2520General\%2520Page}{Android}
    and turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
