Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/technology}{Technology}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/technology}{Technology}\textbar{}The Tech I.P.O. Comes
Roaring Back in the Pandemic

\url{https://nyti.ms/2BfDLT0}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{the-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus?name=styln-coronavirus-markets\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=222b6940-e384-11ea-ae40-4d2b82b5584d}{The
Coronavirus
Outbreak}}{The Coronavirus Outbreak}}\label{the-coronavirus-outbreak}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  live\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/20/world/coronavirus-covid.html?name=styln-coronavirus-markets\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=222b6941-e384-11ea-ae40-4d2b82b5584d}{Latest
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html?name=styln-coronavirus-markets\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=222b6942-e384-11ea-ae40-4d2b82b5584d}{Maps
  and Cases}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html?name=styln-coronavirus-markets\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=222b6943-e384-11ea-ae40-4d2b82b5584d}{Vaccine
  Tracker}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/19/us/colleges-closing-covid.html?name=styln-coronavirus-markets\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=222b6944-e384-11ea-ae40-4d2b82b5584d}{Colleges
  Closing}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/20/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?name=styln-coronavirus-markets\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=222b9050-e384-11ea-ae40-4d2b82b5584d}{Economy}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{the-tech-ipo-comes-roaring-back-in-the-pandemic}{%
\section{The Tech I.P.O. Comes Roaring Back in the
Pandemic}\label{the-tech-ipo-comes-roaring-back-in-the-pandemic}}

Now that the stock market has largely shrugged off the coronavirus,
start-ups are scrambling to go public.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/06/18/business/18virus-ipo3/merlin_173591814_8a3b3653-ce9d-445f-9a3b-07002e5e6088-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/erin-griffith}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2019/06/18/reader-center/author-erin-griffith/author-erin-griffith-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/erin-griffith}{Erin
Griffith}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  June 17, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

SAN FRANCISCO --- As
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&module=styln-coronavirus\&variant=show\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{the
coronavirus} spread in March, Vroom, a start-up that sells used vehicles
online, shelved its plans to go public and rushed to shore up its
operations.

But with many dealerships closed under shelter-in-place orders, people
started buying more cars online, benefiting Vroom with record sales in
March and April, the company said.

``We saw the whole world stabilizing,'' said Paul Hennessy, the chief
executive. ``At the end of April, we said, `OK, maybe we should actually
go on the offensive here.'''

Vroom, which is based in New York, capped that offensive by going public
last week. Its share price more than doubled on the first day of trading
as the company raised \$495 million from its offering.

Vroom is part of a group of start-ups that have moved quickly to go
public as the initial shock of the coronavirus has worn off. The stock
market, which plummeted when the outbreak swept the United States, has
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/08/business/recession-stock-market-coronavirus.html}{rallied
strongly in recent weeks}. Since its nadir in late March, the S\&P 500
index has climbed 40 percent.

As the market has bounced back, SelectQuote, an online insurance
provider; ZoomInfo, a sales software data provider;
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/26/business/media/warner-music-ipo.html}{Warner
Music Group}, a record label; and Vroom have gone public. And more
initial public offerings are on the way.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-the-coronavirus-outbreak-and-the-economy}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/20/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: The Coronavirus Outbreak and the
Economy}}{Latest Updates: The Coronavirus Outbreak and the Economy}}\label{latest-updates-the-coronavirus-outbreak-and-the-economy}}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/20/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#the-producer-of-unhinged-makes-a-big-bet-on-audiences-returning-to-theaters}{9h
ago}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/20/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#the-producer-of-unhinged-makes-a-big-bet-on-audiences-returning-to-theaters}{The
producer of `Unhinged' makes a big bet on audiences returning to
theaters.}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/20/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#american-airlines-to-stop-flights-to-15-cities-after-government-aid-ends}{18h
ago}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/20/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#american-airlines-to-stop-flights-to-15-cities-after-government-aid-ends}{American
Airlines to stop flights to 15 cities after government aid ends.}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/20/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#without-school-plays-and-assemblies-a-technicians-livelihood-withers}{19h
ago}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/20/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#without-school-plays-and-assemblies-a-technicians-livelihood-withers}{Without
school plays and assemblies, a technician's livelihood withers.}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/20/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

More live coverage:
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/20/world/coronavirus-covid.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Global}

Lemonade, an insurance start-up valued at \$2.1 billion, announced last
week that it had confidentially filed to go public. DoubleDown
Interactive, a mobile gaming company, also filed to go public this
month.

Some of the biggest Silicon Valley start-ups are taking steps toward an
I.P.O., too. Airbnb, the home rental start-up valued at \$31 billion,
said it hadn't ruled out going public this year. Palantir, a digital
surveillance company valued at \$20 billion, is preparing to file for an
I.P.O. in the coming weeks, said a person briefed on the start-up's
plans, who declined to be named because the talks were private.

Palantir declined to comment; Bloomberg
\href{https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2020-06-11/palantir-is-said-to-file-ipo-in-weeks-for-possible-fall-debut}{reported}
earlier on its I.P.O. plans.

``The window is open,'' said Previn Waas, a partner focused on I.P.O.s
at the professional services firm Deloitte. ``Everyone has figured out
that a virtual I.P.O. is possible. There's an appetite for companies to
go public.''

Jeff Thomas, head of West Coast listings and capital markets at the
Nasdaq stock exchange, said, ``Everybody who was in process is gearing
back up.''

Morgan Stanley had spent the last few months helping companies affected
by the coronavirus find financing in every form --- except public
offerings, said Colin Stewart, Morgan Stanley's head of technology
equity capital markets. The market was too volatile, and companies had
to assess how the virus had changed their financial forecasts, he said.

But now with the stock market more stable, the situation has changed.
``It's clear there is a lot of pent-up investor demand to look at
I.P.O.s,'' Mr. Stewart said.

Wall Street is embracing them even though many of the companies are
losing money. Vroom lost \$143 million last year on \$1.2 billion in
revenue, according to its disclosures. The food delivery start-up
DoorDash, which
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/04/technology/doordash-ipo.html}{filed
in February to go public} and has seen increased use in the pandemic,
has also burned through hundreds of millions in cash and is
unprofitable.

Last year, high-profile money losers such as Uber and Lyft also went
public --- and promptly skidded in the stock market. Their disappointing
performances and the failed I.P.O. of WeWork
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/10/08/technology/silicon-valley-startup-profit.html}{set
off a wave of prudence across the start-up world}.

But excitement for new listings --- especially for fast-growing tech
companies --- has sidelined the question of profitability. Investors
have become more tolerant of money-losing companies because the virus
has accelerated the adoption of technology like e-commerce, virtual
learning, streaming, telehealth and delivery, said Gavin Baker, chief
investment officer at Atreides Management, which invests in private and
public companies.

``Covid pulled the world into 2030,'' Mr. Baker said.

Not all of the companies that were on track to go public this year may
make it, given how the economy is reeling from the pandemic. In early
March, EquityZen, an investment service that tracks I.P.O.s, published a
list of nine potential candidates for the year. Four --- including the
home rental company Vacasa, the 3-D printing company Desktop Metal and
Velodyne Lidar, which makes technology for driverless cars --- have
since laid off staff because of the coronavirus.

``If we wrote the list today, it would have a very different set of
components,'' said Phil Haslett, a co-founder of EquityZen.

Airbnb, which had said it would go public this year, was
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/06/technology/airbnb-coronavirus-valuation.html}{hit
especially hard} by the travel shutdown. It raised new funding in April
and cut a quarter of its staff. Asked about going public this year,
Brian Chesky, its chief executive, said in a recent interview: ``You can
deal with some volatility, but there is a threshold. We're kind of
feeling out where that threshold is.''

The window for I.P.O.s right now may be small. A second wave of
virus-related shutdowns could send the stock market into another
tailspin. Companies also need to navigate disclosing their
second-quarter financials, as well as holidays like Labor Day and Yom
Kippur. Plus there is the November presidential election, which may
create volatility in the market.

As a result, more companies than usual are aiming to go public in
August, a month they traditionally avoided because people were often on
vacation, Mr. Thomas of Nasdaq said. The exchange is telling companies
to be ready to go public any time, he said, and to have alternative
financing ready in case they can't.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/06/16/business/00virus-ipo/merlin_173597436_828fb3aa-4b57-4d5c-904a-28dfb1504de8-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

For chief executives trying to take their companies public now, the
timing is a nail-biter. Henry Schuck, founder and chief executive of
ZoomInfo, had been planning to get his company out to the stock market
in late March. But when the virus hit, he started checking the VIX, an
index that measures stock market volatility, every day. The index had
rarely topped 20 over the past decade, but in March, it topped 80.

``The market was just not in a place to have an I.P.O. come out,'' he
said.

In May, after the market had stabilized, Mr. Schuck decided to go for
it. But there were other challenges. While executives typically go on a
``roadshow'' to pitch their company's shares to investors, he was stuck
at home.

So he crammed back-to-back virtual meetings with investors into a week.
Even though he was at home, he said, he made sure to dress up and even
wear shoes. On the morning of ZoomInfo's I.P.O. on June 4, Mr. Schuck
hit a ceremonial virtual button to open trading, alongside his wife and
4-year-old daughter. ZoomInfo's shares rose more than 60 percent on the
first day of trading.

Mr. Hennessy of Vroom also held a virtual roadshow, taking meetings with
investors via teleconference from his home in Suffern, N.Y. He said he
appreciated the efficiency of the roadshow, which would normally have
lasted two weeks across multiple cities.

On the day of the I.P.O. on June 9, Mr. Hennessy and his executive team
could not travel to Nasdaq, where Vroom was listing, to press the
opening buzzer since the exchange was not open to visitors. Nasdaq
provided Vroom's employees with an app to upload photos of themselves,
which the exchange displayed on its tower in New York's Times Square.

Vroom's office, nearby at 37th Street and Broadway, remained closed, but
a few employees in masks went to see their faces displayed on the tower,
Mr. Hennessy said. He said he had preferred it to an in-person ceremony,
since people in the whole company got to participate by sending in
photos and sharing screenshots of themselves on the tower.

``Those Nasdaq moments are over in a few minutes with some confetti,''
he said. ``This lasted a couple of hours.''

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
