Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}Trump Diversifies Cabinet;
Picks Nikki Haley and Betsy DeVos

\url{https://nyti.ms/2f6qQqF}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{trump-diversifies-cabinet-picks-nikki-haley-and-betsy-devos}{%
\section{Trump Diversifies Cabinet; Picks Nikki Haley and Betsy
DeVos}\label{trump-diversifies-cabinet-picks-nikki-haley-and-betsy-devos}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2016/11/24/us/24devos/24devos-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By \href{http://www.nytimes.com/by/mark-landler}{Mark Landler} and
\href{http://www.nytimes.com/by/maggie-haberman}{Maggie Haberman}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Nov. 23, 2016
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

WASHINGTON --- President-elect Donald J. Trump moved swiftly on
Wednesday to diversify his cabinet and try to heal lingering rifts in
the Republican Party, reaching out to Gov. Nikki R. Haley of South
Carolina and Betsy DeVos, a prominent Republican fund-raiser, both of
whom opposed him during the campaign, as well as Ben Carson, who
challenged Mr. Trump for the Republican nomination.

Ms. Haley, who was named ambassador to the United Nations, and Ms.
DeVos, who was named education secretary, would be the first women in
Mr. Trump's cabinet. Mr. Carson, whose selection as secretary of housing
and urban development is expected to be announced on Friday, would be
the first African-American.

But none of these choices suggest a president-elect who is reaching
beyond reliably conservative precincts to fill his administration.

Ms. Haley, 44, an Indian-American who is a rising star in Republican
politics, pushed for the
\href{http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/10/us/confederate-flag-south-carolina.html}{removal
of the Confederate battle flag} from the South Carolina State House
after the deadly church shooting in Charleston in June 2015. During the
Republican primary, she was a frequent and vocal critic of Mr. Trump and
supported Senator Marco Rubio of Florida.

Ms. DeVos, 58, is one of the nation's most avid supporters of school
choice, a subject she and Mr. Trump discussed last week at his country
club in Bedminster, N.J. But Ms. DeVos also sharply criticized him
during the campaign and spent much of the year raising money for other
Republicans on the ballot.

On Wednesday, Mr. Trump rolled out their appointments with unstinting
praise. Ms. Haley, he said in a statement, was ``a proven deal maker,
and we look to be making plenty of deals.'' Ms. DeVos, he said, was a
``brilliant and passionate education advocate.''

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2016/05/18/us/24trump1-sub/24trump1-sub-articleLarge-v2.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

For Mr. Trump, who was spending a quiet day before Thanksgiving at
Mar-a-Lago, his estate in Palm Beach, Fla., the appointments ended a
breathless two-week sprint since his stunning victory. In a videotaped
holiday greeting to the American people on Wednesday, he acknowledged
the wounds left by a ``long and bruising political campaign.''

His aides said he would resume meeting with potential cabinet members on
Friday, when they said he would announce Mr. Carson, the retired
neurosurgeon with whom Mr. Trump bitterly clashed and lavishly praised
during the campaign.

Soon afterward, Mr. Trump is expected to name Gen. James N. Mattis as
defense secretary. But the search for a secretary of state has become
less clear, people involved in the transition said. Aides are divided
between Rudolph W. Giuliani, who staunchly backed Mr. Trump's candidacy
but whose business dealings have drawn scrutiny, and Mitt Romney, viewed
by many as a safe pick but who harshly criticized Mr. Trump during the
campaign.

Mr. Giuliani, who has lobbied publicly for the position, confided to
associates that he believed the job was his and told Mr. Trump's top
advisers that it was the only post he was interested in, according to
the people briefed on the discussions.

But Mr. Trump grew concerned both with the attention Mr. Giuliani has
been drawing to himself and the reports about potential business
conflicts. Some in the president-elect's circle voiced concerns about
whether Mr. Giuliani would be the subject of a messy confirmation
battle.

Their attention turned to an unlikely alternative: Mr. Romney. Advisers
who favored Mr. Giuliani believed Mr. Trump could send a unifying
message by holding a perfunctory meeting with a vocal critic like Mr.
Romney. But Mr. Trump liked him and was intrigued by the prospect of a
camera-ready emissary of the United States around the world.

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2016/us/politics/donald-trump-administration.html}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2016/11/11/us/politics/donald-trump-administration-1478905372015/donald-trump-administration-1478905372015-square640.jpg}

\hypertarget{donald-trumps-cabinet-is-complete-heres-the-full-list}{%
\subsection{Donald Trump's Cabinet Is Complete. Here's the Full
List.}\label{donald-trumps-cabinet-is-complete-heres-the-full-list}}

A list of appointees and nominees for top posts in the new
administration.

Mr. Giuliani met with Mr. Trump a day later, urging him to make a
decision. Mr. Romney has not signaled to Mr. Trump directly that he
would accept the job if offered, a person close to the transition said.

Mr. Trump has also been warned by several advisers against choosing Mr.
Romney because he might pursue his own agenda.

The tension has left some on the team looking for a third choice, like
Gen. John F. Kelly of the Marines, the former head of the United States
Southern Command, which oversees the military prison at Guant√°namo Bay,
Cuba; David H. Petraeus, the retired Army general who was director of
the C.I.A.; or, a particular long shot, former Senator Jim Webb of
Virginia, who could be the lone Democrat in the cabinet after having
briefly run for the party's presidential nomination last year.

Choosing Mr. Petraeus, who resigned in 2012 in a scandal over his
leaking of classified information, would be somewhat easier after Mr.
Trump said he would not pursue a case against Hillary Clinton over her
handling of classified emails on a private email server, one person
close to the transition said.

The debate over secretary of state is a microcosm of the balance Mr.
Trump is trying to strike in all of his appointments --- between
loyalists who will appeal to his base and more mainstream Republicans,
many of whom stridently opposed his candidacy. In Ms. DeVos, Ms. Haley
and Mr. Carson, he is trying to appeal to several of these
constituencies, from Midwestern ultraconservatives to the diverse
society that Republicans have tried to reach, with mixed results.

Mr. Trump's selections could blunt criticism that his early picks came
from a homogeneous bloc of older, white men. If confirmed, Ms. Haley
would step down as governor and be replaced by the state's lieutenant
governor, Henry McMaster, who was an early supporter of Mr. Trump.

Image

Ben Carson at Trump Tower on Tuesday.Credit...Hilary Swift for The New
York Times

Mr. Carson is a familiar face to Americans after a Republican primary
campaign in which he briefly rose to the top of the polls.

Neither he nor Ms. Haley is particularly experienced for the posts they
have been offered. Mr. Carson had even seemed to take himself out of the
running for a cabinet position last week, with his friends putting out
word that he had concluded he was not qualified to run a vast federal
bureaucracy. Some pointed to Ms. Haley's experience as a legislator and
trade ambassador for South Carolina as credentials for the United
Nations post.

John D. Negroponte, a former ambassador to the United Nations under
President George W. Bush who opposed Mr. Trump's candidacy, said Ms.
Haley was an ``intriguing and very good choice.''

``She's not an ideologue,'' he said. ``She'll quickly grasp that there
are aspects of the United Nations' work that can benefit the United
States.''

Ms. DeVos, a former finance chairwoman of the Republican National
Committee, won the support of Senator Lamar Alexander, the Tennessee
Republican who is chairman of the Senate Education Committee. He called
her an ``excellent choice.''

She favors charter schools, which are publicly funded but typically run
independently of local school boards and teachers' unions, and school
vouchers, which give students tax dollars to apply toward private-school
tuition.

Lily Eskelsen Garcia, president of the National Education Association,
the country's largest teachers' union, criticized the nomination, saying
that Ms. DeVos's efforts over the years had ``done more to undermine
public education than support students.''

``She has lobbied for failed schemes, like vouchers --- which take away
funding and local control from our public schools --- to fund private
schools at taxpayers' expense,'' she said. ``These schemes do nothing to
help our most vulnerable students while they ignore or exacerbate
glaring opportunity gaps.''

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{¬©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
