Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/sports/football}{Pro
Football}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/sports/football}{Pro Football}\textbar{}How the N.F.L.
Draft Process Works From Home

\url{https://nyti.ms/2ybsGkl}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{how-the-nfl-draft-process-works-from-home}{%
\section{How the N.F.L. Draft Process Works From
Home}\label{how-the-nfl-draft-process-works-from-home}}

With in-person contact limited, teams are rethinking their typically
rigorous approach to assessing prospects. ``The organizations that
handle the stress best will win,'' one team executive said.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/03/29/sports/27virus-nfl-3/merlin_169531281_ee1dba88-c563-4c62-9a55-4732392bbb8a-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/ken-belson}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/02/16/multimedia/author-ken-belson/author-ken-belson-thumbLarge.jpg}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/ken-belson}{Ken Belson}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Published March 27, 2020Updated April 22, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

The coronavirus pandemic has upended much, but with a late summer start
to the season five months away, the N.F.L. has been one of the few major
professional sports leagues to avoid postponing or canceling games.

With little else going on in sports, the league has doubled down on
holding its annual three-day
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/joe-burrow-nfl-draft.html}{draft}
--- which ranks behind only the Super Bowl as the N.F.L.'s biggest
spectacle --- beginning on April 23, altering the broadcast, which will
now be a TV-only studio production with top picks participating
remotely.

The N.F.L. is sticking to its self-imposed calendar even as the league
instituted travel restrictions and ordered team facilities closed,
forcing teams to adapt all-important evaluations that will impact their
fortunes for years to come, causing worries that draft selections might
go lower or higher than their available research would support.

``When we look back at the draft in two years, we're going to see guys
who were overdrafted because of their familiarity and guys who were
under drafted in later rounds or not at all because they hadn't been
seen or were injured,'' said Mike Tannenbaum, an ESPN analyst and a
former N.F.L. general manager.

Social-distancing restrictions intended to contain the pandemic have
forced team scouts and general managers to work from home. Team doctors
cannot conduct physicals for prospective draft picks. And above all,
team executives must forgo vital face-to-face conversations with
prospects that are typically held on college campuses or at a team's
headquarters.

Teams, of course, had already spent countless hours on the road,
scouting the top 100 or 200 prospects. Scouting personnel attended
college games, spoke to players' coaches and families and watched at
all-star games and the league's scouting combine in February, a weeklong
event that includes brief player interviews.

But success in the draft is often determined by the use of late-arriving
information or the unearthing of minute details that elevate unheralded
players to late-round picks. Often, talented players that are overlooked
visit team headquarters to give skeptical coaches a chance to size them
up.

That's what the Jets did in 2007 when they brought in
\href{https://www.pro-football-reference.com/players/R/ReviDa99.htm}{Darrelle
Revis}. He entered the draft after his junior year, and coaches on the
Jets had questions about his talent because he played at Pittsburgh,
which was then in the Big East, a less prominent football conference.

But when Revis visited the Jets, the team's personnel were impressed
with his knowledge and devotion to the game, as well as his close
relationship with his mother, which signaled that he had a good support
network, said Tannenbaum, who was
the\href{https://www.pro-football-reference.com/executives/TannMi0.htm}{Jets
general manager} at the time.

``He met maybe 12, 14 people, and everyone said he's our type of guy,''
Tannenbaum said. The team
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2007/04/29/sports/football/29jets.html}{traded
up 11 spots} in the first round to take Revis at No. 14.

\hypertarget{the-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\subsubsection{The Coronavirus
Outbreak}\label{the-coronavirus-outbreak}}

\hypertarget{sports-and-the-virus}{%
\paragraph{Sports and the Virus}\label{sports-and-the-virus}}

Updated Sept. 11, 2020

Here's what's happening as the world of sports slowly comes back to
life:

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Baseball plans to
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/10/sports/baseball/mlb-postseason-neutral-sites.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_2\&context=storylines_keepup}{hold
    its playoff games}~at four stadiums in Southern California and
    Texas, with the World Series held at the Texas Rangers' new
    ballpark.
  \item
    N.F.L. teams have spent years trying to create over-the-top
    entertainment for fans inside stadiums. This year, they'll just be
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/10/sports/football/what-will-nfl-games-sound-like.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_2\&context=storylines_keepup}{trying
    to cover up echoes}~from empty seats.
  \item
    September Saturdays at Penn State are usually the apex of a week of
    hype. Now, as at other college football destinations, the approach
    of autumn has been
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/09/sports/penn-state-college-football-canceled.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_2\&context=storylines_keepup}{unusually
    quiet}~there.
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

He quickly became one of the league's top cornerbacks.

Teams are doing without those visits this year, instead relying on phone
interviews with players, and their coaches, families and friends, and
watching yet more game tape, trying to find new ways to assess
hard-to-qualify personality traits, such as players' level of
narcissism, openness to criticism and new ideas, and interaction with
team personnel.

``Sometimes, you want to see someone in an uncomfortable situation and
see how they react, and in person, it's always easier to do that,'' said
Scott Pioli, a CBS Sports N.F.L. analyst who worked in player personnel
and as a general manager for the Patriots, Chiefs and Falcons, among
other teams. ``The intangibles are really very tangible.''

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/03/29/sports/27virus-nfl-revis/merlin_118253852_94c91940-f992-404c-a2fe-552161e27384-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Many of the people who make these widely watched picks say they have
been unable to do their jobs properly, and question whether even a
stripped-down draft should proceed as planned. This stretch of the
off-season has its own hectic cadence, including free agency and the
implementation of the new
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/15/sports/football/nfl-cba-approved.html}{10-year
collective bargaining agreement}, which has increased roster sizes and
minimum salaries. The new logistical hurdles related to the virus led a
committee of general managers to ask Commissioner Roger Goodell last
week to delay the draft,
\href{https://www.espn.com/nfl/story/_/id/28950223/nfl-wants-april-draft-go-scheduled-gms-recommendation}{according
to ESPN}.

``This is not a fantasy draft that you conduct out there with just a
list of things on a piece of paper,'' Mickey Loomis, the general manager
of the New Orleans Saints and a member of the committee,
\href{https://podcasts.apple.com/us/podcast/saints-gm-mickey-loomis-plus-jeff-darlington-on-tom/id1150960126?i=1000469442119}{told
the Peter King Podcast} for NBC Sports. ``There's a lot of work that
goes into it to prepare and there's a lot of work that is done during
the draft. Listen, it'll be very, very difficult to conduct that and do
it in a way that you're doing justice to the process.''

Complicating matters, the
\href{http://www.nfl.com/news/story/0ap3000001107372/article/nflrelated-physicals-discontinued-due-to-covid19}{N.F.L.
Physicians Society said in a letter} to the league and players union
that team doctors would no longer examine players, forcing teams to find
other doctors to provide physicals. ``At a time of the most serious
pandemic in our lifetime, we believe medical resources should focus on
those who are ill or in need of care,'' said Dr. Anthony Casolaro, the
president of the society and the Washington Redskins team doctor.

The difficulty in finding doctors and the inability to hold workouts has
forced teams to sign players contingent on their passing a physical.
Teams have been unable to fully assess free agents as well as college
players like
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/11/16/sports/ncaafootball/tua-tagovailoa-carted-off-injury-mississippi-state.html}{Tua
Tagovailoa}, the Alabama quarterback who had a season-ending hip
fracture in November.

``You have to adapt,'' said
\href{https://www.pro-football-reference.com/executives/SneaLe0.htm}{Les
Snead}, general manager of the Los Angeles Rams. ``This can be a
stressful time, but the organizations that handle the stress best will
win.''

Despite these limitations, the N.F.L. is forging ahead. In
\href{https://twitter.com/AdamSchefter/status/1243320919621279744}{a
memo}sent to teams on Thursday, Goodell said rescheduling the draft
would be difficult because it was unclear when a better date would
emerge. The ``public health conditions are highly uncertain and there is
no assurance that we can select a different date and be confident that
conditions will be significantly more favorable than they are today.''

Either way, it's clear this year has been like none other in the N.F.L.,
disruptive in an entirely different way than the 2001 season, which
began in the wake of terrorist attacks.

``September 11th was such an unsettling time because of what went on,
but I remember a week later, with as much heartache as people had, they
went back to work and tried to get the country going again,'' said Rich
McKay, the president of the Atlanta Falcons, who has been around the
N.F.L. for more than 40 years. ``This time, we don't know the end date,
which makes it more difficult.''

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
