Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/world}{World}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/world}{World}\textbar{}College Officials Clamp Down on
Student Behavior Over Covid-19 Fears

\url{https://nyti.ms/32a32rJ}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{the-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=4c24c300-e383-11ea-81b0-ed0ce085a510}{The
Coronavirus
Outbreak}}{The Coronavirus Outbreak}}\label{the-coronavirus-outbreak}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/20/world/coronavirus-covid.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=4c24ea10-e383-11ea-81b0-ed0ce085a510}{Latest
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=4c24ea11-e383-11ea-81b0-ed0ce085a510}{Maps
  and Cases}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=4c24ea12-e383-11ea-81b0-ed0ce085a510}{Vaccine
  Tracker}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/19/us/colleges-closing-covid.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=4c24ea13-e383-11ea-81b0-ed0ce085a510}{Colleges
  Closing}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/20/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=4c24ea14-e383-11ea-81b0-ed0ce085a510}{Economy}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{college-officials-clamp-down-on-student-behavior-over-covid-19-fears}{%
\section{College Officials Clamp Down on Student Behavior Over Covid-19
Fears}\label{college-officials-clamp-down-on-student-behavior-over-covid-19-fears}}

Joe Biden criticized President Trump's virus response and outlined a
strategy to fight the pandemic. Overburdened health care specialists are
finding themselves on the front lines as schools reopen.

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Published Aug. 20, 2020Updated Aug. 21, 2020, 3:46 a.m. ET
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{heres-what-you-need-to-know}{%
\subsubsection{Here's what you need to
know:}\label{heres-what-you-need-to-know}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-68774d88}{Shutdowns, warnings and scoldings
  follow alarming incidents on college campuses.}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-26b58724}{Biden knocks Trump's pandemic
  response, and outlines a national strategy.}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-4e542da3}{U.S. health agencies announce moves
  to confront the flu season and plummeting child vaccination rates.}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-7c7b347a}{Papua New Guinea bars Chinese
  workers who received an unproven vaccine.}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-2944bade}{Florida becomes the fifth state to
  cross a grim threshold: More than 10,000 deaths related to the virus.}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-31ce4f3f}{A test that gives results in minutes
  gets the F.D.A.'s emergency authorization.}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-1ed3109b}{Ukraine sees large increase in cases
  tied to church services and weddings. }
\end{itemize}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/20/us/politics/20virus-briefing-college/20virus-briefing-college-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\hypertarget{shutdowns-warnings-and-scoldings-follow-alarming-incidents-on-college-campuses}{%
\subsection{Shutdowns, warnings and scoldings follow alarming incidents
on college
campuses.}\label{shutdowns-warnings-and-scoldings-follow-alarming-incidents-on-college-campuses}}

As tensions grew over the practicality of bringing students back to
college campuses for the fall semester, officials at North Carolina
State on Thursday announced that classes would be moved online after an
increase in coronavirus cases and the number of students sent to
quarantine or isolation.

On the same day, Syracuse University and Vanderbilt fired warning shots
across the bow of newly arrived students who seem intent on having an
ordinary campus experience in a year that is anything but ordinary.

``The good news is that campus has been safe,'' N.C. State's chancellor,
Randy Woodson, said at a news conference. ``But we've seen behaviors off
campus that, frankly, are inconsistent with our community standards and
have had an impact on our ability to go forward.''

The warning at Syracuse came after a campus gathering alarmed officials.

``Last night,'' one Syracuse official
\href{https://news.syr.edu/blog/2020/08/20/last-nights-selfish-and-reckless-behavior/}{said
in a letter}, ``a large group of first-year students selfishly
jeopardized the very thing that so many of you claim to want from
Syracuse University --- that is, a chance at a residential college
experience. I say this because the students who gathered on the Quad
last night may have done damage enough to shut down campus, including
residence halls and in-person learning, before the academic semester
even begins.''

The university warned that the students now face discipline.

Vanderbilt, trying to prevent a similar episode,
\href{https://pbs.twimg.com/media/Ef0EqwwXsAALIho.png}{sent out a series
of tweets imploring} everyone to behave on the Nashville campus and
reminding students that disregard for safety rules ``will not be
tolerated.''

The shift at N.C. State and the warnings at Syracuse and Vanderbilt came
just days after the University of North Carolina shut down its campus
and chose to go with remote learning in response to an outbreak in the
first week of its reopening. The university has said most students must
leave their on-campus housing, a decision that N.C. State, for now, has
not matched. N.C. State will begin its online-only learning on Monday.

The Vanderbilt messages, signed by the chancellor and the provost, who
is also the vice chancellor for academic affair, included a reminder
that ``we write this not to scare you but to be perfectly plain: The
situation happening at other universities can be avoided at Vanderbilt,
but only if you anchor down, step up and do your part.''

The Syracuse letter said that the students who gathered on the Quad had
``knowingly ignored New York State public health law and the provisions
of the
\href{https://www.syracuse.edu/fall2020/stay-safe-pledge/}{Syracuse
University Stay Safe Pledge}'' and called their actions selfish because
they might ``prevent our seniors from claiming their final year of
college on our residential campus.''

Also on Thursday, Gov. Tate Reeves of Mississippi banned all game day
``social gatherings outside college and university stadiums,'' including
tailgates and picnics. Mr. Reeves said he would allow games to be held,
but he barred stadium seating bowls from being more than 25 percent
full.

The decision followed a series of rulings from schools across the South
about how they would handle tailgating festivities, a rite of autumn
Saturdays in the region's college towns. The University of Alabama and
Auburn University forbade tailgating on their campuses, but Florida
State University said Thursday that it would allow it, at least for now.

\hypertarget{biden-knocks-trumps-pandemic-response-and-outlines-a-national-strategy}{%
\subsection{Biden knocks Trump's pandemic response, and outlines a
national
strategy.}\label{biden-knocks-trumps-pandemic-response-and-outlines-a-national-strategy}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/21/us/politics/20vid-dnc-live/20biden-pic-videoSixteenByNine3000.jpg}

In his virtual keynote address to the Democratic National Convention,
Joseph R. Biden Jr. criticized President Trump's response to the
coronavirus and outlined a national strategy for fighting it through
enhanced testing, a national mask mandate and other means.

``The president keeps telling us the virus is going to disappear,'' Mr.
Biden
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/20/us/politics/biden-presidential-nomination-dnc.html}{said
in his speech on Thursday} as he accepted the Democratic presidential
nomination. ``He keeps waiting for a miracle. Well, I have news for him:
No miracle is coming.''

As of Thursday evening, more than 5.5 million people in the United
States have been infected with the coronavirus and at least 174,000 have
died,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html}{according
to a New York Times database}. Mr. Biden said it was unacceptable that
the U.S. caseload and death toll were the world's highest, and that
Black, Latino, Asian-American and Native American communities were
``bearing the brunt'' of the impacts.

``And after all this time the president still does not have a plan,'' he
added. ``Well, I do.''

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/20/us/dnc-convention-election}{Speaking
on the convention's fourth night}, Mr. Biden said that if he were
elected, he would swiftly implement a national strategy for dealing with
the virus that includes rapid testing with immediate results, more
domestic manufacturing of medical supplies and a national mask mandate.
He said the mandate would not be a ``burden,'' but rather a ``patriotic
duty to protect one another.''

Mr. Biden also pledged to provide enough resources to schools to make
them ``open, safe and effective,'' and to ``take the muzzle off'' health
experts to allow for ``unvarnished truth'' about the virus.

``In short, we'll do what we should have done from the very beginning,''
he continued. ``Our current president has failed in his most basic duty
to the nation. He's failed to protect us. He's failed to protect
America. And my fellow Americans, that is unforgivable.''

Mr. Biden's speech was the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/20/us/politics/joe-biden-convention-speech.html}{most
important --- and likely most surreal --- address of a national
political career} that he began as a 29-year-old senator-elect. The
convention, which began on Monday night, has been heavy on emotion and
Mr. Biden's biography, and relatively light on policy details.

Mr. Trump
\href{https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/1296645682875506688}{tweeted
fresh criticism} of Mr. Biden in real time, as he did a night earlier
during former President Barack Obama's virtual address to the
convention. ``In 47 years, Joe did none of the things of which he now
speaks,'' Mr. Trump wrote on Thursday. ``He will never change, just
words!''

Mr. Trump's tweets did not directly address the pandemic.

\hypertarget{us-health-agencies-announce-moves-to-confront-the-flu-season-and-plummeting-child-vaccination-rates}{%
\subsection{U.S. health agencies announce moves to confront the flu
season and plummeting child vaccination
rates.}\label{us-health-agencies-announce-moves-to-confront-the-flu-season-and-plummeting-child-vaccination-rates}}

Image

An advertisement for free flu shots in Manhattan. The Department of
Health and Human Services is giving permission to pharmacists nationwide
to administer all scheduled shots, including the flu vaccine, to
children as young as 3.Credit...Bryan R. Smith/Agence France-Presse ---
Getty Images

Two top U.S. health agencies have announced tangible steps in trying to
confront health issues that are byproducts of the coronavirus pandemic
--- plummeting childhood vaccination rates and concern about the
approaching flu season.

The Department of Health and Human Services is giving permission to
\href{https://www.hhs.gov/about/news/2020/08/19/hhs-expands-access-childhood-vaccines-during-covid-19-pandemic.html}{pharmacists
nationwide to administer all scheduled shots} to children as young as 3
--- including boosters for measles and other diseases --- a step that
makes immunization more convenient for parents. The flu vaccine is also
an available option for children.

Protecting against the impending flu season in the United States is
foremost in the minds of public health officials, who worry about the
confluence of cases of flu and Covid-19 hitting hospitals this fall and
winter.

And the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention said on Thursday that
a
\href{https://www.cdc.gov/mmwr/volumes/69/rr/rr6908a1.htm?s_cid=rr6908a1_w}{high-dose
flu shot} aimed at better protecting people 65 and older will guard
against four strains of the virus this year, rather than three.

On Wednesday,
\href{https://www.mass.gov/news/flu-vaccine-now-required-for-all-massachusetts-school-students-enrolled-in-child-care-pre}{Massachusetts
announced that it will require all students}, ranging from
six-month-olds in day care centers to those under 30, to get flu shots
by Dec. 31. It is the first state to institute such a sweeping
requirement for the shot, which is rarely mandated in the U.S.

This year, because restrictions imposed by the pandemic have shuttered
workplaces and school health clinics where millions get their shots,
officials have loosened their timing recommendations, which usually
point to a window from the middle of September till the end of October.
Many public health experts recommend to get the shot as soon as you
reasonably can.

\href{https://www.phe.gov/Preparedness/legal/prepact/Pages/default.aspx}{The
new emergency rule} allowing state-licensed pharmacists to give
federally scheduled vaccines to children ages 3 through 18 is supposed
to
\href{https://www.phe.gov/Preparedness/legal/prepact/Pages/default.aspx}{encourage
widespread immunization} as schools open during the pandemic and to
resolve a patchwork of state laws that govern shots and age limits.

Global Roundup

\hypertarget{papua-new-guinea-bars-chinese-workers-who-received-an-unproven-vaccine}{%
\subsection{Papua New Guinea bars Chinese workers who received an
unproven
vaccine.}\label{papua-new-guinea-bars-chinese-workers-who-received-an-unproven-vaccine}}

Four dozen Chinese workers who received an experimental vaccine last
week were barred from flying to Papua New Guinea over concerns that they
could pose a risk to residents of the remote Pacific island nation.

David Manning, who heads Papua New Guinea's pandemic response, said that
no human vaccine trials had been approved and that the planeload of
workers headed for a Chinese-run mine, Ramu Nickel, would not be allowed
into the country,
\href{https://www.facebookcorewwwi.onion/NBCNewsPNG/}{the local news
media reported}.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/16/business/china-vaccine-coronavirus.html}{China
began giving the unproven vaccine} to select groups of workers last
month even though human trials have not been completed to determine
whether it is safe or effective.

China notified Papua New Guinea this week that it was sending 48 workers
who had been given the unproven vaccine on Aug. 10, and that they might
test positive for the coronavirus on arrival even though they did not
have Covid-19.

China has offered the experimental vaccine to workers traveling abroad,
but the Papua New Guinea deployment appears to be the first time China
has acknowledged sending workers abroad after they received it.

A nation of nine million people, Papua New Guinea has largely been
untouched by the pandemic. As of Friday, it had reported 361 cases,
including four deaths.

Mr. Manning, the pandemic response official, said in a statement Friday
that any vaccines imported into Papua New Guinea ``must go through
vigorous vaccine trials, protocols and procedures.''

He told reporters a day earlier that the workers' plane would not be
allowed to land because the vaccine had not been thoroughly tested,
certified by the World Health Organization and approved for use by the
Papua New Guinea government.

``In light of the lack of information of what these trials are and what
possible risks or threats that they may cause our people if they were to
come into the country, I had canceled that flight yesterday just to
ensure that we continue to act in the best interest of our people and
our country,'' he said.

In other developments around the world:

\begin{itemize}
\item
  The Colombian government
  \href{https://www.migracioncolombia.gov.co/noticias}{said} that
  beginning on Friday morning, the authorities in \textbf{Venezuela}
  would suspend re-entry for citizens attempting to return through the
  Simón Bolívar Bridge, a major crossing point along a porous border
  separating the two South American nations. Venezuelans who have
  streamed home in recent months after losing jobs in Colombia and
  elsewhere have been held by their government in makeshift containment
  centers, as part of President Nicolás Maduro's effort to
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/19/world/americas/coronavirus-venezuela.html}{deploy
  his repressive security apparatus against the virus}.
\item
  A large virus outbreak in \textbf{South Korea} linked to a church is
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/20/world/asia/coronavirus-south-korea-church-sarang-jeil.html}{spreading
  through Seoul and beyond}, threatening the country's success in
  fighting the pandemic. The Sarang Jeil Church attracts politically
  active conservatives who oppose the country's liberal president, Moon
  Jae-in. Mr. Moon has accused his most vocal critics of spreading the
  infectious disease and putting the entire nation in danger;
  conservative activists, in turn, have accused him of trying to
  scapegoat the church to divert attention from his weak approval
  ratings.
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Health officials in \textbf{China} issued new guidelines on Thursday
  that exempt residents of Beijing, the capital, from wearing masks
  outdoors unless they come into close contact with strangers. The
  country has reported fewer than 300 infections over the past week,
  according to a New York Times database.
\item
  \textbf{India's} coronavirus crisis is now spreading to the
  hinterlands along its southern coastline. The country recorded at
  least 69,000 new cases on Wednesday, its largest daily caseload of the
  pandemic, and nearly a thousand deaths, according to a
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/world/asia/india-coronavirus-cases.html}{New
  York Times database} and the ministry of health. The South Indian
  states of Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka and Tamil Nadu now account for
  nearly a third of new cases in the country.
\item
  In a
  \href{https://twitter.com/SpokespersonCHN/status/1296006313789362176}{tweet},
  Hua Chunying, a spokeswoman for China's Foreign Ministry, weighed in
  on images of
  \textbf{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/18/world/coronavirus-covid.html\#link-6e70b04a}{a
  recent pool party in Wuhan}} --- the city where the pandemic began ---
  that have touched a nerve in countries where many people remain under
  lockdown. ``The city only emerges stronger,'' she wrote. Global Times,
  a popular state-run tabloid, also said that international criticism of
  the party amounted to
  ``\href{https://www.globaltimes.cn/content/1198239.shtml}{foreign sour
  grapes}.''
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{florida-becomes-the-fifth-state-to-cross-a-grim-threshold-more-than-10000-deaths-related-to-the-virus}{%
\subsection{Florida becomes the fifth state to cross a grim threshold:
More than 10,000 deaths related to the
virus.}\label{florida-becomes-the-fifth-state-to-cross-a-grim-threshold-more-than-10000-deaths-related-to-the-virus}}

Image

Health care workers preparing coronavirus tests in Orlando, Fla., in
July.Credit...Eve Edelheit for The New York Times

The state of Florida reached a grim threshold on Thursday as its death
toll from the coronavirus exceeded 10,000 people, according to a New
York Times
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/florida-coronavirus-cases.html}{database}.

Florida is the fifth state to report 10,000 or more deaths. The others
are New York, New Jersey, California and Texas.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-the-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/20/world/coronavirus-covid.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: The Coronavirus
Outbreak}}{Latest Updates: The Coronavirus Outbreak}}\label{latest-updates-the-coronavirus-outbreak}}

Updated 2020-08-21T07:46:15.883Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/20/world/coronavirus-covid.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-68774d88}{Shutdowns,
  warnings and scoldings follow alarming incidents on college campuses.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/20/world/coronavirus-covid.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-26b58724}{Biden
  knocks Trump's pandemic response, and outlines a national strategy.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/20/world/coronavirus-covid.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-4e542da3}{U.S.
  health agencies announce moves to confront the flu season and
  plummeting child vaccination rates.}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/20/world/coronavirus-covid.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

More live coverage:
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/20/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Markets}

It was a widely expected inflection point. Florida, as of Thursday
morning, had identified more than 588,000 cases, and while the number of
new cases per day has declined since mid-July, the state is still
identifying more than 4,700 new cases per day, on average, in the last
seven-day period ending Wednesday.

Public and private-sector efforts to navigate the continuing crisis have
been closely scrutinized in the United States's
\href{https://www.census.gov/newsroom/press-releases/2014/cb14-232.html\#:~:text=By\%20adding\%20an\%20average\%20of,this\%20period\%2C\%20reaching\%2019.9\%20million.}{third
most-populous} state, where a quarter of the state's population of more
than 21 million is older than 60.

Gov. Ron DeSantis, a Republican,
\href{https://www.thecentersquare.com/florida/criticism-mounts-as-desantis-resists-statewide-stay-at-home-order/article_5e9c558a-6ed9-11ea-b058-8b911dd7d11e.html}{was
criticized} for waiting until April 1 to issue a statewide stay-at-home
order, after many states had done so. Disney World
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/11/business/florida-coronavirus-disney-world-reopening.html}{opened}
to visitors in July, but the Republican National Convention in
Jacksonville was
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/24/us/politics/trump-republican-convention-canceled-jacksonville.html}{canceled}.
And last week, more than a dozen counties
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/19/us/coronavirus-schools-florida-local-control.html}{reopened}
their schools in accordance with a statewide order for all schools to
offer in-person instruction by the end of the month.

The state's most populous county, Miami-Dade, has suffered the largest
number of cases, with 1 in 18 people testing positive.

Mr. DeSantis has stressed that the state's virus crisis is largely
limited to the very old. But the disease appears to be taking a
relatively small but increasing toll on the young: More Floridians in
the 25-44 age group died in July than had died in the previous four
months of the pandemic combined, a review of Florida Department of
Health data shows. Records also show the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/11/us/virus-young-deaths.html}{people
who died from the virus in Florida among the young} were
disproportionately Black.

Nationwide, the pandemic has killed so many Americans that
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/05/05/us/coronavirus-death-toll-us.html}{the
patterns of death in nearly every state} look aberrant when compared
with recent history. Nationwide, 223,900 more people than usual have
died from March 15 to Aug. 8, according to Centers for Disease Control
and Prevention estimates.

\hypertarget{tracking-the-coronavirus-}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html}{Tracking
the Coronavirus
›}}{Tracking the Coronavirus ›}}\label{tracking-the-coronavirus-}}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html}{}

\hypertarget{where-cases-are-highest-per-capita}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{Where cases are \textbf{highest} per
capita}{Where cases are highest per capita}}\label{where-cases-are-highest-per-capita}}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/mississippi-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

Miss.
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/georgia-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

Ga.
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/texas-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

Texas
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/nevada-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

Nev.
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/tennessee-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

Tenn.
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/florida-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

Fla.
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/alabama-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

Ala.
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/north-dakota-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

N.D.
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/idaho-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

Idaho
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/arkansas-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

Ark.
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/missouri-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

Mo.
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/california-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

Calif.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html}{}

\hypertarget{us-hot-spots-}{%
\subsubsection{U.S. hot spots ›}\label{us-hot-spots-}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2020/03/16/coronavirus-maps/18d50cbff035d73d7131c82405c7e8803be775ec/images/orphan_usa-threeByTwoSmallAt2X.png}
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/world/coronavirus-maps.html}{}

\hypertarget{worldwide-}{%
\subsubsection{Worldwide ›}\label{worldwide-}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2020/03/16/coronavirus-maps/18d50cbff035d73d7131c82405c7e8803be775ec/images/orphan_world-threeByTwoSmallAt2X.png}

\hypertarget{a-test-that-gives-results-in-minutes-gets-the-fdas-emergency-authorization}{%
\subsection{A test that gives results in minutes gets the F.D.A.'s
emergency
authorization.}\label{a-test-that-gives-results-in-minutes-gets-the-fdas-emergency-authorization}}

Image

Antigen tests like the new one from LumiraDX yield results faster than
P.C.R. tests, but miss more infections. Medical staff prepared to
administer antigen tests earlier this month at Hard Rock Stadium in
Miami Gardens, Fla.Credit...Chandan Khanna/Agence France-Presse ---
Getty Images

The Food and Drug Administration has granted emergency use authorization
to a coronavirus test made by a British company that gives results in
about 12 minutes.

It is an antigen test, the third one of that type that the F.D.A. has
authorized.

Antigen tests work by rapidly detecting fragments of virus in a sample.
They are speedy, but they tend to miss more infections than do slower
tests based on a technology called polymerase chain reaction, or P.C.R.

In its authorization letter to LumiraDx, the British company, the F.D.A.
noted that negative results from the antigen test do not rule out an
infection, and that a positive test should not be used as the sole basis
for treatment.

The new test, which must be administered by a health care professional,
is performed using a brick-size device made by LumiraDx, and depends on
swab samples collected from a patient's nasal cavity. It is intended to
be used for patients who have developed Covid-19 symptoms within the
past 12 days; the authorization does not address using it to screening
people without symptoms.

``Actionable diagnostic results at the point of care lead to better
health outcomes,'' said Ron Zwanziger, chief executive of LumiraDx, in a
statement. The company said it would start shipping the tests by the end
of August, and produce 10 million tests by December. ****

A spokeswoman said that LumiraDx was also seeking F.D.A. emergency use
authorization for an antibody test that could be performed using the
same machine. Antibody tests indicate whether someone has been exposed
to the virus in the past, not whether they are currently infected.

\hypertarget{ukraine-sees-large-increase-in-cases-tied-to-church-services-and-weddings-}{%
\subsection{Ukraine sees large increase in cases tied to church services
and weddings.
}\label{ukraine-sees-large-increase-in-cases-tied-to-church-services-and-weddings-}}

Image

Medical workers at an intensive care unit in Lviv, Ukraine, in
June.Credit...Genya Savilov/Agence France-Presse --- Getty Images

Ukraine, which had done a good job controlling the coronavirus compared
with neighboring countries, reported a sharp rise in cases this week,
attributed in part to church attendance and weddings.

On Thursday, the country reported its highest single-day case count,
according to Maksym Stepanov, the minister of health. The ministry
reported 2,134 cases in the past 24 hours, surpassing the record of
1,967 cases reported the day before.

``Almost every day we have a new anti-record,'' he told journalists in
an\href{https://www.facebookcorewwwi.onion/moz.ukr/posts/1625809094248856?__cft__\%5b0\%5d=AZWftQvWWweGrRq4vYAFerKH8lpIPq_eoD6NzgxTN49Pftrt5kehnxb4v65TS3PMOnGqPCS1jzuLdiclb1RAsOifpeRwHca4VfT7S9_HKXz5RM1OIGEJBhlbotVEbSAqfZil8ZpIHPAf2SfWxLRY6PgBVI3f3_mdDS9N4A0h0w9IEg\&__tn__=\%2CP-R}{online
briefing}. He reiterated requirements for wearing masks in public spaces
and social distancing. ``We live in a new reality that requires sticking
to the certain rules,'' he said. As of Thursday, Ukraine
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/world/coronavirus-maps.html}{has
reported} a total of 98,658 cases and 2,182 deaths.

Lax adherence to the rules, rather than premature lifting of
restrictions, was mostly to blame, Ukrainian medical experts said.
Weddings and religious ceremonies in the western part of the country
were the main cause of the recent increase in cases, the prime minister,
Denys Shmygal, said on Monday. In response, he said, the police are
stepping up enforcement of quarantine measures.

Partly, the increase in reported cases followed an increase in testing,
Svitlana Fedorova, the director of the Mykolaiv Center, a scientific
body studying infectious diseases, said in a post on
\href{https://www.facebookcorewwwi.onion/permalink.php?story_fbid=3694907040522453\&id=100000095792295\&__cft__\%5b0\%5d=AZXpYe_sdzInoWNue3epxKXF_Se-xNs3tBKiqDwQwZUSQXz7mRNrEbKjJuH1vojK9IdZp46gASLqJiFwRt_n52luOvCezvFTpnpWN6P86eqHaJIg9KLqvHUT2tMyGfQdWEU\&__tn__=\%2CO\%2CP-R}{Facebook}.
About 20,000 people are now tested daily in Ukraine, authorities have
said.

But the more rapid spread in Ukraine is not wholly the result of rising
rates of testing, Kateryna Bulavinova, of the United Nations Children's
Fund in Ukraine, said in an interview. ``People don't stick to the
safety measures, do not keep social distance,'' she said. Hospitals have
not separated coronavirus and non-coronavirus patients, she said, making
the health care system itself a source of infection. Because of this,
she said, ``the risk of getting infected is obviously higher.''

Ukraine, however, still has far fewer cases per capita than neighboring
Russia and Belarus. In Belarus, President Aleksandr Lukashenko for
months denied the virus posed a threat and never fully locked down the
country to slow its spread. Participants in antigovernment street
protests in Belarus say the failed virus response is one reason for
their disaffection.

\hypertarget{the-white-house-designates-teachers-as-essential-workers}{%
\subsection{The White House designates teachers as essential
workers.}\label{the-white-house-designates-teachers-as-essential-workers}}

Image

An elementary school classroom in Royal City, Wash. The White House has
now categorized teachers as essential workers.Credit...Ruth Fremson/The
New York Times

The White House on Tuesday added teachers to the list of the country's
essential workers, which includes health care workers, grocery store
employees and police officers,
\href{https://covid19.ca.gov/essential-workforce/}{among others}.

Since the beginning of the pandemic, there has been widespread confusion
over whether people deemed ``essential'' are actually forced to go back
to work, regardless of any lockdowns --- will they lose their jobs if
they don't show up? The quick answer is, yes, that is a possibility, but
it is up to each employer to decide how lenient to be.

The U.S. Department of Homeland Security, for example, acknowledges that
the ``essential worker'' designation ``is not, nor should it be
considered, a federal directive or standard.''

The federal government controls a large amount of the funding that goes
to public schools, but it does not run the school systems. States and
local municipalities have the legal authority for their own districts.

Declaring teachers part of the essential work force ``doesn't mean that
all of a sudden that, on a state level, the federal government can tell
New York State, for instance, how to run its schools,'' Richard Reice, a
lawyer who heads the labor enforcement division at the law firm
Michelman \& Robinson, said in an interview. ``It's a political
designation that really may not mean much, but will give different
people on different sides ammunition.''

\hypertarget{james-baker-a-former-secretary-of-state-and-bill-cassidy-a-senator-contract-the-virus}{%
\subsection{James Baker, a former secretary of state, and Bill Cassidy,
a senator, contract the
virus.}\label{james-baker-a-former-secretary-of-state-and-bill-cassidy-a-senator-contract-the-virus}}

Image

Senator Bill Cassidy of Louisiana at the Capitol in May.Credit...Anna
Moneymaker/The New York Times

Former Secretary of State \textbf{James A. Baker III} and his wife,
Susan Baker, have contracted the virus, his office said on Thursday,
though they appear to have relatively mild cases and are resting at home
in Houston.

Mrs. Baker began feeling sick about a week ago, and her husband fell ill
a few days later, according to John B. Williams, a senior adviser to Mr.
Baker. Mr. Williams said the former secretary was able to joke about the
couple's situation: ``He's telling friends that thank goodness, he was
only 90 when they got it.''

Mr. Baker served as White House chief of staff and secretary of the
Treasury under President Ronald Reagan and secretary of state under
President George Bush; he also ran five presidential campaigns.

Also on Thursday, \textbf{Senator Bill Cassidy}, Republican of Louisiana
and a medical doctor, confirmed that he has tested positive for the
virus. He is the second senator found to test positive, after Rand Paul,
Republican of Kentucky, though others have shown signs of past exposure
in antibody tests.

A number of House members have also tested positive for the virus in
recent weeks, fanning fears that the virus was circulating in the
Capitol. But with most lawmakers now scattered across the country for
the August recess, Mr. Cassidy is unlikely to pose an immediate risk to
his colleagues.

``I am strictly following the direction of our medical experts and
strongly encourage others to do the same,'' he said in a statement on
Thursday.

The statement did not specify where the senator was or when he had been
exposed to the virus, only that he had been informed of the possibility
Wednesday evening.
\href{https://slack-redir.net/link?url=https\%3A\%2F\%2Ftwitter.com\%2FBillCassidy\%2Fstatus\%2F1296246515736948736}{According
to his Twitter account}, Mr. Cassidy held a campaign event in
Shreveport, La., on Wednesday. A spokesman for the senator said he began
experiencing mild symptoms shortly before being tested.

The \textbf{Puerto Rico Senate} shut down on Thursday as a precaution
after a number of members of the Legislature were found to be infected.
Thomas Rivera Schatz, the Senate president,
\href{https://slack-redir.net/link?url=https\%3A\%2F\%2Fwww.senado.pr.gov\%2FAdministrativeOrders\%2F20-72.pdf}{ordered}
the chamber shut until Sept. 8, without saying how many cases were
found.

Carlos J. Méndez Núñez, the House speaker, and Representative José
Zamora Torres announced on Tuesday that they had tested positive. Their
separate announcements came two days after
\href{https://slack-redir.net/link?url=https\%3A\%2F\%2Fwww.senado.pr.gov\%2FAdministrativeOrders\%2F20-72.pdf}{Puerto
Rico's primary}, when politicians attended election-night events to
await results.

Mr. Méndez, a leader of the New Progressive Party, spent time with the
party's nominee for governor, Pedro R. Pierluisi, and with Jenniffer
González-Colón, Puerto Rico's nonvoting representative in Congress. Both
said they had tested negative in recent days and would be tested again
over the weekend.

U.S. ROUNDUP

\hypertarget{11-million-us-workers-filed-new-claims-for-state-unemployment-benefits-last-week}{%
\subsection{1.1 million U.S. workers filed new claims for state
unemployment benefits last
week.}\label{11-million-us-workers-filed-new-claims-for-state-unemployment-benefits-last-week}}

Image

A protest of delays in unemployment benefits in Puerto Rico last week,
when new state claims rose to 1.1 million.Credit...Erika P. Rodriguez
for The New York Times

About 1.1 million American workers filed state jobless claims last week,
the Labor Department said on Thursday, an increase after two weeks of
declines and a reminder that the labor market remains fragile five
months into the pandemic.

``We won't see a renewal of hiring until the pandemic is under much
better control,'' said Carl Tannenbaum, chief economist at Northern
Trust in Chicago. ``We have made substantial and rapid improvement in
the last three months, but improvement from here will prove slower and
more difficult.''

There were 543,000 new claims last week for Pandemic Unemployment
Assistance, a separate program aimed at self-employed people, gig
workers and others not covered by traditional unemployment benefits.

The crosscurrents in the economy are striking. The unemployment rate
remains dangerously high at 10.2 percent, and sectors like leisure and
hospitality are experiencing huge losses in employment. Hotels and
airports are nearly empty and many restaurants remain closed. But
\href{https://www.reuters.com/article/us-usa-economy-housingstarts/us-housing-starts-surge-in-july-in-rare-pandemic-bright-spot-idUSKCN25E21O}{home
building is booming} and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/14/business/retail-sales-coronavirus.html}{retail
sales are back} to levels that preceded the pandemic. The
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/18/business/stock-market-record.html}{stock
market is hitting record highs}.

Economists, however, warn that conditions could easily deteriorate if
Washington doesn't offer more support.

Republicans and Democrats have been unable to agree on a new coronavirus
relief package to augment the CARES Act, passed in March. A \$600 weekly
federal supplement to state unemployment insurance expired at the end of
last month, and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/13/business/economy/unemployment-benefits-coronavirus.html}{a
\$300-a-week replacement} engineered by President Trump is having
trouble getting off the ground, with only 11 states so far
participating.

``Federal support is crucial to underpinning the virtuous cycle we've
had,'' said Michael Gapen, chief U.S. economist at Barclays. ``The
longer negotiations stall, the more likely there will be a hiccup in
spending.''

Elsewhere in the United States:

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \textbf{Philadelphia's} health commissioner, Dr. Thomas Farley,
  \href{https://www.phila.gov/2020-08-20-indoor-dining-is-back-on-september-8-in-philadelphia/}{announced
  on Thursday} that indoor dining will return on Sept. 8, albeit at
  restricted capacity. Restaurants will only be permitted to function at
  25 percent their normal volume, and only four people or fewer can sit
  at a table. Movie theaters will also be allowed to reopen then, and
  indoor gatherings of up to 25 people will be permitted. Additionally,
  the commissioner said on Tuesday that the state was immediately
  opening up bowling alleys, arcades and game areas such as mini-golf,
  escape rooms and ax-throwing.
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  A
  \href{https://www.afge.org/publication/federal-workers-feel-unsafe-lack-resources-to-protect-themselves-during-coronavirus-pandemic-afge-survey-shows/}{survey}
  of nearly 2,200 members of the \textbf{largest federal employees'
  union} found that more than 70 percent of those who have returned to
  on-site work felt their agencies were not keeping them safe. The
  report, which was prepared by the union and released Wednesday, comes
  as many federal agencies have begun
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/06/us/politics/coronavirus-federal-government.html}{directing
  employees} who had been working remotely at the beginning of the
  pandemic to return to offices. Only 56 percent of those surveyed said
  their employers had provided adequate personal protective equipment.
\item
  \textbf{Dr. Anthony S. Fauci,} the government's top infectious disease
  expert, underwent outpatient surgery on Thursday morning to remove a
  polyp from his vocal cord, and is now resting at home. In a brief text
  exchange, Dr. Fauci said he underwent general anesthesia and is
  ``doing fine.''
\item
  Experts say new research, sponsored by Eli Lilly and the National
  Institutes of Health, is among
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-nursing-homes.html}{the
  first large clinical trials to
  involve}\textbf{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-nursing-homes.html}{nursing
  home residents}}. And the scientists are delighted.
\item
  \textbf{North Dakota} reported on Thursday 274 new cases, and Nevada
  reported 37 new deaths, a single-day record in each state.
\item
  \textbf{Connecticut's} governor, citing the latest virus figures, said
  Thursday that the state was on track to reopen schools in two weeks.
  Gov. Ned Lamont said the state might have changed course if testing
  had showed 10 or more new cases per 100,000. ``We are way below those
  metrics,'' Mr. Lamont said at a news conference, ``which implies to us
  that you can open our schools safely.''
\item
  While the moving industry is fractured among numerous small-business
  owners, and official statistics are tough to come by, one thing is
  clear: From professionals who are downsizing following a job loss, to
  students moving back in with their parents, to families fleeing the
  city for the suburbs,
  \textbf{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/20/nyregion/moving-new-york-coronavirus.html}{New
  Yorkers are changing their addresses in droves}}.
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{two-mets-games-are-postponed-after-a-player-and-a-staff-member-test-positive}{%
\subsection{Two Mets games are postponed after a player and a staff
member test
positive.}\label{two-mets-games-are-postponed-after-a-player-and-a-staff-member-test-positive}}

Image

The~ Mets pitching staff doing stretching exercises at Marlins Park on
Thursday before the game was postponed.~Credit...Jasen Vinlove/USA Today
Sports, via Reuters

After a Mets player and a staff member tested positive for the
coronavirus, Major League Baseball postponed the team's game in Miami on
Thursday and the Friday opener of their series with the Yankees at Citi
Field. The Mets did not identify who tested positive but said both
people and anyone found to have been in close contact with them would
stay behind in Miami.

The Mets said the rest of the team would fly back to New York on
Thursday night, following safety and testing protocols.

The Mets become the fourth M.L.B. team to have a player test positive
since the truncated season began on July 23. The Miami Marlins and the
St. Louis Cardinals have had large-scale outbreaks (20 overall positive
cases for the Marlins, 18 for the Cardinals), and the Cincinnati Reds
had one positive test last Saturday. The Marlins missed a week of games,
the Cardinals missed two weeks, and the Reds had three postponements.

M.L.B. did not issue all of those postponements at once; in each case,
the teams had a longer break than the league initially announced. Based
on those precedents, it is safe to wonder if any of the Subway Series
games against the Yankees will be played this weekend.

The Mets were not the only team affected by the virus on Thursday. The
Pittsburgh Pirates' president, Travis Williams, announced that he had
tested positive but had not had recent contact with players, coaches or
the baseball operations staff.

\hypertarget{an-outbreak-at-a-christmas-tree-farm-underlines-the-danger-the-virus-poses-to-seasonal-farmworkers}{%
\subsection{An outbreak at a Christmas tree farm underlines the danger
the virus poses to seasonal
farmworkers.}\label{an-outbreak-at-a-christmas-tree-farm-underlines-the-danger-the-virus-poses-to-seasonal-farmworkers}}

At a Christmas tree farm in Sparta, N.C., a coronavirus outbreak has now
infected 112 workers.

A spokesperson for the farm, which also harvests a variety of produce,
said that the company was ``providing protective equipment, performing
symptom screenings and testing, and training about how to avoid the
spread of Covid-19'' while working with the local health agency to
coordinate testing.

Justin Flores, the vice president of the Farm Labor Organizing
Committee, North Carolina's only farmworker union, said about 360
workers on the farm came from Mexico through the H-2A visa, a seasonal
guest-worker program. They live in close quarters, he noted, similar to
military barracks --- possibly contributing to the spread of the virus.

``You're sharing with dozens of co-workers, bathrooms and kitchens and
things like that,'' Mr. Flores said.

Across the country, outbreaks have threatened agriculture workers. In
Florida, a watermelon farm in Alachua County that tested 100 workers
after a sick laborer arrived from Miami-Dade County found
\href{https://slack-redir.net/link?url=https\%3A\%2F\%2Fwww.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion\%2F2020\%2F06\%2F18\%2Fus\%2Fflorida-coronavirus-immokalee-farmworkers.html}{90
cases}. At a clinic in
\href{https://slack-redir.net/link?url=https\%3A\%2F\%2Fwww.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion\%2F2020\%2F07\%2F05\%2Fnyregion\%2Fnj-migrant-workers-covid-19.html}{Bridgeton,
N.J.}, 18 percent of the 200 farmworkers tested in May were positive for
the virus, a doctor said.

Mr. Flores noted that many of the cases at Bottomley are asymptomatic.

For many farmworkers on an H-2A visa, stopping work --- even when sick
--- isn't really an option, he said.

``Just like all essential workers, this idea that the responsible thing
is to stay home and not go to work --- there's obvious economic
challenges,'' Mr. Flores said. ``You need to get to work.''

\begin{quote}
\end{quote}

\hypertarget{new-york-will-allow-voters-to-cast-mail-in-ballots}{%
\subsection{New York will allow voters to cast mail-in
ballots.}\label{new-york-will-allow-voters-to-cast-mail-in-ballots}}

Image

Absentee ballots for New York's primary being counted in
July.Credit...Victor J. Blue for The New York Times

New York State will allow most voters
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/20/nyregion/vote-by-mail-new-york.html}{to
cast their ballots by mail} in the November general election, joining
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/11/us/politics/vote-by-mail-us-states.html}{a
growing list of states} that have expanded mail-in voting to address the
potential spread of the virus at polling places.

The governor
\href{https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/bills/2019/s8015}{signed a
bill} on Thursday allowing voters to request an absentee ballot if they
cannot show up at a polling location because of the risk of contracting
or spreading an illness, effectively permitting the state's more than
\href{https://www.elections.ny.gov/NYSBOE/enrollment/county/county_feb19.pdf}{12
million registered voters} to vote by mail.

The challenges of administering an election predominantly by mail will
be especially pronounced in New York, following the state's
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/17/nyregion/election-absentee-ballots-primary.html}{uneven
handling} of its primary just two months ago. To ease the blow of an
influx of mail-in ballots, officials are encouraging voters to cast
their ballots in person at
\href{https://newyork.cbslocal.com/2020/08/19/nyc-early-voting/}{early
polling sites}, which open statewide on Oct. 24.

Absentee ballots will not be mailed automatically to voters in New York;
voters will have to request a mail-in ballot online, over the phone, in
person or by mail. The
\href{https://www.elections.ny.gov/votingdeadlines.html}{deadline to
apply} by mail is Oct. 27, although officials are urging voters not to
wait until the last minute. Ballots need to be postmarked by Election
Day.

Election officials are encouraging voters to apply for a ballot online,
rather than by mail, to expedite the process of mailing ballots to
voters. The state's Board of Elections is expected to unveil an online
portal by the end of the month.

\hypertarget{north-korea-admits-that-the-pandemic-hurt-its-economic-plans}{%
\subsection{North Korea admits that the pandemic hurt its economic
plans.}\label{north-korea-admits-that-the-pandemic-hurt-its-economic-plans}}

Image

Kim Jong-un, the leader of North Korea, in a photograph released by the
state news agency on Wednesday.Credit...Korean Central News Agency, via
Reuters

North Korea said on Thursday that the triple punches of the pandemic,
international sanctions and flood damage had
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/19/world/asia/north-korea-economy-coronavirus.html}{significantly
delayed plans to improve the country's economy}.

During a meeting in Pyongyang, the capital, the Central Committee of the
Workers' Party attributed the delay to ``severe internal and external
situations and unexpected manifold challenges,'' and noted that people's
living standards had ``not been improved remarkably.''

The assessment was an unusual admission by the isolated country that its
economic plans had faltered.

In 2016, when Mr. Kim adopted his economic plan, the North's economy
grew 3.9 percent, the highest since a devastating famine hit the country
in the late 1990s, according to estimates by South Korea's central bank,
the Bank of Korea.

But as the United Nations tightened sanctions, the North's economy
shrank 4.1 percent in 2018, with its exports to China plummeting 86
percent.

North Korea's economy recovered slightly last year, growing 0.4 percent,
as Pyongyang invented ways of easing the pain of the sanctions, such as
smuggling banned cargo
\href{http://vod.kbs.co.kr/index.html?source=episode\&sname=vod\&stype=vod\&program_code=T2011-1097\&program_id=PS-2019197532-01-000\&section_code=05\&broadcast_complete_yn=N\&local_station_code=00\&section_sub_code=06}{across
the Chinese border} or between ships
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/01/18/world/asia/north-korea-oil-smuggling.html}{on
the high seas}.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{}

\hypertarget{the-coronavirus-outbreak-}{%
\subsubsection{The Coronavirus Outbreak
›}\label{the-coronavirus-outbreak-}}

\hypertarget{frequently-asked-questions}{%
\paragraph{Frequently Asked
Questions}\label{frequently-asked-questions}}

Updated August 17, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{why-does-standing-six-feet-away-from-others-help}{%
  \paragraph{Why does standing six feet away from others
  help?}\label{why-does-standing-six-feet-away-from-others-help}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    The coronavirus spreads primarily through droplets from your mouth
    and nose, especially when you cough or sneeze. The C.D.C., one of
    the organizations using that measure,
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/14/health/coronavirus-six-feet.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{bases
    its recommendation of six feet} on the idea that most large droplets
    that people expel when they cough or sneeze will fall to the ground
    within six feet. But six feet has never been a magic number that
    guarantees complete protection. Sneezes, for instance, can launch
    droplets a lot farther than six feet,
    \href{https://jamanetwork.com/journals/jama/fullarticle/2763852}{according
    to a recent study}. It's a rule of thumb: You should be safest
    standing six feet apart outside, especially when it's windy. But
    keep a mask on at all times, even when you think you're far enough
    apart.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{i-have-antibodies-am-i-now-immune}{%
  \paragraph{I have antibodies. Am I now
  immune?}\label{i-have-antibodies-am-i-now-immune}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    As of right
    now,\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/22/health/covid-antibodies-herd-immunity.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{that
    seems likely, for at least several months.} There have been
    frightening accounts of people suffering what seems to be a second
    bout of Covid-19. But experts say these patients may have a
    drawn-out course of infection, with the virus taking a slow toll
    weeks to months after initial exposure. People infected with the
    coronavirus typically
    \href{https://www.nature.com/articles/s41586-020-2456-9}{produce}
    immune molecules called antibodies, which are
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/07/health/coronavirus-antibody-prevalence.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{protective
    proteins made in response to an
    infection}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/07/health/coronavirus-antibody-prevalence.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{.
    These antibodies may} last in the body
    \href{https://www.nature.com/articles/s41591-020-0965-6}{only two to
    three months}, which may seem worrisome, but that's perfectly normal
    after an acute infection subsides, said Dr. Michael Mina, an
    immunologist at Harvard University. It may be possible to get the
    coronavirus again, but it's highly unlikely that it would be
    possible in a short window of time from initial infection or make
    people sicker the second time.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{im-a-small-business-owner-can-i-get-relief}{%
  \paragraph{I'm a small-business owner. Can I get
  relief?}\label{im-a-small-business-owner-can-i-get-relief}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    The
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/small-business-loans-stimulus-grants-freelancers-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{stimulus
    bills enacted in March} offer help for the millions of American
    small businesses. Those eligible for aid are businesses and
    nonprofit organizations with fewer than 500 workers, including sole
    proprietorships, independent contractors and freelancers. Some
    larger companies in some industries are also eligible. The help
    being offered, which is being managed by the Small Business
    Administration, includes the Paycheck Protection Program and the
    Economic Injury Disaster Loan program. But lots of folks have
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/05/07/business/small-business-loans-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{not
    yet seen payouts.} Even those who have received help are confused:
    The rules are draconian, and some are stuck sitting on
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/02/business/economy/loans-coronavirus-small-business.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{money
    they don't know how to use.} Many small-business owners are getting
    less than they expected or
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/10/business/Small-business-loans-ppp.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{not
    hearing anything at all.}
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{what-are-my-rights-if-i-am-worried-about-going-back-to-work}{%
  \paragraph{What are my rights if I am worried about going back to
  work?}\label{what-are-my-rights-if-i-am-worried-about-going-back-to-work}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Employers have to provide
    \href{https://www.osha.gov/SLTC/covid-19/standards.html}{a safe
    workplace} with policies that protect everyone equally.
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/coronavirus-money-unemployment.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{And
    if one of your co-workers tests positive for the coronavirus, the
    C.D.C.} has said that
    \href{https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/community/guidance-business-response.html}{employers
    should tell their employees} -\/- without giving you the sick
    employee's name -\/- that they may have been exposed to the virus.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{what-is-school-going-to-look-like-in-september}{%
  \paragraph{What is school going to look like in
  September?}\label{what-is-school-going-to-look-like-in-september}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    It is unlikely that many schools will return to a normal schedule
    this fall, requiring the grind of
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/05/us/coronavirus-education-lost-learning.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{online
    learning},
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/29/us/coronavirus-child-care-centers.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{makeshift
    child care} and
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/03/business/economy/coronavirus-working-women.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{stunted
    workdays} to continue. California's two largest public school
    districts --- Los Angeles and San Diego --- said on July 13, that
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/13/us/lausd-san-diego-school-reopening.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{instruction
    will be remote-only in the fall}, citing concerns that surging
    coronavirus infections in their areas pose too dire a risk for
    students and teachers. Together, the two districts enroll some
    825,000 students. They are the largest in the country so far to
    abandon plans for even a partial physical return to classrooms when
    they reopen in August. For other districts, the solution won't be an
    all-or-nothing approach.
    \href{https://bioethics.jhu.edu/research-and-outreach/projects/eschool-initiative/school-policy-tracker/}{Many
    systems}, including the nation's largest, New York City, are
    devising
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/26/us/coronavirus-schools-reopen-fall.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{hybrid
    plans} that involve spending some days in classrooms and other days
    online. There's no national policy on this yet, so check with your
    municipal school system regularly to see what is happening in your
    community.
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

But this year, the coronavirus forced the country to shut down the
border with China, which had accounted for more than 90 percent of the
North's external trade. North Korea's exports to China fell to \$27
million in the first half of this year, a 75 percent drop from a year
earlier, according to the Korea Institute for National Unification in
Seoul. Imports from China dropped 67 percent, to \$380 million.

\hypertarget{hit-early-and-hard-by-the-virus-iran-is-in-the-middle-of-a-second-wave}{%
\subsection{Hit early and hard by the virus, Iran is in the middle of a
second
wave.}\label{hit-early-and-hard-by-the-virus-iran-is-in-the-middle-of-a-second-wave}}

Iran's health ministry announced Wednesday that
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/aponline/2020/08/19/world/middleeast/ap-ml-virus-outbreak-mideast.html}{it
had reached 20,000 deaths from the virus}, but health experts inside and
outside Iran --- and even members of the Iranian Parliament --- suggest
that the number may be many times higher.

To understand what's going on, Farnaz Fassihi, who covers Iran for The
Times, answered some pressing questions and painted a picture of an
outbreak still out of control.

\begin{quote}
\textbf{What's the situation in the country?}

It's very bad. It's in the thick of a second surge worse than the first
one in March. The majority of provinces, including the capital, Tehran,
are ``red zones.'' Doctors are saying hospitals and I.C.U. beds are
full. At the same time, there are some restrictions for public
gatherings but, generally, it's open for business.

\textbf{Even by the government's own numbers, cases are on the rise.
What happened?}

They opened too soon. When the virus first arrived in the country, they
closed down for just two weeks during the New Year holiday in mid-March.
They didn't meet any of the benchmarks when they reopened. There's no
contact tracing. There's no quarantine.

\textbf{What are Iranians feeling?}

In the early months, people were very scared. They were self-isolating
and staying home and not sending their kids to school, even when the
schools were still open. But I think as time has passed, like a lot of
places, we see that people are becoming more reckless.

There's also a nuanced dynamic here. This is a government that for 40
years has told people what to do, how to dress, how to behave --- and
many people's mind-set is to always defy what the government says. So
now, when there's a pandemic, and the government tells them, ``Stay
home, wear a mask,'' they're like: ``No. We don't trust you. And you
don't tell us what to do.''

And so for Iran, I think the challenge to contain a pandemic may be
greater than it is for other countries because the government is dealing
with 70 million people whose default mode is to defy it.
\end{quote}

\hypertarget{the-us-virgin-islands-halts-tourism-as-cases-surge}{%
\subsection{The U.S. Virgin Islands halts tourism as cases
surge.}\label{the-us-virgin-islands-halts-tourism-as-cases-surge}}

The U.S. Virgin Islands is halting visits by tourists for a month,
shutting nonessential businesses and restoring stay-at-home orders,
while struggling with some of the highest per capita case numbers in the
United States.

The territory, which includes the Caribbean islands of St. Croix, St.
John and St. Thomas, registered 165 cases over the last seven days as of
Thursday, bringing the total number of cases to 869.

Those figures position the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html}{U.S.
Virgin Islands behind only Texas} in the ranking of states and
territories where per capita cases are climbing fastest. The territory,
whose economy relies heavily on tourism, had reopened for leisure
visitors on June 1.

Gov. Albert Bryan Jr. announced last week that as of Wednesday, hotels
and Airbnb operators would be prohibited from accepting new guests for
30 days. Mr. Bryan also ordered bars, nightclubs and cabarets to shut
down until Aug. 31.

The territory, which has 103,000 residents, was already trying to bounce
back after being hit in 2017 by two Category 5 storms, Irma and Maria.
Tourism, which accounts for a third of the U.S. Virgin Islands economy,
is the territory's largest source of employment.

\hypertarget{some-public-health-information-exceeded-recommended-reading-levels-a-study-finds}{%
\subsection{Some public health information exceeded recommended reading
levels, a study
finds.}\label{some-public-health-information-exceeded-recommended-reading-levels-a-study-finds}}

Image

The British government's slogan ``Stay Alert, Control The Virus, Save
Lives'' was displayed on the BT Tower in London in May.Credit...Mary
Turner for The New York Times

Throughout the pandemic, coronavirus-related slogans have been
everywhere.

In Britain: ``Stay alert. Control the virus. Save lives.''

The French issued a similar plea: ``Save lives. Stay prudent.''

In the Netherlands, the government has urged people to act ``together
against Corona'' and talked about an ``intelligent lockdown.''

They're not just catchy phrases in a time of crisis. They make a
difference, and they should be readily understandable for people of all
reading levels.

A
\href{https://jamanetwork.com/journals/jamanetworkopen/fullarticle/2769382}{study
by the JAMA Network} that looked at the language used in April about the
pandemic on websites of international agencies as well as the
governments of 15 countries found that in most cases, the language
exceeded the recommended eighth-grade reading level, using complex
syntax and technical terms.

All of the websites in the study --- including those of the
\href{https://www.cdc.gov/}{Centers for Disease Control and Prevention},
the
\href{https://covid19.who.int/?gclid=EAIaIQobChMIpevM0cup6wIVOQiICR0tAQ2HEAAYASAAEgJMSfD_BwE}{World
Health Organization}, and governments around the world --- shared at
least some information that exceeded the recommended reading level,
according to the study.

Not adhering to readability standards could have a bigger influence on
communities with lower health literacy, the study found, ``potentially
exacerbating the disparate effects of the pandemic.''

As a result, the study concluded that governments and institutions
should ``focus on the urgent development of plain-language Covid-19
resources that conform to established guidelines for clear communication
and are more accessible to all audiences.''

Of those websites the JAMA Network examined, the information from the
Netherlands used the most accessible language overall, while Italy used
the most complex.

\hypertarget{i-just-dont-know-if-i-can-do-it-alone-school-nurses-are-a-rarity-in-some-places-in-the-us}{%
\subsection{`I just don't know if I can do it alone': School nurses are
a rarity in some places in the
U.S.}\label{i-just-dont-know-if-i-can-do-it-alone-school-nurses-are-a-rarity-in-some-places-in-the-us}}

Image

Janna Benzel, the sole nurse for her school district in central
Washington State, worries how she will be able to handle the dangers and
safety measures of the virus on top of her normal
responsibilities.Credit...Ruth Fremson/The New York Times

School nurses were already in short supply in the United States, with
less than 40 percent of schools employing one full-time before the
pandemic. Now those overburdened health care specialists
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/20/us/schools-reopening-nurses-covid.html}{are
finding themselves on the front lines of a risky, high-stakes
experiment} in protecting public health as districts reopen their doors
amid spiking caseloads in many parts of the country.

The American Association of Pediatrics recommends that every school have
a nurse on site. But before the outbreak, according to the
\href{https://higherlogicdownload.s3.amazonaws.com/NASN/3870c72d-fff9-4ed7-833f-215de278d256/UploadedImages/PDFs/Advocacy/2017_Workforce_Study_Infographic_School_Nurses_in_the_Nation.pdf}{National
Association of School Nurses}, a quarter of American schools did not
have one at all. And there has been no national effort to provide
districts with new resources for hiring them, although some states have
\href{http://pulse.ncpolicywatch.org/2020/08/12/federal-funds-set-to-pay-for-more-school-nurses-counselors-social-workers-and-psychologists/}{tapped
federal relief funds}.

Washington State is one of the places where nurses are a rarity in
school hallways, with only 7 percent of schools employing one full-time,
and nearly 30 percent of districts having one available for six hours or
less per week. As the lone nurse for her school district in central
Washington State, Janna Benzel will monitor 1,800 students for virus
symptoms when classrooms open later this month, on top of her normal
responsibilities like managing allergies, distributing medications and
writing hundreds of immunization plans.

``I'll have to go to these schools and assess every sniffle and sneeze
that could potentially be a positive case,'' she said. ``I just don't
know if I can do it alone.''

In some places, administrators have been scrambling to get more nurses
into schools before the academic year. New York City, the nation's
largest district and one of the few big cities in the country still
planning to physically reopen its schools on the first day back,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/05/nyregion/nyc-schools-reopening.html}{went
on a hiring spree} after the city's powerful teachers' union said their
members should not return to classrooms without a nurse in each of the
city's roughly 1,300 school buildings.

Mayor Bill de Blasio said last week that the city had finally secured
enough nurses to fulfill that demand, less than a month before the
scheduled start of in-person instruction.

\hypertarget{researchers-are-testing-an-experimental-drug-to-halt-sudden-outbreaks-in-us-nursing-homes}{%
\subsection{Researchers are testing an experimental drug to halt sudden
outbreaks in U.S. nursing
homes.}\label{researchers-are-testing-an-experimental-drug-to-halt-sudden-outbreaks-in-us-nursing-homes}}

Image

A monoclonal antibody clinical trial site for Regeneron and Eli Lilly in
Mesa, Ariz.Credit...Adriana Zehbrauskas for The New York Times

Nursing home residents make up just 1.2 percent of the U.S. population,
but
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-nursing-homes.html}{they
account for about 40 percent of Covid-19 deaths.}

But when the virus crept into Heartland Health Care Center in Moline,
Ill., on the last day of July, the nursing home was not defenseless.
Heartland was the first facility to participate in a large clinical
trial of a drug that might protect residents from the infection in
nursing homes and assisted living facilities.

Drug companies and the federal government often avoid testing drugs in
older people, even if they are the ones who need treatment most. The
elderly may have a range of complicating conditions that make it
difficult to tell if the drug is working, and nursing home and extended
care facilities are governed by a raft of complex regulations regarding
privacy and access.

Experts say the new research, sponsored by Eli Lilly and the National
Institutes of Health, is among the first large clinical trials to
involve nursing home residents. And the scientists are delighted.

``These patients are so underserved,'' said Dr. Rebecca Boxer, medical
director of clinical trials at the Kaiser Permanente Institute for
Health Research in Colorado. ``They do not get access to innovative new
drugs and trials.''

The experimental drug is a monoclonal antibody, an artificially
synthesized version of coronavirus antibodies produced by the body. In
this case, the antibody was ``cloned'' from those found in the blood of
a Seattle man, one of the first patients to survive Covid-19.

Monoclonal antibodies are one of the great hopes in the war on the
virus. They already serve as the basis for effective treatments for
arthritis, cancer, lupus --- even Ebola. They are difficult to
manufacture, however, and expensive.

Still, two companies, Regeneron and Eli Lilly, have forged ahead with
clinical trials. The trial in nursing homes is pivotal to Eli Lilly's
effort to determine whether its version can stop the coronavirus.

\hypertarget{southern-india-emerges-as-a-hotbed-for-new-infections-in-the-country}{%
\subsection{Southern India emerges as a hotbed for new infections in the
country.}\label{southern-india-emerges-as-a-hotbed-for-new-infections-in-the-country}}

Image

A crowded market in Chennai, in southeastern India, last
month.Credit...Arun Sankar/Agence France-Presse --- Getty Images

India's coronavirus crisis is now spreading to the hinterlands along its
southern coastline.

The country recorded at least 69,000 new cases on Wednesday, its largest
daily caseload of the pandemic, and nearly a thousand deaths, according
to a
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/world/asia/india-coronavirus-cases.html}{New
York Times database} and the ministry of health. The South Indian states
of Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka and Tamil Nadu now account for nearly a
third of new cases in the country.

After nearly three months in lockdown, millions of migrant workers, who
over the years had gravitated to jobs in the cities, have recently been
pouring back into the countryside. Many of them have become carriers of
the virus, epidemiologists say.

Officials in Andhra Pradesh state, which has a total of 316,003 cases,
one of the highest in the country, said fishermen arriving from the
neighboring state of Tamil Nadu also contributed to the high case
numbers, \href{https://www.bbc.com/news/world-asia-india-53674855}{the
BBC reported}.

Monsoon rains have forced thousands of people in villages to seek
shelter in cramped spaces, often shared by several others.

India has the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/world/coronavirus-maps.html}{world's
third-highest caseload} after the United States and Brazil, but the
actual numbers are thought to be much higher because of limited testing
and contact tracing.

``The number of cases which we are reporting are only the tip of the
iceberg,'' said Dr. Jayaprakash Muliyil, a former professor at the
Christian Medical College in Vellore, and a member of the national
Covid-19 task force.

Despite the surge in cases, B. S. Yediyurappa, the chief minister of the
southern state of Karnataka,
\href{https://twitter.com/CMofKarnataka/status/1295608792378273792}{announced
this week} that his government would allow gatherings of up to 20 people
for an upcoming Hindu festival because of the ``religious sentiments''
of its people. Mr. Yediyurappa tested positive for the virus this month.

\hypertarget{italy-wants-its-tourists-back-unless-they-sit-on-the-statues}{%
\subsection{Italy wants its tourists back, unless they sit on the
statues.}\label{italy-wants-its-tourists-back-unless-they-sit-on-the-statues}}

Image

St. Mark's Square in Venice, a city that is usually swarmed with
tourists.Credit...Alessandro Grassani for The New York Times

German \href{https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dOfUmHXjXqg}{tourists took
an unauthorized dip} in the Grand Canal in Venice, under the Rialto
Bridge. An Austrian tourist
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/06/arts/tourist-breaks-sculptures-toes.html?searchResultPosition=1}{broke
the toe} of a plaster statue of Napoleon's sister while posing for a
photograph at a museum in northern Italy. A French tourist was caught
red-handed using a black felt-tip pen to immortalize her stay in
Florence on the city's famed Ponte Vecchio.

Now, Italian officials have set their sights on a young woman who took a
selfie standing atop some newly reopened thermal baths in Pompeii, the
fragile archaeological site.

The pandemic may have
\href{https://www.confcommercio.it/-/niente-turisti-stranieri-crolla-lusso}{crushed
the tourism industry in Italy} this year --- delivering a
\href{https://ec.europa.eu/growth/tools-databases/vto/content/oecd-tourism-trends-and-policies-2018-italy}{significant
blow} to the country's economy --- but Italians say that should not give
tourists who do come a free pass
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/19/world/europe/italy-vandalism-tourism.html}{to
run amok among the country's cultural treasures}.

``There's a question of vigilance, but also of the unpreparedness of
visitors,'' read an editorial published on Tuesday in the Rome daily La
Repubblica. ``What happened in Pompeii shows that the path to educating
those who visit museums is still dotted with difficulties and unforeseen
events,'' a nod to countless episodes of vandalism and damage caused to
cultural treasures by visiting tourists.

Lawmakers in the lower house of Parliament introduced
\href{http://documenti.camera.it/leg18/pdl/pdf/leg.18.pdl.camera.2571.18PDL0107250.pdf}{a
bill} last month that would toughen penalties for those convicted of
destroying Italy's artistic patrimony. Culture Minister Dario
Franceschini has been trying to put such a law on the books
\href{https://storico.beniculturali.it/mibac/export/MiBAC/sito-MiBAC/Contenuti/MibacUnif/Comunicati/visualizza_asset.html_1253809747.html}{since
2016}, but has not managed to get approval from both houses of
Parliament.

\hypertarget{movers-in-nyc-are-so-busy-theyre-turning-people-away}{%
\subsection{Movers in N.Y.C. are so busy they're turning people
away.}\label{movers-in-nyc-are-so-busy-theyre-turning-people-away}}

Image

According to NYC Great Movers, as many as 70 percent of its moving jobs
are headed out of state or into storage.Credit...OK McCausland for The
New York Times

While the moving industry is fractured among numerous small-business
owners, and official statistics are tough to come by, one thing is
clear: From professionals who are downsizing following a job loss, to
students moving back in with their parents, to families fleeing the city
for the suburbs,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/20/nyregion/moving-new-york-coronavirus.html}{New
Yorkers are changing their addresses in droves}.

According to FlatRate Moving, the number of moves it has done has
increased more than 46 percent between March 15 and Aug. 15, compared
with the same period last year. The number of those moving outside of
New York City is up 50 percent --- including a nearly 232 percent
increase to Dutchess County and 116 percent increase to Ulster County in
the Hudson Valley.

``It felt like move-out day on a college campus,'' said Bobby DelGreco,
who recently vacated his apartment in Stuyvesant Town after nine years
and is now living in a long-term Airbnb in Los Angeles. ``All the doors
were propped open, and there were moving trucks and furniture
everywhere.''

Matt Jahn, who owns the Brooklyn-based Metropolis Moving, said he has
been inundated with customer requests. It's more demand than he can
handle. ``We are turning people away because we just don't have the
capacity,'' he said.

It certainly didn't start out this way. In mid-March, when the grim
realities of the virus became clear, moving companies braced for a slow
season. ``Right in the beginning, we weren't sure if we were allowed to
work, and a lot of businesses were in limbo,'' said Daniel Norber, the
owner of Imperial Movers, based in the West Village. ``Everyone was
wondering if they should close shop.''

But later that month, the governor announced that moving was considered
an essential service. ``Within 30 minutes of the announcement I got a
flood of calls,'' Mr. Jahn said. Business hasn't slowed since, and
movers expect the trend to continue through the fall.

\hypertarget{led-by-harris-and-obama-democrats-continue-attacks-on-trumps-handling-of-the-pandemic}{%
\subsection{Led by Harris and Obama, Democrats continue attacks on
Trump's handling of the
pandemic.}\label{led-by-harris-and-obama-democrats-continue-attacks-on-trumps-handling-of-the-pandemic}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/09/19/us/politics/19vid-dnc-highlights-1/19vid-dnc-highlights-1-videoSixteenByNine3000-v4.jpg}

Senator Kamala Harris of California, who
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/19/us/politics/democratic-national-convention-recap.html}{was
formally nominated for the vice presidency} on Wednesday, was among the
Democratic leaders who sharply criticized President Trump's handling of
the coronavirus pandemic during the third night of their party's
national convention.

Ms. Harris, who became the first woman of color on a major party's
ticket, said that Mr. Trump's ``failure of leadership has cost lives and
livelihoods.''

``If you are a parent struggling with your child's remote learning, or
you are a teacher, struggling on the other side of that screen, you know
what we're doing right now is not working,'' she added.

The night also featured a striking repudiation of Mr. Trump by former
President Barack Obama, a break with the presidential custom of not
criticizing a successor by name.

``Donald Trump hasn't grown into the job, because he can't,'' Mr. Obama
said, growing emotional at points as he talked about the challenges
facing the country and democracy. ``The consequences of that failure are
severe. 170,000 Americans dead. Millions of jobs gone.''

Mr. Obama also said Joseph R. Biden Jr. and Ms. Harris understand that
``our ability to work together to solve big problems like a pandemic
depends on a fidelity to facts and science and logic, and not just
making stuff up.''

Senator Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts said that the coronavirus
crisis was ``on Donald Trump and the Republicans who enable him,'' and
that his administration would be held accountable in the November
election.

``Covid-19 was Trump's biggest test,'' Ms. Warren said. ``He failed
miserably.''

As of Thursday morning, the United States had the world's largest number
of both coronavirus cases, with at least 5.5 million, and deaths, with
at least 173,000,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html}{according
to a New York Times database}.

\hypertarget{religion-and-politics-collide-in-south-koreas-new-outbreak}{%
\subsection{Religion and politics collide in South Korea's new
outbreak.}\label{religion-and-politics-collide-in-south-koreas-new-outbreak}}

Image

Members of conservative and religious Christian groups during an
antigovernment rally in Seoul, South Korea, on Saturday.Credit...Ed
Jones/Agence France-Presse --- Getty Images

The Sarang Jeil Church in Seoul has been a magnet for thousands of
conservative Christians who fear South Korea is turning communist under
President Moon Jae-in.

But
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/20/world/asia/coronavirus-south-korea-church-sarang-jeil.html}{the
church's political crusade is now colliding with the pandemic}, as a
large outbreak centered on the church spreads through the capital,
Seoul, and beyond.

Members have recently participated in some of the largest antigovernment
protests that South Korea has seen in years, and many have contracted
the coronavirus.

In the past week, the outbreak has forced the church to shut down, and
its congregants to isolate themselves at home. The church's chief
pastor, the Rev. Jun Kwang-hoon, is among the infected.

The outbreak pushed South Korea's daily caseload to 288 on Thursday, the
seventh straight day of triple-digit jumps, which shattered hopes that
the country had managed to blunt the epidemic sooner than most nations.
It marked the biggest cluster of infections in South Korea since an
outbreak in
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/02/21/world/asia/south-korea-coronavirus-shincheonji.html?action=click\&module=RelatedLinks\&pgtype=Article}{the
Shincheonji Church of Jesus} in the central city of Daegu in February
and March was tied to 5,200 patients.

Mr. Moon has accused his most vocal critics of spreading the infectious
disease and putting the entire nation in danger --- a sentiment
widespread on social media.

Conservative activists have accused Mr. Moon of trying to scapegoat the
church to divert attention from his weak approval ratings.

Reporting was contributed by Sarah Almukhtar, Peter Baker, Alan Blinder,
Choe Sang-Hun, Emily Cochrane, Kimiko de Freytas-Tamura, Julia Echikson,
Nicholas Fandos, Richard Fausset, Luis Ferré-Sadurní, Robert Gebeloff,
Astead W. Herndon, Jan Hoffman, Sheila Kaplan, Josh Katz, Gina Kolata,
Hari Kumar, Danielle Ivory, Lisa Lerer, Dan Levin, Denise Lu, Tiffany
May, Patricia Mazzei, Zachary Montague, **** Claire Moses, Eric
Nagourney, Richard C. Paddock, Elisabetta Povoledo, Frances Robles,
Simon Romero, Margot Sanger-Katz, Julie Satow, Nelson D. Schwartz, Karan
Deep Singh, Sheryl Gay Stolberg, Marina Varenikova, Jonathan Wolfe and
Lauren Wolfe.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
