Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/us}{U.S.}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/us}{U.S.}\textbar{}How Accurate Are Virus Tests? Ohio
Governor's Results Show Positives and Negatives

\href{https://nyti.ms/30FfU9L}{https://nyti.ms/30FfU9L}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/news-event/coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{The
Coronavirus Outbreak}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  live\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/08/world/coronavirus-updates.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Latest
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Maps
  and Cases}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Vaccine
  Tracker}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/world/coronavirus-tips-advice.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{F.A.Q.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/live/2020/08/07/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Markets
  \& Economy}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{how-accurate-are-virus-tests-ohio-governors-results-show-positives-and-negatives}{%
\section{How Accurate Are Virus Tests? Ohio Governor's Results Show
Positives and
Negatives}\label{how-accurate-are-virus-tests-ohio-governors-results-show-positives-and-negatives}}

With testing delays nationwide, experts are increasingly recommending a
new type of rapid test that gives less accurate results. It is
imperfect, but as one expert put it, ``pretty good is a lot better than
none.''

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/08/07/us/07virus-falsetest/merlin_175397583_d1017dc1-688b-4d65-b386-56dccfc71e9e-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/sarah-mervosh}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/07/18/multimedia/author-sarah-mervosh/author-sarah-mervosh-thumbLarge-v3.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/sarah-mervosh}{Sarah Mervosh}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Aug. 7, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Gov. Mike DeWine of Ohio received a
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/06/us/mike-dewine-coronavirus.html}{negative
coronavirus test result} on Thursday, hours after a positive test result
had stopped him from meeting with President Trump in Cleveland. The
contradictory results during a high-profile moment underscored the
challenges of testing, an issue that has repeatedly stymied the virus
response in the United States.

``I'm sure the internet is lighting up with, `Well, you can't believe
any test,''' Mr. DeWine, a Republican, said
\href{https://www.iheart.com/podcast/433-woody-the-wake-up-call-28200119/episode/governor-mike-dewine-talks-about-his-69800541/?autoplay=true}{during
an interview with 92.3 WCOL}, a Columbus radio station, on Friday.

``No one should take the results of this test and say, `Oh, none of
these numbers are right,''' he added. ``There is always a possibility
for error.''

At issue are two types of coronavirus tests that are increasingly taking
center stage as part of the virus response in the United States. As part
of a screening by the White House, Mr. DeWine first received an antigen
test, a newer type of test that provides faster results but is less
accurate than traditional laboratory testing. He was later tested using
a more standard procedure known as polymerase chain reaction, or P.C.R.,
an accurate but time-intensive method that requires samples to be
processed at a laboratory.

Widespread, fast testing is the cornerstone of any virus response and an
area where the United States has consistently fallen short. In order to
ramp up testing to a level needed to stop the spread of the virus,
experts are increasingly recommending a strategy that casts a wide net
with
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/06/health/rapid-Covid-tests.html}{widespread
adoption of faster, less accurate tests}. But that comes with drawbacks.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-the-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/07/world/covid-19-news.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: The Coronavirus
Outbreak}}{Latest Updates: The Coronavirus Outbreak}}\label{latest-updates-the-coronavirus-outbreak}}

Updated 2020-08-08T12:04:28.992Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/07/world/covid-19-news.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-1f86d03a}{As
  the U.S. relief talks falter again, Trump says he is prepared to act
  on his own.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/07/world/covid-19-news.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-3f64a70a}{Cuomo
  says N.Y. schools can reopen in-person but leaves it up to districts
  to determine if, when and how.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/07/world/covid-19-news.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-14e70066}{Thousands
  of cases went unreported in California when a computer server failed.}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/07/world/covid-19-news.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

More live coverage:
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/live/2020/08/07/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Markets}

To better understand the difference between the two types of tests and
the accuracy of testing overall, we spoke with Dr. Bill Miller, an
epidemiologist at the Ohio State University.

\hypertarget{what-is-the-difference-between-a-pcr-test-and-an-antigen-test}{%
\subsection{What is the difference between a P.C.R. test and an antigen
test?}\label{what-is-the-difference-between-a-pcr-test-and-an-antigen-test}}

A P.C.R. test is the test that is probably most familiar to Americans.
It involves taking a swab from a person's nose and sending the sample to
a laboratory to process.

The approach amplifies a sequence of nucleic acids in order to detect
tiny amounts of the virus. Because the process amplifies the sequence,
the test is highly accurate, but the results can take hours or days to
process. ``It allows you to get very high sensitivity, meaning most
people who have the virus who have a P.C.R. test are going to get
identified,'' Dr. Miller said.

But there have been problems with access to the tests. As cases spiked,
the demand overwhelmed laboratories, and shortages in the supply chain
meant many Americans had to wait days --- or even weeks --- for results.
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/04/us/virus-testing-delays.html}{The
delays render the tests largely useless}. Experts say results are needed
within 24 to 48 hours to effectively quarantine and contact trace. In
the United States, turnaround times are often stretching three to five
days, or more.

Antigen tests look for a protein that is a part of the virus. They can
also be done using a nasal swab, but can provide
\href{https://www.bd.com/en-us/offerings/capabilities/microbiology-solutions/point-of-care-testing/bd-veritor-sars-cov-2}{faster,
easy-to-decipher results}, similar to a pregnancy test.

Antigen tests can provide results in
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/06/health/fast-coronavirus-tests.html}{less
than an hour.} But because the process does not amplify particles, Dr.
Miller said ``the ability to detect the virus is lower by definition.''

\hypertarget{how-accurate-are-the-results}{%
\subsection{How accurate are the
results?}\label{how-accurate-are-the-results}}

All virus tests have the possibility of an inaccurate result. ``It is
just a fact of clinical testing,'' said Dr. Miller, who recommended
using common sense about the risk of exposure when evaluating unexpected
results.

But antigen tests are generally less sensitive and less accurate than
the traditional nasal swab, laboratory test. Interestingly, antigen
tests are more likely to produce false negatives --- missing someone who
has the virus --- than false positives, the opposite of what appears to
have happened to Mr. DeWine.

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/news-event/coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{}

\hypertarget{the-coronavirus-outbreak-}{%
\subsubsection{The Coronavirus Outbreak
â€º}\label{the-coronavirus-outbreak-}}

\hypertarget{frequently-asked-questions}{%
\paragraph{Frequently Asked
Questions}\label{frequently-asked-questions}}

Updated August 6, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{why-are-bars-linked-to-outbreaks}{%
  \paragraph{Why are bars linked to
  outbreaks?}\label{why-are-bars-linked-to-outbreaks}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Think about a bar. Alcohol is flowing. It can be loud, but it's
    definitely intimate, and you often need to lean in close to hear
    your friend. And strangers have way, way fewer reservations about
    coming up to people in a bar. That's sort of the point of a bar.
    Feeling good and close to strangers. It's no surprise, then, that
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/02/us/coronavirus-bars.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{bars
    have been linked to outbreaks in several states.} Louisiana health
    officials have tied
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/22/us/new-coronavirus-phase.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{at
    least 100 coronavirus cases} to bars in the Tigerland nightlife
    district in Baton Rouge. Minnesota has traced 328 recent cases to
    bars across the state.
    \href{https://www.boisestatepublicradio.org/post/bars-large-venues-close-ada-county-after-surge-coronavirus-prompts-rollback\#stream/0}{In
    Idaho}, health officials shut down bars in Ada County after
    reporting clusters of infections among young adults who had visited
    several bars in downtown Boise. Governors in
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/01/us/california-coronavirus-reopening.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{California},
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/14/us/coronavirus-united-states.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{Texas
    and Arizona}, where coronavirus cases are soaring, have ordered
    hundreds of newly reopened bars to shut down. Less than two weeks
    after Colorado's bars reopened at limited capacity, Gov. Jared Polis
    \href{https://www.denverpost.com/2020/06/30/colorado-bars-closed-coronavirus/}{ordered
    them to close}.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{i-have-antibodies-am-i-now-immune}{%
  \paragraph{I have antibodies. Am I now
  immune?}\label{i-have-antibodies-am-i-now-immune}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    As of right now,
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/22/health/covid-antibodies-herd-immunity.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{that
    seems likely, for at least several months.} There have been
    frightening accounts of people suffering what seems to be a second
    bout of Covid-19. But experts say these patients may have a
    drawn-out course of infection, with the virus taking a slow toll
    weeks to months after initial exposure. People infected with the
    coronavirus typically
    \href{https://www.nature.com/articles/s41586-020-2456-9}{produce}
    immune molecules called antibodies, which are
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/05/07/health/coronavirus-antibody-prevalence.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{protective
    proteins made in response to an
    infection}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/05/07/health/coronavirus-antibody-prevalence.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{.
    These antibodies may} last in the body
    \href{https://www.nature.com/articles/s41591-020-0965-6}{only two to
    three months}, which may seem worrisome, but that's perfectly normal
    after an acute infection subsides, said Dr. Michael Mina, an
    immunologist at Harvard University. It may be possible to get the
    coronavirus again, but it's highly unlikely that it would be
    possible in a short window of time from initial infection or make
    people sicker the second time.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{im-a-small-business-owner-can-i-get-relief}{%
  \paragraph{I'm a small-business owner. Can I get
  relief?}\label{im-a-small-business-owner-can-i-get-relief}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    The
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/small-business-loans-stimulus-grants-freelancers-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{stimulus
    bills enacted in March} offer help for the millions of American
    small businesses. Those eligible for aid are businesses and
    nonprofit organizations with fewer than 500 workers, including sole
    proprietorships, independent contractors and freelancers. Some
    larger companies in some industries are also eligible. The help
    being offered, which is being managed by the Small Business
    Administration, includes the Paycheck Protection Program and the
    Economic Injury Disaster Loan program. But lots of folks have
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/05/07/business/small-business-loans-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{not
    yet seen payouts.} Even those who have received help are confused:
    The rules are draconian, and some are stuck sitting on
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/05/02/business/economy/loans-coronavirus-small-business.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{money
    they don't know how to use.} Many small-business owners are getting
    less than they expected or
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/10/business/Small-business-loans-ppp.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{not
    hearing anything at all.}
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{what-are-my-rights-if-i-am-worried-about-going-back-to-work}{%
  \paragraph{What are my rights if I am worried about going back to
  work?}\label{what-are-my-rights-if-i-am-worried-about-going-back-to-work}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Employers have to provide
    \href{https://www.osha.gov/SLTC/covid-19/standards.html}{a safe
    workplace} with policies that protect everyone equally.
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/coronavirus-money-unemployment.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{And
    if one of your co-workers tests positive for the coronavirus, the
    C.D.C.} has said that
    \href{https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/community/guidance-business-response.html}{employers
    should tell their employees} -\/- without giving you the sick
    employee's name -\/- that they may have been exposed to the virus.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{what-is-school-going-to-look-like-in-september}{%
  \paragraph{What is school going to look like in
  September?}\label{what-is-school-going-to-look-like-in-september}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    It is unlikely that many schools will return to a normal schedule
    this fall, requiring the grind of
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/05/us/coronavirus-education-lost-learning.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{online
    learning},
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/05/29/us/coronavirus-child-care-centers.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{makeshift
    child care} and
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/03/business/economy/coronavirus-working-women.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{stunted
    workdays} to continue. California's two largest public school
    districts --- Los Angeles and San Diego --- said on July 13, that
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/13/us/lausd-san-diego-school-reopening.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{instruction
    will be remote-only in the fall}, citing concerns that surging
    coronavirus infections in their areas pose too dire a risk for
    students and teachers. Together, the two districts enroll some
    825,000 students. They are the largest in the country so far to
    abandon plans for even a partial physical return to classrooms when
    they reopen in August. For other districts, the solution won't be an
    all-or-nothing approach.
    \href{https://bioethics.jhu.edu/research-and-outreach/projects/eschool-initiative/school-policy-tracker/}{Many
    systems}, including the nation's largest, New York City, are
    devising
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/26/us/coronavirus-schools-reopen-fall.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{hybrid
    plans} that involve spending some days in classrooms and other days
    online. There's no national policy on this yet, so check with your
    municipal school system regularly to see what is happening in your
    community.
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Mr. DeWine is expected to be tested again on Saturday.

States are increasingly turning to antigen tests as part of a strategy
to ramp up testing. Mr. DeWine is part of a bipartisan group of
governors --- four Republicans and four Democrats --- who are
negotiating to purchase the tests from two medical companies, Becton,
Dickinson \& Company and the Quidel Corporation. The companies were the
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/06/health/fast-coronavirus-tests.html}{first
to receive emergency authorization} for antigen tests from the Food and
Drug Administration, but the tests could produce false negative results
between 15 and 20 percent of the time.

\hypertarget{if-the-results-are-not-always-accurate-why-are-experts-pushing-for-more-rapid-testing}{%
\subsection{If the results are not always accurate, why are experts
pushing for more rapid
testing?}\label{if-the-results-are-not-always-accurate-why-are-experts-pushing-for-more-rapid-testing}}

The United States is currently testing at a daily rate of 241 tests per
100,000 people,
\href{https://globalepidemics.org/july-6-2020-state-testing-targets/}{according
to an estimate by Harvard Global Health Institute}. By the same
estimate, the country would need 355 tests per 100,000 people to slow
the spread of the virus, and more than 1,000 tests per 100,000 people to
truly suppress the virus by detecting and responding to outbreaks as
they occur.

To ramp up enough testing, experts say the United States cannot rely on
traditional one-by-one laboratory tests alone.

Antigen tests offer one strategy that could prove useful for crowded
settings like nursing homes or schools. ``You have the advantage of
being able to quickly identify people who might be infected and getting
them isolated and separated,'' Dr. Miller said. ``Whereas where you have
to wait 48 or 72 hours for a test result to come back, you have that
window of time where people are often not fully isolated or
quarantined.''

In short, there are societal benefits to casting a wide net with faster,
less accurate tests, but it can cause confusion on a personal level, as
the DeWine case seems to show.

Speaking from his home in Cedarville, Ohio, on Friday, Mr. DeWine said
it had been ``quite a big shock'' to be told that he had tested
positive. He recalled that after receiving the news, he and his wife,
Fran, came back home. ``Fran fixed me some chicken and rice soup,'' he
said. ``She thought we were settled in for the long haul here.''

But by Thursday evening, he had received better news.

``The antigen tests do give us a cheap way to do a lot of tests that are
pretty good,'' Dr. Miller said. ``Pretty good is a lot better than none,
and it collectively gets us a lot closer to the goal of being able to
isolate and quarantine people when they need to be.''

Julie Bosman contributed reporting.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{Â©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
