<div id="mount">

<div>

</div>

<div class="sc-bQduHL bXpszt">

</div>

<div class="sc-MKjYC cQdLpS" data-mode="dark">

<div>

<div id="ad_bnr_atf_01" data-ad-branding="">

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="sc-eMRERa djiFqY">

</div>

<div class="sc-clBsIJ cuPHhx">

<div class="sc-jvEmr sc-jHZirH fdsbSU">

<div class="sc-fKGOjr sc-isBZXS hZsXqt">

<div class="sc-ekkqgF sc-dKEPtC EDUWb">

<div class="sc-emmjRN sc-jVODtj cIrqPj" size="40">

[World](/world)

</div>

<div class="sc-iBmynh sc-jHXLhC iUwkvy">

  - [Africa](/africa "visit the Africa section")
  - [Americas](/americas "visit the Americas section")
  - [Asia](/asia "visit the Asia section")
  - [Australia](/australia "visit the Australia section")
  - [China](/china "visit the China section")
  - [Europe](/europe "visit the Europe section")
  - [India](/india "visit the India section")
  - [Middle East](/middle-east "visit the Middle East section")
  - [United Kingdom](/uk "visit the United Kingdom section")

</div>

<div class="sc-eitiEO bEYCgK">

</div>

<div class="sc-iBmynh sc-iFUGim fKEDUf">

[![](//cdn.cnn.com/cnn/2019/images/03/20/live-story-status_dark.gif)<span class="sc-yZwTr iPqnQZ" data-font-weight="bold" data-test="livetv-copy" data-letter-spacing="1.5px" data-font-size="12">Live
TV</span>](http://cnn.it/go2)

</div>

<div class="sc-iBmynh sc-jHXLhC hnAFXv">

<div id="edition-picker-desktop" class="sc-eInJlc sc-eIHaNI hgpUvm" open="false" tabindex="0">

<div id="edition-picker-toggle-desktop" class="sc-bEjcJn sc-keVrkP gykqGf" role="button">

<span class="sc-eKZiaR sc-gVLVqr dALnOT">Edition</span>

</div>

<div class="sc-eInJlc sc-dxZgTM RErCd">

  - [U.S.](//us.cnn.com?hpt=header?hpt=header_edition-picker)
  - [International](//edition.cnn.com?hpt=header?hpt=header_edition-picker)
  - [Arabic](//arabic.cnn.com?hpt=header?hpt=header_edition-picker)
  - [Español](//cnnespanol.cnn.com/?hpt=header?hpt=header_edition-picker)

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="sc-fKGOjr sc-isBZXS sc-dBAPYN jHIfzS" style="false:unset">

<div class="sc-ekkqgF sc-dvpmds fssmCT">

<div class="sc-eitiEO sc-fgrSAo EdgOC">

  - [Africa](/africa "visit the Africa section")
  - [Americas](/americas "visit the Americas section")
  - [Asia](/asia "visit the Asia section")
  - [Australia](/australia "visit the Australia section")
  - [China](/china "visit the China section")
  - [Europe](/europe "visit the Europe section")
  - [India](/india "visit the India section")
  - [Middle East](/middle-east "visit the Middle East section")
  - [United Kingdom](/uk "visit the United Kingdom section")

</div>

<div class="sc-eitiEO kLYiZi">

<div class="sc-gRnDUn cnrbQH">

Search

</div>

<div class="sc-cBdUnI bmGFGR">

</div>

<div class="sc-cBdUnI ftuZfv">

</div>

</div>

<div class="sc-eitiEO sc-fgrSAo fSxNGf">

<div id="edition-picker-mobile" class="sc-eInJlc sc-eIHaNI hgpUvm" open="false" tabindex="0">

<div id="edition-picker-toggle-mobile" class="sc-bEjcJn sc-keVrkP gykqGf" role="button">

<span class="sc-eKZiaR sc-gVLVqr dALnOT">Edition</span>

</div>

<div class="sc-eInJlc sc-dxZgTM RErCd">

  - [U.S.](//us.cnn.com?hpt=header?hpt=header_edition-picker)
  - [International](//edition.cnn.com?hpt=header?hpt=header_edition-picker)
  - [Arabic](//arabic.cnn.com?hpt=header?hpt=header_edition-picker)
  - [Español](//cnnespanol.cnn.com/?hpt=header?hpt=header_edition-picker)

</div>

</div>

-----

</div>

<div class="sc-eitiEO hzlkY">

  - [World](/world "visit the World section")
      - [Africa](/africa "visit the Africa section")
      - [Americas](/americas "visit the Americas section")
      - [Asia](/asia "visit the Asia section")
      - [Australia](/australia "visit the Australia section")
      - [China](/china "visit the China section")
      - [Europe](/europe "visit the Europe section")
      - [India](/india "visit the India section")
      - [Middle East](/middle-east "visit the Middle East section")
      - [United Kingdom](/uk "visit the United Kingdom section")
  - [US Politics](/politics "visit the US Politics section")
      - [2020
        Election](/election/2020 "visit the 2020 Election section")
      - [Donald
        Trump](/specials/politics/president-donald-trump-45 "visit the Donald Trump section")
      - [Supreme
        Court](/specials/politics/supreme-court-nine "visit the Supreme Court section")
      - [Congress](/specials/politics/congress "visit the Congress section")
      - [Facts
        First](/specials/politics/fact-check-politics "visit the Facts First section")
  - [Business](/business "visit the Business section")
      - [Markets](https://money.cnn.com/data/markets/ "visit the Markets section")
      - [Tech](/business/tech "visit the Tech section")
      - [Media](/business/media "visit the Media section")
      - [Success](/business/success "visit the Success section")
      - [Perspectives](/business/perspectives "visit the Perspectives section")
      - [Videos](/business/videos "visit the Videos section")
  - [Health](/health "visit the Health section")
      - [Food](/specials/health/food-diet "visit the Food section")
      - [Fitness](/specials/health/fitness-excercise "visit the Fitness section")
      - [Wellness](/specials/health/wellness "visit the Wellness section")
      - [Parenting](/specials/health/parenting "visit the Parenting section")
      - [Vital
        Signs](/specials/health/vital-signs "visit the Vital Signs section")
  - [Entertainment](/entertainment "visit the Entertainment section")
      - [Stars](/entertainment/celebrities "visit the Stars section")
      - [Screen](/entertainment/movies "visit the Screen section")
      - [Binge](/entertainment/tv-shows "visit the Binge section")
      - [Culture](/entertainment/culture "visit the Culture section")
      - [Media](/business/media "visit the Media section")
  - [Tech](/business/tech "visit the Tech section")
      - [Innovate](/specials/tech/innovate "visit the Innovate section")
      - [Gadget](/specials/tech/gadget "visit the Gadget section")
      - [Foreseeable
        Future](/specials/tech/foreseeable-future "visit the Foreseeable Future section")
      - [Mission:
        Ahead](/specials/tech/mission-ahead "visit the Mission: Ahead section")
      - [Upstarts](/specials/tech/upstarts "visit the Upstarts section")
      - [Work
        Transformed](/specials/tech/work-transformed "visit the Work Transformed section")
      - [Innovative
        Cities](/specials/tech/innovative-cities "visit the Innovative Cities section")
  - [Style](/style "visit the Style section")
      - [Arts](/style/arts "visit the Arts section")
      - [Design](/style/design "visit the Design section")
      - [Fashion](/style/fashion "visit the Fashion section")
      - [Architecture](/style/architecture "visit the Architecture section")
      - [Luxury](/style/luxury "visit the Luxury section")
      - [Beauty](/style/beauty "visit the Beauty section")
      - [Video](/style/videos "visit the Video section")
  - [Travel](/travel "visit the Travel section")
      - [Destinations](/travel/destinations "visit the Destinations section")
      - [Food and
        Drink](/travel/food-and-drink "visit the Food and Drink section")
      - [Stay](/travel/stay "visit the Stay section")
      - [News](/travel/news "visit the News section")
      - [Videos](/travel/videos "visit the Videos section")
  - [Sports](/sport "visit the Sports section")
      - [Football](/sport/football "visit the Football section")
      - [Tennis](/sport/tennis "visit the Tennis section")
      - [Equestrian](/sport/equestrian "visit the Equestrian section")
      - [Golf](/sport/golf "visit the Golf section")
      - [Skiing](/sport/skiing "visit the Skiing section")
      - [Horse
        Racing](/sport/horse-racing "visit the Horse Racing section")
      - [Motorsport](/sport/motorsport "visit the Motorsport section")
      - [Formula
        E](/specials/sport/formula-e "visit the Formula E section")
      - [Esports](/specials/esports "visit the Esports section")
  - [Videos](/videos "visit the Videos section")
      - [Live TV](//cnn.it/go2 "visit the Live TV  section")
      - [Digital
        Studios](/specials/digital-studios "visit the Digital Studios section")
      - [CNN
        Films](/specials/videos/digital-shorts "visit the CNN Films section")
      - [HLN](/specials/videos/hln "visit the HLN section")
      - [TV Schedule](/tv/schedule/cnn "visit the TV Schedule section")
      - [TV Shows
        A-Z](/specials/tv/all-shows "visit the TV Shows A-Z section")
      - [CNNVR](/vr "visit the CNNVR section")
  - [Features](/specials "visit the Features section")
      - [Call to
        Earth](/interactive/call-to-earth "visit the Call to Earth section")
      - [Freedom
        Project](/specials/world/freedom-project "visit the Freedom Project section")
      - [Impact Your
        World](/specials/impact-your-world "visit the Impact Your World section")
      - [Inside
        Africa](/specials/africa/inside-africa "visit the Inside Africa section")
      - [2
        Degrees](/specials/opinions/two-degrees "visit the 2 Degrees section")
      - [CNN
        Heroes](/specials/cnn-heroes "visit the CNN Heroes section")
      - [All Features](/specials "visit the All Features section")
  - [More](/more "visit the More section")
      - [Photos](/specials/photos "visit the Photos section")
      - [Longform](/specials/cnn-longform "visit the Longform section")
      - [Investigations](/specials/cnn-investigates "visit the Investigations section")
      - [CNN
        Profiles](/specials/profiles "visit the CNN Profiles section")
      - [CNN
        Leadership](/specials/more/cnn-leadership "visit the CNN Leadership section")
      - [CNN
        Newsletters](/email/subscription "visit the CNN Newsletters section")
      - [Work for
        CNN](https://www.turnerjobs.com/search-jobs?orgIds=1174&ac=19299 "visit the Work for CNN section")
  - [Weather](/weather "visit the Weather section")
      - [Climate](/specials/world/cnn-climate "visit the Climate section")
      - [Storm
        Tracker](/interactive/2020/weather/gonzalo-storm-path-tracker/index.html "visit the Storm Tracker section")
      - [Video](/specials/weather/weather-video "visit the Video section")

</div>

<div class="sc-iBmynh sc-bOCYYb jnCLQQ">

-----

<div class="sc-cJOK sc-kNBZmU jGYIFB" data-test="social-follow-bar">

<span class="sc-elNKlv bjjDlM" data-font-weight="bold" data-test="follow-text" data-font-size="12" data-letter-spacing="1.5">Follow
CNN </span>

<div class="sc-ejGVNB sc-eNNmBn geWzji" data-mode="dark">

</div>

  - 
  - 
  - 

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="sc-fAfrNB jwBWFS">

</div>

<div>

</div>

<div class="sc-iUpOdG iXaRuj">

<div class="Box-sc-1fet97o-0 cOxGLR">

<div class="Box-sc-1fet97o-0 pageTopstyles__PageTopWrapper-sc-1a1dxnt-0 jkNrgG" data-mode="light">

<div class="ls-pagetop pageTopstyles__PageTopContainer-sc-1a1dxnt-1 iMzvDD">

<div class="ddd0e023">

</div>

<div class="content">

<div class="headline">

# August 6 coronavirus news

<div class="Text-sc-1amvtpj-0 headlinestyles__Byline-sc-1adkb1y-2 bmWwCl">

By [Jessie Yeung](/profiles/jessie-yeung), Adam Renton, [Meg
Wagner](/profiles/meg-wagner) and Melissa Macaya, CNN

<div class="Text-sc-1amvtpj-0 gzMPPV">

<span>Updated</span> 8:33 p.m. ET, August 7, 2020

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div>

<div id="ad_ns_atf_01" data-ad-branding="">

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="_7eda40eb _34e5cb16 _4564d500">

## What you need to know

<div class="Box-sc-1fet97o-0 post-content-rendered render-stellar-contentstyles__Content-sc-9v7nwy-0 ivqjEu">

<div class="Text-sc-1amvtpj-0 render-stellar-contentstyles__List-sc-9v7nwy-1 hWPJAy">

  - [Dr. Anthony
    Fauci](https://edition.cnn.com/2020/08/06/health/us-coronavirus-thursday/index.html) said
    [the
    world](https://edition.cnn.com/interactive/2020/health/coronavirus-maps-and-cases/)
    may never eradicate
    [coronavirus](https://edition.cnn.com/specials/world/coronavirus-outbreak-intl-hnk),
    but it can get it under control.
  - In the US, Democrats and Republicans still have not yet reached a
    deal on [a new stimulus
    package.](https://www.cnn.com/2020/08/05/politics/congress-stimulus-negotiations/index.html)
  - Two new trials soon will be underway in the US to investigate
    antibody treatment approaches for Covid-19 patients.
  - Cases are[ ticking upwards in parts of
    Europe](https://cnn.com/2020/07/28/europe/europe-coronavirus-resurgence-intl/index.html)
    while the process of unlocking is paused in the UK.

</div>

*Our live coverage of the coronavirus pandemic has* [*moved
here.*](http://www.cnn.com/world/live-news/coronavirus-pandemic-08-07-20-intl/index.html)

</div>

<div class="sc-eHgmQL sc-hmzhuo kwTdMY" open="false">

<div class="sc-gPEVay LBYgI">

<div class="sc-eHgmQL sc-frDJqD leHdEB">

<div class="Flex-sc-1sqrs56-0 juWdml">

<div class="Box-sc-1fet97o-0 bdnLKJ">

share with Facebook

</div>

<div class="Box-sc-1fet97o-0 bdnLKJ">

share with Twitter

</div>

<div class="Box-sc-1fet97o-0 bdnLKJ">

share with email

</div>

<div class="Box-sc-1fet97o-0 bdnLKJ">

share link

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div id="posts" class="ls-main _30cc0dc7 _0fe074fa">

<div class="filtersstyles__FilterContainer-wdup9f-0 iQsVow">

<div class="filtersstyles__FilterItem-wdup9f-1 QJOfq">

88 Posts

</div>

<div class="filtersstyles__FilterItem-wdup9f-1 QJOfq">

<div class="filtersstyles__Dropdown-wdup9f-3 kXybPf">

<span class="filtersstyles__FilterName-wdup9f-2 kwMyUp">Sort
by</span>LatestOldest

Dropdown arrow

</div>

</div>

</div>

<span class="time-deltastyles__TimeTag-sc-1tyycbg-0 MIlvp">23 hr 56 min
ago</span>

## Japan has now identified more than 900 cases of Covid-19 for 10 days in a row

From CNN's Yoko Wakatsuki in Tokyo

<div class="Box-sc-1fet97o-0 post-content-rendered render-stellar-contentstyles__Content-sc-9v7nwy-0 ivqjEu">

<div class="Box-sc-1fet97o-0 image-with-captionstyles__ImageWithCaptionWrapper-sc-17jmou0-0 eWDxVG">

![A mother and her daughters pray at the Students Peace Monument on the
75th anniversary of the Hiroshima atomic bombing, on August 6, in
Hiroshima, Japan. Carl Court/Getty
Images](https://dynaimage.cdn.cnn.com/cnn/digital-images/org/53074d42-580b-4678-b41d-6a576b7ab17a.jpg)

</div>

Japan's Health Ministry recorded 1,490 Covid-19 infections on Thursday,
the second-highest number of cases the country has identified in a
single day during the pandemic and yet another worrying sign that its
latest outbreak shows no signs of abating.

Thursday marks the 10th straight day the country has recorded more than
900 cases of the novel coronavirus. Authorities have now identified at
least 44,527 cases of Covid-19, more than half of which have been
reported since the beginning of July.

Seven deaths were reported Thursday, bringing the nationwide death toll
to 1,046.

**Trouble in Tokyo:** Tokyo Gov. Yuriko Koike urged people in the
Japanese capital to refrain from traveling during the upcoming Obon
summer vacation season to stop the infection spread.

Authorities reported 360 new infections in Tokyo on Thursday, the 10th
consecutive day of more than 200 cases in row.

To date, more than 14,500 cases of Covid-19 have been identified in the
Japanese capital.

**Infections spiking elsewhere:** Kanagawa, a prefecture that neighbors
Tokyo, crossed the triple digit threshold for the first time Thursday,
reporting 119 infections. Osaka also posted its highest number of cases
in a single day Thursday, with 225.

</div>

<div class="sc-eHgmQL sc-hmzhuo kwTdMY" open="false">

<div class="sc-gPEVay LBYgI">

<div class="sc-eHgmQL sc-frDJqD leHdEB">

<div class="Flex-sc-1sqrs56-0 juWdml">

<div class="Box-sc-1fet97o-0 bdnLKJ">

share with Facebook

</div>

<div class="Box-sc-1fet97o-0 bdnLKJ">

share with Twitter

</div>

<div class="Box-sc-1fet97o-0 bdnLKJ">

share with email

</div>

<div class="Box-sc-1fet97o-0 bdnLKJ">

share link

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

<span class="time-deltastyles__TimeTag-sc-1tyycbg-0 MIlvp">3:49 p.m. ET,
August 7, 2020</span>

## 5 former CDC directors call for increased leadership in the coronavirus pandemic

From CNN Health’s Lauren Mascarenhas

<div class="Box-sc-1fet97o-0 post-content-rendered render-stellar-contentstyles__Content-sc-9v7nwy-0 ivqjEu">

Five former directors of the US Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention (CDC) criticized the contradictory messages put out by
President Donald Trump's administration Thursday.

Here's what some of them said:

**Dr. Thomas Frieden** said that the CDC had been sidelined early on in
the pandemic and described Trump’s contradictory messages as “chaotic
leadership,” which has led to partisanship, confusion and increased
spread of the virus.

<div class="Box-sc-1fet97o-0 block-quote__Container-sc-98e3ot-0 kunFKx">

> “It's unbelievable that six months into the pandemic, it's not clear
> who's in charge, federally,” Frieden said during a roundtable hosted
> by ABC News Live.  
> “There's no plan. There's no common data that we're looking at to see
> what's happening with the virus and what's happening with our
> response.”

</div>

**Dr. Jeffrey Koplan** said that "every one of those falsehoods" damages
the nation's mitigation efforts against the virus.

Frieden added that Americans want information from the CDC. “Americans
are voting with their clicks. There have been 1.6 billion clicks on the
CDC website,” said Frieden. “The more we learn, the more we know, the
better we can control it.”

**Dr. Richard Besser** said the federal response to the pandemic has
been “absolutely unacceptable” considering the US is the wealthiest
nation on the planet.

He also criticized politicians for viewing CDC guidelines as an
obstacle.

“If you have politicians saying that CDC guidance is a barrier to
getting children back into school, instead of the roadmap for doing it
safely, the whole system breaks down,” said Besser, who was an acting
CDC chief during the H1N1 swine flu pandemic in 2009.

**Dr. Julie Gerberding**, who headed the CDC under former president
George W. Bush, said she hopes that the government can learn from this
crisis.

“I really do hope that finally it's gotten so bad that we will reinvent
how we think about our health security in the context of our national
security," 

**Dr. David Satcher**, a former US Surgeon General who headed the CDC
under former president Bill Clinton, said communities of color that have
been hit harder by the pandemic are going to require particular
attention during recovery efforts

“It's going to say a lot about us as a nation, whether we step up to
this challenge, and remove many of the structural barriers to health
that people in this country face," he said.

*CORRECTION: An earlier version of this story misattributed Dr. Thomas
Frieden's remarks to Dr. Jeffrey Koplan. Frieden said that Americans
want information from the CDC, and “Americans are voting with their
clicks. There have been 1.6 billion clicks on the CDC website. The more
we learn, the more we know, the better we can control it.”*

</div>

<div class="sc-eHgmQL sc-hmzhuo kwTdMY" open="false">

<div class="sc-gPEVay LBYgI">

<div class="sc-eHgmQL sc-frDJqD leHdEB">

<div class="Flex-sc-1sqrs56-0 juWdml">

<div class="Box-sc-1fet97o-0 bdnLKJ">

share with Facebook

</div>

<div class="Box-sc-1fet97o-0 bdnLKJ">

share with Twitter

</div>

<div class="Box-sc-1fet97o-0 bdnLKJ">

share with email

</div>

<div class="Box-sc-1fet97o-0 bdnLKJ">

share link

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

<span class="time-deltastyles__TimeTag-sc-1tyycbg-0 MIlvp">10:25 p.m.
ET, August 6, 2020</span>

## The coronavirus pandemic is skewing younger, WHO says

From CNN Health’s Maggie Fox

<div class="Box-sc-1fet97o-0 post-content-rendered render-stellar-contentstyles__Content-sc-9v7nwy-0 ivqjEu">

The coronavirus pandemic is starting to move into younger populations,
the World Health Organization says.

WHO posted new data on the pandemic that shows the most cases, by far,
are among people aged 25 to 64. Since February 24, the proportion of
reported cases in very young children and babies has increased
seven-fold, WHO said. The share of cases among teens and young adults
has gone up six-fold. 

<div class="Box-sc-1fet97o-0 block-quote__Container-sc-98e3ot-0 kunFKx">

> “This trend may be explained by, but is not limited to, the following
> factors: early detection and testing were initially focused on
> identifying cases with severe symptoms, which are more frequently
> observed among older people; detection of milder cases; broader
> testing; outbreak hotspots shifting to countries with lower age
> profiles; or a rise in risky behavior after easing of public health
> and social measures,” WHO said Thursday.

</div>

The global coronavirus caseload now looks like this, WHO said:

<div class="Text-sc-1amvtpj-0 render-stellar-contentstyles__List-sc-9v7nwy-1 hWPJAy">

  - 1.2% of cases in babies and young children aged 0 to 4
  - 2.5% of cases in children 5-14
  - 9.6% of cases in teens and young adults 15-24
  - 64% of cases in adults aged 25-64
  - 19.4% of cases in older adults 65-84
  - 3.4% of cases in people 85 and older

</div>

 

</div>

<div class="sc-eHgmQL sc-hmzhuo kwTdMY" open="false">

<div class="sc-gPEVay LBYgI">

<div class="sc-eHgmQL sc-frDJqD leHdEB">

<div class="Flex-sc-1sqrs56-0 juWdml">

<div class="Box-sc-1fet97o-0 bdnLKJ">

share with Facebook

</div>

<div class="Box-sc-1fet97o-0 bdnLKJ">

share with Twitter

</div>

<div class="Box-sc-1fet97o-0 bdnLKJ">

share with email

</div>

<div class="Box-sc-1fet97o-0 bdnLKJ">

share link

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

<span class="time-deltastyles__TimeTag-sc-1tyycbg-0 MIlvp">9:57 p.m. ET,
August 6, 2020</span>

## Mexico's coronavirus death toll passes 50,000

From CNN’s Karol Suarez and Matt Rivers in Mexico City

<div class="Box-sc-1fet97o-0 post-content-rendered render-stellar-contentstyles__Content-sc-9v7nwy-0 ivqjEu">

Mexico recorded another 819 fatalities from Covid-19, the Health
Ministry said Thursday, bringing the countrywide death toll from the
virus to 50,517.

This is the third consecutive day that Mexico has reported more than 800
deaths, the first time it has done so since the outbreak began in the
country.

The ministry said it also identified another 6,590 new infections on
Thursday, bringing the country’s total number of confirmed coronavirus
cases to 462,690.

**CNN is tracking worldwide coronavirus cases here:**

<div class="Flex-sc-1sqrs56-0 card-basicstyles__CardContainer-sc-1tx7yza-0 RoCIF">

<div class="Box-sc-1fet97o-0 card-basicstyles__ImageContainer-sc-1tx7yza-1 kZXjTb">

[![Tracking coronavirus' global
spread](https://dynaimage.cdn.cnn.com/cnn/q_auto/https%3A%2F%2Fcdn.cnn.com%2Fcnn%2F2020%2Fimages%2F06%2F03%2Fglobal-dashboard-card-new.png)](https://www.cnn.com/interactive/2020/health/coronavirus-maps-and-cases/)

</div>

<div class="Box-sc-1fet97o-0 card-basicstyles__ContentContainer-sc-1tx7yza-4 jXXGw">

[RELATED]()

### [Tracking coronavirus' global spread](https://www.cnn.com/interactive/2020/health/coronavirus-maps-and-cases/)

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="sc-eHgmQL sc-hmzhuo kwTdMY" open="false">

<div class="sc-gPEVay LBYgI">

<div class="sc-eHgmQL sc-frDJqD leHdEB">

<div class="Flex-sc-1sqrs56-0 juWdml">

<div class="Box-sc-1fet97o-0 bdnLKJ">

share with Facebook

</div>

<div class="Box-sc-1fet97o-0 bdnLKJ">

share with Twitter

</div>

<div class="Box-sc-1fet97o-0 bdnLKJ">

share with email

</div>

<div class="Box-sc-1fet97o-0 bdnLKJ">

share link

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

<span class="time-deltastyles__TimeTag-sc-1tyycbg-0 MIlvp">9:43 p.m. ET,
August 6, 2020</span>

## Stimulus talks on the brink of collapse as two sides trade blame and are no closer to a deal

From CNN's Manu Raju, Lauren Fox and Kristin Wilson

<div class="Box-sc-1fet97o-0 post-content-rendered render-stellar-contentstyles__Content-sc-9v7nwy-0 ivqjEu">

<div class="Box-sc-1fet97o-0 image-with-captionstyles__ImageWithCaptionWrapper-sc-17jmou0-0 eWDxVG">

![US Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer, D-NY, makes his way to the
office of House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, D-CA, for coronavirus relief talks
at the US Capitol in Washington, DC on August 6 Mandel Ngan/AFP/Getty
Images](https://dynaimage.cdn.cnn.com/cnn/digital-images/org/af83ce3f-3064-41c6-a7dc-753e323b1675.jpg)

</div>

A three-hour meeting between senior administration officials and
Democratic leaders yielded little progress tonight as both sides seemed
resigned to the likelihood that Congress won’t reach a major stimulus
deal amid an economic crisis.

Both sides emerged trading blame for the sputtering talks — and the
administration officials warned that President Trump would take
executive action if no deal is reached by Friday. 

It’s unclear if the two sides will meet on Friday. 

“We had a consequential meeting that was one way we could see the
difference in values that we bring to the table,” House Speaker Nancy
Pelosi said.

Pelosi said that White House chief of staff Mark Meadows slammed his
hand on the table and stormed out of the room at one point, something
that Meadows denied.

The differences remain as they have been: Democrats want to do
“something big,” in the words of Pelosi, and the Trump administration
wants a “skinny bill,” in the words of Meadows.

**One of the biggest sticking points**: Aid to state and local
governments.

<div class="Box-sc-1fet97o-0 pull-quotestyles__PullQuoteContainer-sc-1ia2e5m-0 idZwuC">

““We are very far apart — it’s most unfortunate,” Pelosi said.”

</div>

Schumer said, “We are very disappointed in the meeting ...They were
unwilling to meet in the middle.”

Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin and Meadows indicated they are “very
far apart” on some major issues.

“I think there's a lot of issues we are close to a compromise position
on and I think there's a handful of very big issues that we are still
very far apart,” Mnuchin said.

Trump called the two officials three times during the meeting and urged
them to continuing negotiating, Meadows said.

Mnuchin said that if “they could conclude tomorrow without a deal,”
Trump will take executive action.

</div>

<div class="sc-eHgmQL sc-hmzhuo kwTdMY" open="false">

<div class="sc-gPEVay LBYgI">

<div class="sc-eHgmQL sc-frDJqD leHdEB">

<div class="Flex-sc-1sqrs56-0 juWdml">

<div class="Box-sc-1fet97o-0 bdnLKJ">

share with Facebook

</div>

<div class="Box-sc-1fet97o-0 bdnLKJ">

share with Twitter

</div>

<div class="Box-sc-1fet97o-0 bdnLKJ">

share with email

</div>

<div class="Box-sc-1fet97o-0 bdnLKJ">

share link

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

<span class="time-deltastyles__TimeTag-sc-1tyycbg-0 MIlvp">9:02 p.m. ET,
August 6, 2020</span>

## Dr. Sanjay Gupta shows how effective masks can be in preventing the spread of infection

<div class="Box-sc-1fet97o-0 post-content-rendered render-stellar-contentstyles__Content-sc-9v7nwy-0 ivqjEu">

<div class="Box-sc-1fet97o-0 image-with-captionstyles__ImageWithCaptionWrapper-sc-17jmou0-0 eWDxVG">

![Dr. Sanjay Gupta shows the correct way to wear a face mask during
CNN's global coronavirus town hall on August 6.
CNN](https://dynaimage.cdn.cnn.com/cnn/digital-images/org/7c8ce846-13de-4022-98f4-853f1f6fb498.jpg)

</div>

Masks continue to be one of the most effective ways to prevent Covid-19
transmission and there are many different types that serve this purpose,
Dr. Sanjay Gupta explained Thursday during CNN's global coronavirus town
hall.

Gupta showed viewers how to wear masks properly while sharing some data
on how they help prevent Covid-19 infection.

<div class="Box-sc-1fet97o-0 block-quote__Container-sc-98e3ot-0 kunFKx">

> "There was a great study out of Lancet which basically said the
> likelihood of me transmitting the virus if I didn't have a mask on was
> 17% or 18%. If I did have a mask on, it was closer to 3%. You are
> talking about a sixfold difference, potentially. It is not perfect but
> it can really help," Gupta said.

</div>

**Watch:**

</div>

<div class="sc-eHgmQL sc-hmzhuo kwTdMY" open="false">

<div class="sc-gPEVay LBYgI">

<div class="sc-eHgmQL sc-frDJqD leHdEB">

<div class="Flex-sc-1sqrs56-0 juWdml">

<div class="Box-sc-1fet97o-0 bdnLKJ">

share with Facebook

</div>

<div class="Box-sc-1fet97o-0 bdnLKJ">

share with Twitter

</div>

<div class="Box-sc-1fet97o-0 bdnLKJ">

share with email

</div>

<div class="Box-sc-1fet97o-0 bdnLKJ">

share link

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

<span class="time-deltastyles__TimeTag-sc-1tyycbg-0 MIlvp">8:53 p.m. ET,
August 6, 2020</span>

## Olympian Michael Phelps says keeping a normal routine has helped him cope with the pandemic

<div class="Box-sc-1fet97o-0 post-content-rendered render-stellar-contentstyles__Content-sc-9v7nwy-0 ivqjEu">

<div class="Box-sc-1fet97o-0 image-with-captionstyles__ImageWithCaptionWrapper-sc-17jmou0-0 eWDxVG">

![Olympic gold medalist Michael Phelps speaks with CNN on August 6.
CNN](https://dynaimage.cdn.cnn.com/cnn/digital-images/org/4987a932-d900-4548-be38-8fd93c3ce535.jpg)

</div>

Michael Phelps, the 23-time Olympic gold medalist, credited his wife
with helping him through the coronavirus pandemic.

Keeping a routine and exercising every day while "understanding that
it's OK to not be OK" has made all the difference, Phelps told CNN
during its global coronavirus town hall tonight.

<div class="Box-sc-1fet97o-0 block-quote__Container-sc-98e3ot-0 kunFKx">

> "If I need help, ask for help. And trust me, at times it's still very
> difficult. But I feel like for me, through this pandemic and I feel
> like the relationship with my wife has grown, I mean, tenfold. Like
> unbelievable amount. And just the things that we've been able to go
> through together, it's been life changing," Phelps said.

</div>

**Watch:**

</div>

<div class="sc-eHgmQL sc-hmzhuo kwTdMY" open="false">

<div class="sc-gPEVay LBYgI">

<div class="sc-eHgmQL sc-frDJqD leHdEB">

<div class="Flex-sc-1sqrs56-0 juWdml">

<div class="Box-sc-1fet97o-0 bdnLKJ">

share with Facebook

</div>

<div class="Box-sc-1fet97o-0 bdnLKJ">

share with Twitter

</div>

<div class="Box-sc-1fet97o-0 bdnLKJ">

share with email

</div>

<div class="Box-sc-1fet97o-0 bdnLKJ">

share link

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

<span class="time-deltastyles__TimeTag-sc-1tyycbg-0 MIlvp">8:39 p.m. ET,
August 6, 2020</span>

## Mississippi doctor says Covid-19 has "really taken a toll" on him and hospital staff

<div class="Box-sc-1fet97o-0 post-content-rendered render-stellar-contentstyles__Content-sc-9v7nwy-0 ivqjEu">

<div class="Box-sc-1fet97o-0 image-with-captionstyles__ImageWithCaptionWrapper-sc-17jmou0-0 eWDxVG">

![Dr. Andrew Wilhelm, director of the University of Mississippi Medical
Center's Intensive Care Unit, speaks with CNN on August 6.
CNN](https://dynaimage.cdn.cnn.com/cnn/digital-images/org/8e6920cb-2333-49a6-a5da-1c100b51dc23.jpg)

</div>

Dr. Andrew Wilhelm is one of the thousands of physicians on the
frontlines facing a surge in Covid-19 cases in the US.

As director of the University of Mississippi Medical Center's Intensive
Care Unit, Wilhelm lives in a state that has the [fifth-highest recorded
case count per 100,000
people](https://www.cnn.com/interactive/2020/health/coronavirus-us-maps-and-cases/),
behind only Louisiana, Arizona, Florida and New York, according to data
from Johns Hopkins University.

<div class="Box-sc-1fet97o-0 block-quote__Container-sc-98e3ot-0 kunFKx">

> "It's tough. That's really the only word to describe it. ... it's
> really taken a toll. The patients that are not on the ventilator who
> are not sedated, and who are aware of their surroundings, those are
> the ones that I feel most sorry for, because they can see
> what's happening around them," Wilhelm told CNN during its global
> coronavirus town hall Thursday.

</div>

**More from Mississippi:** Gov. Tate Reeves [announced a face-covering
mandate](https://www.cnn.com/2020/08/05/health/mississippi-coronavirus-masks-schools-positivity-rate/index.html)
in all counties for public gatherings and retail settings for the next
two weeks.

Also, all adults and kids in schools must wear masks, unless there is a
medical reason not to.

"I (had) taken a piecemeal approach (to masks) because I believe firmly
that this was the best way to get the most number of people to
participate," Reeves told reporters Tuesday.

</div>

<div class="sc-eHgmQL sc-hmzhuo kwTdMY" open="false">

<div class="sc-gPEVay LBYgI">

<div class="sc-eHgmQL sc-frDJqD leHdEB">

<div class="Flex-sc-1sqrs56-0 juWdml">

<div class="Box-sc-1fet97o-0 bdnLKJ">

share with Facebook

</div>

<div class="Box-sc-1fet97o-0 bdnLKJ">

share with Twitter

</div>

<div class="Box-sc-1fet97o-0 bdnLKJ">

share with email

</div>

<div class="Box-sc-1fet97o-0 bdnLKJ">

share link

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

<span class="time-deltastyles__TimeTag-sc-1tyycbg-0 MIlvp">8:35 p.m. ET,
August 6, 2020</span>

## Face masks have "an extraordinary impact" in fighting coronavirus in the US, health researcher says

<div class="Box-sc-1fet97o-0 post-content-rendered render-stellar-contentstyles__Content-sc-9v7nwy-0 ivqjEu">

<div class="Box-sc-1fet97o-0 image-with-captionstyles__ImageWithCaptionWrapper-sc-17jmou0-0 eWDxVG">

![Dr. Chris Murray, Director of the Institute for Health Metrics and
Evaluation, University of Washington speaks with CNN on August 6.
CNN](https://dynaimage.cdn.cnn.com/cnn/digital-images/org/610fa0d0-3b7b-4258-b249-96061b8f0a80.jpg)

</div>

A face mask is one of the most simple and "inexpensive" things people
can wear to help fight the spread of Covid-19 in the US, said Dr. Chris
Murray, a researcher behind an influential coronavirus model from the
University of Washington.

Murray's perspective has been shared countless times by health experts
since the start of the pandemic who are still baffled over the sight of
groups of people refusing to wear face coverings.

<div class="Box-sc-1fet97o-0 block-quote__Container-sc-98e3ot-0 kunFKx">

> "It's rare that you see something so simple, so inexpensive, so easy
> for everybody to participate and have such an extraordinary impact in
> the US, but also all over the world actually. It's quite
> extraordinary," Murray told CNN during its global coronavirus town
> hall Thursday night.

</div>

</div>

<div class="sc-eHgmQL sc-hmzhuo kwTdMY" open="false">

<div class="sc-gPEVay LBYgI">

<div class="sc-eHgmQL sc-frDJqD leHdEB">

<div class="Flex-sc-1sqrs56-0 juWdml">

<div class="Box-sc-1fet97o-0 bdnLKJ">

share with Facebook

</div>

<div class="Box-sc-1fet97o-0 bdnLKJ">

share with Twitter

</div>

<div class="Box-sc-1fet97o-0 bdnLKJ">

share with email

</div>

<div class="Box-sc-1fet97o-0 bdnLKJ">

share link

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="lazyload-placeholder" style="height:1px">

</div>

<span></span>

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="sc-imDfJI cmFdNy">

<div class="sc-dPPMrM jvBEFh">

<div class="sc-gRnDUn cnrbQH">

Search

</div>

<div class="sc-cBdUnI bmGFGR">

</div>

<div class="sc-cBdUnI ftuZfv">

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="sc-imDfJI cmFdNy">

<div class="sc-dPPMrM ejajQE">

<div class="sc-eqPNPO sc-hkaZBZ kOJEVJ">

  - [World](/world "visit the World section")
      - [Africa](/africa "visit the Africa section")
      - [Americas](/americas "visit the Americas section")
      - [Asia](/asia "visit the Asia section")
      - [Australia](/australia "visit the Australia section")
      - [China](/china "visit the China section")
      - [Europe](/europe "visit the Europe section")
      - [India](/india "visit the India section")
      - [Middle East](/middle-east "visit the Middle East section")
      - [United Kingdom](/uk "visit the United Kingdom section")
  - [US Politics](/politics "visit the US Politics section")
      - [2020
        Election](/election/2020 "visit the 2020 Election section")
      - [Donald
        Trump](/specials/politics/president-donald-trump-45 "visit the Donald Trump section")
      - [Supreme
        Court](/specials/politics/supreme-court-nine "visit the Supreme Court section")
      - [Congress](/specials/politics/congress "visit the Congress section")
      - [Facts
        First](/specials/politics/fact-check-politics "visit the Facts First section")
  - [Business](/business "visit the Business section")
      - [Markets](https://money.cnn.com/data/markets/ "visit the Markets section")
      - [Tech](/business/tech "visit the Tech section")
      - [Media](/business/media "visit the Media section")
      - [Success](/business/success "visit the Success section")
      - [Perspectives](/business/perspectives "visit the Perspectives section")
      - [Videos](/business/videos "visit the Videos section")
  - [Health](/health "visit the Health section")
      - [Food](/specials/health/food-diet "visit the Food section")
      - [Fitness](/specials/health/fitness-excercise "visit the Fitness section")
      - [Wellness](/specials/health/wellness "visit the Wellness section")
      - [Parenting](/specials/health/parenting "visit the Parenting section")
      - [Vital
        Signs](/specials/health/vital-signs "visit the Vital Signs section")
  - [Entertainment](/entertainment "visit the Entertainment section")
      - [Stars](/entertainment/celebrities "visit the Stars section")
      - [Screen](/entertainment/movies "visit the Screen section")
      - [Binge](/entertainment/tv-shows "visit the Binge section")
      - [Culture](/entertainment/culture "visit the Culture section")
      - [Media](/business/media "visit the Media section")
  - [Tech](/business/tech "visit the Tech section")
      - [Innovate](/specials/tech/innovate "visit the Innovate section")
      - [Gadget](/specials/tech/gadget "visit the Gadget section")
      - [Foreseeable
        Future](/specials/tech/foreseeable-future "visit the Foreseeable Future section")
      - [Mission:
        Ahead](/specials/tech/mission-ahead "visit the Mission: Ahead section")
      - [Upstarts](/specials/tech/upstarts "visit the Upstarts section")
      - [Work
        Transformed](/specials/tech/work-transformed "visit the Work Transformed section")
      - [Innovative
        Cities](/specials/tech/innovative-cities "visit the Innovative Cities section")
  - [Style](/style "visit the Style section")
      - [Arts](/style/arts "visit the Arts section")
      - [Design](/style/design "visit the Design section")
      - [Fashion](/style/fashion "visit the Fashion section")
      - [Architecture](/style/architecture "visit the Architecture section")
      - [Luxury](/style/luxury "visit the Luxury section")
      - [Beauty](/style/beauty "visit the Beauty section")
      - [Video](/style/videos "visit the Video section")
  - [Travel](/travel "visit the Travel section")
      - [Destinations](/travel/destinations "visit the Destinations section")
      - [Food and
        Drink](/travel/food-and-drink "visit the Food and Drink section")
      - [Stay](/travel/stay "visit the Stay section")
      - [News](/travel/news "visit the News section")
      - [Videos](/travel/videos "visit the Videos section")
  - [Sports](/sport "visit the Sports section")
      - [Football](/sport/football "visit the Football section")
      - [Tennis](/sport/tennis "visit the Tennis section")
      - [Equestrian](/sport/equestrian "visit the Equestrian section")
      - [Golf](/sport/golf "visit the Golf section")
      - [Skiing](/sport/skiing "visit the Skiing section")
      - [Horse
        Racing](/sport/horse-racing "visit the Horse Racing section")
      - [Motorsport](/sport/motorsport "visit the Motorsport section")
      - [Formula
        E](/specials/sport/formula-e "visit the Formula E section")
      - [Esports](/specials/esports "visit the Esports section")
  - [Videos](/videos "visit the Videos section")
      - [Live TV](//cnn.it/go2 "visit the Live TV  section")
      - [Digital
        Studios](/specials/digital-studios "visit the Digital Studios section")
      - [CNN
        Films](/specials/videos/digital-shorts "visit the CNN Films section")
      - [HLN](/specials/videos/hln "visit the HLN section")
      - [TV Schedule](/tv/schedule/cnn "visit the TV Schedule section")
      - [TV Shows
        A-Z](/specials/tv/all-shows "visit the TV Shows A-Z section")
      - [CNNVR](/vr "visit the CNNVR section")
  - [Features](/specials "visit the Features section")
      - [Call to
        Earth](/interactive/call-to-earth "visit the Call to Earth section")
      - [Freedom
        Project](/specials/world/freedom-project "visit the Freedom Project section")
      - [Impact Your
        World](/specials/impact-your-world "visit the Impact Your World section")
      - [Inside
        Africa](/specials/africa/inside-africa "visit the Inside Africa section")
      - [2
        Degrees](/specials/opinions/two-degrees "visit the 2 Degrees section")
      - [CNN
        Heroes](/specials/cnn-heroes "visit the CNN Heroes section")
      - [All Features](/specials "visit the All Features section")
  - [More](/more "visit the More section")
      - [Photos](/specials/photos "visit the Photos section")
      - [Longform](/specials/cnn-longform "visit the Longform section")
      - [Investigations](/specials/cnn-investigates "visit the Investigations section")
      - [CNN
        Profiles](/specials/profiles "visit the CNN Profiles section")
      - [CNN
        Leadership](/specials/more/cnn-leadership "visit the CNN Leadership section")
      - [CNN
        Newsletters](/email/subscription "visit the CNN Newsletters section")
      - [Work for
        CNN](https://www.turnerjobs.com/search-jobs?orgIds=1174&ac=19299 "visit the Work for CNN section")
  - [Weather](/weather "visit the Weather section")
      - [Climate](/specials/world/cnn-climate "visit the Climate section")
      - [Storm
        Tracker](/interactive/2020/weather/gonzalo-storm-path-tracker/index.html "visit the Storm Tracker section")
      - [Video](/specials/weather/weather-video "visit the Video section")

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="sc-eqPNPO sc-gCwZxT gNekab">

-----

</div>

<div class="sc-imDfJI cmFdNy">

<div class="sc-dPPMrM ejajQE">

<div class="sc-jWxkHr gnPYgP">

<div class="sc-jWxkHr sc-dzOgQY iaBhxz">

<div class="sc-emmjRN sc-jVODtj cIrqPj" size="40">

[World](/world)

</div>

</div>

<div class="sc-jWxkHr sc-jOBXIr djTEVI">

<div class="sc-cJOK sc-kNBZmU jGYIFB" data-test="social-follow-bar">

<span class="sc-elNKlv bjjDlM" data-font-weight="bold" data-test="follow-text" data-font-size="12" data-letter-spacing="1.5">Follow
CNN </span>

<div class="sc-ejGVNB sc-eNNmBn geWzji" data-mode="dark">

</div>

  - 
  - 
  - 
  - 

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="sc-imDfJI cmFdNy">

<div class="sc-dPPMrM ejajQE">

<div class="sc-eqPNPO sc-jOVcOr kIaEmn">

-----

</div>

<div class="sc-eqPNPO dbkkBg">

  - [Terms of Use](/terms "visit the Terms of Use section")
  - [Privacy Policy](/privacy "visit the Privacy Policy section")
  - [Accessibility &
    CC](/accessibility "visit the Accessibility & CC section")
  - [AdChoices](# "visit the AdChoices section")
  - [About Us](/about "visit the About Us section")
  - [Modern Slavery Act
    Statement](/msa "visit the Modern Slavery Act Statement section")
  - [Advertise with
    us](https://commercial.cnn.com "visit the Advertise with us section")
  - [CNN Store](//store.cnn.com "visit the CNN Store section")
  - [Newsletters](/newsletters "visit the Newsletters section")
  - [Transcripts](/transcripts "visit the Transcripts section")
  - [License Footage](/collection "visit the License Footage section")
  - [CNN
    Newsource](http://cnnnewsource.com "visit the CNN Newsource section")
  - [Sitemap](https://www.cnn.com/sitemap.html "visit the Sitemap section")

</div>

<div class="sc-bEufUU sc-ijnzTp cTYaTz" data-mode="dark" data-component="copyright">

<span class="sc-eweMDZ sc-kWHCRG fBqzhS" data-area="copyright-CNN">©
2020 Cable News Network.</span>[Turner Broadcasting System,
Inc.](//www.turner.com "Turner Broadcasting System, Inc.")<span class="sc-eweMDZ sc-kWHCRG fBqzhS">All
Rights
Reserved.</span><span class="sc-eweMDZ sc-kWHCRG sc-fUdGnz iJWUmY">CNN
Sans ™ & © 2016 Cable News Network.</span>

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

Please enable JavaScript for a better experience.
