Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/world/europe}{Europe}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/world/europe}{Europe}\textbar{}Macron's New Cabinet Stirs
Ire of French Feminists

\url{https://nyti.ms/38CE2fz}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{macrons-new-cabinet-stirs-ire-of-french-feminists}{%
\section{Macron's New Cabinet Stirs Ire of French
Feminists}\label{macrons-new-cabinet-stirs-ire-of-french-feminists}}

The new interior minister and head of national police has been accused
of rape in the past, and the justice minister is a celebrity lawyer
known for insensitive remarks.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/07/08/world/08france/merlin_174156417_64a8251b-d57d-4f8f-985e-56ad3da00100-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/adam-nossiter}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/10/15/multimedia/author-adam-nossiter/author-adam-nossiter-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/adam-nossiter}{Adam
Nossiter}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Published July 8, 2020Updated July 13, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

PARIS --- From early on, President Emmanuel Macron pledged to make
equality for French women ``the cause of my term,'' even appointing a
junior minister to fight for it, and vowing the ``complete elimination
of violence against women'' in a 2017 speech.

So there was surprise this week, and consternation among French
feminists, at two of his new cabinet appointments, both of which are
regarded as severe betrayals of that early promise. Mr. Macron's vow to
give a fresh wind to his government with the cabinet reshuffle was
quickly clouded.

Mr. Macron's new interior minister and head of the national police,
Gerald Darmanin, has been accused of rape in an affair that dates to
2009. His choice for justice minister, a celebrity lawyer named Eric
Dupond-Moretti, who is ubiquitous on French television, has drawn the
ire of feminists in France for hostile and insensitive remarks.

Over a thousand people demonstrated outside City Hall in Paris on Friday
to protest the appointments. There were also antigovernment
demonstrations in Toulouse, Bordeaux, Lyon, Nantes and Grenoble. In
Paris, the protesters held hand-painted signs with slogans like
``Ministry of Rape'' and ``Sexist government reshuffle --- Feminist
answer.'' In Toulouse it was ``Rapists in prison, not in the
government.''

``The level of anger in feminist movements is huge,'' said Caroline De
Haas, a leading French feminist and founder of the group Nous Toutes!
(All of Us). ``At least, before, they pretended,'' Ms. De Haas said.
``Now, they are not even pretending. These appointments are acts of
anti-feminism.''

Mr. Darmanin ``is the target of a rape complaint, and he's the head of
the police --- how can that be?'' asked Ms. De Haas. ``It's difficult
enough to bring a rape complaint. So now, the message to women is, it's
not a priority.''

For others, too, the appointments signaled the end of the government's
commitment to advancing the rights of women in France, where the ``Me
Too'' movement has raised some awareness of issues like sexism and
violence against women, but fallen short of introducing a sea change in
what remains a deeply patriarchal society.

Beyond feminist circles, the reaction to the appointments was far more
muted. The question of Mr. Darmanin hardly came up in Parliament this
week. Neither of the country's two leading newspapers, Le Monde ** and
Le Figaro, ** editorialized against them.

The left-leaning newspaper Libération, reacting to Mr. Macron's
appointments, ran a front-page headline merely noting, ``It Begins
Badly,'' with a play on the French words for ``male'' and ``bad'' about
Mr. Macron's new cabinet.

``This is France. It doesn't surprise me,'' said Fatima Benomar, founder
of the group \href{https://effrontees.wordpress.com/}{Les Effronté-es},
The Brazen Ones.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/07/08/world/08france2/merlin_174353247_ce66e264-c063-4d09-81e8-65701d57a88d-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

``To put at the head of the police a man accused of rape and at the head
of justice someone who is overtly anti-feminist, it's their way of
saying, `the feminist mobilization is over,' '' she said. ``So, we're
expecting nothing from this government.''

The government is evidently hoping it will all blow over, and its airy
dismissals Wednesday of the outcry suggested as much. Still, it was an
unwelcome drag on a president who has insisted he wants to put a new
face on a government that has had, since the beginning of Mr. Macron's
mandate in 2017, trouble maintaining the French public's esteem.

M. Macron has two more years to go, but this week's appointments did
little to help his 2022 re-election chances.

On Tuesday, some 20 feminists demonstrated in front of the interior
ministry as Mr. Darmanin was assuming his new post, chanting ``Darmanin
resign,'' and ``Darmanin rapist.'' In front of the Madeleine church,
demonstrators in black symbolically buried female equality, while a
spokeswoman told reporters there that Mr. Darmanin's appointment had
dealt a ``fatal blow'' to the cause. ``Culture of Rape on the Move!''
read one of the signs. Demonstrations also took place in Lyon and Lille.

Women's groups are vowing more action. ``This was just the first
droplet,'' Ms. Benomar said.

The rape accusation against Mr. Darmanin, first dismissed by French
justice in 2018, was reopened this past June when a Paris appeals court
decided that the preliminary investigation had not gone far enough.

As for the justice minister, Mr. Dupond-Moretti, he is celebrated for
his ``big mouth'' and for winning a legendary string of acquittals as a
defense lawyer. But activists are not ready to forgive him for calling
the trial of a local official accused of several rapes, whom Mr.
Dupond-Moretti defended, ``an illustration of the war between the
sexes.''

The flamboyant lawyer told GQ ** magazine ** last year: ``In my day,
when a girl rejected you, we called that getting blown off. These days,
it's a crime. Look, when it's no, it's no, ok. But what are you supposed
to do for a French kiss these days? You're supposed to send a registered
letter, and wait for a reply?''

Image

Mr. Macron's choice for justice minister, a celebrity lawyer named Eric
Dupond-Moretti, has drawn the ire of feminists for hostile and
insensitive remarks.Credit...Christophe Petit Tesson/EPA, via
Shutterstock

It is Mr. Darmanin's case that could cause the Macron government the
most trouble, and it has already leapt to his defense. Mr. Darmanin, a
37-year-old political whiz kid who was previously public accounts
minister, is the son of a cleaning lady and a bartender and the grandson
of an Algerian volunteer in the French Army, and he illustrates Mr.
Macron's penchant for meritocracy.

One of his first acts as interior minister this week was an attempt to
soothe police unions angered by his dismissed predecessor's mild
suggestions that racism was a problem in the police.

That provoked a furious reaction in police ranks, frightening Mr.
Macron's government; successive French governments have lived in fear of
disquiet in the police unions.

But Mr. Darmanin comes with heavy baggage. In 2017, shortly after he
became a minister for Mr. Macron, a fellow political party member,
Sophie Spatz, accused him of having raped her in 2009. Mr. Darmanin was
then a functionary at party headquarters in the legal department, and a
municipal councilor in the northern city of Tourcoing. He has always
maintained the encounter was consensual.

Ms. Spatz had gone to the then-26-year-old fledgling politician with a
request: help her erase a previous conviction and suspended prison
sentence for blackmail and threats, ``tied to her former activities as
an escort-girl,'' according to court papers. Ms. Spatz, by 2009 married
and eager to wipe out the stain, had already deluged French justice
officials with claims she had been wrongly convicted.

Finally she went to see Mr. Darmanin. He invited her to dinner,
according to the court papers, and he promised to help by writing a
letter. ``He took her hand and said, `Me too, you've got to help me,' ''
the document says.

``She told Gerald Darmanin that she had to go home because her husband
was waiting for her,'' it says.

She didn't go home. Dinner was followed by a ``swinger's nightclub'' and
then a hotel room.

Afterward, ``she thought that he had forced sex on her and that she had
no choice, because this letter was her only hope and he had promised he
would make her `innocent,' '' according to the court papers.

Image

Feminists in Paris on Tuesday protesting the cabinet appointments of
Gerald Darmanin and Eric Dupond-Moretti.~Credit...Thomas Coex/Agence
France-Presse --- Getty Images

She told her now ex-husband that she had been ``obligated to sleep with
Gerald Darmanin because he could make her innocent and that otherwise
she wouldn't have done it,'' the court papers state.

Mr. Darmanin has maintained to investigators that she led him on
throughout the evening. He has filed a libel suit against her.

The government is counting on the public losing interest. ``I'm totally
ok with this appointment,'' Mr. Macron's new prime minister, Jean
Castex, said on French television Wednesday. Mr. Darmanin ``has the
right, like everybody, to the presumption of innocence,'' Mr. Castex
said.

On Wednesday Mr. Castex, previously a high-ranking civil servant, had a
rocky baptism by fire in front of the National Assembly. The far-left
leader Jean-Luc Melenchon said afterward that the parliamentary deputies
had been subjected to a ``hurricane of banalities'' from the
mild-mannered new prime minister.

On the subject of Mr. Darmanin, Mr. Castex told French television that
he wouldn't have been named to the government ``if in my soul and
conscience, having looked at this, I had had the slightest doubt.''

Ms. Patterson's lawyer, Élodie Tuaillon-Hibon, is not convinced. ``I'm
revolted, as her lawyer and as a French citizen,'' she said. ``I'm
dismayed. I had no idea that the presumption of innocence could get you
a ministry.''

``What this means is that he's the boss of the investigative police who
will have to carry out investigations of him,'' she said.

Daphné Angles contributed reporting.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
