Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}Biden, in Kenosha, Makes
Case for Healing and Unity, Not Division

\url{https://nyti.ms/2EVDZku}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{race-and-america}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/george-floyd-protests-minneapolis-new-york-los-angeles?name=styln-george-floyd\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=95f0ec40-f2b8-11ea-8b9b-bf5f32135118\&variant=undefined}{Race
and America}}{Race and America}}\label{race-and-america}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/04/nyregion/rochester-police-daniel-prude.html?name=styln-george-floyd\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=95f0ec41-f2b8-11ea-8b9b-bf5f32135118\&variant=undefined}{What
  Happened in Rochester, N.Y.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/01/us/politics/trump-fact-check-protests.html?name=styln-george-floyd\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=95f0ec42-f2b8-11ea-8b9b-bf5f32135118\&variant=undefined}{Trump
  Fact Check}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/30/us/portland-shooting-explained.html?name=styln-george-floyd\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=95f0ec43-f2b8-11ea-8b9b-bf5f32135118\&variant=undefined}{Portland
  Shooting}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/30/us/breonna-taylor-police-killing.html?name=styln-george-floyd\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=95f0ec44-f2b8-11ea-8b9b-bf5f32135118\&variant=undefined}{Breonna
  Taylor's Life and Death}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{biden-in-kenosha-makes-case-for-healing-and-unity-not-division}{%
\section{Biden, in Kenosha, Makes Case for Healing and Unity, Not
Division}\label{biden-in-kenosha-makes-case-for-healing-and-unity-not-division}}

Two days after President Trump traveled to Wisconsin to focus attention
on violence and disorder, Joe Biden sought to strike a drastically
different tone, repudiating the president's divisive approach to matters
of racial injustice.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/09/03/us/politics/03elections-briefing-ledeitem2/03elections-briefing-ledeitem2-videoSixteenByNine3000.jpg}

By
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/nicholas-bogel-burroughs}{Nicholas
Bogel-Burroughs} and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/katie-glueck}{Katie Glueck}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Sept. 3, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

KENOSHA, Wis. --- Drawing a sharp contrast with
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/donald-trump.html}{President
Trump},
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/joe-biden.html}{Joseph
R. Biden Jr.} on Thursday aligned himself strongly and sympathetically
with protesters of racial injustice and with Black voters during an
afternoon of raw interactions with people still grappling with the
police shooting of Jacob Blake.

Two days after Mr. Trump
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/01/us/trump-vs-biden/trump-is-greeted-by-protesters-and-supporters-as-he-visits-wisconsin}{traveled}
to Kenosha to focus attention on street violence and disorder, Mr. Biden
sought to strike a drastically different tone, as he repudiated the
president's divisive approach to matters of racial injustice and civil
unrest and offered an alternative vision focused on national unity.

In his first day of campaigning outside his home state of Delaware or
neighboring Pennsylvania since the coronavirus pandemic hit in March,
Mr. Biden met for about an hour with Mr. Blake's family and legal team
immediately after landing in the critical battleground state of
Wisconsin, and spoke with Mr. Blake himself by phone.

Mr. Biden also hosted a listening session with activists, elected
officials, clergy members, businesspeople and a few law enforcement
officers, aiming to appeal to a broader cross-section of the community
than Mr. Trump did on his trip. The former vice president emphasized his
commitment to correcting decades of systemic racism, as he acknowledged
racial disparities in health care, education and the criminal justice
system and said that ``we're finally now getting to the point'' of
addressing ``the original sin: slavery. And all the vestiges of it.''

``Win or lose, I'm going to go down fighting,'' Mr. Biden said as he
described the possibility of a more just future. ``I'm going to go down
fighting for racial equality, equity across the board.''

He also took pains to warn against violent expressions of anger,
regardless of ``how angry you are.''

Mr. Biden spoke in a relatively spare sanctuary at Grace Lutheran
Church, with some stained glass images dotting the walls. He listened as
a Black lawyer discussed racism in the legal system. A white store owner
praised the community spirit of a close-knit city even as she described
the experience of her business being looted. And Porche Bennett, an
organizer for Black Lives Activists of Kenosha, drew applause after she
described the challenges and bias many Black Americans face in their
daily lives.

Mr. Biden, who took notes during the remarks, at times paced by the pews
as he responded, hitting notes of optimism as he declared that this was
a moment to ``cut another slice off institutional racism.''

``There are certain things worth losing over, and this is something
worth losing over if we have to,'' Mr. Biden said of combating
injustice, quickly adding, ``But we're not going to lose.''

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/09/03/us/politics/03biden-kenosha3/merlin_176540961_e0832e5c-d5b6-4a59-83df-79059fb32621-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

The scene and substance of the discussion provided a striking contrast
to
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/01/us/politics/trump-conspiracy-theory-thugs-plane.html?searchResultPosition=1}{Mr.
Trump's visit on Tuesday}. The president did not meet with the Blake
family or grapple with the searing issues of police brutality or racism.
Instead he met with local law enforcement leaders and delivered a
message of protesters run amok, and of ``looters'' and ``rioters'' he
said were cowing liberal politicians. He rejected the idea of systemic
racism while expressing empathy with police officers who he said have a
dangerous job.

While several law enforcement members were listed as participants in the
meeting, Mr. Biden's event did not focus on the police perspective in
the way that Mr. Trump's trip did.

Mr. Biden sought to underscore promises that have animated his campaign
from the beginning: that he can restore civility and steadiness at a
polarized and perilous moment for the nation, and that Mr. Trump is an
incendiary figure who escalates already fraught situations and emboldens
bigots.

``Not all his fault, but it legitimizes,'' he said of Mr. Trump's
messaging. ``It legitimizes a dark side of human nature.''

Mr. Trump on Thursday mocked Mr. Biden's visit and took credit for
restoring order in Wisconsin. ``Biden went there today,'' the president
told supporters at an evening rally in Latrobe, Pa. ``There was nobody
there! He was a little late. I said, `listen, we ended that problem.'''

Mr. Trump also made fun of Mr. Biden for wearing a mask, saying it
``gives him a feeling of security.''

``Did you ever see a man who likes a mask as much as him?'' Mr. Trump
asked the crowd, to laughter, after offering a caveat that people should
wash their hands and wear masks in close quarters.

Mr. Biden's appearance came as Republicans have mounted an onslaught
designed to cast him as a weak leader incapable of stopping lawlessness
in the streets, a message that has worried some of Mr. Biden's
Democratic allies.

On Monday, to the relief of some of his supporters, Mr. Biden moved to
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/31/us/politics/biden-speech-trump.html}{vigorously
reject} that characterization, insisting in a speech in Pittsburgh:
``Rioting is not protesting. Looting is not protesting.'' He included
that message in
\href{https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LgHXJ3rdOn0\&feature=youtu.be}{a
new ad},
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/02/us/trump-vs-biden/biden-and-trump-release-dueling-ads-on-public-safety-in-swing-states}{part
of} a \$45 million one-week television and digital advertising purchase,
the campaign's largest to date.

He repeated a version of those points again on Thursday, warning, ``If
you loot or you burn, you should be held accountable.''

``It just cannot be tolerated, across the board,'' he added.

But he spent much of his appearance at the church, which stretched for
over an hour, expressing empathy for Black Americans. ``I can't
understand what it's like to walk out the door or send my son out the
door or my daughter and worry about just because they're Black they may
not come back,'' Mr. Biden said, to nods in the audience.

Image

Porche Bennett, an organizer for Black Lives Activists of Kenosha,
described the challenges and racism many Black Americans face in their
daily lives.Credit...Kriston Jae Bethel for The New York Times

Earlier in the day, at Mr. Biden's meeting with Mr. Blake's family
members, Jacob Blake's mother said a prayer, which Mr. Biden later
recalled: ``She said, `I'm praying for Jacob, but I'm praying for the
policeman as well. I'm praying that things change.'''

Mr. Blake, a 29-year-old Black man who suffered serious injuries in the
shooting, spoke by telephone and ``shared about the pain he is enduring,
and the vice president commiserated,'' said a lawyer for the Blake
family, Benjamin Crump.

Mr. Biden said of the meeting, ``What I came away with was the
overwhelming sense of resilience and optimism that they have about the
kind of response they're getting.''

Kenosha has been rocked by protests since the police shooting of Mr.
Blake, and some demonstrations have turned destructive. A white teenager
who has expressed support for Mr. Trump
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/27/us/kyle-rittenhouse-kenosha.html}{was
charged with homicide} after two people were shot to death during
clashes, and the president later
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/31/us/trump-vs-biden/president-trump-calls-his-supporters-peaceful-and-defends-a-17-year-old-who-shot-three-people-in-wisconsin}{defended
him}.

While the city of Kenosha leans heavily Democratic, the surrounding
county is far more politically mixed, and voters of a range of political
persuasions were on hand near the church where Mr. Biden held his
community meeting.

April Valdez hung a large Trump 2020 banner on her porch. Ms. Valdez,
who is white and has lived in Kenosha since 2002, said the
demonstrations grew so worrisome last month that she and her husband
sent their three young children out of the area for about a week,
fearing they would be hurt.

``Change-wise, I unfortunately think anything Democratic-handled at this
point is going to put us further into destruction,'' she said.

As she spoke, a small crowd gathered in Civic Center Park in Kenosha and
began to march in the direction of the church where Mr. Biden was
expected, chanting and waving a Black Lives Matter flag.

Vaun Mayes, a Milwaukee activist, was one of the Black leaders in the
crowd. He intended to vote for Mr. Biden in November, he said, though he
disagreed with Mr. Biden's record on criminal justice.

``I don't know if we have any choice on voting for him,'' he said. ``We
can't stand four more years of Trump.''

Image

People watched as Mr. Biden's motorcade drove through Kenosha.~The trip
offered something of a test case for how he will seek to campaign across
the country amid the pandemic.~Credit...Chang W. Lee/The New York Times

Mr. Biden, who for years fashioned himself as a ``tough on crime''
Democrat,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/06/25/us/joe-biden-crime-laws.html}{played
a leading role in the 1994 crime bill}. That record has both discomfited
advocates of criminal justice reform and other progressives in Mr.
Biden's party, and made it more difficult for Mr. Trump to paint his
opponent as an enemy of law enforcement.

At the same time, Mr. Biden has emphasized his commitment to addressing
the mistreatment of Black Americans at the hands of the police. On
Thursday, his campaign released
\href{https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MHVU3x9iKBs}{an ad} about policing
in which he declares, ``Now is the time for racial justice.''

Mr. Biden said he had planned his trip to Wisconsin with input from
local and state leaders. As Mr. Biden weighs an accelerated travel
schedule after Labor Day weekend, the Wisconsin trip also offered
something of a test case for how he will seek to campaign across the
country amid a pandemic, with trips planned next week to states
including Michigan and Pennsylvania. He generally sought to stay
socially distant, though he was spotted shaking hands with a campaign
staff member.

Mr. Biden ended his trip with a visit to a Milwaukee suburb on Thursday
afternoon for an education-focused stop in a backyard.

The earlier church appearance was among Mr. Biden's most sustained,
unscripted engagements with voters in months, and there were a few
off-key moments. He promised, in a city reeling from the shooting of Mr.
Blake, that he would wrap up a tangent about taxes or else someone may
``shoot me.'' And as he urged a fuller accounting of American history in
schools, he asked a room that included many African-Americans, ``Did
anybody know before what's recently happened, that
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/19/us/politics/juneteenth-tulsa-trump-rally.html}{Black
Wall Street} in Oklahoma was burned to the ground?''

But often, he sought to give attendees and viewers encouragement about
their efforts to pursue racial justice, despite what he called Mr.
Trump's ``rant about, you know, law and order.'' And he appeared to
invoke a spate of recent positive polls to suggest that Mr. Trump's
messaging on ``law and order'' was not breaking through.

``He hasn't'' made inroads, Mr. Biden said, his voice dropping to a
whisper. ``Not at all. No, I'm --- it should give you a little bit of
confidence in the American people. They ain't buying it.''

Nicholas Bogel-Burroughs reported from Kenosha, and Katie Glueck from
New York. Reporting was contributed by Julie Bosman from Kenosha, Thomas
Kaplan from Connecticut, Peter Baker from Latrobe, Pa., and Maggie
Haberman from New York.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
