Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}Trump's Tactic: Sowing
Distrust in Whatever Gets in His Way

\url{https://nyti.ms/32SHn7C}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/12/us/politics/biden-trump-poll-wisconsin-minnesota.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{New
  York Times Poll}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/election-states-biden-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Paths
  to 270}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/us/elections/2020-presidential-election-calendar.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Voting
  Deadlines}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/31/us/politics/vote-by-mail-deadlines.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Voting
  by Mail}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Politics
  Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

News Analysis

\hypertarget{trumps-tactic-sowing-distrust-in-whatever-gets-in-his-way}{%
\section{Trump's Tactic: Sowing Distrust in Whatever Gets in His
Way}\label{trumps-tactic-sowing-distrust-in-whatever-gets-in-his-way}}

From business competition in New York to President Barack Obama's
birthplace to mail-in voting, President Trump's goal has been to
undermine the opposition and leave people uncertain about what to
believe.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/09/03/us/politics/00dc-distrust/merlin_176407425_3b448288-bdac-43a8-a179-9c63dba6598b-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/maggie-haberman}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/07/12/multimedia/author-maggie-haberman/author-maggie-haberman-thumbLarge.png}}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/katie-rogers}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/06/12/multimedia/author-katie-rogers/author-katie-rogers-thumbLarge-v2.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/maggie-haberman}{Maggie
Haberman} and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/katie-rogers}{Katie Rogers}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Sept. 3, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Donald J. Trump leaned forward in his chair in the Capitol Hill hearing
room, tossed aside his prepared remarks as too ``boring'' and told
lawmakers on an October day in 1993 that granting gaming licenses to
Native American reservations in New York, New Jersey and Connecticut ---
a threat to
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/04/us/politics/biden-trump-soliders-insults.html}{Mr.
Trump's} own casinos --- would be a big mistake.

There were criminal elements at work in the reservations, he warned
ominously and without evidence. ``It will be the biggest scandal ever,
the biggest since Al Capone,'' Mr. Trump said.

Then he went a step further and cast doubt on the Native Americans
themselves. ``If you look at some of the reservations that you've
approved, that you, sir, in your great wisdom have approved,'' Mr. Trump
told
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2014/01/14/us/politics/another-house-democrat-is-set-to-retire.html}{Representative
George Miller}, a California Democrat who has since retired, ``I will
tell you right now: They don't look like Indians to me.''

For decades, President Trump has sown distrust in almost everything he
touches. From Native Americans and business competition in New York to
President Barack Obama's birthplace to America's intelligence agencies
to the special counsel investigation he calls the ``Russia hoax,'' Mr.
Trump's goal has been to undermine the opposition, rely on conspiracy
theories to discount any evidence that might discredit him --- and,
above all, leave people uncertain about what to believe.

In the past week, Mr. Trump has
\href{https://twitter.com/littllemel/status/1299791452105474057}{reposted
messages} asserting that the real death toll from the coronavirus was
only around 9,000 and not
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html}{185,000}.
He has talked cryptically about a planeload of ``thugs'' in black
uniforms flying to Washington to disrupt the Republican National
Convention. And he has asserted without a shred of evidence that his
Democratic opponent, former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr., was ``on
some kind of an enhancement'' drug.

People who have known the president for years say one of his most
sustained assaults, on the integrity of the 2020 election, is straight
from his New York tactics.

The president has said with no evidence that ``millions and millions of
ballots'' have been sent to dead people and dogs and cats. He has
floated the possibility of postponing the election because of the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html}{coronavirus
pandemic} --- an idea swiftly shot down by his own party. And at the
opening of the Republican National Convention in Charlotte, N.C., he
asserted that mail-in voting ``is going to be one of the greatest
scams.''

Mr. Trump's critics point out that as president he has never had more
power to shape public opinion and bend outcomes to his will. Early
indications suggest he has created significant doubt about the 2020
election: According to a recent
\href{https://www.nbcnews.com/politics/2020-election/siloed-nbc-wsj-poll-shows-how-gop-dems-hold-widely-n1236958}{NBC-Wall
Street Journal poll}, about 45 percent of voters do not believe that the
election results can be counted accurately --- a jump from 36 percent
ahead of the 2016 election.

``When you're wielding a conspiracy theory you can't be proven wrong.
The evidence doesn't count against you,'' said Jennifer Mercieca, a
historian of American political rhetoric, a professor at Texas A\&M
University and the author of ``Demagogue for President: The Rhetorical
Genius of Donald Trump.''

Jennifer Palmieri, the communications director for Hillary Clinton's
2016 presidential campaign, said she learned the hard way about fighting
Mr. Trump's disinformation. ``It is extraordinarily hard to combat,''
she said, adding that it became clear to her that he was willing to say
and do anything when in 2015 he mocked Senator John McCain's status as a
war hero and paid no price.

Asked about Mr. Trump's behavior over the decades, Judd Deere, a White
House spokesman, did not respond directly. ``The American people know
they never have to wonder what the president is thinking or how he feels
about a particular topic, which is one of the many reasons why they
chose to elect him over the same old recycled politicians who just use
the poll-tested talking points,'' Mr. Deere said.

Mr. Trump's approach has been remarkably consistent, and often
successful, as he has lied and spread falsehoods on matters big and
small over the years. And he has found his biggest audience for it in
the past five years.

``Americans have had a paranoid streak throughout their history, which
this guy understands better than anybody,'' said Hank Sheinkopf, a
Democratic political strategist who watched Mr. Trump over decades in
New York City. ``If Joe McCarthy was alive, he'd say, `Well done.'''

When Mr. Trump was trying to get a tax abatement in 1982 to build Trump
Tower on Fifth Avenue, the New York City housing commissioner at the
time,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2002/06/04/nyregion/anthony-b-gliedman-59-dies-new-york-city-housing-official.html}{Anthony
B. Gliedman}, received a mysterious call from someone who harassed him
because the abatement had been denied.

The next day, Mr. Trump called the F.B.I. and said that he, too, had
received a call from someone claiming to have read in the newspapers
about the tax abatement being held up, according to F.B.I. records
obtained by
\href{https://www.buzzfeednews.com/article/jasonleopold/if-you-keep-fucking-with-mr-trump-we-know-where-you-live\#.cs19XbjNg9)}{BuzzFeed}.
Mr. Trump claimed in the call, according to the F.B.I. records, that the
caller mentioned someone else who had been ``shafted'' by Mr. Gliedman
and that the caller planned to retaliate.

Mr. Trump, who has alternately derided and worked with the F.B.I. since
his earliest days as a developer in New York --- where organized crime
had deep ties to the construction industries --- told the F.B.I.
officials he was reaching out to them in fear for Mr. Gliedman's safety.

The caller was never identified. Years later, people familiar with the
events said that some of Mr. Gliedman's associates suspected that Mr.
Trump was responsible for the menacing call to Mr. Gliedman.

Although the president has largely gotten away with his tactics, he at
one point paid a hefty price for his campaign against Native American
casinos. In 2000, Mr. Trump and some of his associates --- including
Roger J. Stone Jr., his oldest political adviser --- paid the largest
fine in the state's history in a settlement for not disclosing that Mr.
Trump had secretly paid for newspaper ads opposing a Native American
casino north of New York City. Mr. Trump and Mr. Stone made no admission
of wrongdoing in the settlement, and Mr. Stone has said the information
in the ads was based in fact.

David Grandeau, the former head of the New York Temporary State
Commission on Lobbying, recalled that Mr. Trump ``didn't want to go
under oath,'' and so he quickly admitted to what he had done when facing
pressure.

By early 2011, Mr. Trump had moved on to a big political target: Mr.
Obama, who Mr. Trump felt had not been effectively attacked by Mr.
McCain, the 2008 Republican presidential nominee.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/25/us/politics/25dc-distrust-3/merlin_51720666_339266bc-b7c7-4f13-a0c8-c7dc92221d12-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

The idea to question the country of Mr. Obama's birth, a conspiracy
theory originally relegated to the fringes of the party, soon became
central to Mr. Trump's brief pseudo-campaign in 2011. The tactic drew in
a segment of voters who did not like Mr. Obama and were open to a
politician who would operate outside of good-faith practices. Mr. Trump
soon shot up in the
\href{http://i2.cdn.turner.com/cnn/2011/images/04/12/rel6c.pdf}{early
primary race polls.}

The ``birther'' efforts became a prototype. On a plane trip to Iowa in
2013, Mr. Trump asked Sam Nunberg, a former Trump aide and 2016 campaign
adviser, whether he should question the citizenship of Senator Ted Cruz,
Republican of Texas and a child of an American mother and a Cuban-born
father who had moved to the United States from Canada when he was 4. Mr.
Nunberg recalled that he advised that Mr. Trump support Mr. Cruz, a
suggestion that Mr. Trump turned down.

``Trump said, `It's not my job to defend him,''' Mr. Nunberg recalled.

By January 2016, as Mr. Cruz seemed poised to perform well in the Iowa
caucuses, Mr. Trump was floating the idea that the senator could be tied
up in court over challenges to his eligibility to serve. After Mr. Cruz
won the caucuses, Mr. Trump dropped the tactic but went on to stoke
unfounded and outlandish questions about whether Mr. Cruz's father had
played a role in the assassination of President John F. Kennedy.

``The genius in Donald Trump is that he knows how to control the
conversation,'' Mr. Nunberg said.

To that end, Mr. Trump often changes how he talks about people or
things, depending on his own circumstances. A few years after his 1993
testimony about Native American gaming, he saw a financial advantage in
an alliance with Seminoles and tried --- ultimately unsuccessfully ---
to partner with them for casinos in Florida.

One of Mr. Trump's favorite methods for casting doubt is to intone
darkly that ``there's something going on'' --- a phrase he recently
deployed in another attempt to question the mental acuity of Mr. Biden.

The president's other technique is to say that he ``hears something,''
although he rarely says from whom, or that ``many people'' are saying
something is the case.

``I heard it today that she doesn't meet the requirements,'' Mr. Trump
said as he questioned the eligibility of Senator Kamala Harris, the
Democratic vice-presidential nominee and the daughter of immigrants, to
serve. It was an outright falsehood: Ms. Harris, who was born in
California, is eligible for the office.

Mr. Trump used a similar formulation when he embraced a
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/20/us/politics/qanon-trump-republicans.html}{small
but growing segment} of the Republican base by praising proponents of
QAnon, a wide-ranging online conspiracy movement that has claimed that
the president is on a crusade to rid the world of satanic pedophiles
organized by the Democratic Party and Hollywood celebrities.

``I've heard these are people that love our country,'' Mr. Trump
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/19/us/politics/trump-qanon-conspiracy-theories.html}{said
during} a recent White House news conference, speaking of QAnon
followers. ``So I don't know really anything about it other than they do
supposedly like me.''

George Arzt, a New York political consultant and former press secretary
to Mayor Edward I. Koch who was once threatened with a lawsuit by Mr.
Trump in a development dispute, said that sowing distrust has long
served the president's No. 1 goal.

``He was a person who was not interested in anything beyond winning,''
in whatever way he could claim victory, Mr. Arzt said.

\hypertarget{our-2020-election-guide}{%
\section{Our 2020 Election Guide}\label{our-2020-election-guide}}

Updated ~Sept. 12, 2020

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

\begin{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{the-latest}{%
  \subsection{The Latest}\label{the-latest}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    President Trump has failed to erase Joseph R. Biden Jr.'s lead
    across a set of key swing states,
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/12/us/politics/biden-trump-poll-wisconsin-minnesota.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{according
    to a poll}~conducted by The Times and Siena College.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{paths-to-270}{%
  \subsection{Paths to 270}\label{paths-to-270}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Joe Biden and Donald Trump need 270 electoral votes to reach the
    White House. Try building
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/election-states-biden-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{your
    own coalition of battleground states}~to see potential outcomes.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{voting-deadlines}{%
  \subsection{Voting Deadlines}\label{voting-deadlines}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Early voting for the presidential election starts in September~in
    some states. Take a look at
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/us/elections/2020-presidential-election-calendar.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{key
    dates}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/us/elections/2020-presidential-election-calendar.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{where
    you
    liv}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/us/elections/2020-presidential-election-calendar.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{e}.
    If you're voting by
    mail,~\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/31/us/politics/vote-by-mail-deadlines.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{it's
    risky to procrastinate}.
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/joe-biden.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{}

    \hypertarget{joe-biden}{%
    \section{Joe Biden}\label{joe-biden}}

    \hypertarget{democrat}{%
    \subsection{Democrat}\label{democrat}}

    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/donald-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{}

    \hypertarget{donald-trump}{%
    \section{Donald Trump}\label{donald-trump}}

    \hypertarget{republican}{%
    \subsection{Republican}\label{republican}}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \hypertarget{keep-up-with-our-coverage}{%
  \subsection{Keep Up With Our
  Coverage}\label{keep-up-with-our-coverage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Get an
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{email}~recapping
    the day's news
  \item
    Download our mobile app on
    \href{https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nytimes/id284862083?ls=1\&mat_click_id=5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\&referrer=mat_click_id\%3D5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\%26link_click_id\%3D722930677036718082}{iOS}~and
    \href{http://a.localytics.com/android?id=com.nytimes.android\&referrer=utm_source\%3Dother_nyt_mobile_web\%26utm_medium\%3DWeb\%2520page\%26utm_term\%3DGeneral\%2520Mobile\%2520Page\%26utm_campaign\%3DNYT\%2520Mobile\%2520General\%2520Page}{Android}~and
    turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
