\href{/section/opinion}{Opinion}\textbar{}What I Learned From a List of
Trump Accomplishments

\url{https://nyti.ms/3iB2ke9}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/09/11/opinion/11stockman/11stockman-articleLarge-v9.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Sections

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{/section/opinion}{Opinion}

\hypertarget{what-i-learned-from-a-list-of-trump-accomplishments}{%
\section{What I Learned From a List of Trump
Accomplishments}\label{what-i-learned-from-a-list-of-trump-accomplishments}}

Facts are vital. But they are not sufficient.

Credit...Illustration by The New York Times, photograph by Getty Images

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/farah-stockman}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/27/opinion/stockman-author/stockman-author-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/farah-stockman}{Farah
Stockman}

Ms. Stockman is a member of the editorial board.

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Sept. 11, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Don't ask me why, but I've spent the past week fact-checking a list of
Donald Trump's accomplishments, as compiled by one of his loyal
supporters. OK, if you must know: A friend asked me to because she
didn't believe this list could be true, and she was upset that someone
she respected had posted it.

She wanted me to help her write a rebuttal.

The list consisted of 123
\href{https://www.facebookcorewwwi.onion/monroehispanic/posts/2978094428969531}{bullet
points} posted on the
\href{https://www.facebookcorewwwi.onion/Conservhangout/}{Conservative
Hangout} Facebook page in May. Even though it is a few months old, it is
still making the rounds on social media.

``What has Trump actually done in the last three years?'' was the
headline. It has been shared more than 100,000 times, which most likely
translates to millions of views.

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

\hypertarget{you-can-read-the-complete-list-with-my-annotations-here}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{You can read the complete list with my
annotations
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/11/opinion/fact-check-trump-accomplishments.html}{\emph{here}}.}{You can read the complete list with my annotations here.}}\label{you-can-read-the-complete-list-with-my-annotations-here}}

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

``Since the liberal media won't tell you, we will'' the list author
declared. Here's what it looked like:

\hypertarget{46-more-than-400000-manufacturing-jobs-created-since-his-election}{%
\subsubsection{46. More than 400,000 manufacturing jobs created since
his
election.}\label{46-more-than-400000-manufacturing-jobs-created-since-his-election}}

\hypertarget{47-trump-appointed-5-openly-gay-ambassadors--}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{47. Trump appointed 5 openly gay
ambassadors. \textbf{ðŸ‘€
ðŸ‘€}}{47. Trump appointed 5 openly gay ambassadors. ðŸ‘€ ðŸ‘€}}\label{47-trump-appointed-5-openly-gay-ambassadors--}}

\hypertarget{10-trump-signed-a-bill-to-require-airports-to-provide-spaces-for-breastfeeding-moms}{%
\subsubsection{10. Trump signed a bill to require airports to provide
spaces for breastfeeding
Moms.}\label{10-trump-signed-a-bill-to-require-airports-to-provide-spaces-for-breastfeeding-moms}}

One by one, I researched the claims, reaching out to people and
institutions for a better understanding. At times, I wondered why I was
even bothering.
\href{https://journals.sagepub.com/doi/abs/10.1177/1075547017731776}{Studies}
suggest that fact-checks only matter
\href{https://www.tandfonline.com/doi/abs/10.1080/1369118X.2017.1313883}{on
the margins},
\href{https://misinforeview.hks.harvard.edu/article/do-the-right-thing-tone-may-not-affect-correction-of-misinformation-on-social-media/}{changing
minds} between 10 and 20 percent of the time. That's because we live in
such a polarized era that political party affiliation is as strong as
religious identity. ``You're not going to change your religion if
somebody tells you that Moses didn't actually have the Ten
Commandments,'' Dr. Leticia Bode, an associate professor at Georgetown
who researches the impact of fact checks, told me.

I pressed on anyway. Facts should matter, shouldn't they? There were few
outright lies on the list. I found that disorienting, and, ultimately,
comforting. At a time when a hot mess of a
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/27/opinion/trump-rnc-conspiracy-theories.html}{conspiracy
theory} called QAnon has so many believers that it is on the verge of
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/12/us/politics/a-qanon-supporter-is-almost-definitely-heading-to-congress.html}{sending
one to Congress}, any fact-based argument should be seen as a good
thing.

And yet, the more I delved into the list, the more I understood the
limitations of a simple fact check. This particular list of pro-Trump
facts cherry-picked information that paints Mr. Trump as a liberal. Item
No. 13 notes that he signed ``the biggest wilderness protection \&
conservation bill in a decade.'' Item No. 12 says, ``Low-wage workers
are benefiting from higher minimum wages.''

There is something to celebrate in this tacit admission that clean water
and decent pay are widely popular, even in that alternate universe of
alternative facts where Trump supporters are said to reside. Maybe we
aren't so different after all.

But those two facts don't really reflect the administration's record on
those issues. It's true that Mr. Trump signed a
\href{https://www.pbs.org/newshour/show/what-a-broad-bipartisan-public-lands-bill-means-for-the-american-wilderness}{landmark
conservation bill}. But he
\href{https://www.arcgis.com/apps/Cascade/index.html?appid=3c85766bc4c44579a2a7bb133b70e774}{has
also stripped protections} from more land and water than he has
preserved, notably the Bears Ears National Monument in Utah. And it's
true that workers are enjoying higher minimum wages. But that's because
activists have fought for state laws that raised the minimum wage, not
because Mr. Trump did it. The federal minimum wage hasn't budged in over
a decade.

Facts are vital. But they are insufficient. A bit of context is usually
required to produce the truth. For instance, Item No. 44 --- ``More than
seven million jobs created since the election.'' It's true that the
country had seven million more jobs in January of 2020 than existed in
2017, according to Bureau of Labor Statistics data. But anyone who
credits Mr. Trump for creating seven million jobs ought to credit
President Barack Obama with the eight million jobs created during the
last three years of his administration.

A large swath of items on the list credit Mr. Trump for the booming
economy, which is no longer booming, because of the coronavirus
pandemic. Items No. 88 through No. 93 all relate to ``lowest-ever
unemployment'' numbers --- a stark illustration of just how much of the
case for a Trump second term rested on cheerful economic figures that
are no longer valid.

About a quarter of the items on the list relate to Mr. Trump signing
bills that Congress passed, many of which he had nothing to do with. For
instance, item No. 5 praises him for signing a law that legalized hemp.
That's true, but it was one small provision in a giant
\href{https://www.brookings.edu/blog/fixgov/2018/12/14/the-farm-bill-hemp-and-cbd-explainer/}{farm
bill}. How much credit does the president really deserve for that?

Item No. 1 lauds the president for giving federal recognition to the
Little Shell Tribe of Chippewa Indians in Montana, a designation they
have sought for more than a century. But when I called up Gerald Gray,
chairman of the Little Shell Tribe, he told me that the credit goes to
the two Montana senators, Jon Tester, a Democrat, and Steve Daines, a
Republican, who managed to tuck the tribal designation provision into a
massive
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/12/11/us/politics/house-ndaa-space-force-leave.html}{military
spending bill}.

Item No. 15 lauds the administration's efforts to make it possible for
states to import cheaper medicine from Canada. Mr. Trump does deserve
credit for using the bully pulpit of the presidency to highlight the
unacceptably high cost of lifesaving medicine that Americans are forced
to pay, compared to people in other countries. But what ever happened to
his bold promise in 2016 to use the power of the federal government to
negotiate lower drug prices for Medicare patients? That was a great
idea, which would have saved the federal government hundreds of billions
of dollars. But he simply hasn't done it. Despite tough tweets against
drug companies, Mr. Trump hasn't really taken them on. If he were
serious about it, he would push Republicans in the Senate to support the
\href{https://sires.house.gov/media-center/press-releases/house-of-representatives-passes-hr-3-the-elijah-e-cummings-lower-drug\#:~:text=Representatives\%20passed\%20H.R.-,3\%2C\%20the\%20Elijah\%20E.,vote\%20of\%20230\%20to\%20192.\&text=said\%20Congressman\%20Sires.-,H.R.,for\%20prescription\%20drugs\%20at\%20\%242\%2C000.}{Elijah
E. Cummings Lower Drug Costs Now Act}, which Democrats in the House
passed last year.

As I went down the list, I found genuine accomplishments. Several items
related to the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/06/11/opinion/first-step-act-drug-offenders.html}{First
Step Act} criminal justice reform --- a meaningful piece of legislation
that shortens mandatory minimum sentences for nonviolent drug offenses,
putting a dent in mass incarceration. The administration deserves credit
for championing it, as does the bipartisan group of criminal justice
reform advocates who have pushed for it for years.

Item No. 113 relates to the Trump administration's imposition of tariffs
on China for the theft of intellectual property, and other unfair trade
practices. Privately, I have heard American businessmen say this needed
to be done. But the jury is still out on how it ends. Even Trump
supporters don't want a prolonged trade war with China. (Case in point:
Item No. 71 of the list notably touts ``\$250 billion in new trade and
investment deals in China.'')

Another big accomplishment? A massive tax cut for the wealthy and for
corporations, if you are into that kind of thing. Item No. 59 refers to
``529 college savings plans for elementary and secondary education'' ---
a tax subsidy for the wealthy to send their kids to private schools.
Item No. 84 relates to companies that brought back about a trillion
dollars from overseas. That's true. It is also true that the bill will
increase the U.S. debt by at least \$1.5 trillion, a shocking amount
during prosperous times.

Once you strip away the misleading claims from this list of
accomplishments, you are left with what Mr. Trump \emph{has} delivered:
tax cuts for the wealthy and for corporations --- No. 84. Deregulation
for banks and businessmen --- No. 97. Judges for the evangelicals ---
No. 109. Tariffs on Chinese steel for the steelworkers --- No. 113. And
after those tariffs sparked a trade war, bailouts for farmers --- No.
72. He moved the embassy to Jerusalem, for conservative Jews and
evangelicals --- No. 110.

To Mr. Trump's supporters, those are real accomplishments. But are they
worth more than Mr. Trump's failures, during
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/12/us/covid-deaths-us.html}{a
deadly pandemic}? More than his
\href{https://www.politifact.com/truth-o-meter/promises/trumpometer/?ruling=true}{broken
promises}? More than what he has destroyed? That's the question facing
voters in November. Maybe this list of his true accomplishments needs to
be weighed against a list of what he has dismantled over these last four
years. Anybody got one? I'd be happy to fact-check it.

\emph{The Times is committed to publishing}
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/01/31/opinion/letters/letters-to-editor-new-york-times-women.html}{\emph{a
diversity of letters}} \emph{to the editor. We'd like to hear what you
think about this or any of our articles. Here are some}
\href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014925288-How-to-submit-a-letter-to-the-editor}{\emph{tips}}\emph{.
And here's our email:}
\href{mailto:letters@NYTimes.com}{\emph{letters@NYTimes.com}}\emph{.}

\emph{Follow The New York Times Opinion section on}
\href{https://www.facebookcorewwwi.onion/nytopinion}{\emph{Facebook}}\emph{,}
\href{http://twitter.com/NYTOpinion}{\emph{Twitter (@NYTopinion)}}
\emph{and}
\href{https://www.instagram.com/nytopinion/}{\emph{Instagram}}\emph{.}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{Â©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
