Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/opinion}{Opinion}\textbar{}Remembering the Presidency of
Donald Trump

\url{https://nyti.ms/3mf7puI}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

\href{/section/opinion}{Opinion}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{remembering-the-presidency-of-donald-trump}{%
\section{Remembering the Presidency of Donald
Trump}\label{remembering-the-presidency-of-donald-trump}}

I wish it were a fever dream in my Covid-clouded mind. But, no, our
president believes empathy, like patriotic sacrifice, is for suckers.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/roger-cohen}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2014/11/01/opinion/cohen-circular/cohen-circular-thumbLarge-v6.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/roger-cohen}{Roger Cohen}

Opinion Columnist

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Sept. 11, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/09/11/opinion/11cohenWeb/merlin_172465944_42f8076a-2c84-4188-a589-7e1470070b10-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

After two weeks of battling Covid-19 --- thank you, dear readers, for
all the good wishes --- I can report that the droning discomfort has
passed, some energy has returned, I can taste again, and, for better or
worse, I am recovering my personality from whoever hijacked it. I can
also certify that the virus is a devilish addition to life on earth. Do
not mess with it.

My memory is also returning, a mixed blessing as it turns to familiar
obsessions, like Trump's ego.

You know that ego could not resist 18 interviews with Bob Woodward, just
as you know that he spent some of those interviews detailing his lies to
the American people about the virus (he preferred
``\href{https://www.newyorker.com/news/letter-from-trumps-washington/bob-woodward-finally-got-trump-to-tell-the-truth-about-covid-19}{to
always play it down}''), just as you know that he said in 2018 that the
Aisne-Marne American cemetery in France he declined to visit was
``\href{https://www.theatlantic.com/politics/archive/2020/09/trump-americans-who-died-at-war-are-losers-and-suckers/615997/}{filled
with losers},'' just as you know that
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2017/12/23/us/politics/trump-immigration.html}{in
2017 he said} Haitians ``all have AIDS'' and Nigerian immigrants
wouldn't ever ``go back to their huts.''

You know because the president's personality is consistent: a mix of
coward, racist, liar, con artist, narcissist, grifter, and blowhard,
with uncanny antennae for the worst instincts of humanity, and for how
to use the media to channel insecurity and hatred into a mass political
movement galvanized by his fiendish energy.

Yes, you just know with Trump. You know he insisted that Sean Spicer say
his inauguration was
``\href{https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/the-fix/wp/2017/06/20/sean-spicer-may-be-done-with-press-briefings-here-are-his-greatest-hits/}{the
largest audience to ever witness}'' the ceremony, and that the former
senior White House counselor Kellyanne Conway used the Trump playbook
when she said the statement was not false but
``\href{https://www.nbcnews.com/meet-the-press/video/conway-press-secretary-gave-alternative-facts-860142147643}{just
alternative facts},'' and that when Trump started insisting (falsely)
that there
\href{https://apnews.com/f5f6a73b2af546ee97816bb35e82c18d/Report:-Trump-commission-did-not-find-widespread-voter-fraud}{had
been voter fraud} \emph{in the election he had won}, he was laying the
groundwork for real voter suppression in November 2020, and that
downplaying the virus was about getting the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/17/opinion/trump-coronavirus.html}{Dow
to 30,000} so he would not suffer an \emph{impossible defeat} in the
coming election.

Alternative facts have been the diet of Americans for 44 months now. No
democracy, built on accountability and law, can survive such an
onslaught indefinitely. That is why Joe Biden's most effective slogan is
a simple one: ``You deserve a president who tells you the truth.''

Biden has a fight on his hands. Millions of Americans have lost their
jobs. Militarized police confront angry mobs. Insecurity is rampant, as
is racial tension. A plague stalks the land. These are near perfect
conditions for a proto-fascist like Trump who seeks a disoriented
populace.

You just know, and the knowledge is that cloying glob of sludge that can
never quite be washed off in the Trump era, however hard you scrub. It
permeates existence.

You know he doesn't believe climate change is a threat, that he has done
his best
\href{https://www.pbs.org/wgbh/frontline/article/trump-administration-environmental-rollbacks-epa-coronavirus/}{to
eviscerate} the Environmental Protection Agency, that he does not
believe in science, that he thought ``disinfectant'' might
\href{https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vfLZOkn0chc}{knock out} the virus
``in a minute,'' that he has hobbled the Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention, that he
\href{https://transequality.org/the-discrimination-administration}{couldn't
care less}about transgender people, that he loathes immigrants he has
described as ``animals,'' and that he authorized
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/06/14/the-weekly/trump-immigration-border-separation-family.html}{the
separation} of thousands of immigrant children from their parents at the
border. You know that in textbook totalitarian fashion, calls a free
press ``the
\href{https://www.theguardian.com/us-news/2019/sep/07/donald-trump-war-on-the-media-oppo-research}{enemy
of the American people}.''

Yes, you know, and you also know that Trump wants you to know all this
so well, and so relentlessly, ** that you don't care. He has always
gotten away with it. He has no reason to believe he will not continue to
bat 1.000.

``The fact is, we're here, and they're not,''
\href{https://www.google.com/url?q=https://www.youtube.com/watch?v\%3DMevLAJjmhIk\&sa=D\&ust=1599842045176000\&usg=AFQjCNF2cwD4C8GClxHCHqhBtBoTu_iNPg}{he
taunted} his opponents at the White House last month. It is a fact,
alterable only through an immense summoning of American character and
will.

You know Trump thought there were
``\href{https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JmaZR8E12bs\&feature=emb_title}{very
fine people on both sides}'' at the 2017 neo-Nazi Charlottesville rally,
and that he thinks any Jew who votes for a Democrat shows
``\href{https://apnews.com/1bc3065eb2e4414289ef0ac1ac4ebaf7}{great
disloyalty,}'' and that he winks daily at millions of Americans who
believe he is their savior from a takeover by Black and brown people,
Jewish finance, cosmopolitans, and leftist radicals. You know Trump is
``\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/video/us/politics/100000005024000/trump-we-are-very-much-behind-egypt.html}{very
much behind}'' President Abdel Fattah el-Sisi of Egypt because he has
yet to meet a dictator he does not dream of emulating. You know Trump
must be compromised with President Vladimir Putin to the point of
\href{https://www.axios.com/trump-russia-bounties-taliban-putin-call-4a0f6110-ab58-41c0-96fc-57b507462af1.html}{ignoring}
Russian bounties on American troops in Afghanistan.

American deaths, as this year's virus death toll has shown, are a matter
of indifference to a president who believes empathy, like patriotic
sacrifice, is for suckers.

It's important not just to know, to be aware, but to remember. It's hard
to remember. It's like looking for the way out of a labyrinth in the
mist.

It's important to remember that Trump
\href{https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/2020/06/05/trumps-claim-that-hes-done-more-blacks-than-any-president-since-lincoln/}{believes}
he has done more for Black Americans than any president since Abraham
Lincoln and that
\href{https://apnews.com/5707eb98847a3c69632a2eea2e03a475}{he claims} he
will preserve coverage for pre-existing conditions even as he is asking
the Supreme Court to destroy Obamacare. Because Trump is delusional and
a world already on the brink of an armed Chinese-American confrontation
may not survive a second Trump term without disaster. Nor will the
oldest democracy on earth.

\emph{The Times is committed to publishing}
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/01/31/opinion/letters/letters-to-editor-new-york-times-women.html}{\emph{a
diversity of letters}} \emph{to the editor. We'd like to hear what you
think about this or any of our articles. Here are some}
\href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014925288-How-to-submit-a-letter-to-the-editor}{\emph{tips}}\emph{.
And here's our email:}
\href{mailto:letters@NYTimes.com}{\emph{letters@NYTimes.com}}\emph{.}

\emph{Follow The New York Times Opinion section on}
\href{https://www.facebookcorewwwi.onion/nytopinion}{\emph{Facebook}}\emph{,}
\href{http://twitter.com/NYTOpinion}{\emph{Twitter (@NYTopinion)}}
\emph{and}
\href{https://www.instagram.com/nytopinion/}{\emph{Instagram}}\emph{.}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{Â©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
