Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/opinion}{Opinion}\textbar{}A Biden Win Won't Cure My
Trump-Era Depression

\url{https://nyti.ms/2DNrA1k}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

\href{/section/opinion}{Opinion}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{a-biden-win-wont-cure-my-trump-era-depression}{%
\section{A Biden Win Won't Cure My Trump-Era
Depression}\label{a-biden-win-wont-cure-my-trump-era-depression}}

I find hope and relief from my misery in things that have nothing to do
with the election.

By Mychal Denzel Smith

Mr. Smith is a writer.

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Sept. 11, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/09/11/opinion/11mychalsmith-2/11mychalsmith-2-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

When I was 12 years old, my cousin was killed. I started having trouble
sleeping.

Looking back, that's when my depression took hold. I couldn't
concentrate in school, and my grades slipped. I lost interest in
friendships.

From that year until my early adulthood, every spring, around the
anniversary of my cousin's death, my despondency would return. My panic
attacks started when I was 16; I waited until I was of legal age to add
an unhealthy relationship with alcohol to the mix.

Through therapy, I've become good at recognizing the signs of depression
and warding off the worst of its effects. I can note my own social
withdrawal, recognize that I have slipped deeper into an overwhelming
sadness and correct some very basic things in my life --- diet,
exercise, sleep, returning phone calls --- to help me get back to
normal.

Since the day Donald Trump was elected, this hasn't worked.

I know I'm not alone. According to the American Psychiatric Association,
in 2017,
\href{https://www.psychiatry.org/newsroom/apa-public-opinion-poll-annual-meeting-2017}{36
percent}of adults described themselves as feeling more anxious than they
did the previous year. Also in 2017,
\href{https://www.nimh.nih.gov/health/statistics/major-depression.shtml}{more
than 17 million American adults} and three million Americans between the
ages of 12 and 17 had at least one major depressive episode. A
psychologist, Jennifer Panning, has even assigned a name to mental
health problems attributed to this presidency:
\href{https://www.politico.com/magazine/story/2018/10/12/donald-trump-anxiety-disorder-pscyhologists-221305}{Trump
Anxiety Disorder.}

Some of us broke four years ago and haven't recovered. Along with so
many others, I had to ask myself what it meant to live in a system that
allowed for a proudly racist and sexist representative of the capitalist
class to seize presidential power. I mourned for the younger version of
myself that had cast his first vote for the first Black presidential
candidate on a major party ticket and had his cynicism challenged when
that candidate actually won.

In the beginning, I tried taking up Muay Thai, thinking that the
endorphins and supposedly healthy space to place my anger would be able
to buoy me. But as much fun as it was to strap on gloves and beat a
heavy bag, I lost interest within a couple of months and gave in to my
desire to do nothing. I saw all the familiar signs: I wasn't answering
phone calls. I was taking days and weeks to respond to texts, if I
responded at all. I slept infrequently, fitful and afraid.

I know well that this moment in history is not an aberration. But I'm
haunted by thoughts of the ****
\href{https://www.aljazeera.com/news/2019/11/held-record-69550-migrant-children-custody-2019-report-191112132803440.html}{tens
of thousands of migrant children}who have been held in detention and
away from their families,
\href{https://www.cbsnews.com/news/arctic-temperature-record-100-4-degrees-earth-warmest-12000-years/\#:~:text=Tahlequah\%20The\%20Orca-,100.4\%20degree\%20Arctic\%20temperature\%20record\%20confirmed\%20as\%20study\%20suggests\%20Earth,in\%20at\%20least\%2012\%2C000\%20years\&text=Less\%20than\%20two\%20weeks\%20ago,Arctic\%20and\%20alarming\%20meteorologists\%20worldwide.}{100-degree
days in Siberia,} people dying alone of Covid-19 and the astronomical
\href{https://www.cdc.gov/media/releases/2020/p0819-covid-19-impact-american-indian-alaska-native.html}{infection
rates among American Indians} and
\href{https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/covid-data/investigations-discovery/hospitalization-death-by-race-ethnicity.html}{Black
Americans}. I feel an overwhelming sense of powerlessness.

No, I never assumed that in my lifetime we would defeat the entrenched
forces of white supremacist heteropatriarchal capitalism. But I had come
around to believing that a slow, frustrating but ultimately sustainable
victory and all the jubilation that would come along with it was
something my friends' children might someday experience.

That sense of possibility has largely dissipated. I am afraid every
single day --- of wildfires in California, of hurricanes on the Gulf
Coast, of the police and ICE, of going to the grocery store in a
pandemic, of Electoral College math.

When I can't sleep, I think of the time I walked by a Planned Parenthood
center in New York City and watched a person affix a cross to the side
of the building and pray over it --- a reminder of how reproductive
rights remain under attack and are in danger of being whittled down to
nothing. I think of how Breonna Taylor didn't even see the police
coming. I think of how I lost my great-aunt to Covid-19.

I feel fragile.

But as the election approaches, I know I can't rely on a President Biden
to cure my Trump-era depression. If he wins, it will simply represent a
return to the normalcy favored by Democrats and the lie of American
unity. A Biden presidency would not bring with it the same level of
incompetence-meets-evil that we have suffered under the Trump
administration. But without an agenda aimed at radically transforming
(or in some cases eliminating altogether) the institutions that have
caused so much harm, the best we can hope for is four years of
bipartisan compromises that leave us facing the same challenges.
Electing Mr. Biden is, at this point, a necessary measure to beat back
the worst of the Trump era, but it is hardly a balm in and of itself.

So when I'm briefly able to shake loose my sense of dread, it's not tied
to a fantasy about Nov. 4. Instead, it's a result of the hope I've found
in pockets: **** the teenagers who lead climate marches; the protests at
the border against family separation; the defeat of new prison
construction; the ending of cash bail; a brand-new nationwide call to
defund and abolish the police; and a tide of progressive lawmakers
elected to local and national offices, from New York to St. Louis. The
systems of mutual aid that have formed in response to the pandemic. It
may be the largest protest movement in this nation's history.

I can imagine coming out of this depression when I think of examples of
people acting together to make the world better and fairer for
themselves, but also for strangers. It's not unlike when I have to make
myself return texts and phone calls ---~I can lift myself out of misery
by remembering that I'm part of a collective. And that we care about one
another.

This is perhaps the greatest lesson of the Trump era for me, one worth
repeating to myself every day even when this presidency is a distant
memory: We need one another. We need the bonds of community, political
solidarity and collective action if there is any chance of alleviating
the darkness of this era. We can prevail --- we can protect our
democracy, our planet and our emotional well-being --- only if we do so
together.

On good days, I can see that happening. I can look through the fog of
this Trump-era depression and imagine what could be next --- regardless
of who wins the election --- and feel almost giddy.

This doesn't often last long. But what I've learned from my depression
is that you have to string together as many of these moments as you can,
until eventually they give way to a better life.

Mychal Denzel Smith is the author of the forthcoming book
``\href{https://www.boldtypebooks.com/titles/mychal-denzel-smith/stakes-is-high/9781568588735/}{Stakes
Is High: Life After the American Dream},'' from which this essay is
adapted.

\emph{The Times is committed to publishing}
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/01/31/opinion/letters/letters-to-editor-new-york-times-women.html}{\emph{a
diversity of letters}} \emph{to the editor. We'd like to hear what you
think about this or any of our articles. Here are some}
\href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014925288-How-to-submit-a-letter-to-the-editor}{\emph{tips}}\emph{.
And here's our email:}
\href{mailto:letters@NYTimes.com}{\emph{letters@NYTimes.com}}\emph{.}

\emph{Follow The New York Times Opinion section on}
\href{https://www.facebookcorewwwi.onion/nytopinion}{\emph{Facebook}}\emph{,}
\href{http://twitter.com/NYTOpinion}{\emph{Twitter (@NYTopinion)}}
\emph{and}
\href{https://www.instagram.com/nytopinion/}{\emph{Instagram}}\emph{.}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
