Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/travel}{Travel}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/travel}{Travel}\textbar{}36 Hours in Queenstown, New
Zealand

\url{https://nyti.ms/2wTf6BF}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{36-hours-in-queenstown-new-zealand}{%
\section{36 Hours in Queenstown, New
Zealand}\label{36-hours-in-queenstown-new-zealand}}

The adventure capital is a gateway to countless thrills, but after all
the hiking and bungee jumping, the town offers a few adventures of its
own.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/03/01/travel/27hours-queenstown2/merlin_168803529_ed71111c-2d47-4dbb-ae9c-90dd2fc14475-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By Elaine Glusac

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Feb. 27, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

The adventure capital of New Zealand, Queenstown, the South Island's
magnetic mountain resort, thrives on adrenaline. Site of the first
commercial bungee-jumping operation --- established in 1988 over the
Kawarau River --- Queenstown is the place to test your courage by
jumping off, flying over or skimming above things. During the winter
(June through September), visitors flock to four ski areas in the
surrounding Southern Alps. The rest of the year, Queenstown serves as
the gateway to
\href{https://www.doc.govt.nz/parks-and-recreation/places-to-go/otago/places/mount-aspiring-national-park/}{Mount
Aspiring National Park}, Fiordland National Park in the west, and
countless hikes, including multiday treks on the
\href{https://www.doc.govt.nz/parks-and-recreation/places-to-go/fiordland/places/fiordland-national-park/things-to-do/tracks/milford-track/}{Milford},
\href{https://www.doc.govt.nz/parks-and-recreation/places-to-go/fiordland/places/fiordland-national-park/things-to-do/tracks/routeburn-track/}{Routeburn}
\href{https://www.doc.govt.nz/parks-and-recreation/places-to-go/otago/places/greenstone-and-caples-conservation-areas/things-to-do/greenstone-and-caples-tracks/}{Greenstone
and Caples} tracks. In March, the beginning of fall, the crowds have
eased but the weather is still great for outdoor adventures. The
\href{https://arrowtownautumnfestival.co.nz/}{Akarua Arrowtown Autumn
Festival} in nearby Arrowtown is from April 16 to 20, and the
\href{http://luma.nz/}{LUMA Southern Light Project,} which brings light
installations to Queenstown Gardens, takes place May 29 to June 1. On
the shores of glacially carved Lake Wakatipu, New Zealand's third
largest lake, Queenstown offers a respite from the wild with
sophisticated dining and shopping, each with a distinct Kiwi accent.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/02/27/travel/27hours-queenstown1/merlin_168803808_44d088ef-7cb4-4df6-87a5-fe1fa8a5db52-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\hypertarget{friday}{%
\subsection{Friday}\label{friday}}

\hypertarget{1-4-pm-panoramic-perches}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\textbf{1) 4 p.m. Panoramic
perches}}{1) 4 p.m. Panoramic perches}}\label{1-4-pm-panoramic-perches}}

To get a sense of the jewel-like, mountain-encircled setting of
Queenstown, go vertical one of two ways. Ride the
\href{https://www.skyline.co.nz/en/queenstown/}{Skyline Gondola} (44 New
Zealand dollars, or about \$28) to ascend some 1,475 feet to the top of
Bob's Peak, high enough to appreciate how the town hugs the protected
bays of the lightning-bolt-shaped lake, and the wall of mountains in the
distance, known as the Remarkables (recognizable to ``Lord of the
Rings'' film fans). In true Kiwi fashion, the gondola provides extra
thrills once you reach the top, including a sled luge track (from 61
dollars, including gondola), but there's plenty of awe-inspiring scenery
to freely appreciate along its mountaintop hiking trails. To save
gondola fare entirely, get a similar high via the 1,640-foot climb up
the
\href{https://www.newzealand.com/us/feature/queenstown-hill-time-walk/}{Queenstown
Hill Time Walk}.

\hypertarget{36-hours-in-queenstown-new-zealand-1}{%
\subsection{36 Hours in Queenstown, New
Zealand}\label{36-hours-in-queenstown-new-zealand-1}}

\hypertarget{2-7-pm-dinner-and-a-show}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\textbf{2) 7 p.m. Dinner and a
show}}{2) 7 p.m. Dinner and a show}}\label{2-7-pm-dinner-and-a-show}}

Billing itself as a community hotel, the
\href{https://sherwoodqueenstown.nz/}{Sherwood Queenstown}, a former
Tudor-inspired motel given a hipster overhaul on a hillside just outside
of the downtown area, has become a destination for locals and travelers
interested in culture and sustainability. Join in by reserving a table
at its restaurant, provisioned in part by its own gardens. Locavore
dishes might include green salad from the garden (10 dollars), venison
tartare (18 dollars) and barbecued lamb (32 dollars). On weekend
evenings, there's a good chance a concert will be going on in its
intimate lounge; at the very least, there are outdoor fires around which
to mingle and gaze at the starry night sky.

Image

Onsen Hot Pools, outside Queenstown, offers an escape from the crowds
while basking in the views from a cedar hot tub overlooking a scenic
bend in the Shotover River.Credit...Mark Coote for The New York Times

\hypertarget{saturday}{%
\subsection{Saturday}\label{saturday}}

\hypertarget{3-8-am-breakfast-and-browsing}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\textbf{3) 8 a.m. Breakfast and
browsing}}{3) 8 a.m. Breakfast and browsing}}\label{3-8-am-breakfast-and-browsing}}

Rise and shine before the breakfast lines form at
\href{https://www.bespokekitchen.co.nz/}{Bespoke Kitchen}, the
four-year-old cafe known for its use of organic produce. The menu
reinvents breakfast by offering substantial vegan chile tofu scramble
(20.50 dollars), gluten-free potato, fennel and summer greens hash with
a fried egg (20 dollars), and even a spicy pulled chicken burger (23.50
dollars). Dine in the sunny, window-wrapped space or on shady patios.
Afterward, stroll a few blocks to the harbor to attend the
\href{http://www.queenstownmarket.com/}{Creative Queenstown Arts and
Crafts Market}, which sets up every Saturday morning, offering ceramics,
knitwear, photography, graphic design and more.

\hypertarget{4-10-am-thrill-ride}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\textbf{4) 10 a.m. Thrill
ride}}{4) 10 a.m. Thrill ride}}\label{4-10-am-thrill-ride}}

Any walk around Queenstown will introduce the range of adventure options
on offer by outfitters here, including bungee jumping, bungee swinging,
skydiving, paragliding, rafting and heli-touring. Among the most
thrilling is jet boating in vessels propelled by water ejected behind
boats that are designed to skim over New Zealand's shallow rivers. The
Maori-owned \href{https://www.shotoverjet.com/}{Shotover Jet} races on
the Shotover River in depths as shallow as about four inches in a
14-passenger jet boat, then enters the narrow canyons where the company
has exclusive access. Boats seemingly clear the rock walls by inches,
thrills that are amplified by spinning 360 degrees (159 dollars).

\hypertarget{5-1230-pm-a-burger-worth-waiting-for}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\textbf{5) 12:30 p.m. A burger worth
waiting
for}}{5) 12:30 p.m. A burger worth waiting for}}\label{5-1230-pm-a-burger-worth-waiting-for}}

Who is Ferg, the man who scowls from signage around
\href{https://www.fergburger.com/}{Fergburger}, the cult burger joint
generating long lines at all hours? The restaurant claims that in 2001
he decreed, ``Let there be burgers fir (sic) the people to eat when they
are drunk to hell.'' He may be fictional, but the quality of the burgers
is real. Lines of fans, drunk or not, snake down Shotover Street for
nearly all of the 21 hours it is open daily. Menu choices thoroughly
explore the burger range, from the standard beef Fergburger (12.50
dollars) to the venison Sweet Bambi (14.40 dollars) and the Little Lamby
made with New Zealand lamb (14.40 dollars). Jockey for a seat at one of
the few tables after ordering, or take your lunch to the beach about a
two-minute walk away.

\hypertarget{6-2-pm-onsen-zen}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\textbf{6) 2 p.m. Onsen
Zen}}{6) 2 p.m. Onsen Zen}}\label{6-2-pm-onsen-zen}}

Escape the crowds for an hour while basking in the views from a cedar
hot tub at the recently expanded \href{https://www.onsen.co.nz/}{Onsen
Hot Pools}. Nine tubs overlook a scenic bend in the Shotover River from
individual rooms with retractable windows that open the spa to the
outdoors, and another five reside in the gardens outdoors. Book a
four-person-capacity tub by the hour (from 87.50 dollars for one, or up
to 212 dollars for four), which includes a glass of beer, wine or juice
and a snack. Advance booking is highly recommended; reservations often
run weeks in advance.

\hypertarget{7-430-pm-kiwi-style-shopping}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\textbf{7) 4:30 p.m. Kiwi-style
shopping}}{7) 4:30 p.m. Kiwi-style shopping}}\label{7-430-pm-kiwi-style-shopping}}

Spend an hour browsing the many shops and galleries of Queenstown,
filled with Kiwi brands like
\href{https://www.swanndri.co.nz/}{Swanndri}, makers of the classic
``Swanny,'' or long woolen bush shirt, and the outdoor clothier
\href{https://www.icebreaker.com/en-us/home}{Icebreaker}, which
specializes in natural fabrics. For gifts and graphics, visit
\href{https://www.vestadesign.co.nz/}{Vesta Design Boutique,} housed in
William's Cottage, which was built in 1864 on the lakefront and is
registered as Queenstown's oldest house. Inside, check out limited
edition prints of the mountains by Nicola Tucker, prints of New Zealand
native birds by Marika Jones, and vintage-inspired travel posters of the
region.

Image

A floating pontoon for swimmers off Queenstown beach.Credit...Mark Coote
for The New York Times

\hypertarget{8-6-pm-remarkable-sunsets}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\textbf{8) 6 p.m. Remarkable
sunsets}}{8) 6 p.m. Remarkable sunsets}}\label{8-6-pm-remarkable-sunsets}}

Pick a spot to toast sunset in Queenstown, where the Alpenglow paints
the distant Remarkables mountains pink.
\href{https://www.qthotelsandresorts.com/queenstown/eat-drink/reds/}{Reds}
bar, at the QT Queenstown hotel, specializes in Negronis, including
classic and barrel-aged selections (19 dollars). The modernist lounge
features window-seat-to-ceiling windows that frame views of the aptly
named range as tour boats ply the lake below. Alternatively, from the
main beach in town, pop into \href{https://www.bathhouse.co.nz/}{The
Bathhouse}, a vintage 1911 bathhouse with a distinctive crown on the
roof now converted into a popular lakefront cafe. (Bear in mind sunset
in Queenstown, at 45 degrees latitude south, may come as late as 9:30
p.m. in summer.)

Image

For a sense of the terroir of southern New Zealand, book a table at
Rata, where menu items might include a Southland cheese roll and torched
Marlborough figs.Credit...Mark Coote for The New York Times

\hypertarget{9-730-pm-south-island-on-a-plate}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\textbf{9) 7:30 p.m. South Island on a
plate}}{9) 7:30 p.m. South Island on a plate}}\label{9-730-pm-south-island-on-a-plate}}

Like those of many upscale mountain towns, the Queenstown dining scene
offers strong carnivorous choices, including
\href{https://www.botswanabutchery.co.nz/queenstown/}{Botswana Butchery}
and \href{https://www.jervoissteakhouse.co.nz/queenstown}{Jervois Steak
House}. But for a sense of the terroir of southern New Zealand, book a
table at \href{https://www.ratadining.co.nz/}{Rata}, named for a native
tree. A backlit photo mural of a mossy rainforest in Fiordland National
Park sets a tranquil tone in the open-plan dining room featuring local
polished stone and warm wood, and presided over by the chef Josh Emett.
Regional ingredients fill the menu, which changes daily and recently
included kingfish crudo (24 dollars), grass-fed beef tartare with
Canterbury truffles (24 dollars), venison loin with onion purée (48
dollars) and slow-braised lamb shoulder for two (50 dollars per person).
Finish with a tableside visit from the trolley filled with New Zealand
cheeses (three for 20 dollars).

\hypertarget{10-9-pm-shaken-and-stirred}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\textbf{10) 9 p.m. Shaken and
stirred}}{10) 9 p.m. Shaken and stirred}}\label{10-9-pm-shaken-and-stirred}}

Queenstown is a party town, from the lakefront where budget travelers
flock with six-packs of beer, to classic pubs and swanky cocktail
parlors, including \href{https://www.thebunker.co.nz/}{Upstairs @ The
Bunker}. Above the restaurant of the same name, the lounge features
vintage black-and-white photos of Hollywood stars like Audrey Hepburn,
and nattily dressed bartenders shaking up craft cocktails in an
intimate, fire-lit room. On the patio, drink a frothy ``From Russia With
Love,'' with vodka and peach liqueur (19 dollars) while watching old
James Bond movies screened silently on an adjacent wall.

Image

Jet boating on the Shotover River with Shotover Jet. Boats seemingly
clear canyon walls by inches, thrills that are amplified by spinning 360
degrees.Credit...Mark Coote for The New York Times

\hypertarget{sunday}{%
\subsection{Sunday}\label{sunday}}

\hypertarget{11-8-am-make-tracks}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\textbf{11) 8 a.m. Make
tracks}}{11) 8 a.m. Make tracks}}\label{11-8-am-make-tracks}}

There are hiking trails, also known as tracks in New Zealand, all around
Queenstown. Driving north along the Glenorchy-Queenstown Road about 15
or 20 minutes leads to several inspiring walks, including the
\href{https://www.doc.govt.nz/parks-and-recreation/places-to-go/otago/places/queenstown-area/things-to-do/moke-lake-loop-track/?region=otago\&park=346498f5-d802-46e4-b38c-92dca1c96f0a\&activity=walking-trampin}{Moke
Lake Loop Track}. Under four miles, the easy trail rings a highland lake
that reflects the steep and treeless mountains surrounding it. If it's
warm, stick to Lake Wakatipu and take the short
\href{https://www.doc.govt.nz/parks-and-recreation/places-to-go/otago/places/queenstown-area/things-to-do/bobs-cove-track-and-nature-walk/}{Bob's
Cove Trail}, which leads to the rocky lakefront within minutes. Take the
plunge into the bracing water from the pier on the far side of the cove.

\hypertarget{12-10-am-rush-the-gold}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\textbf{12) 10 a.m. Rush the
gold}}{12) 10 a.m. Rush the gold}}\label{12-10-am-rush-the-gold}}

Go Sunday driving to \href{https://www.arrowtown.com/}{Arrowtown}, about
13 miles from Queenstown, where gold was originally found in 1862 in the
Arrow River, sparking a short, but intense, gold rush that left behind
about 70 vintage structures, many now housing shops, cafes, galleries
and restaurants. The \href{http://www.museumqueenstown.com/}{Lakes
District Museum \& Gallery} (admission 10 dollars) tells the story of
Arrowtown's history, from its indigenous Maori roots as hunting grounds
for moa (including a display of bones from the extinct bird) to the
establishment of a Chinese village of miners. Stop for a local beer and
a bite at \href{http://www.theforkandtap.co.nz/}{The Fork and Tap}, a
family-friendly pub with a generous outdoor patio, or taste a few pinot
noirs from the nearby Central Otago wine region at
\href{https://www.thewinery.co.nz/}{The Winery}, a wine shop dispensing
samples from vintners around the country.

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

\hypertarget{lodging}{%
\subsection{Lodging}\label{lodging}}

The lively \href{https://sherwoodqueenstown.nz/}{Sherwood Queenstown}
has 78 motel rooms updated in industrial-meets-bohemian style with army
blankets atop beds and oversize cushions made from recycled kilim rugs.
The restaurant is a destination in itself, and monthly programming
includes art workshops and concerts. Rooms from 180 dollars.

There are plenty of short-term rentals in Queenstown. Rates start around
74 dollars for a room in a centrally located
\href{https://www.airbnb.com/rooms/4271035?adults=2\&source_impression_id=p3_1570722838_kiwb5ARjO1QVZWCW\&guests=1\&check_in=2020-03-03\&check_out=2020-03-05}{condo},
and from \$107 for a
\href{https://www.airbnb.com/rooms/30183209?adults=2\&source_impression_id=p3_1570722410_bFWtC8JflIE5SfE4\&guests=1\&check_in=2020-03-02\&check_out=2020-03-05}{one-bedroom
guesthouse} driving distance from downtown.

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

\textbf{52 PLACES AND MUCH, MUCH MORE} \emph{Discover}
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/travel/places-to-visit.html}{\emph{the
best places to go in 2020,}} \emph{and find more Travel coverage by
following us on}
\href{https://twitter.com/nytimestravel}{\emph{Twitter}} \emph{and}
\href{https://www.facebookcorewwwi.onion/nytimestravel/}{\emph{Facebook}}\emph{.
And}
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/traveldispatch?action=click\&module=inline\&pgtype=Article}{\emph{sign
up for our}} **
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/traveldispatch}{\emph{Travel
Dispatch newsletter}}\emph{: Each week you'll receive tips on traveling
smarter, stories on hot destinations and access to photos from all over
the world.}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
