Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/us}{U.S.}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/us}{U.S.}\textbar{}Parkland Shooting: Where Gun Control
and School Safety Stand Today

\href{https://nyti.ms/2E7JHwh}{https://nyti.ms/2E7JHwh}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{parkland-shooting-where-gun-control-and-school-safety-stand-today}{%
\section{Parkland Shooting: Where Gun Control and School Safety Stand
Today}\label{parkland-shooting-where-gun-control-and-school-safety-stand-today}}

The Parkland students became a force for gun control legislation and
boosted the youth vote. Here's how they changed America's response to
mass shootings.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2019/02/14/us/14parklandchanges1/merlin_150573825_d86ec28d-8387-475d-936d-3e8de8e960b5-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By Margaret Kramer and
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/jennifer-harlan}{Jennifer Harlan}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Feb. 13, 2019
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

On Feb. 14, 2018, a former student slaughtered 17 people at Marjory
Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Fla.

The next day, David Hogg, a student who survived the attack,
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/02/15/us/david-hogg-florida-shooting.html}{expressed
his frustration} at the pattern of political inaction that seems to
follow mass shootings in the United States. He was not surprised that
there had been another school shooting, he said, and that fact alone
``says so much about the current state that our country is in, and how
much has to be done.''

``We need to do something,'' he said. In the course of the next year,
students would change the way the nation handles mass shootings,
spurring new gun legislation and school safety measures, and holding to
account the adults they felt had failed them.

Here's a look at where they made those changes happen, and where they
were disappointed.

\hypertarget{the-students-take-the-lead}{%
\subsection{The Students Take the
Lead}\label{the-students-take-the-lead}}

With Parkland, it was the students who set the agenda. Their
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/02/25/us/florida-shooting-parkland-students.html}{openness
about their pain} made them formidable leaders of the movement for gun
control, and their displays of
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/04/04/us/parkland-shooting-yearbook.html}{strength
and utter grief} struck a chord with a nation numbed by repeated acts of
violence.

In the weeks after the shooting, busloads of Stoneman Douglas students
took their case
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/02/20/us/parkland-students-shooting-florida.html}{to
the Florida capital} and
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/02/20/us/parkland-students-shooting-florida.html}{to
Washington}. With a rallying cry of ``Never Again,'' they gathered
support from other
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/02/16/us/columbine-mass-shootings.html}{young
people} and activists, and their
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/24/us/politics/students-lead-huge-rallies-for-gun-control-across-the-us.html}{March
for Our Lives} campaign spurred huge rallies and hundreds of protests,
including a nationwide
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/14/us/school-walkout.html}{school
walkout}. The students' pleas reached the
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/02/21/us/politics/trump-guns-school-shooting.html}{White
House}, imploring President Trump to better protect schools and limit
access to guns.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/02/27/autossell/27video/AP_18053052510952-videoSixteenByNineJumbo1600.jpg}

And the movement brought youth activism to a new age --- finding
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/07/us/parkland-students-social-media.html}{global
power in social media} and pushing public officials to
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/02/22/arts/television/school-shooting-town-hall-cnn.html}{acknowledge
their accountability}.

\emph{{[}Read how the Parkland massacre has}
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/02/13/us/parkland-anniversary-marjory-stoneman-douglas.html}{\emph{changed
the lives of the survivors}} \emph{in their own words.{]}}

Three months after the massacre in Parkland, 10 people were killed in
yet another school shooting, this one in
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/05/24/us/santa-fe-shooting-students-parkland.html}{Santa
Fe, Tex}., compounding the Stoneman Douglas students'
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/05/18/us/santa-fe-parkland-shooting.html}{outrage
and resolve}, and placing them in a new role: consoling those who were
suffering as they were. ``Something about Parkland has been different,''
said
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/23/us/mass-shooting-survivors-march-lives-.html}{Melissa
Strassner}, a survivor of the Columbine school shooting in 1999. ``They
truly have inspired a nation.''

\hypertarget{the-adults-are-held-to-account}{%
\subsection{The Adults Are Held to
Account}\label{the-adults-are-held-to-account}}

Stoneman Douglas students and parents were outraged by what they viewed
as gross incompetence on the part of school and law enforcement
officials. Video showed that a sheriff's deputy assigned to the school
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/02/22/us/nikolas-cruz-florida-shooting.html}{did
not enter the building} as the attack unfolded. Seven other deputies
remained outside as gunshots rang out, a
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/12/12/us/parkland-shooting-florida-commission-report.html}{state
commission} found. And another officer
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/06/01/us/parkland-shooting-paramedic-police-response.html}{prevented
paramedics from entering}.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/03/15/autossell/cam-collage/cam-collage-videoSixteenByNine3000.jpg}

The school district also appeared to have missed
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/18/us/nikolas-cruz-baker-act.html}{several
warning signs} about the former student charged in the massacre, Nikolas
Cruz. The parents of two 14-year-old students who were killed
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/05/15/us/parkland-parents-school-board.html}{decided
to run for the school board} to fix what they thought went wrong. One of
them
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/08/28/us/parkland-school-board-election.html}{won}.

And in January, Florida's new Republican governor, Ron DeSantis,
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/01/09/us/parkland-shooting-desantis-scott-israel.html}{suspended
Sheriff Scott Israel} for his ``neglect of duty'' and ``incompetence.''
Mr. Israel, who is a Democrat and a vocal opponent of the National Rifle
Association, continues to insist that the criticism of him is
politically motivated and that ``there was no wrongdoing on my part.''
Multiple deputies have also been suspended, and one ultimately resigned.

\hypertarget{a-new-focus-on-mental-health-and-red-flag-laws}{%
\subsection{A New Focus on Mental Health and Red Flag
Laws}\label{a-new-focus-on-mental-health-and-red-flag-laws}}

In the case of Mr. Cruz, the warning signs were many. There were the
boasts about killing animals, the
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/02/14/us/nikolas-cruz-florida-shooting.html}{expulsion},
the stalking of a female classmate, the
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/02/15/us/nikolas-cruz-florida-shooting.html}{repeated
calls} from his mother to the police. School counselors and a sheriff's
deputy
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/18/us/nikolas-cruz-baker-act.html}{decided
at one point that he should be forcibly committed} for psychiatric
evaluation, only to apparently change their minds the next day. Multiple
tips to the F.B.I. were
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/02/16/us/fbi-nikolas-cruz-shooting.html}{left
uninvestigated} --- one
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/02/23/us/fbi-tip-nikolas-cruz.html}{woman
told the bureau's tip line} she was worried about Mr. Cruz going ``into
a school and just shooting the place up.''

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2019/02/14/us/14parklandchanges/merlin_150573840_47c32151-44c1-4395-8706-88c6de70ab5d-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

At that time, there was no law in Florida that would have prevented Mr.
Cruz from buying a gun or would have allowed the police to take away his
weapon. A
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/08/us/florida-gun-bill.html}{gun
control bill} the state passed in March now allows law enforcement ---
with judicial approval --- to bar a person deemed dangerous from owning
guns for up to a year. Florida courts granted more than 1,000 such
orders in the first nine months after the law took effect, according to
\href{http://www.newser.com/article/206dca91a0e845269f3b3838df1b6c40/gun-seizure-laws-grow-in-popularity-since-parkland-shooting.html}{The
Associated Press}. Eight other states have
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2018/12/14/us/politics/gun-control-laws.html}{passed
similar ``red flag'' laws} in the last year, bringing the total with
such laws to 14. Several more states are expected to take up measures in
2019.

\hypertarget{gun-control-proves-harder-at-the-national-level}{%
\subsection{Gun Control Proves Harder at the National
Level}\label{gun-control-proves-harder-at-the-national-level}}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2018/12/14/us/politics/gun-control-laws.html}{State
legislatures}, both Republican- and Democratic-controlled, passed 76 gun
control laws in the past year --- from bans on bump stocks and caps on
magazine sizes to new minimum-age requirements and expanded background
checks. Among the victories for gun control advocates was an omnibus
bill in
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/07/us/florida-shooting-gunman-indicted.html}{Florida}
that raised the minimum age to purchase a firearm in the state to 21 and
extended the waiting period to three days. In all, more than half the
states passed at least one gun control measure in 2018, with
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/01/02/us/washington-state-new-gun-law.html}{Washington}
and
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/01/29/nyregion/gun-laws-new-york.html}{New
York} joining the trend in 2019.

At the same time, there were significantly fewer new state laws
expanding gun rights in 2018 than the year before, according to an
\href{https://lawcenter.giffords.org/wp-content/uploads/2018/12/Giffords-Law-Center-Year-End-Trendwatch-2018_Digital-Spreads.pdf}{end-of-year
report} by the national advocacy group Giffords. Data provided by the
N.R.A. also indicated that the number of enacted gun control measures
outnumbered pro-gun measures for the first time in at least six years.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/05/03/us/politics/AFP_10V2II/AFP_10V2II-videoSixteenByNine3000.jpg}

But at the federal level, any momentum for change was quickly stymied by
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/02/15/us/politics/congress-inaction-guns.html}{partisan
gridlock}. Republican leaders in Congress
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/02/25/us/politics/gun-control-congress-governors.html}{remained
silent} as their Democratic colleagues called, once again, for changes
in the wake of a mass shooting. The White House
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/12/us/politics/trump-gun-control-national-rifle-association.html}{flip-flopped
on promises} to raise the minimum age to purchase rifles and to enforce
universal background checks. And the N.R.A.
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/02/24/us/politics/nra-gun-control-florida.html}{pressed
lawmakers},
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/01/us/politics/trump-republicans-gun-control.html}{including
the president}, to give priority to the interests of gun owners.

\emph{{[}Nearly 1,200 children have been killed by gun violence since
the shooting in Parkland.}
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/02/13/us/parkland-obituaries-students.html}{\emph{Read
how teenage journalists told their stories.}}\emph{{]}}

In the end, the only significant national change was a
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/12/18/us/politics/trump-bump-stocks-ban.html}{ban
on bump stocks} --- which members of both parties had been calling for
since the
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2017/10/02/us/vegas-guns.html}{Las
Vegas shooting} in October 2017.

The House of Representatives, where Democrats took power in January, has
now made
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/01/08/us/politics/house-democrats-gun-control.html}{gun
safety a priority}, and the Judiciary Committee passed two gun-control
bills on Wednesday that would strengthen background checks and close a
loophole that allowed Dylann S. Roof to buy a gun that he used in the
Charleston church massacre in 2015. But with a Republican Senate and
president, the chances of either measure moving beyond the House are
virtually nil.

\hypertarget{arming-teachers-and-other-approaches-to-school-security}{%
\subsection{Arming Teachers, and Other Approaches to School
Security}\label{arming-teachers-and-other-approaches-to-school-security}}

In the days after Parkland, a
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/02/25/us/threats-schools-shootings.html}{flood
of threats and false alarms} heightened the focus on school security
nationwide. Schools have turned to an array of measures: hiring
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/02/11/us/guns-in-schools.html}{armed
guards}, requiring students to carry
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/21/us/florida-school-shooting-clear-backpacks.html}{clear
backpacks}, arming teachers with
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/04/11/us/erie-bats-school-shooting.html}{baseball
bats}. Some campuses have added more
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/08/11/us/back-to-school-security-guns.html}{cameras
and metal detectors} or hired companies to
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/09/06/us/social-media-monitoring-school-shootings.html}{monitor
students' social media} for potential threats --- all of which has
created a
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/04/business/school-security-industry-surges-after-shootings.html}{lucrative
market} for school security.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/12/19/us/politics/19dc-schoolsafety-vid/19dc-schoolsafety-vid-videoSixteenByNine3000.jpg}

The president voiced support in the days after Parkland for
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/02/22/us/politics/trump-guns-school-shootings.html}{arming
teachers with guns} as a way to prevent further massacres. It was an
early indicator of the tack that he and congressional Republicans would
take in
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/14/us/politics/congress-school-safety-gun-control-house-vote.html}{addressing
the shooting}. In March, Mr. Trump
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/11/us/politics/trump-guns-school-training.html}{announced
the creation of a federal commission} to examine school safety
proposals, including raising the minimum age for buying certain
firearms. But two months later, Education Secretary Betsy DeVos
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/06/05/us/politics/devos-guns-school-safety-commission.html}{informed
a Senate committee} that the commission would not look at the role guns
play in school violence. Its final report played down the role of guns,
and advised schools to improve mental health services and train school
personnel to use firearms.

\hypertarget{from-protests-to-the-polls}{%
\subsection{From Protests to the
Polls}\label{from-protests-to-the-polls}}

When it became clear that Congress would not act on guns, the Parkland
students turned their attention to
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/22/us/politics/march-for-our-lives-gun-control.html}{rallying
young voters and increasing turnout} in the midterm elections in
November.

Madison Leal, a student at Stoneman Douglas, said in March about
politicians who would not take action: ``I'm going to vote them out of
office. And so is my entire generation. And they'll be sorry then.''

In the summer, a
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/08/15/us/politics/parkland-students-voting.html}{busload
of students traveled the country} on a Road to Change tour aimed at
registering young voters. In tandem with various voter groups and
celebrities promoting registration, the Parkland students helped
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/05/20/us/politics/young-voters-registration-parkland.html}{spike
record numbers for young voter registration}, registering thousands of
voters at their rallies. The March for Our Lives campaign reported a
\href{https://marchforourlives.com/}{10 percent increase in youth
turnout} in 2018, compared with the previous midterm elections in 2014.

Image

Tens of thousands of people gathered for a March For Our Lives event in
San Francisco.Credit...Jim Wilson/The New York Times

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/11/07/us/elections-gun-control-florida.html}{Two
dozen pro-gun candidates were defeated} in contests for House seats,
though 88 of the 129 candidates backed by the N.R.A. did win. Gun
control featured prominently as an issue in the midterms, and underdog
candidates like Lucy McBath of Georgia, Jason Crow of Colorado and
Abigail Spanberger of Virginia
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/11/09/us/politics/gun-control-california-shooting.html}{won
seats in the House} after campaigning strongly for gun control measures.

One thing was clear from the midterms: Young voters were energized. The
results of that may continue to be felt in the years and decades to
come.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
