Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/business}{Business}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/business}{Business}\textbar{}Why Sotheby's Agreed to Be
Bought by a Telecom Executive for \$3.7 Billion

\url{https://nyti.ms/2Kmp187}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{why-sothebys-agreed-to-be-bought-by-a-telecom-executive-for-37-billion}{%
\section{Why Sotheby's Agreed to Be Bought by a Telecom Executive for
\$3.7
Billion}\label{why-sothebys-agreed-to-be-bought-by-a-telecom-executive-for-37-billion}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2019/06/17/business/17sothebys1/merlin_156580236_4b40430c-b3d9-47f3-9315-80178d3f5e07-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By Scott Reyburn,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/michael-j-de-la-merced}{Michael
J. de la Merced} and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/robin-pogrebin}{Robin
Pogrebin}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  June 17, 2019
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

LONDON --- In recent years, the competition between the world's two
largest auction houses, Sotheby's and Christie's, has seemed at times
like a bit of an unfair fight.

Sotheby's, which is publicly traded, has lost out to its privately held
archrival for several headline-grabbing consignments. Last year,
Christie's sold the collection of
\href{https://news.artnet.com/market/christies-rockefeller-record-first-half-1322264}{Peggy
and David Rockefeller} for \$835 million, the highest-grossing auction
ever of a private collection. In 2017, Christie's sold
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2017/11/15/arts/design/leonardo-da-vinci-salvator-mundi-christies-auction.html}{Leonardo
da Vinci's ``Salvator Mundi''} for \$450.3 million, the highest auction
price ever for a work of art.

Both auctions were underpinned by financial guarantees arranged by
Christie's, which since 1998 has belonged to a holding company owned by
the French billionaire François-Henri Pinault.

Wendy Goldsmith, a London-based art adviser and former head of
19th-century European art at Christie's, noted the advantage gained by
an auction house owned by a wealthy individual. ``If you wanted to get
something done,'' she said, ``you went to the man with deep pockets.''

On Monday, Sotheby's moved to level the playing field, agreeing to be
acquired by a billionaire of its own, the French-Israeli
telecommunications entrepreneur Patrick Drahi, in a deal worth \$3.7
billion. The purchase, by Mr. Drahi's BidFair USA, returns the only
publicly traded major auction house to private ownership after 31 years
on the New York Stock Exchange.

About \$2.66 billion of the purchase price will be paid in cash, with
Sotheby's shareholders getting \$57 per share of their common stock.
That is a 61 percent premium over the stock's closing price on Friday.
Sotheby's shares jumped 58 percent in trading on Monday after the deal
was announced.

``This acquisition will provide Sotheby's with the opportunity to
accelerate the successful program of growth initiatives of the past
several years in a more flexible private environment,'' Tad Smith, the
chief executive of Sotheby's, said in
\href{https://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/sothebys-announces-definitive-agreement-to-be-acquired-by-patrick-drahi-300869336.html}{a
statement}.

Flexibility is something Sotheby's has sorely lacked. As a publicly
traded company, it has had to justify every business decision and
explain every market fluctuation to shareholders on a quarterly basis.
That is a challenge for a business that relies on seasonal revenue and
is strongly dependent on the quality of consignments in any given sale.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2019/06/17/business/17sothebys-3/merlin_145077318_548a241c-aa2b-45c8-8059-20bfc1f0d647-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Guy Jennings, a former deputy chairman of Sotheby's Europe who is now
managing director of the Fine Art Group, an advisory company based in
London, said that having to answer to shareholders had consistently left
Sotheby's lagging behind Christie's.

``They've not clawed back any ground,'' he said.

Sotheby's had
\href{https://www.theartnewspaper.com/news/sothebys-sales-up-16-percent-in-2018-thanks-to-a-boost-in-private-sales}{\$6.4
billion} in total sales last year, fueled in part by a 37 percent
increase in private transactions. It had net income of \$108.6 million,
down from \$118.8 million the previous year. Christie's had \$7 billion
in total sales in 2018. As a private company, it does not report profits
or losses.

It may have regularly trailed Christie's in recent years, but Sotheby's
has had its moments. In 2017, it achieved an auction record of \$110.5
million for a painting by
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2017/05/18/arts/jean-michel-basquiat-painting-is-sold-for-110-million-at-auction.html}{Jean-Michel
Basquiat}, and it set a salesroom high of \$110.7 million last month for
a work by
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/05/14/arts/monet-auction-110-million.html}{Claude
Monet}. Last year, its auction in Paris of the collection of
\href{https://www.sothebys.com/en/articles/pierre-berges-visionary-collection-breaks-records-in-paris}{Pierre
Bergé}, the former partner of Yves Saint Laurent, raised \$32.4 million,
more than four times the presale high estimate.

Mr. Drahi, who founded the telecom company Altice in the Netherlands in
2001, said in a statement that he remained ``100 percent committed'' to
the telecom and media industries and that he was honored the Sotheby's
board had embraced his offer.

``As a longtime client and lifetime admirer of the company, I am
acquiring Sotheby's together with my family,'' said Mr. Drahi, who is
known as a collector of Modern and Impressionist works.

Mr. Drahi added that he was making the investment with a ``very
long-term perspective'' and that he did not anticipate any changes in
the company's strategy.

The deal comes about six years after Daniel Loeb, whose hedge fund,
Third Point, holds a stake in Sotheby's, called for the resignation of
Bill Ruprecht, the auction house's chief executive at the time.

``We have heard many excuses --- but no good reasons --- why Sotheby's
competitive position is deteriorating, such as: `Christie's is buying
market share and making uneconomic deals to make headlines,' or
`Christie's is private and doesn't have to disclose its guarantees,'''
Mr. Loeb, a member of the Sotheby's board, wrote in a letter urging Mr.
Ruprecht's ouster and bemoaning a share price that was then stalled at
about \$51.

Mr. Smith, a former chief executive of the Madison Square Garden
company, succeeded Mr. Ruprecht as chief executive in 2015, but
profitability has remained a continuing challenge for Sotheby's. In
2016, the company tried to solidify its share of the top end of the
market by paying up to \$85 million to acquire
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2016/01/12/arts/sothebys-in-a-gamble-acquires-boutique-art-advisory-firm.html}{Art
Agency, Partners}, a boutique art advisory firm. But at \$35.38, its
closing price on Friday, the company's stock had fallen well below its
2013 level.

``It was ripe for picking,'' Ms. Goldsmith said.

Mr. Loeb said in a statement that he was ``pleased to see Sotheby's pass
into such capable hands.''

Image

Art work packed in a crate arrived at Sotheby's from Paris in February.
Being publicly traded gave the auction house less flexibility than its
privately held rival, Christie's.Credit...Stephen Speranza for The New
York Times

Mr. Drahi was born in Casablanca, Morocco. His parents were math
teachers, and he showed an early aptitude for numbers. The family moved
to France when he was a teenager, and he attended prestigious
universities with the goal of becoming an electrical engineer.

Soon after joining the Dutch electronics giant Philips, he abandoned a
traditional corporate career for the less-predictable life of a telecom
entrepreneur. He drew inspiration from American moguls like John C.
Malone who made their fortunes in cable television. Mr. Drahi founded a
regional cable company in France that he later sold to an arm of Mr.
Malone's empire, using the proceeds to found Altice.

He has continued to pursue ambitious deals since then. Under Mr. Drahi,
Altice made expensive, often debt-fueled bids for cable assets around
the world, including HOT in Israel and Suddenlink in the United States.
In 2014, he defeated a stalwart of French industry, Martin Bouygues, to
acquire Vivendi's SFR division in a deal valued at 17 billion euros
(about \$19 billion at current exchange rates).

Altice gained a new level of prominence in 2015 amid speculation that it
was preparing to bid for Time Warner Cable after regulators blocked
Comcast's proposed takeover of the company. The price turned out to be
\href{https://www.wsj.com/articles/altice-not-ready-for-twc-merger-1432719685?dlbk}{too
high for Mr. Drahi}, and Charter Communications wound up buying Time
Warner Cable.

Altice made a major cable acquisition in the United States later that
year, leading
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2015/09/17/business/international/altice-in-deal-to-take-over-cablevision.html?dlbk}{a
\$17.7 billion takeover of Cablevision}. Mr. Drahi merged the company
with another Altice-owned cable operator and rebranded the operation as
Altice USA, which acquired the
\href{https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20190430005885/en/Altice-USA-Acquire-Cheddar?dlbk}{online
news network Cheddar for \$200 million in April}.

In addition to a penchant for buying undervalued assets, Mr. Drahi has a
reputation for cutting costs. How he might apply that practice to
Sotheby's remains to be seen. Also unclear is whether Mr. Smith was
party to the takeover or will become a casualty of it. He has a
connection to Mr. Drahi through the Dolan family, which sold Cablevision
to Altice.

Mr. Drahi is largely unknown in the art world. The pieces he collects
typically sell for less than \$5 million, a far cry from the sky-high
prices that dominate the contemporary art market.

``Most people don't seem to know who he is,'' said the art dealer Brett
Gorvy, a former Christie's executive who operates galleries in Geneva,
London and New York.``He's not a Pinault in terms of his level of
buying.''

It is perhaps not surprising then that Mr. Drahi's purchase of Sotheby's
mystified some art executives.

``Is it a real estate deal?'' asked Mr. Jennings of the Fine Art Group.
``Is it prestige? Is he taking on Pinault?''

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
