Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/sports/football}{Pro
Football}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/sports/football}{Pro Football}\textbar{}The N.F.L.'s
Quarterback Soap Opera in Eight Story Lines

\url{https://nyti.ms/3hJL2uT}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{the-nfls-quarterback-soap-opera-in-eight-story-lines}{%
\section{The N.F.L.'s Quarterback Soap Opera in Eight Story
Lines}\label{the-nfls-quarterback-soap-opera-in-eight-story-lines}}

This season's must-watch competitions are traditional (Aaron Rodgers),
financial (Dak Prescott) and existential (Cam Newton). Ryan Fitzpatrick,
as always, returns in his usual role.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/28/sports/28nfl-qbs-1/merlin_176126949_3809290d-bb49-42b6-b696-efdfb59f38c5-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By Mike Tanier

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Published Aug. 31, 2020Updated Sept. 7, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

The problem with a quarterback competition between Mitch Trubisky and
Nick Foles is that the winner will be either Mitch Trubisky or Nick
Foles.

Trubisky is a flailing prospect with spotty accuracy and jittery pocket
presence whom the Chicago Bears famously selected instead of Patrick
Mahomes and DeShaun Watson in the 2017 N.F.L. draft. Foles is an
affable-but-turnover-prone journeyman who parlayed his heroics for the
Philadelphia Eagles in Super Bowl LII into a lucrative reputation as a
``proven winner.'' Both are only semi-effective in four-game bursts, so
if the Chicago Bears juggle them just right, they might be poised to go
8-8 again.

The Trubisky-Foles competition is typical by N.F.L. standards: an
organizational effort to solve one problem by throwing a slightly
different problem at it. Other quarterback controversies this season
also follow traditional story lines: fading superstar vs. heir apparent,
injury-plagued veteran vs. healthy upstart, and so forth. But 2020 also
features its share of nontraditional competitions pitting quarterbacks
against their employers, their reputations, or the ravages of time.

Here's a brief recap of the league's most compelling quarterback-centric
dramas, comedies, and potential tragedies that will get you ready for
the season.

\hypertarget{packers-aaron-rodgers-vs-jordan-love}{%
\subsection{Packers: Aaron Rodgers vs. Jordan
Love}\label{packers-aaron-rodgers-vs-jordan-love}}

It would take a team of marriage counselors working around the clock in
hazmat suits to safely isolate and document all of the toxicity that
exists between
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/11/21/sports/football/aaron-rodgers-packers-coach.html}{Aaron
Rodgers and the Packers organization}. Rodgers, a two-time most valuable
player in incremental decline from his early-2010s peak, has been
signaling his dissatisfaction with his receivers and his disapproval
with the team's game plans for years. By
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/23/sports/football/nfl-draft-live.html}{trading
up to draft} Utah State's
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/jordan-love.html}{talented-but-erratic
Jordan Love} with the 26th pick, instead of a receiver or potential
starter at another position, the Packers gave a clear indication that
the feelings were mutual.

Love represents a long-term exit strategy, not an immediate threat to
Rodgers' starting job. Still, his presence ensures that every Packers
game will feel like dinner with a couple that's only staying together
for the sake of the kids.

Despite the festering dysfunction, the Packers went 13-3 last season,
meaning that this year they could become the first team to win the Super
Bowl out of sheer passive-aggression.

\hypertarget{cowboys-dak-prescott-vs-jerry-jones}{%
\subsection{Cowboys: Dak Prescott vs. Jerry
Jones}\label{cowboys-dak-prescott-vs-jerry-jones}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/28/sports/28nfl-qbs-2/merlin_176119959_4395d94b-276f-441e-a815-cd5c259d2c4d-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Dak Prescott finished second in the N.F.L. in passing yards (4,902) and
fourth in passing touchdowns (30) last season, but Jerry Jones's ongoing
effort to balance the Cowboys' budget on Prescott's back creates the
impression that the organization is somehow dissatisfied with its
quarterback.

Jones reportedly wants to sign Prescott to a five-year contract, because
Jones is the sort of financial planner who uses a credit card to make
payments on his luxury sedan's lease so he doesn't fall behind on his
40-year mortgage. Prescott wants a four-year contract because
quarterback salaries increase significantly each year and he wants to
re-enter the market as soon as possible. Carson Wentz,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/06/sports/football/pat-mahomes-contract.html}{Patrick
Mahomes} and others have signed market-resetting deals during the
impasse, meaning Jones has spent two years losing bitter contract
negotiations against himself.

Prescott will earn \$31.4 million this year
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/16/sports/football/franchise-tag-dak-prescott.html}{as
the team's franchise player}. If the Cowboys really are still making up
their minds about him, then the presence of the 32-year old backup and
Cincinnati Bengals castoff Andy Dalton provides some leverage. For
Prescott, not for the Cowboys.

\hypertarget{buccaneers-tom-brady-vs-mortality}{%
\subsection{Buccaneers: Tom Brady vs.
Mortality}\label{buccaneers-tom-brady-vs-mortality}}

Image

Tom Brady enters his 21st N.F.L. season with a new team, the Tampa Bay
Buccaneers.Credit...Mike Ehrmann/Getty Images

Brady's yards-per-game average, touchdown rate, completion rate and
efficiency rating all have been in decline since 2016. The
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/20/sports/football/tom-brady-signed-tampa-bay.html}{Buccaneers
signed Brady}, who turned 43 in early August, for \$50 million
guaranteed over two seasons and will surround him with
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/18/sports/football/tom-brady-tampa-bay-buccaneers.html}{impressive
talent}both young (Chris Godwin and Mike Evans, who each had more than
1,000 receiving yards last season) and old
(\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/21/sports/football/rob-gronkowski-tom-brady-buccaneers-patriots.html}{Rob
Gronkowski} returns as Brady's kooky sitcom nephew). They'll try to help
Brady defy the unstoppable passage of time.

All that now stands between Brady and a seventh Super Bowl ring are his
obviously diminishing skills. Oh, and a radically different offensive
system. And an unfamiliar supporting cast. And a much tougher division,
And a much weaker organization than the one he left. Otherwise: smooth
sailing.

\hypertarget{patriots-cam-newton-vs-perceptions}{%
\subsection{Patriots: Cam Newton vs.
Perceptions}\label{patriots-cam-newton-vs-perceptions}}

Image

Cam Newton is hoping to rediscover his M.V.P. form in New
England.Credit...Pool photo by Michael Dwyer

Newton, the 2015 M.V.P. and three-time Pro Bowl selection, is
technically battling the career backup Brian Hoyer and the
quasi-prospect Jarrett Stidham for the Patriots' starting job. More
accurately,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/06/sports/football/cam-newton-new-england-patriots.html}{Newton
is battling} four years of foot and shoulder injuries which have eroded
his athleticism, as well as Tom Brady's legacy, high expectations, and
the perception among a vocal segment of N.F.L. fandom that the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/28/sports/football/cam-newton-patriots-fine.html}{Patriots
replaced} a nigh-immortal warrior demigod with a flighty guy in a romper
and head scarf.

The Patriots' 2020 roster is depleted because of free-agent departures
and Covid-19 opt-outs, and their receiving corps is built for Brady's
precision micropassing, not Newton's bombs-away style. If the Patriots
somehow remain Super Bowl contenders,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/29/sports/football/cam-newton-patriots-deal.html}{all
credit will go to Bill Belichick} and ``The Patriots Way.'' If they
tumble, the polarizing Newton will be blamed for the downfall of western
civilization.

\hypertarget{washington-alex-smith-vs-the-odds}{%
\subsection{Washington: Alex Smith vs. The
Odds}\label{washington-alex-smith-vs-the-odds}}

Image

Alex Smith's return from injury added a wrinkle to Washington's
quarterback plans.Credit...Alex Brandon/Associated Press

The N.F.L.'s generic team was planning to stage a generic competition
between Dwayne Haskins (their 2019 first-round pick, abandoned by the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/10/07/sports/jay-gruden-redskins.html}{outgoing
regime}) and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/11/06/sports/football/06nfl-allens-quiz.html}{Kyle
Allen} (a security-blanket backup brought aboard by the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/12/31/sports/football/ron-rivera-washington-redskins.html}{incoming
regime}). Their plans shifted when
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/11/18/sports/alex-smith-injury-redskins-texans.html}{Alex
Smith} was cleared to return to the field, 22 months after a
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/11/18/sports/alex-smith-injury-joe-theismann.html}{devastating
2018 leg injury} followed by severe complications and months of
surgeries and setbacks.

Smith's return is nearly miraculous, so only a coldhearted scoundrel
would point out that the rebuilding Football Team would be better off
with one of the youngsters than a battered 36-year-old like Smith.
Whether as a starter or a mentor, Smith will provide leadership,
inspiration and a feel-good story for a franchise that would otherwise
be little more than the sports equivalent of the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/19/sports/baseball/statue-removed-rfk-twins.html}{empty
pedestal where an offensive statue used to stand}.

\hypertarget{dolphins-tua-tagovailoa-vs-ryan-fitzpatrick}{%
\subsection{Dolphins: Tua Tagovailoa vs. Ryan
Fitzpatrick}\label{dolphins-tua-tagovailoa-vs-ryan-fitzpatrick}}

Image

Ryan Fitzpatrick: bearded wonder.Credit...Michael Reaves/Getty Images

Image

Tua Tagovailoa: rookie hopeful.Credit...Michael Reaves/Getty Images

Tagovailoa,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/23/sports/football/nfl-draft-live.html\#link-1311ed4c}{the
fifth overall pick in April's draft,} has recovered from the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/11/16/sports/ncaafootball/tua-tagovailoa-carted-off-injury-mississippi-state.html}{November
hip injury} that ended his college career. But the Dolphins are building
for the future, so Tagovailoa is expected to spend this season watching
and learning from the beloved 37-year old Harvard alum and
hipster-for-hire
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/09/24/sports/ryan-fitzpatrick-bucs-fitzmagic.html}{Ryan
Fitzpatrick}, who was nominated for Best Supporting Actor in a
Quarterback Controversy in 2009, 2012, 2013, 2018 and last year.

\hypertarget{chargers-justin-herbert-vs-tyrod-taylor}{%
\subsection{Chargers: Justin Herbert vs. Tyrod
Taylor}\label{chargers-justin-herbert-vs-tyrod-taylor}}

The rookie
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/justin-herbert.html}{Justin
Herbert's} battle with the well-traveled scrambler
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2015/10/04/sports/football/tyrod-taylor-goes-from-a-protege-to-a-productive-quarterback.html}{Tyrod
Taylor} for the right to replace Philip Rivers is sure to keep
hypothetical
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/12/19/sports/football/if-the-chargers-score-and-no-ones-there-to-cheer-does-the-owner-care.html}{Chargers
fans} on the edges of their theoretical seats.

\hypertarget{raiders-derek-carr-vs-marcus-mariota}{%
\subsection{Raiders: Derek Carr vs. Marcus
Mariota}\label{raiders-derek-carr-vs-marcus-mariota}}

Having lost his starting job to the faded prospect Ryan Tannehill, the
faded prospect Marcus Mariota signed with the Raiders to challenge the
incumbent faded prospect Derek Carr. The stage is now set for Carr to
lose the Raiders job, then sign with the Jets next year once Sam Darnold
inevitably fades, freeing Darnold to eventually sign with the Titans
once they sour on Tannehill.

It's a quarterback controversy merry-go-round of futility, and staying
off it is the reason that neither signing an over-the-hill legend nor
ruffling a superstar's feathers by drafting a challenger is as foolish
as such tactics might sound.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
