Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/technology}{Technology}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/technology}{Technology}\textbar{}TikTok Deal Faces
Complications as U.S. and China Ratchet Up Tit-for-Tat

\url{https://nyti.ms/2EQJCQu}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{tiktok-deal-faces-complications-as-us-and-china-ratchet-up-tit-for-tat}{%
\section{TikTok Deal Faces Complications as U.S. and China Ratchet Up
Tit-for-Tat}\label{tiktok-deal-faces-complications-as-us-and-china-ratchet-up-tit-for-tat}}

China's new export rules, which could delay or scuttle a sale of TikTok,
have further turned giant companies into pawns in a geopolitical
struggle.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/29/business/00tiktok/00tiktok-superJumbo.jpg}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/mike-isaac}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/02/16/multimedia/author-mike-isaac/author-mike-isaac-thumbLarge.jpg}}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/ana-swanson}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/12/10/multimedia/author-ana-swanson/author-ana-swanson-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/mike-isaac}{Mike Isaac}
and \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/ana-swanson}{Ana
Swanson}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Aug. 31, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://cn.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/technology/20200901/tiktok-export-us-china/}{阅读简体中文版}\href{https://cn.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/technology/20200901/tiktok-export-us-china/zh-hant/}{閱讀繁體中文版}

SAN FRANCISCO --- On most days, companies like ByteDance, Microsoft,
Walmart and Oracle are considered kings within their fields. But over
the weekend, it became increasingly clear that they can also be
something else: a set of pawns.

The industry titans have been caught in an escalating tit-for-tat
between the United States and China over
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/26/technology/tiktoks-microsoft-deal-soap-opera-trump.html}{the
sale of the U.S. operations of TikTok}, the viral social media app owned
by the Chinese internet company ByteDance. The
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/06/technology/trump-wechat-tiktok-china.html}{sale
was ordered in early August by President Trump}, who said TikTok posed a
national security threat because of its Chinese ties.

For weeks, China was critical of Mr. Trump's order but stayed quiet on
what it would do about it. That allowed ByteDance and TikTok to pursue
sale talks with potential bidders like Microsoft, Walmart, Oracle and
others. Then over the weekend, Beijing threw the whole process for a
loop when it
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/29/technology/china-tiktok-export-controls.html}{updated
its export control rules} to include some of TikTok's key technologies
--- a sign that the Chinese government could exert its authority to
delay or scuttle any deal at the last minute.

Now a blockbuster deal that had been set to be completed soon has become
far more complicated, according to three people close to the talks. The
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/27/technology/walmart-tiktok-deal.html}{two
groups vying to buy TikTok's U.S. business} --- one is an alliance
between Microsoft and Walmart, and the other is an offer
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/19/technology/trump-oracle-tiktok.html}{led
by Oracl}e --- are discussing how to interpret China's new rules and how
to move forward, said the people, who were not authorized to speak
publicly. At the same time, the bidders are honing drafts of their
offers and tweaking them as part of the negotiation process, the people
said.

``Certainly this deal and high tech in general is now inherently
politicized, and there's no escaping it,'' said Scott Kennedy, a China
expert at the Center for Strategic and International Studies. ``As long
as the U.S. and China have such low trust of each other, the way TikTok
is being treated, and the way American companies may be treated in
China, may become the new normal.''

He added, ``We've passed the threshold where we feel confident we're
able to mitigate these kinds of risks between each other, and regular
companies are being caught in the middle.''

Samm Sacks, a cyberpolicy fellow at the think tank New America, said the
Trump administration was likely to counter China's latest move with its
own, and that more U.S. companies operating in China could be in an
increasingly precarious position. ``This is just the tip of the
iceberg,'' she said.

Representatives for Microsoft, Oracle and Walmart declined to comment.

``We are studying the new regulations that were released Friday,'' Erich
Andersen, ByteDance's general counsel, said in a statement. ``As with
any cross-border transaction, we will follow the applicable laws, which
in this case include those of the U.S. and China.''

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/31/business/31tiktok/merlin_176102118_078a2413-83ff-4c99-b7d7-deb0543f1cab-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

In Washington on Monday, China's new export measures were widely seen as
a potential poison pill for the TikTok deal. If China does move to block
TikTok's sale, that could goad Mr. Trump into taking harsher action,
further escalating tensions between the United States and China.

Already, the Trump administration has placed sanctions on dozens of
Chinese companies in recent weeks over alleged
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/26/business/economy/trump-sanctions-south-china-sea.html}{security
threats} and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/10/07/us/politics/us-to-blacklist-28-chinese-entities-over-abuses-in-xinjiang.html}{human
rights violations}, and it has threatened to take more measures to
\href{https://www.state.gov/announcing-the-expansion-of-the-clean-network-to-safeguard-americas-assets/}{block
Chinese tech companies} like Alibaba and Baidu from doing business in
the United States. Under Mr. Trump, the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/03/28/us/politics/grindr-china-national-security.html}{sale
of Grindr}, the gay dating app, to Beijing Kunlun Tech Co., a Chinese
company, was unwound.

Peter Navarro, the White House trade adviser known for his harsh
criticism of China, said in an interview on Monday that it was
``critical'' that Americans not use apps that are made in China because
Beijing could use them to surveil, track and potentially even extort
Americans.

``That's really the policy position underlying why we have gone after
TikTok and WeChat and there will be others because China, communist
China, the Chinese Communist Party, is basically going out around the
world trying to acquire technology and influence,'' he said. Of Mr.
Trump, he added, ``This country and this president, the strongest
president on China in history, is not going to put up with that.''

Mr. Navarro said he was not part of the negotiations over TikTok's sale,
a deal that was being reviewed by the Treasury Department. The White
House referred a request for comment to the Treasury Department, which
did not respond.

According to an analysis by the U.S.-China Business Council, China's new
export controls affect two technologies that are critical for TikTok ---
the data analytics used to create personalized information feeds, and
technology that governs user interactions with artificial intelligence,
including voice recognition and other voice technologies.

To transfer these technologies to partners out of China, exporters now
need to obtain several approvals from their provincial commerce
department, a process that can take up to 45 working days. ByteDance has
said that it will comply with the new regulations.

China's new export controls came just as a sale of TikTok appeared to be
close, after weeks of negotiations and a changing cast of bidders.
Earlier on, a coalition of tech companies that included Walmart,
Alphabet and SoftBank tried to make an offer for parts of TikTok's
business. That effort, which
\href{https://www.cnbc.com/2020/08/27/walmart-wanted-majority-tiktok-stake-teamed-with-alphabet-softbank.html}{CNBC
had reported on earlier}, ended up falling apart, the people said.

That was when Walmart joined forces with Microsoft, while Alphabet bowed
out of the talks. Now the bidding has boiled down to the
Microsoft-Walmart group versus Oracle, with both continuing to pursue a
deal despite the new Chinese rules, said the people close to the
discussions.

SoftBank and Alphabet, which is Google's parent company, declined to
comment.

Matt Perault, an associate professor at Duke University's Center on
Science and Technology Policy, said that the United States and China had
politicized other deals in the past, including Qualcomm's attempted
acquisition of the Dutch company NXP Semiconductors. In 2018, Qualcomm
terminated that deal after Chinese authorities did not grant antitrust
approvals for the acquisition of NXP's China operations.

Even so, Mr. Perault said the TikTok deal stood out because the United
States is on the eve of an election in which the president has made
China a key component of his re-election strategy, and the company
involved is one of the strongest competitors to U.S. tech companies in a
generation.

``The politicization is having an immediate impact,'' Mr. Perault said,
adding that the degree of politicization was ``unique.''

Mike Isaac reported from San Francisco and Ana Swanson from Washington.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
