Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}James Comey Would Like to
Help

\url{https://nyti.ms/3298iut}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Election
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/biden-vice-president-2020.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Biden's
  V.P. Search}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/07/24/us/politics/trump-biden-campaign-donors.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Map
  of Donations}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/elections/delegate-count-primary-results.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Delegate
  Count}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2019/us/politics/2020-presidential-candidates.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{The
  Candidates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Politics
  Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{james-comey-would-like-to-help}{%
\section{James Comey Would Like to
Help}\label{james-comey-would-like-to-help}}

The former F.B.I. director wants an end to the Trump presidency. And
yes, he knows you might think he caused it.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2019/10/13/us/politics/13comey-p1/merlin_162530706_bc030ad3-51ad-4b81-9810-770c78c31510-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/matt-flegenheimer}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/10/02/multimedia/author-matt-flegenheimer/author-matt-flegenheimer-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/matt-flegenheimer}{Matt
Flegenheimer}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Oct. 12, 2019
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

James Comey slumps strategically in restaurants --- all 6-foot-8 of him,
drooping faux-furtively with his back to the room --- and daydreams
about deleting the civic-minded Twitter feed where a bipartisan
coalition pronounces him a national disgrace.

He sleeps soundly --- nine hours a night, he ballparks --- and organizes
the self-described ``unemployed celebrity'' chapter of his life around a
series of workaday goals. ``One of my goals has been to get to 10
consecutive pull-ups,'' Mr. Comey said in an interview, legs crossed on
the back porch of his stately Virginia home. ``I'm at nine now. So, I've
been doing a lot of pull-ups.''

He writes and thinks and reads and worries from a tidy downstairs office
surrounded by the trinkets of his past: the White House place card from
the night President Trump asked for his ``loyalty'' as F.B.I. director;
a book by Nate Silver, the political data whiz
\href{https://fivethirtyeight.com/features/the-comey-letter-probably-cost-clinton-the-election/}{who
believes} Mr. Comey's explosively ambiguous letter in October 2016 about
the Hillary Clinton email investigation probably handed Mr. Trump the
election; a page from a quote-of-the-day calendar, saved for its
resonance: ``Never attribute to malice that which is adequately
explained by stupidity.''

``It reminds me so much of the F.B.I.,'' Mr. Comey said.

But then, a lot of things have lately. Another Trump-branded election
interference scandal is upon us. Institutions are wobbling. And Mr.
Comey, as ever, cannot fight a nagging conviction about it all: James
Comey can help. He must help.

``I feel stuck,'' he said. ``Like I can't do something else. And I
couldn't look myself in the mirror if I went and did something easy.''

What he is doing, exactly, is not entirely clear even to him. Rather
than proceed with the standard arc of an erstwhile intelligence leader
--- think tanks, corporate boards, studied political silence --- Mr.
Comey has pledged to spend the next 13 months working to drive Mr. Trump
from power.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2019/10/11/us/politics/00comey2/merlin_162530787_699b2d9d-4fff-4e9e-abbb-a3002f5874f7-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

The former F.B.I. director, a lover of order, sees little of it in a
norm-smashing president spiraling toward impeachment, riffing on ``sick
and deranged'' Democrats
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/10/10/us/politics/trump-rally-minneapolis.html}{at
a recent rally} and playacting the dialogue of F.B.I. officials like an
insult comic. In this concern, Mr. Comey has ample company. In this
company, he carries a kind of customized psychic baggage.

Who can know how it feels to wonder, to have everyone you meet wonder,
if the president is standing behind that seal because of you?

``Thanks for giving us Donald Trump,'' an older woman heckled recently,
adding an expletive as Mr. Comey strolled through a Yale Law School
building, where he had come for a talk that focused largely on his
fateful 2016 decisions and attendant personal anguish.

``Thank you for the feedback,'' he told her.

Divorced from its singular context, Mr. Comey's condition is somewhat
typical of the wandering urgency with which many presidential critics
are approaching the 2020 election. Last year's season of midterm
activism has given way to a long electoral winter of Democratic primary
skirmishes and an emphasis on just a few early-voting states, leaving
Trump opponents to wrestle with how to contribute amid a gush of
executive outrages they feel powerless to counteract.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-2020-election}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: 2020
Election}}{Latest Updates: 2020 Election}}\label{latest-updates-2020-election}}

Updated 2020-08-01T01:26:45.732Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-29fdff45}{Kamala
  Harris, a top vice-presidential contender, confronts double
  standards.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-13ec3d9c}{Karen
  Bass and Susan Rice are rising on Biden's vice-presidential
  shortlist.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-49e9a016}{Trump
  says Russian bounties to kill U.S. troops `never took place.'}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

Lawmakers can impeach. Whistle-blowers whistle-blow. What of the private
citizen, determined to live publicly?

``It's hard for people who've had a lot of power to come to terms with
the fact that there's actually very little you can do when you're not a
candidate,'' said Jennifer Palmieri, a former top aide to Mrs. Clinton.
``Or the F.B.I. director.''

While short on formal authority, Mr. Comey has suffered no deficiency of
platforms. He says he has signed a contract to write opinion pieces for
The Washington Post. He is the subject of an upcoming mini-series,
starring Jeff Daniels as Mr. Comey, based on his best-selling memoir. He
travels the country giving speeches on ethical leadership, mixing pro
bono appearances on college campuses with paid bookings that command a
six-figure fee. (``It's a lot!'' Mr. Comey enthused, while declining to
name his precise rate. ``Seriously, it's crazy.'')

Over nearly two hours last month at his Northern Virginia home, whose
coordinates he prefers not to publicize given the president's affection
for lathering up supporters with tales of ``Leakin' Lyin' James Comey,''
the former F.B.I. director could register as a spindly contradiction. He
is at once a just-the-facts lawman and a prodigious feeler of feelings,
introspective about the size of his ego and incapable of suppressing it
entirely.

He says he is ``not that important in the great sweep of American
history'' but believes his firsthand view into the president's psyche
can offer uncommon value to the anti-Trump movement. He can hold forth
in one breath on the humbling task of bird-feeder maintenance and in
another invoke the teachings of the theologian Reinhold Niebuhr. He says
``dude'' a lot.

Image

Mr. Comey spoke at Yale University in New Haven on Monday about his
experience at the F.B.I.~Credit...Monica Jorge for The New York Times

At times, Mr. Comey can sound as if he is suggesting that the Twitter
account from which he slings grave warnings and measured hope (``This
country is so much better than this president'') is yoked to the health
of the nation.

``I have a fantasy about on January 21, 2021, deleting my Twitter and
moving on to something else,'' he said. ``But until then, I can't.''

Closure has eluded some of his audiences, too. They lard Mr. Comey's
public events with skeptical questions about his choices in 2016. The
Justice Department's inspector general
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/06/14/us/politics/fbi-inspector-general-comey-trump-clinton-report.html}{has
lashed} Mr. Comey for ``insubordinate'' conduct during that period,
accusing him of breaking with longstanding policy by publicly discussing
an investigation into Mrs. Clinton's use of a private email server,
including in a letter to Congress less than two weeks before the
election.

Mr. Comey has conceded that he may have allowed himself to be influenced
subconsciously by the political consensus that Mrs. Clinton would win.
But he has betrayed no major regrets, defending his chosen course as the
best among bad options. ``I wish like hell we hadn't been involved,'' he
said. He predicted that history would judge him kindly for prizing
disclosure over concealment (not, as some Clinton allies see it, opting
for spectacle over discretion).

Asked if he cared about how he would be remembered for the ages, Mr.
Comey, 58, said, ``I was going to say I don't care. I'm sure I care a
little,'' adding, ``It frustrates me in general that millions of people
have a false impression of me. I wish they knew I was funnier.''

Asked if helping to defeat Mr. Trump would provide a measure of
catharsis given his role in 2016, Mr. Comey paused. ``Hmm,'' he said.
``I don't think so. At least in my own conscious mind, I don't connect
those things.''

Image

A quote-of-the-day calendar page on Mr. Comey's desk.Credit...Ryan
Christopher Jones for The New York Times

There is little template for a modern F.B.I. chief pursuing a prominent
perch in political advocacy. Mr. Comey has performatively bristled at
the observation that he is the bureau's most consequential leader since
its first, affecting a grimace recently when a forum moderator
introduced him as ``the first F.B.I. director since J. Edgar Hoover to
be a household name.''

``There's no precedent,'' Tim Weiner, author of ``Enemies: A History of
the F.B.I.,'' said of Mr. Comey's present ambitions. ``But then, there's
never been a president who's been perceived as a threat to American
national security.''

A former registered Republican who planned to complete his 10-year
F.B.I. term in 2023, Mr. Comey
\href{https://twitter.com/comey/status/1021132108381683712?lang=en}{has
urged} Democrats against charging to ``the socialist left.'' He is open
to appearing with presidential candidates at campaign functions or even
at a nominating convention, if they will have him, though he vowed never
to seek office himself.

Mr. Comey donated money earlier this year to Senator Amy Klobuchar of
Minnesota, a former law school classmate, but in the interview
volunteered few opinions on the rest of the 2020 Democratic field, save
for a compliment about the thoughtfulness of the South Bend, Ind., mayor
whose name he seemed unsure of (``Is it Pete Boot-ed-edge?'').

Some veterans of law enforcement have questioned the value, and the
propriety, of Mr. Comey's new phase, mocking the emotive turn that has
found him posting images of nature and open road on social media.

Rod J. Rosenstein, the former deputy attorney general whose 2017 memo
about Mr. Comey was cited to rationalize
t\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2017/05/09/us/politics/james-comey-fired-fbi.html}{he
firing of the F.B.I. director} that May, has been particularly cutting.
\href{https://www.wsj.com/articles/rod-rosenstein-slams-former-fbi-director-james-comey-in-speech-11557792860}{At
a speech} last spring, Mr. Rosenstein taunted the former director for
``selling books and earning speaking fees while
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/05/01/opinion/william-barr-testimony.html}{speculating}
about the strength of my character and the fate of my immortal soul.''

``I kid you not,'' Mr. Rosenstein said. ``And that is disappointing.
Speculating about souls is not a job for police and prosecutors.''

Those who know Mr. Comey concede that he is often the hero of his own
anecdotes, and it is in these moments that he can most resemble a
politician.

``I've probably now had dozens --- and maybe dozens isn't enough --- of
encounters with uniformed military, intelligence community people and
F.B.I. people in grocery stores, in airports, in hardware stores,'' Mr.
Comey said. ``They'll just come up and touch my arm and say, `Please
keep speaking. Please keep speaking.'''

While his crowds are self-selecting, Mr. Comey has plainly retained a
constituency, dispensing hugs and autographs and frozen selfie smiles
wherever he goes.

Charles Grady, a community outreach specialist at the F.B.I.'s New Haven
office who came to see Mr. Comey speak at Yale, wrapped him in a bearhug
afterward, saying Mr. Comey was the man who first recruited him. ``I
joined the F.B.I. because of him,'' Mr. Grady said. ``And I stay because
of the work he started.''

Image

Mr. Comey hugged Charles Grady after one of his events at
Yale.~Credit...Monica Jorge for The New York Times

The next evening, hours after encountering the heckler at the law
school, Mr. Comey was briefly exultant when a young woman on the street
praised his subsequent conversation with student Democrats.

``At least three of those for every `douchebag,''' he estimated as he
walked away.

In the interview at his home, Mr. Comey imagined it was ``darkly funny''
to Mrs. Clinton that he had been recast as ``the leader of a cabal'' to
destroy the president after testifying in Congress against Mr. Trump's
conduct and character --- and less funny to Mr. Comey's wife, Patrice,
who had been a devoted Clinton supporter herself.

``We're very protective of him,'' Ms. Comey said. ``It's not O.K. the
way the Republicans and the president and politicians in Congress --- I
mean, it's just not O.K.''

Mr. Comey has found comfort in a longer view. In speeches and writings,
he can appear almost
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/06/14/us/politics/james-comey-fbi-clinton-investigation-inspector-general-report.html}{preternaturally
convinced} of his capacity to sort right from wrong, and to be
recognized for having done so eventually.

Image

Mr. Comey held his grandson at his home in Northern
Virginia.Credit...Ryan Christopher Jones for The New York Times

His public career --- in self-idealization and, often enough, in reality
--- has been an exercise in telling powerful people what they did not
wish to hear, in accordance with Mr. Comey's own professional compass.
As deputy attorney general under George W. Bush, he famously confronted
presidential aides over a surveillance program he found legally dubious.

On the road, Mr. Comey speaks often of being left to ``take the hit'' in
service of the institutions he reveres, saying he knew full well that
his actions in 2016 would be ``disastrous for me as a human being.''

There is a story he likes to tell audiences about his grandfather,
William Comey, a former leader of the Yonkers Police Department whose
picture hangs in Mr. Comey's private work space. During Prohibition, the
elder Mr. Comey caught wind of a bootlegging scheme to funnel beer
through fire hoses between Yonkers and the Bronx.

He loved beer. He knew that didn't matter. His order came swiftly: Ax
the hoses, and let the alcohol fill the sewers.

``It made a lot of people angry,'' Mr. Comey told students recently. But
did that make it wrong?

``Pop did the right thing,'' Mr. Comey instructed them.

And then once more, a little firmer: ``He did the right thing.''

\hypertarget{our-2020-election-guide}{%
\section{Our 2020 Election Guide}\label{our-2020-election-guide}}

Updated July 31, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{the-latest}{%
  \subsection{The Latest}\label{the-latest}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    President Trump's assault on the Postal Service is intersecting with
    his attacks on mail-in voting.
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/politics/trump-usps-mail-delays.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Voting
    rights groups say it is a recipe for disaster.}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{bidens-vp-search}{%
  \subsection{Biden's V.P. Search}\label{bidens-vp-search}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/biden-vice-president-2020.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Here
    are 13 women} who have been under consideration to be Joe Biden's
    running mate, and why each might be chosen --- and might not be.
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{keep-up-with-our-coverage}{%
  \subsection{Keep Up With Our
  Coverage}\label{keep-up-with-our-coverage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Get an
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{email}
    recapping the day's news
  \end{itemize}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Download our mobile app on
    \href{https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nytimes/id284862083?ls=1\&mat_click_id=5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\&referrer=mat_click_id\%3D5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\%26link_click_id\%3D722930677036718082}{iOS}
    and
    \href{http://a.localytics.com/android?id=com.nytimes.android\&referrer=utm_source\%3Dother_nyt_mobile_web\%26utm_medium\%3DWeb\%2520page\%26utm_term\%3DGeneral\%2520Mobile\%2520Page\%26utm_campaign\%3DNYT\%2520Mobile\%2520General\%2520Page}{Android}
    and turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
