Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}Is D.N.C. Email Hacker a
Person or a Russian Front? Experts Aren't Sure

\url{https://nyti.ms/2avHIEg}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{is-dnc-email-hacker-a-person-or-a-russian-front-experts-arent-sure}{%
\section{Is D.N.C. Email Hacker a Person or a Russian Front? Experts
Aren't
Sure}\label{is-dnc-email-hacker-a-person-or-a-russian-front-experts-arent-sure}}

By \href{http://www.nytimes.com/by/charlie-savage}{Charlie Savage} and
\href{http://www.nytimes.com/by/nicole-perlroth}{Nicole Perlroth}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  July 27, 2016
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

WASHINGTON --- Who is Guccifer 2.0, the self-proclaimed Romanian ``lone
hacker'' responsible for copying thousands of emails and other files
from the Democratic National Committee --- a real person, or a front
created by Russian intelligence officials?

Technology specialists have been debating that question since June 15,
when CrowdStrike, a cybersecurity firm hired by the Democratic National
Committee,
\href{https://www.crowdstrike.com/blog/bears-midst-intrusion-democratic-national-committee/}{announced}
that sophisticated hacker groups with Russian links were responsible for
\href{http://www.nytimes.com/2016/06/15/us/politics/russian-hackers-dnc-trump.html}{breaching
the committee's computer servers}. Within hours of the announcement,
someone using the moniker Guccifer 2.0 started a blog to mock that
finding, posting several of the stolen documents and
\href{https://guccifer2.wordpress.com/2016/06/15/dnc/}{claiming sole
credit}.

But the publication by WikiLeaks of an archive of the committee's
internal emails --- and the uproar they caused on the eve of the
Democratic National Convention --- have focused wider attention on who,
or what, is operating behind that name. While WikiLeaks has not said how
it obtained the emails, Guccifer 2.0 claimed in a blog post last month
to have sent them to WikiLeaks.

Cybersecurity specialists have pointed to an array of forensic and
\href{http://www.nytimes.com/2016/07/27/world/europe/russia-dnc-hack-emails.html?_r=0}{technical
evidence} suggesting that Guccifer 2.0 might not be a Romanian as
claimed. That evidence included metadata hidden in the early documents
indicating that they were edited on a computer with Russian language
settings. American intelligence officials believe that Guccifer 2.0 is a
front for the G.R.U., Russia's military intelligence service,
\href{http://www.nytimes.com/2016/07/27/us/politics/spy-agency-consensus-grows-that-russia-hacked-dnc.html?ref=topics}{according
to federal officials} briefed on the investigation.

In blog posts, Twitter messages, and electronic chats with journalists,
Guccifer 2.0 has insisted such skeptics are wrong.

Against that backdrop, Guccifer 2.0's words are taking on heightened
interest. They may be clues to a person's decision to intervene in the
American election, or they may be a case study of a 21st-century Russian
information campaign --- the work of different intelligence officials,
crowded around a keyboard.

``Just because the Wizard of Oz says he's a wizard doesn't actually mean
he is,'' said Peter Singer, a security strategist at the New America
Foundation, a public policy institute.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2017/07/08/us/27TRUMP-PUTIN-COMBO/27TRUMP-PUTIN-COMBO-videoSixteenByNine3000.jpg}

The original ``Guccifer'' (pronounced GUCCI-fer) is a real person:
Marcel Lazar Lehel, a Romanian hacker who used the pseudonym Guccifer to
hack various accounts belonging to American celebrities and government
officials, including members of the Bush family, former Secretary of
State Colin L. Powell, and Sidney Blumenthal, an informal adviser to
Hillary Clinton.

Mr. Lehel was arrested in Romania in 2014 for hacking the email accounts
of several Romanian officials. In April, he was extradited to the United
States to face hacking charges and pleaded guilty in May before a
federal judge in Alexandria, Va. While awaiting sentencing, Mr. Lehel
claimed to have hacked Mrs. Clinton's private email server, but federal
officials have found no evidence to support his claim.

Mr. Lehel is known for his
\href{http://www.nytimes.com/2014/11/11/world/europe/for-guccifer-hacking-was-easy-prison-is-hard-.html}{fixation
on what conspiracy theorists call the Illuminati}, a shadowy group that
they believe controls the world. The first Guccifer 2.0 blog post, and
messages Guccifer 2.0 sent along with packages of files that same day to
the websites
\href{http://gawker.com/this-looks-like-the-dncs-hacked-trump-oppo-file-1782040426}{Gawker}
and
\href{http://www.thesmokinggun.com/documents/crime/dnc-hacker-leaks-trump-oppo-report-647293}{The
Smoking Gun}, also denounced the Illuminati.

Other oddities also arose. Technical specialists, scouring metadata on
documents posted to Guccifer 2.0's blog, found some that were last
marked by a person with a user name in Cyrillic that appeared to be a
nod to Felix E. Dzerzhinsky, best known for establishing the early
Soviet secret police forces.

On June 21, Motherboard, an online technology magazine, posted a Twitter
\href{https://motherboard.vice.com/read/dnc-hacker-guccifer-20-full-interview-transcript}{chat
log} of an interview with Guccifer 2.0, in which the person using that
account claimed to be Romanian and denied working with the Russian
government. Pressed on why Russian language markings showed up in the
metadata of the documents he had sent out, Guccifer 2.0 claimed that was
just a ``watermark.''

``I don't like Russians and their foreign policy. I hate being
attributed to Russia,'' Guccifer 2.0 wrote.

During the interview, Motherboard switched from using English to
Romanian and to Russian. Guccifer 2.0 claimed not to speak Russian and
abruptly cut off the interview.

Motherboard later
\href{http://motherboard.vice.com/read/why-does-dnc-hacker-guccifer-20-talk-like-this}{reported
findings} of linguistics specialists who said that his Romanian answers
did not seem like those of a native speaker, and that the syntax of
several of his English lines echoed Russian sentence constructions.

And a linguistic analysis provided to The New York Times by Shlomo
Argamon, a chief scientist at Taia Global, a cybersecurity firm that has
questioned cyberattack
\href{https://www.wired.com/2015/01/critics-say-new-north-korea-evidence-sony-still-flimsy/}{attribution
claims in the past}, also concluded that Guccifer 2 is Russian.

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2016/07/27/us/politics/trail-of-dnc-emails-russia-hacking.html}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2016/07/27/us/politics/trail-of-dnc-emails-russia-hacking-1469656463301/trail-of-dnc-emails-russia-hacking-1469656463301-thumbLarge-v6.png}

\hypertarget{following-the-links-from-russian-hackers-to-the-us-election}{%
\subsection{Following the Links From Russian Hackers to the U.S.
Election}\label{following-the-links-from-russian-hackers-to-the-us-election}}

How U.S. intelligence officials have connected the Russian government to
an attempt to disrupt the 2016 presidential election.

Mr. Argamon, who is a professor of computer science and the director of
the master of data science program at the Illinois Institute of
Technology, found seven oddities in the hacker's English text, five of
which pointed clearly to Russian as the speaker's native tongue.

``The linguistic evidence consistently points towards the writer being
either a native Russian speaker,'' Mr. Argamon said. ``It is possible
that the writer is a Romanian speaker who has studied Russian. However,
the writer denied knowing any Russian, and so the most reasonable
conclusion is that he is a Russian native speaker rather than a Romanian
native speaker.''

On June 30, Guccifer 2.0
\href{https://guccifer2.wordpress.com/2016/06/30/faq/}{posted additional
documents} from the Democratic National Committee's servers on the
WordPress blog. The post again denied Russian links, and spoke
admiringly of Julian Assange, the founder of WikiLeaks; Edward J.
Snowden, the former intelligence analyst who leaked archives of
surveillance documents; and Chelsea Manning, the Army private who sent a
huge trove of military and diplomatic documents to WikiLeaks in 2010.

That post accused Mrs. Clinton of being ``bought and sold,'' in contrast
to Mr. Trump, who it said ``has earned his money himself. And at least
he is sincere in what he says.''

But the post still expressed opposition to Mr. Trump's ideas ``about
closing borders and deportation policy.'' Of Senator Bernie Sanders of
Vermont, the post said, ``He never had a chance to win the nomination as
the Democratic Party itself stood against him!''

The Hill, a newspaper that covers Congress,
\href{http://thehill.com/policy/cybersecurity/287558-guccifer-20-drops-new-dnc-docs}{reported}on
July 13 that Guccifer 2.0 had reached out to it and had provided
documents about Democratic campaign donors and lobbyists.

It quoted Guccifer 2.0 as saying in an electronic chat, ``The press
{[}is{]} gradually forget{[}ing{]} about me, {[}W{]}ikileaks is playing
for time and {[}I{]} have some more docs.'' The next day, Guccifer 2.0
posted those documents on the blog. That was the last blog posting.

The Guccifer 2.0 Twitter account posted a few more messages. The most
recent one, on July 22,
\href{https://twitter.com/GUCCIFER_2/status/756530278982684672}{expressed}
excitement that WikiLeaks had posted the archive of nearly 20,000
Democratic committee emails that ``I'd given them!!!''

Since then, that account has fallen silent, too. No messages were posted
even as the Democratic Party chairwoman, Representative Debbie Wasserman
Schultz, resigned and Mrs. Clinton's campaign manager accused the
Russian government of providing the leaked emails to WikiLeaks to help
Mr. Trump.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
