Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}Why This Joe Biden Health
Care Ad Stands Out

\url{https://nyti.ms/2ZzGOjk}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Election
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/biden-vice-president-2020.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Biden's
  V.P. Search}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/07/24/us/politics/trump-biden-campaign-donors.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Map
  of Donations}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/elections/delegate-count-primary-results.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Delegate
  Count}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2019/us/politics/2020-presidential-candidates.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{The
  Candidates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Politics
  Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{why-this-joe-biden-health-care-ad-stands-out}{%
\section{Why This Joe Biden Health Care Ad Stands
Out}\label{why-this-joe-biden-health-care-ad-stands-out}}

It's ``personal to me,'' the former vice president says in a new ad that
features his own family losses to highlight the importance of health
care.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2019/08/28/us/politics/27biden-ad/merlin_159536322_577bb5c3-43bc-44a8-b124-921ba0725c5c-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/katie-glueck}{Katie Glueck}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Aug. 27, 2019
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Joseph R. Biden Jr.'s presidential campaign on Tuesday made an
extraordinarily emotional appeal for his candidacy and his health care
proposal through a
\href{https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vi4bcatoFns\&feature=youtu.be}{new
ad} that highlights his struggles with grief and family loss, a message
that reminds voters of the good will and empathy many have for the
former vice president while accentuating one of his central policy
goals.

In the 60-second television spot, called ``Personal,'' Mr. Biden tells
the stories of his family tragedies that he often shares on the campaign
trail as he discusses the importance of health care access. But the ad
is striking for the wrenching images of Mr. Biden with his two sons who
survived a car crash that killed his first wife and a daughter in 1972.
One of those children, Beau Biden, would die of cancer in 2015, a
development that drew widespread sympathy in Washington and around the
country toward the end of Mr. Biden's second term in the Obama
administration.

While many Democratic voters have pointed to the political calculus
about
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/08/22/us/politics/joe-biden-trump-2020.html}{electability}
in explaining their early support for Mr. Biden, others
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/05/30/us/politics/joe-biden-beau-biden-death.html}{have
cited} what they see as his ability to connect with people after facing
so much personal adversity of his own.

The spot is running in Iowa, part of a six-figure media campaign
announced last week. The campaign's decision to launch the initial
television advertising effort in the state that kicks off the
presidential nominating process comes as Mr. Biden has dealt with a
series of
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/08/12/us/politics/joe-biden-gaffes.html}{gaffes}and
controversies this summer, while also confronting stiffer challenges
from rivals like Senator Elizabeth Warren.

Ms. Warren's
\href{https://www.monmouth.edu/polling-institute/reports/monmouthpoll_IA_080819/}{gains
in Iowa} have not gone unnoticed by the Biden campaign, according to
some of his allies, who
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/08/22/us/politics/joe-biden-trump-2020.html}{see
her}as his biggest challenge in the state. Aides are quick to note,
however, that he has landed endorsements from several prominent Iowans
who in 2016 supported Senator Bernie Sanders, who like Ms. Warren is a
prominent progressive vying for the 2020 nomination.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-2020-election}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: 2020
Election}}{Latest Updates: 2020 Election}}\label{latest-updates-2020-election}}

Updated 2020-08-01T01:26:45.732Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-29fdff45}{Kamala
  Harris, a top vice-presidential contender, confronts double
  standards.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-13ec3d9c}{Karen
  Bass and Susan Rice are rising on Biden's vice-presidential
  shortlist.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-49e9a016}{Trump
  says Russian bounties to kill U.S. troops `never took place.'}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

The new ad begins with Mr. Biden referring to the 1972 car crash. Images
of his two young sons recovering in the hospital, where he was sworn in
as a senator from Delaware, are displayed on the screen.

``I couldn't imagine what it would have been like if we didn't have the
health care they needed immediately,'' Mr. Biden says in the spot.

The ad also references Beau Biden's battle with brain cancer and flashes
an image of Mr. Biden appearing to struggle emotionally.

Mr. Biden frequently discusses his family tragedies on the trail now,
and
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2007/12/14/us/politics/14biden.html}{did
so} during his run for president in the 2008 campaign. But he has not
always been comfortable doing so, friends say. As recently as 2015, a
Los Angeles Times
\href{https://www.latimes.com/nation/politics/trailguide/la-na-trailguide-10082015-htmlstory.html}{report}
indicated that Mr. Biden considered a commercial that discussed the car
accident to be treading on ``sacred ground.'' The group behind that
spot, which was encouraging Mr. Biden to run for president, went on to
say it
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/politics/first-draft/2015/10/08/citing-joe-bidens-wishes-pro-biden-group-will-not-air-ad-recounting-the-deaths-of-his-first-wife-and-his-daughter/}{would
not} televise that ad, and Mr. Biden did not seek the presidency the
following year.

``For decades Joe did not talk on the campaign trail or in public events
about the ways in which life really, you know, brought him to his knees,
the loss of Neilia and his daughter and the ways in which those first
couple of years were incredibly hard for him,'' Senator Chris Coons of
Delaware
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/05/30/us/politics/joe-biden-beau-biden-death.html}{said}
in an interview in May, referring to Mr. Biden's first wife. ``In recent
years he's opened up a great deal more about it. And the equally tragic
loss of his son Beau is something he's turned into an opportunity to
connect with the whole country.''

The new spot is not just about family tragedy; it is described by the
campaign as a health care ad, touching on an issue that was critical to
the Democrats' victories in the 2018 midterm elections.

The commercial obliquely makes an argument Mr. Biden often advances more
directly on the campaign trail: that his Democratic opponents who
support ``Medicare for all,'' a single-payer health care system, are by
default supporting the replacement of the Affordable Care Act, also
known as Obamacare. Mr. Biden's opponents say their goal is to further
expand robust health care coverage.

As he often does, Mr. Biden highlights his relationship with former
President Barack Obama to argue for expanding on the current health care
law rather than pursuing a more sweeping measure. Emphasizing his
partnership with Mr. Obama, a respected figure in the Democratic Party,
has been a central strategy in Mr. Biden's campaign.

``Health care is personal to me,'' Mr. Biden says. ``Obamacare is
personal to me. When I see the president try to tear it down and others
propose to replace it and start over, that's personal to me too. We've
got to build on what we did because every American deserves affordable
health care.''

Last week, Mr. Biden released the first television ad of his campaign,
called \href{https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yVrmpp0unPY}{``Bones.''} It
highlighted his standing against President Trump in early polls and
sought to paint Mr. Biden as best positioned to beat him in a
high-stakes moment for the country, even as he has seen his lead over
his rivals slip in
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/08/26/us/politics/monmouth-democratic-polls-2020.html}{some
polls}.

\hypertarget{our-2020-election-guide}{%
\section{Our 2020 Election Guide}\label{our-2020-election-guide}}

Updated July 31, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{the-latest}{%
  \subsection{The Latest}\label{the-latest}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    President Trump's assault on the Postal Service is intersecting with
    his attacks on mail-in voting.
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/politics/trump-usps-mail-delays.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Voting
    rights groups say it is a recipe for disaster.}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{bidens-vp-search}{%
  \subsection{Biden's V.P. Search}\label{bidens-vp-search}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/biden-vice-president-2020.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Here
    are 13 women} who have been under consideration to be Joe Biden's
    running mate, and why each might be chosen --- and might not be.
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{keep-up-with-our-coverage}{%
  \subsection{Keep Up With Our
  Coverage}\label{keep-up-with-our-coverage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Get an
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{email}
    recapping the day's news
  \end{itemize}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Download our mobile app on
    \href{https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nytimes/id284862083?ls=1\&mat_click_id=5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\&referrer=mat_click_id\%3D5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\%26link_click_id\%3D722930677036718082}{iOS}
    and
    \href{http://a.localytics.com/android?id=com.nytimes.android\&referrer=utm_source\%3Dother_nyt_mobile_web\%26utm_medium\%3DWeb\%2520page\%26utm_term\%3DGeneral\%2520Mobile\%2520Page\%26utm_campaign\%3DNYT\%2520Mobile\%2520General\%2520Page}{Android}
    and turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
