Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/us}{U.S.}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/us}{U.S.}\textbar{}A.O.C. Unleashes a Viral Condemnation
of Sexism in Congress

\url{https://nyti.ms/2OPlQpE}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{aoc-unleashes-a-viral-condemnation-of-sexism-in-congress}{%
\section{A.O.C. Unleashes a Viral Condemnation of Sexism in
Congress}\label{aoc-unleashes-a-viral-condemnation-of-sexism-in-congress}}

After a Republican lawmaker referred to Representative Alexandria
Ocasio-Cortez using a sexist vulgarity, she took to the House floor to
denounce the abuse faced by women in Congress and across the nation.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/07/23/us/politics/23vid-elections-AOC-vid-cover/23vid-elections-AOC-vid-cover-videoSixteenByNineJumbo1600.jpg}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/luke-broadwater}{Luke Broadwater}
and \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/catie-edmondson}{Catie Edmondson}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  July 23, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/es/2020/07/24/espanol/estados-unidos/alexandria-ocasio-cortez-insulto.html}{Leer
en español}

WASHINGTON --- Ever since Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez came
to Congress as the youngest woman elected to the House, she has upended
traditions, harnessing the power of social media and challenging
leaders, including President Trump, who are 50 years her senior.

On Thursday, she had her most norm-shattering moment yet when she took
to the House floor to read into the Congressional Record a
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/23/us/politics/aoc-women-ted-yoho.html}{sexist
vulgarity} that Representative Ted Yoho, a Florida Republican, had used
to refer to her.

``In front of reporters, Representative Yoho called me, and I quote: `A
fucking bitch,''' she said, punching each syllable in the vulgarity.
``These are the words Representative Yoho levied against a
congresswoman.''

Then Ms. Ocasio-Cortez, who excels at using her detractors to amplify
her own political brand, invited a group of Democratic women in the
House to come forward to express solidarity with her. One by one, they
shared their own stories of harassment and mistreatment by men,
including in Congress. More even than the profanity uttered on the House
floor, where language is carefully regulated, what unfolded over the
next hour was a remarkable moment of cultural upheaval on Capitol Hill.

``It happens every day in this country,'' Ms. Ocasio-Cortez said. ``It
happened here on the steps of our nation's Capitol.'' And then, in an
unmistakable shot at Mr. Trump, she added, ``It happens when individuals
who hold the highest office in this land admit to hurting women and
using this language against all of us.''

Representative Pramila Jayapal, Democrat of Washington, recounted how a
male Republican lawmaker had once
\href{https://www.facebook.com/seattletimes/videos/rep-pramila-jayapal-called-a-young-lady-by-alaska-congressman/10155535644411215/}{lashed
out at her during a debate on the House floor}, sternly calling Ms.
Jayapal, 54, a ``young lady'' and saying that she did not ``know a damn
thing'' about what she was talking about. Ms. Jayapal did not name the
lawmaker, but she was referring to Representative Don Young, Republican
of Alaska, whose insults of Ms. Jayapal were captured on video in a 2017
incident that was widely reported at the time.

Representative Debbie Wasserman Schultz, Democrat of Florida and the
former chairwoman of the Democratic National Committee, recounted her
own experiences as a ``20-something lawmaker'' in Florida's statehouse
and again as a member of Congress in her 30s.

``Few women here watching have not felt a man's bullying breath or
menacing finger in our face as we were told exactly where our place was
at work,'' Ms. Wasserman Schultz said.

Speaker Nancy Pelosi, the most powerful woman in Washington, offered her
own account: ``I can tell you this firsthand, they called me names for
at least 20 years of leadership. You'd say to them, `Do you not have a
daughter? Do you not have a mother? Do you not have a sister? Do you not
have a wife?' What makes you think you can be so --- and this is the
word I use for them --- condescending?''

It was the third straight day that the confrontation had consumed the
Capitol. It began on Monday when Mr. Yoho approached Ms. Ocasio-Cortez
on the Capitol steps and told her she was ``disgusting'' for suggesting
that poverty was driving crime in New York City.

After a brief but tense
exchange,\href{https://thehill.com/homenews/house/508259-ocaasio-cortez-accosted-by-gop-lawmaker-over-remarks-that-kind-of}{The
Hill newspaper} said in an account
\href{https://twitter.com/AOC/status/1285574615910227968?s=20}{later
shared by Ms. Ocasio-Cortez on Twitter}, Mr. Yoho walked away from her,
uttering the vulgar phrase.

In her tweet, Ms. Ocasio-Cortez embraced the insult, remarking, ``But
hey, `b*tches' get stuff done.''

By Wednesday evening, the media-savvy Ms. Ocasio-Cortez had sprung into
action to create a disruptive and viral event. Her aides emailed
invitations asking her fellow lawmakers to join her on Thursday on the
House floor, when she planned to discuss how she ``was accosted and
publicly ridiculed,'' according to a copy of the invitation.

By Thursday morning, 13 Democratic women in the House and three men,
including Representative Steny H. Hoyer, the Democratic majority leader,
had turned up on the floor to speak for her. There were the three
liberal women who with Ms. Ocasio-Cortez make up the so-called squad ---
Representatives Ilhan Omar of Minnesota, Rashida Tlaib of Michigan and
Ayanna Pressley of Massachusetts --- but also moderates like
Representative Mikie Sherrill of New Jersey.

Ms. Ocasio-Cortez began by saying that she would have been willing to
let the incident pass until she heard what Mr. Yoho called an apology.
Mr. Yoho offered some words of contrition on Wednesday for the episode,
but he declined to apologize to Ms. Ocasio-Cortez for his language,
denying that he had used the phrase and arguing that his passion stemmed
from his concern about poverty.

A spokesman for Mr. Yoho said he used a barnyard epithet to describe her
policies, not insult her.

``The offensive name-calling words attributed to me by the press were
never spoken to my colleagues, and if they were construed that way, I
apologize for their misunderstanding,'' Mr. Yoho said on the House
floor. He concluded, ``I cannot apologize for my passion or for loving
my god, my family and my country.''

But Ms. Ocasio-Cortez had had enough. ``That I could not let go,'' she
said in her speech on Thursday.

There was more.

``Mr. Yoho mentioned that he has a wife and two daughters,'' she said.
``I am two years younger than Mr. Yoho's youngest daughter. I am
someone's daughter, too. My father, thankfully, is not alive to see how
Mr. Yoho treated his daughter. My mother got to see Mr. Yoho's
disrespect on the floor of the House toward me on television, and I am
here because I have to show my parents that I am their daughter, and
that they did not raise me to accept abuse from men.''

Republicans have long labored to cast Ms. Ocasio-Cortez as an avatar of
the evils of the Democratic Party, a move that Ms. Ocasio-Cortez has
used to bolster her own cheeky, suffer-no-fools reputation. When she
cast her vote for Ms. Pelosi for speaker while wearing a white suit as a
homage to the suffragists, members of the predominately male House
Republican conference booed her. She
\href{https://twitter.com/AOC/status/1080998665672630272}{retorted on
Twitter}, ``Don't hate me cause you ain't me, fellas.''

Republican leaders were also not impressed with her speech on Thursday.

``When someone apologizes they should be forgiven,'' Representative
Kevin McCarthy of California, the House Republican leader, told
reporters. ``I don't understand that we're going to take another hour on
a floor to debate whether the apology was good enough or not.''

By Thursday afternoon, a video that Ms. Ocasio-Cortez shared on Twitter
of her floor speech had been viewed
\href{https://twitter.com/AOC/status/1286341062651523076?s=20}{over six
million times}.

Mr. Hoyer, for his part, initially called Mr. Yoho's apology
``appropriate.'' But after it became clear that Ms. Ocasio-Cortez was
not satisfied with Mr. Yoho's remarks, Mr. Hoyer called the words a
``nonapology'' and called Mr. Yoho's actions an attack on women.

``All the men on this side of the aisle are supportive of Alexandria
Ocasio-Cortez and all of her sisters,'' Mr. Hoyer said.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
