Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/opinion/sunday}{Sunday
Review}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/opinion/sunday}{Sunday Review}\textbar{}`I Keep My
Promises,' Trump Said. Let's Check.

\url{https://nyti.ms/3gYlJDT}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

\href{/section/opinion}{Opinion}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{i-keep-my-promises-trump-said-lets-check}{%
\section{`I Keep My Promises,' Trump Said. Let's
Check.}\label{i-keep-my-promises-trump-said-lets-check}}

Here's a report card on whether the president met his 2016 campaign
pledges.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/column/nicholas-kristof}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/04/03/opinion/nicholas-kristof/nicholas-kristof-thumbLarge-v2.png}}

By
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/column/nicholas-kristof}{Nicholas
Kristof}

Opinion Columnist

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Sept. 5, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/09/06/opinion/06Kristof/merlin_169387188_d905d9dd-e48d-4c9e-9c15-345d6cc28007-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Four years ago as a candidate, President Trump made more than
\href{https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/i-will-give-you-everything-here-are-282-of-donald-trumps-campaign-promises/2016/11/24/01160678-b0f9-11e6-8616-52b15787add0_story.html}{280}
campaign promises. Let's see how he did:

\textbf{``I will build a great, great wall on our southern border
\ldots{}''}
(\href{https://www.c-span.org/video/?326473-1/donald-trump-presidential-campaign-announcement}{speech},
June 16, 2015)

While Trump so far has built
\href{https://www.cbp.gov/border-security/along-us-borders/border-wall-system}{307
miles} of walls along the 1,984-mile border, much of this replaces
previous barriers that were dilapidated or blocked only vehicles.

\textbf{``\ldots{} and I will have Mexico pay for that wall.''}

Mexico is not paying for it. The new wall is costing about
\href{https://www.newsweek.com/trumps-new-border-wall-contract-will-cost-more-30-million-per-mile-1505341}{\$30
million per mile} and will be expensive to maintain, for human smugglers
have
\href{https://www.washingtonpost.com/national/smugglers-are-sawing-through-new-sections-of-trumps-border-wall/2019/11/01/25bf8ce0-fa72-11e9-ac8c-8eced29ca6ef_story.html}{cut
open} the wall with
\href{https://www.amazon.com/BLACK-DECKER-BDCR20B-Lithium-Reciprocating/dp/B00IP27DFA/ref=sr_1_6?dchild=1\&keywords=cordless+reciprocal+saw\&qid=1599240867\&sr=8-6}{\$50}
cordless saws.

\textbf{``We will find them {[}all undocumented immigrants{]}, we will
get them out.}''
(\href{https://www.cnn.com/2015/07/29/politics/donald-trump-immigration-plan-healthcare-flip-flop/?_ga=2.181094831.904733953.1599155350-1137478116.1599155350}{CNN
interview}, July 29, 2015)

Trump deported about
\href{https://www.politifact.com/truth-o-meter/promises/trumpometer/promise/1399/remove-all-undocumented-immigrants/}{750,000}
undocumented immigrants in his first three years in office, but most
were trying to get into the country, not already living here. He never
tried to remove all undocumented immigrants. He did unleash a reign of
terror directed at migrants, including separating young children from
family members, and that may be one reason the total number of
undocumented immigrants fell slightly. Still, Trump actually deported
fewer people in his first three years than Barack Obama had --- a
comparison neither man will appreciate.

\textbf{``We will also be a country of law and order. \ldots{} The crime
and violence that today afflicts our nation will soon, and I mean very
soon, come to an end. Beginning on Jan. 20 of 2017, safety will be
restored.''}
(\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2016/07/22/us/politics/trump-transcript-rnc-address.html}{speech},
July 21, 2016)

Trump himself implicitly acknowledges that he has failed to create law
and order, saying, ``There is violence and danger in the streets''
(\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/28/us/politics/trump-rnc-speech-transcript.html}{speech},
Aug. 27, 2020). Periodically, he incites that violence.

\textbf{``The most basic duty of government is to defend the lives of
its own citizens. Any government that fails to do so is a government
unworthy to lead.''}
(\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2016/07/22/us/politics/trump-transcript-rnc-address.html}{speech},
July 21, 2016)

The United States has lost more than 185,000 people to the coronavirus
pandemic. On a per-capita basis, that's more than
\href{https://ourworldindata.org/grapher/total-covid-deaths-per-million?tab=chart\&year=latest\&country=CAN~USA~DEU\&region=Europe}{twice
as many} as Canada and five times as many as Germany. America has 4
percent of the world's population and 22 percent of the world's
confirmed Covid-19 deaths.

\textbf{``We're going to work with all of our students who are drowning
in debt to take the pressure off these young people.''}
(\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2016/07/22/us/politics/trump-transcript-rnc-address.html}{speech},
July 21, 2016)

Trump has
\href{https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/grade-point/wp/2018/02/13/trump-and-devos-call-for-massive-cuts-to-college-student-aid-programs/}{sought}
to alter the terms of student loan repayments so that students would
have to pay an additional \$200 billion over a decade. He also attempted
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/03/11/us/politics/trump-budget.html}{to
cancel} the Public Service Loan Forgiveness program.

\textbf{``We will repeal and replace disastrous Obamacare.''}
(\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2016/07/22/us/politics/trump-transcript-rnc-address.html}{speech},
July 21, 2016)

Trump has not succeeded in repealing the Affordable Care Act, although
he is still pursuing a lawsuit that would overturn it. He has never
explained what would replace it.

\textbf{``You're going to have great health care at a much lower price.
It will cost the United States nothing.''}
(\href{https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefings-statements/remarks-president-trump-economy/}{remarks},
July 27, 2018)

Partly because of Trump's assaults on the Affordable Care Act, the
number of uninsured people in the United States
\href{https://khn.org/news/number-of-americans-without-insurance-rises-in-2018/\#:~:text=For\%20the\%20first\%20time\%20in,up\%20from\%207.9\%25\%20in\%202017.}{has
risen} for the first time in a decade. An additional
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/10/22/upshot/medicaid-uninsured-children.html}{400,000
children} are without insurance.

\textbf{``I will be the greatest jobs president that God ever
created.''}
(\href{https://www.c-span.org/video/?326473-1/donald-trump-presidential-campaign-announcement}{speech},
June 16, 2015)

Job creation continued during the Trump administration at roughly the
same rate as in the Obama administration, but the pandemic ended that.
There are now almost
\href{https://www.bls.gov/charts/employment-situation/civilian-employment.htm}{five
million} fewer Americans with jobs than when Trump took office. In raw
numbers, this is the worst jobs record of any modern president.

\textbf{``It is time to drain the swamp in Washington, D.C. This is why
I'm proposing a package of ethics reforms to make our government honest
once again.''}
(\href{https://www.cnn.com/videos/politics/2016/10/17/donald-trump-ethics-reform-plan-green-bay-wi-sot.cnn}{remarks},
Oct. 17, 2016)

\href{https://www.reuters.com/article/us-usa-trump-bannon-associates-factbox/factbox-here-are-eight-trump-associates-arrested-or-convicted-of-crimes-idUSKBN25G1YU}{Eight}
of Trump's associates have been charged with or convicted of crimes.
Nonpartisan ethics watchdogs have repeatedly accused Trump and members
of his administration and his family of serious ethics violations, and
the Manhattan district attorney
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/03/nyregion/donald-trump-taxes-cyrus-vance.html}{suggested}
last month that he was investigating Trump and his company for
``possibly extensive and protracted criminal conduct.''

\textbf{``I'm going to put in \ldots{} great conservative judges.''}
(\href{https://www.realclearpolitics.com/video/2016/03/21/trump_i_will_produce_a_list_of_5-10_judges_that_i_guarantee_i_will_nominate_to_supreme_court_if_elected.html}{remarks},
March 20, 2016)

Trump has appointed conservative (and young) judges across the federal
bench, and this will be a major element of his legacy. He was helped by
the Senate majority leader, Mitch McConnell, who blocked Obama from
filling vacancies; Trump thus inherited an unusually large number of
positions to fill.

\textbf{``We will honor the American people with the truth, and nothing
else.''}
(\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2016/07/22/us/politics/trump-transcript-rnc-address.html}{speech},
July 21, 2016)

Trump has made more than 20,000 false or misleading statements since
assuming office, by
\href{https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/2020/07/13/president-trump-has-made-more-than-20000-false-or-misleading-claims/}{the
count} of The Washington Post.

\textbf{``We will build the roads, highways, bridges, tunnels, airports
and the railways of tomorrow.''}
(\href{https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefings-statements/remarks-president-trump-tax-reform-event/}{remarks},
July 21, 2016)

Trump never tried to pass an infrastructure bill.

\textbf{``We're going to cut taxes for the middle class. \ldots{} We
will ensure that the benefits are focused on the middle class, the
working men and women, not the highest-income earners.''}
(\href{https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefings-statements/remarks-president-trump-tax-reform-event/}{speech},
Sept. 27, 2017)

Trump did pass a tax cut, but it was focused on the wealthy. The
nonpartisan Tax Policy Center
\href{https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/2018/11/14/does-trump-tax-cut-give-percent-benefits-top-one-percent/}{estimated}
that for the 2018 tax year, 20 percent of the benefits would go to the
top 1 percent, and that by 2027, 82 percent of the benefits would go to
the top 1 percent.

\textbf{``We've got to get rid of the \$19 trillion in debt. \ldots{} I
could do it fairly quickly \ldots{} over a period of eight years.''}
(\href{https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/fact-checker/wp/2016/04/02/trumps-nonsensical-claim-he-can-eliminate-19-trillion-in-debt-in-eight-years/}{interview},
March 31, 2016)

The debt has surged and may soon be larger than the American economy for
the first time
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/02/business/us-federal-debt.html}{since
1946}. That's partly because of his tax cut for the wealthy and partly
because of Covid-19.

\textbf{``We will end our chronic trade deficits.''}
(\href{https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=d5Mil0Bys7s}{remarks}, Oct. 15,
2016)

The
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/11/05/us/politics/us-trade-deficit.html}{trade
deficit} is
\href{https://www.citizen.org/news/trump-trade-deficit-6-5-higher-than-obamas-last-year-not-eliminated-as-then-candidate-trump-promised/}{larger
now} than it was in Obama's
\href{https://www.bea.gov/news/blog/2020-03-19/us-current-account-deficit-widened-2019}{last
year} in office.

\textbf{``We will completely rebuild our depleted military. \ldots{} We
will take care of our great veterans.''}
(\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2016/07/22/us/politics/trump-transcript-rnc-address.html}{speech},
July 21, 2016)

Trump has increased the military budget, although he has also
\href{https://www.washingtonpost.com/immigration/trump-border-wall-funding-illegal/2020/06/26/0d86a42c-b7cf-11ea-9b0f-c797548c1154_story.html}{taken}
military funds for his wall. He
\href{https://apnews.com/d4b73d56f53941788667f367dd4b264b}{expanded} a
program signed into law by Obama for veterans to choose private doctors,
while reportedly scorning those who died in wars as
\href{https://www.theatlantic.com/politics/archive/2020/09/trump-americans-who-died-at-war-are-losers-and-suckers/615997/}{``suckers''}
and trying to keep amputees from participating in a military parade.

\textbf{``We are going to defeat the barbarians of ISIS.''}
(\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2016/07/22/us/politics/trump-transcript-rnc-address.html}{speech},
July 21, 2016)

The United States did overthrow the caliphate of the Islamic State --- a
process begun under Obama. But ISIS continues to operate at a reduced
level.

\textbf{``We want to create peace between Israel and the Palestinians.
We will get it done.''}
(\href{https://www.theatlantic.com/international/archive/2017/05/trump-middle-east-peace-is-not-as-difficult-as-people-have-thought/525267/}{remarks},
May 3, 2017)

Peace between Israel and the Palestinians is as elusive as ever.
However, Arab states such as the United Arab Emirates have warmed to
Israel.

\textbf{``Nobody will be pushing us around.''}
(\href{https://www.c-span.org/video/?326473-1/donald-trump-presidential-campaign-announcement}{speech},
June 16, 2015)

The obvious exception is Russia, which interfered in the 2016
presidential election and now appears to be interfering in the 2020
election as well. Russia has injured American troops in Syria, and it is
said to have paid bounties to Afghan militants for killing American
troops.

\textbf{``Unlike so many who came before me, I keep my promises.''}
(\href{https://www.pbs.org/newshour/politics/read-the-full-text-of-trumps-2020-state-of-the-union}{speech},
Feb. 4, 2020)

Well, no.

\emph{The Times is committed to publishing}
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/01/31/opinion/letters/letters-to-editor-new-york-times-women.html}{\emph{a
diversity of letters}} \emph{to the editor. We'd like to hear what you
think about this or any of our articles. Here are some}
\href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014925288-How-to-submit-a-letter-to-the-editor}{\emph{tips}}\emph{.
And here's our email:}
\href{mailto:letters@NYTimes.com}{\emph{letters@NYTimes.com}}\emph{.}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
