Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}Elizabeth Warren Loses
Finance Director as She Struggles in Early Fund-Raising

\url{https://nyti.ms/2Oyi6YX}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/08/us/trump-vs-biden?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Election
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/election-states-biden-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Paths
  to 270}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/31/us/politics/vote-by-mail-deadlines.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Voting
  by Mail}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/us/elections/2020-presidential-election-calendar.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Key
  Dates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Politics
  Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{elizabeth-warren-loses-finance-director-as-she-struggles-in-early-fund-raising}{%
\section{Elizabeth Warren Loses Finance Director as She Struggles in
Early
Fund-Raising}\label{elizabeth-warren-loses-finance-director-as-she-struggles-in-early-fund-raising}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2019/03/31/us/politics/31warren1/merlin_152330919_3bd72129-4cb0-4e86-bb00-1a0dbc28ff38-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/astead-w-herndon}{Astead
W. Herndon} and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/jonathan-martin}{Jonathan
Martin}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  March 31, 2019
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

MEMPHIS --- On a Sunday afternoon earlier this month, Senator Elizabeth
Warren began a swing through the South by proclaiming that she was
running ``a different type of campaign'' --- one that did not include
high-dollar fund-raisers but was entirely reliant on grass-roots
contributions.

``If you think that's a good idea, go to ElizabethWarren.com,'' she told
about 500 people at a town hall-style event in Memphis, adding: ``Pitch
in five bucks, do whatever you can.''

The next morning she woke up to some news about a surge in small-dollar
contributions, but it wasn't for her: Former Representative Beto
O'Rourke had raised
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/03/18/us/politics/beto-o-rourke-fundraising.html}{\$6.1
million in the first 24 hours} of his candidacy.

It was another blow to a candidate who has spent the first months of the
Democratic presidential primary campaign seeking to distinguish herself
from the field: She was the first major candidate to announce; she has
set the pace on policy, unveiling a series of far-reaching proposals on
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/02/19/us/politics/elizabeth-warren-child-care.html}{child
care},
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/01/24/us/politics/wealth-tax-democrats.html}{taxes}
and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/03/08/us/politics/elizabeth-warren-amazon.html}{the
role of large technology companies}; and she defied the pleas of her
longtime finance director and declared that she would stop pursuing big
donations altogether, leading to his resignation.

But as
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/03/30/us/politics/democrats-2020-donors.html}{the
first fund-raising deadline} arrives at midnight on Sunday, Ms. Warren
--- who last year was widely considered a would-be front-runner ---
finds herself in a political vise. Her rivals on either ideological
flank will raise substantially more money in the first quarter than she
does, and her focus on policy has not yet translated in the polls.

Ms. Warren's early troubles reflect the broader challenges confronting
the vast Democratic field, all vying for money and attention as they
seek to dethrone President Trump. Harvesting online donations does not
come easily to noncelebrity candidates, and the party's longstanding
fascination with youthful charisma --- along with its current,
Trump-driven fixation on electability --- can outweigh qualities like
experience or policy expertise.

{[}\emph{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?smid=rd\%3Faction\%3Dclick\&module=inline\&pgtype=Article}{Sign
up for our politics newsletter}} \emph{and join the conversation around
the 2020 presidential race.}{]}

The decision of Senator Bernie Sanders, Ms. Warren's longtime friend and
fellow populist, to run again has cut into her money and her potential
share of the vote on the left. And Democrats like Mr. O'Rourke, Senator
Kamala Harris and Mayor Pete Buttigieg of South Bend, Ind., have offered
a party eager to find fresh faces a handful from which to choose.

``If Warren says, `I can't raise enough money, so my way to win is
through an aggressive field operation because I have fired-up
volunteers,' well, Bernie and Beto can say, `O.K., well, we can do
both,''' said Rufus Gifford, the finance director in former President
Barack Obama's re-election campaign.

Ms. Warren has also faced persistent questions about her electability
from Democratic voters desperate to oust President Trump. These concerns
grew when she released
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/12/06/us/politics/elizabeth-warren-dna-test-2020.html}{the
results of a DNA test} last year showing she had distant Native American
ancestry, and was immediately ridiculed by Mr. Trump.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2019/03/31/us/politics/31warren2/merlin_152540568_2ce8b23c-f0ed-4eeb-a43b-1e6e5155a026-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Her staff is sensitive enough about the ``but can she win'' concerns
that last week it issued a lengthy campaign memo, in the guise of a
fund-raising email, detailing her platform and résumé while offering a
reminder that she is the only candidate who in recent years has defeated
a statewide Republican incumbent.

In an interview Thursday at the Washington office of one her
consultants, Ms. Warren began making her electability case more
explicit, invoking her seven-and-a-half-point defeat of Scott Brown
seven years ago.

``It's what people said in Massachusetts in 2012,'' she recalled about a
race in which she also lagged in early polls, adding triumphantly,
``I've started out down and I've come back and fought and fought and
fought until, I didn't squeak by, I beat him and beat him hard.''

Ms. Warren has good reason to remain optimistic --- or at least not to
panic just yet. Even if she struggles to raise money in the early going,
she can finance her ambitious campaign thanks to the \$10 million aides
say she has transferred from her Senate campaign account.

And the contours of the 2020 race are nothing if not uncertain. Ms.
Warren does not face the sort of unease within factions of the party
that Mr. Sanders and former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. do, and
presidential history is littered with examples of candidates who surged
late when other contenders unraveled.

{[}\emph{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/us/politics/2020-presidential-candidates.html?action=click\&module=inline\&pgtype=Article}{Keep
up with the 2020 field with our candidate tracker.}}{]}

However, the history of Democratic primaries is also filled with
would-be reformers who fell short because they chiefly appealed to white
voters --- and that is who dominates Ms. Warren's audiences, even in a
heavily black city like Memphis.

``It was noticeable,'' said Jennings Bernard, a longtime pastor and
political activist, who attended Ms. Warren's event here. ``The concerns
of the people in this audience are not the concerns of this community.''

In the interview, Ms. Warren offered little explanation for why her
policy-filled, 43-stops-and-counting campaign has not inspired a
groundswell of small-donor support or gotten her more traction in early
polling.

``Good ideas are sustaining over time,'' she said hopefully.

While she is an unmistakably fierce competitor, Ms. Warren is most
animated discussing her progressive policy vision. In separate
interviews, two of her friends said without prompting that she did not
crave the presidency as some other candidates do and would be content if
her agenda prevailed but she lost the nomination.

Image

Part of Ms. Warren's challenge owes to timing: She is not the new
candidate on the scene as she would have been four years ago, when
progressives lobbied for her to challenge Hillary Clinton.Credit...John
Tully for The New York Times

Asked if she would be happy with such an outcome, Ms. Warren answered
quickly, ``I'd be a lot happier than I would be if none of those ideas
made it into law,'' before returning to safer ground by arguing that
``it's going to take somebody fighting for those changes.''

{[}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/03/30/us/politics/joe-biden-lucy-flores.html}{\emph{Ms.
Warren said ``Joe Biden needs to give ananswer'' to allegations that he
touched and kissed a former Nevada assemblywoman.}}{]}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/2020-election}{Election
2020 ›}

\hypertarget{live-updates}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/08/us/trump-vs-biden}{Live
Updates}}{Live Updates}}\label{live-updates}}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/08/us/trump-vs-biden\#kathryn-garcia-nycs-sanitation-commissioner-resigns-to-mull-a-run-for-mayor}{}

Sept. 8, 2020, 11:10 a.m. ET

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/08/us/trump-vs-biden\#kathryn-garcia-nycs-sanitation-commissioner-resigns-to-mull-a-run-for-mayor}{Kathryn
Garcia, N.Y.C.'s sanitation commissioner, resigns to mull a run for
mayor.}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/08/us/trump-vs-biden\#a-top-house-democrat-calls-for-the-suspension-of-postmaster-general-louis-dejoy-over-campaign-finance-allegations}{}

Sept. 8, 2020, 10:00 a.m. ET

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/08/us/trump-vs-biden\#a-top-house-democrat-calls-for-the-suspension-of-postmaster-general-louis-dejoy-over-campaign-finance-allegations}{A
top House Democrat calls for the suspension of Postmaster General Louis
DeJoy over campaign finance
allegations.}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/08/us/trump-vs-biden\#in-a-closely-watched-new-hampshire-primary-democrats-will-pick-a-challenger-to-governor-sununu}{}

Sept. 8, 2020, 9:37 a.m. ET

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/08/us/trump-vs-biden\#in-a-closely-watched-new-hampshire-primary-democrats-will-pick-a-challenger-to-governor-sununu}{In
a closely watched New Hampshire primary, Democrats will pick a
challenger to Governor Sununu.}

While she betrayed no irritation about Mr. Sanders's decision to run
again, or the media attention and money that less-experienced candidates
like Mr. O'Rourke and Mr. Buttigieg have drawn --- ``it's 11 months
out,'' she noted, referring to the first primary voting --- some of her
admirers are more forthcoming.

``It's a little frustrating to see some candidates coming in --- whether
Beto or whoever --- and start getting a lot of attention when they do
not have the same résumé of other candidates,'' said Kathy Sullivan, a
former New Hampshire Democratic chairwoman who has not yet endorsed in
the race. Making clear that her exasperation was on behalf of some of
the female candidates, Ms. Sullivan added, ``But there's nothing new
about that, we've always had to do it backward and in heels.''

Other Democrats worry about what they describe as the political version
of post-traumatic stress disorder following Hillary Clinton's stunning
loss. Questions of viability, party officials say, have become
overwhelming to the point that activists are uncertain about following
their instincts out of fear they will nominate someone who will lose to
Mr. Trump.

``We're so traumatized by 2016 that we're afraid to trust our hearts and
that's turning us all into pundits,'' said Adam Jentleson, a longtime
Senate Democratic aide who supports Ms. Warren. ``Overthinking and
voting for a candidate we like less but who we think other people will
like more is the path to ending up with a candidate no one likes very
much.''

Mr. Trump, who has long relished taunting Ms. Warren with the
``Pocahontas'' slur, has already declared victory. In an interview on
Fox News last week, Mr. Trump said, ``I hit her too hard, too early and
now it looks like she's finished.''

Part of Ms. Warren's challenge owes to timing --- she is not the new
candidate on the scene the way she would have been four years ago, when
progressives lobbied for her to challenge Mrs. Clinton.

``There were artificially high expectations early on because there was
so much interest in her in 2016,'' said Jennifer Palmieri, a top aide to
Mrs. Clinton in the last race. ``Everybody loves you when you're the one
who's not in the race, and once you get in you're a mortal and have to
slog it out. That doesn't mean you can't come back and win --- it's just
a different type of race.''

Image

Ms. Warren does not face the sort of unease within factions of the party
that other Democrats do, and presidential history is littered with
examples of candidates who surged late when other candidates
unraveled.Credit...John Tully for The New York Times

 Ms. Warren's most immediate challenge, though, may be money. She raised
only \$299,000 in the first day of her candidacy, far below the \$5.9
million and \$6.1 million Mr. Sanders and Mr. O'Rourke brought in for
the same period and also less than Ms. Harris. In emails to supporters,
asking for as little as \$3, her campaign flatly says her rivals will
post ``fund-raising figures we won't be able to match.''

And after demonstrating little capacity to raise cash online, Ms. Warren
effectively doubled down on small-dollar contributions, announcing last
month that she would no longer hold big-money fund-raisers or seek
wealthy donors to bundle hundreds of thousands of dollars in checks.

She cast it as a decision long in the making that will offer her more
time with voters. In truth, she made the choice only after a robust
debate inside her campaign that led to the resignation of her finance
director, Michael Pratt, who strenuously objected to the idea.

At a Valentine's Day meeting at Ms. Warren's Washington condominium that
began with a heart-shaped cake but soon grew heated, Mr. Pratt noted
that campaigns often collapse when they run out of money and pleaded
with her not to cut off a significant cash stream, according to
Democrats briefed on the conversation. He pointed out that winning over
wealthy fund-raisers across the country helped build networks that could
translate into political support, not just checks.

But Mr. Pratt lost the argument to two of Ms. Warren's closest advisers,
Dan Geldon and Joe Rospars, who made the case about standing apart from
the field and freeing up her schedule.

Mr. Pratt is not the only veteran adviser absent from this campaign.
Among the others who are not involved are Mindy Myers, who ran the
winning Senate race against Mr. Brown in 2012 and became chief of staff;
the pollster Tom Kiley; and two ad makers, Mandy Grunwald and Marla
Romash. (Mr. Kiley retired and Ms. Grunwald is staying out of Ms.
Warren's presidential campaign entirely because she has another client
in the race, Senator Amy Klobuchar).

Ms. Warren chose not to air the ads Ms. Grunwald and Ms. Romash made for
her Senate re-election last year, determining that she was better off
husbanding her resources than trying to establish herself with New
Hampshire voters who live in the Boston media market. That saved her
much of the cash she has since transferred to her presidential campaign,
but it has also left her lagging in early New Hampshire polls.

Those polls may not mean much if her fund-raising gamble pays off and
she can emerge later this year, after a series of nationally televised
debates and dozens more events like the one in Memphis.

Wilnelia Rivera, a Boston political strategist who helped orchestrate
Representative Ayanna Pressley's primary victory in 2018, said that
while a grass-roots strategy was often derided, she believed Ms. Warren
could alter the way presidential campaigns are run if she becomes the
nominee.

``They're up to something,'' Ms. Rivera said of Ms. Warren's campaign.
``What that is? I have no idea. But we're paying a lot of attention.
Because she's doing something that's innovative.''

\hypertarget{our-2020-election-guide}{%
\section{Our 2020 Election Guide}\label{our-2020-election-guide}}

Updated ~Sept. 8, 2020

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

\begin{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{the-latest}{%
  \subsection{The Latest}\label{the-latest}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    The campaign
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/08/us/trump-vs-biden?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{shifts
    to a higher gear this week}, with President Trump set to visit
    Florida and North Carolina today and Joseph R. Biden heading to
    Michigan tomorrow.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{how-to-win-270}{%
  \subsection{How to Win 270}\label{how-to-win-270}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Joe Biden and Donald Trump need 270 electoral votes to reach the
    White House. Try building
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/election-states-biden-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{your
    own coalition of battleground states}~to see potential outcomes.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{voting-by-mail}{%
  \subsection{Voting by Mail}\label{voting-by-mail}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Will you have enough time to vote by mail in your state? Yes, but
    it's risky to procrastinate.
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/31/us/politics/vote-by-mail-deadlines.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Check
    your state's deadline.}
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/joe-biden.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{}

    \hypertarget{joe-biden}{%
    \section{Joe Biden}\label{joe-biden}}

    \hypertarget{democrat}{%
    \subsection{Democrat}\label{democrat}}

    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/donald-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{}

    \hypertarget{donald-trump}{%
    \section{Donald Trump}\label{donald-trump}}

    \hypertarget{republican}{%
    \subsection{Republican}\label{republican}}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \hypertarget{keep-up-with-our-coverage}{%
  \subsection{Keep Up With Our
  Coverage}\label{keep-up-with-our-coverage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Get an
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{email}~recapping
    the day's news
  \item
    Download our mobile app on
    \href{https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nytimes/id284862083?ls=1\&mat_click_id=5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\&referrer=mat_click_id\%3D5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\%26link_click_id\%3D722930677036718082}{iOS}~and
    \href{http://a.localytics.com/android?id=com.nytimes.android\&referrer=utm_source\%3Dother_nyt_mobile_web\%26utm_medium\%3DWeb\%2520page\%26utm_term\%3DGeneral\%2520Mobile\%2520Page\%26utm_campaign\%3DNYT\%2520Mobile\%2520General\%2520Page}{Android}~and
    turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
