Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/opinion}{Opinion}\textbar{}Don't Buy John Bolton's Book.
But Don't Ignore Its Revelations.

\url{https://nyti.ms/2YNYBBd}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

\href{/section/opinion}{Opinion}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{dont-buy-john-boltons-book-but-dont-ignore-its-revelations}{%
\section{Don't Buy John Bolton's Book. But Don't Ignore Its
Revelations.}\label{dont-buy-john-boltons-book-but-dont-ignore-its-revelations}}

He says Trump cheered Chinese concentration camps.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/michelle-goldberg}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/04/02/opinion/michelle-goldberg/michelle-goldberg-thumbLarge.png}}

By
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/michelle-goldberg}{Michelle
Goldberg}

Opinion Columnist

\begin{itemize}
\item
  June 19, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/06/19/opinion/19Goldberg/19Goldberg-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

The American news cycle has become so manic and surreal that there
hasn't been much time to reflect on the revelation, in the new book by
the former national security adviser John Bolton, that Donald Trump
encouraged President Xi Jinping of China in the building of
concentration camps for its Muslim Uighur minority.

Bolton's ``The Room Where It Happened,'' which I received this week in
advance of its release on Tuesday, describes a conversation Trump had
with Xi at the opening dinner of the Group of 20 meeting in Osaka,
Japan, with only their interpreters present: ``Xi explained to Trump why
he was basically building concentration camps in Xinjiang. According to
our interpreter, Trump said that Xi should go ahead with building the
camps, which he thought was exactly the right thing to do.''

It is impossible, at this late date, to be shocked by the behavior of
our depraved president. Nor is it surprising, given Trump's treatment of
migrants at the U.S.-Mexico border, that he is pro-concentration camp.

But Americans should know that China's detention of over a million
people largely on religious grounds --- a project that reports say
includes torture, sterilization and forcing Uighur women to sleep with
members of China's Han majority to promote
``\href{https://www.nzherald.co.nz/world/news/article.cfm?c_id=2\&objectid=12295956}{ethnic
unity}'' --- is happening with our president's behind-the-scenes
approval. (In an interview with
\href{https://www.wsj.com/articles/transcript-of-president-trumps-interview-with-the-wall-street-journal-11592501000}{The
Wall Street Journal}, Trump denied the account in Bolton's book.)

Bolton has presumably known about Trump and Xi's exchange since it
happened last year, did not resign over it and decided to say nothing
until he could monetize it. That tells you much of what you need to know
about his ethics. This is a bad book by a bad person, which nonetheless
contains some important revelations. Informants emerging from criminal
enterprises, after all, are rarely unblemished.

As has been widely reported, Bolton criticizes the House's impeachment
hearings, at which he refused to testify, for being too narrow.
Democrats focused, he complains, ``solely on the Ukraine aspects of
Trump's confusion of his personal interests (whether political or
economic),'' instead of on the ``broader pattern of his behavior.'' This
pattern includes Trump's alleged interventions on behalf of the Chinese
telecommunication companies ZTE and Huawei and the Turkish bank
Halkbank.

Had Democrats broadened their inquiry, he writes, ``there might have
been a greater chance to persuade others that `high crimes and
misdemeanors' had been perpetrated.''

Obviously, nothing was stopping Bolton from speaking out on these issues
then instead of now. After using a reference from ``Hamilton'' for a
title, he again quotes the musical, gallingly, to explain his timing:
``I am not throwing away my shot.''

There are other places in the book where Bolton inadvertently shows us
who he is. Even as he paints a picture of Trump as a dangerous
incompetent, he delights in recalling the president's flattery. He
describes Trump ending a meeting with President Emmanuel Macron of
France by praising Bolton's performance first on Fox News and then in
the administration. ``Now he's got to make hard decisions, which he
didn't have to do on TV, but he's doing a great job,'' Bolton recalls
the president saying.

The French, writes Bolton, ``got a kick out of that. So did I for that
matter.'' You can almost hear him purring.

Bolton isn't particularly detailed about the misbehavior he witnessed in
Trump's White House. He mentions ``Trump's penchant to, in effect, give
personal favors to dictators he liked'' and lists a number of examples,
including the lifting of sanctions on the Russian oligarch Oleg
Deripaska, the onetime patron of Trump's former campaign chairman Paul
Manafort. ``Whether there was anything even more troubling beneath the
surface, none of us knew,'' he writes.

A few sentences later, he adds, ``The pattern looked like obstruction of
justice as a way of life, which we couldn't accept.'' (He continued to
accept it, though he writes that ``resignation territory'' was
``nearby.'')

Some of what Bolton recounts is petty gossip. He believes that Secretary
of State Mike Pompeo and the former acting chief of staff Mick Mulvaney
are major sources of leaks. And he recounts Trump's version of an
argument between former Secretary of State Rex Tillerson and former U.N.
Ambassador Nikki Haley, in which Tillerson uses a demeaning sexist
obscenity to tell her she's ``nothing'' more ``and don't ever forget
it.''

All the same, there is information here that deserves whatever attention
people can muster in the midst of plague and mass protest. Bolton
provides, albeit belatedly, firsthand confirmation that Trump did
exactly what he was impeached for --- leveraging American military aid
in exchange for Ukraine's help in smearing Hillary Clinton and Joe
Biden: ``Aug. 20, I took Trump's temperature on the Ukraine security
assistance, and he said he wasn't in favor of sending them anything
until the Russia-investigation materials related to Clinton and Biden
had been turned over,'' Bolton writes.

Such behavior was nothing new for Trump; earlier Bolton describes him
``pleading with Xi'' for help in the 2020 election by making
agricultural purchases from farm states. Though Bolton writes that the
government's pre-publication reviewers prevented him from using Trump's
exact words, Vanity Fair saw an unredacted
\href{https://www.vanityfair.com/news/2020/06/boltons-unredacted-book-shows-trump-trying-to-hide}{version
of the passage}: ``Make sure I win. I will probably win anyway, so don't
hurt my farms. \ldots{} Buy a lot of soybeans and wheat and make sure we
win.''

That Bolton did not testify to this earlier is to his immense disgrace.
But it is a national disgrace that his confirmation of the Democrats'
impeachment case probably won't matter, so inured are Republicans to
staggering corruption.

Bolton's warning to his ideological allies should be heeded, though it
won't be. Should Trump win in 2020, he writes, ``conservatives and
Republicans should worry about the removal of the political guardrail of
Trump having to face re-election.''

Don't buy this book. John Bolton doesn't deserve to be rewarded for
withholding testimony he had a duty to provide months ago. But don't
dismiss it either. The president \emph{cheered China's concentration
camps}. At this point in the Trump era, it's a constant challenge not to
let oneself be bored by evil.

\emph{The Times is committed to publishing}
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/01/31/opinion/letters/letters-to-editor-new-york-times-women.html}{\emph{a
diversity of letters}} \emph{to the editor. We'd like to hear what you
think about this or any of our articles. Here are some}
\href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014925288-How-to-submit-a-letter-to-the-editor}{\emph{tips}}\emph{.
And here's our email:}
\href{mailto:letters@NYTimes.com}{\emph{letters@NYTimes.com}}\emph{.}

\emph{Follow The New York Times Opinion section on}
\href{https://www.facebookcorewwwi.onion/nytopinion}{\emph{Facebook}}\emph{,}
\href{http://twitter.com/NYTOpinion}{\emph{Twitter (@NYTopinion)}}
\emph{and}
\href{https://www.instagram.com/nytopinion/}{\emph{Instagram}}\emph{.}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{Â©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
