Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}Trump Impeachment:
Highlights From Thursday's Senate Trial

\url{https://nyti.ms/37nO6aC}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

Jan. 24, 2020, 12:19 p.m. ET

Jan. 24, 2020, 12:19 p.m. ET

\hypertarget{trump-impeachment-highlights-from-thursdays-senate-trial}{%
\section{Trump Impeachment: Highlights From Thursday's Senate
Trial}\label{trump-impeachment-highlights-from-thursdays-senate-trial}}

House impeachment managers continued to make their case that President
Trump abused the power of his office. Here are some of the highlights.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/eileen-sullivan}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2019/12/13/reader-center/author-eileen-sullivan/author-eileen-sullivan-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/eileen-sullivan}{Eileen
Sullivan}

\hypertarget{heres-what-you-need-to-know}{%
\subsubsection{Here's what you need to
know:}\label{heres-what-you-need-to-know}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-98bcb56}{For Day 2 of their opening arguments,
  the House impeachment managers focused on the abuse of power charge
  against Trump.}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-3f16ca30}{In a trial about the president's
  interactions with Ukraine, House managers kept bringing up Russia.}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-51343ca5}{Democrats devoted part of their case
  to the Bidens, a decision Trump's lawyer viewed as a mistake.}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-6aa39219}{Democrats called out one of Trump's
  lawyers and a Republican senator for double talk.}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-38e91616}{Democrats repeatedly showed public
  clips of Trump to make their case against him.}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-4b80dde7}{Trump woke up in Washington for the
  first time since his trial started in earnest.}
\end{itemize}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/01/23/us/politics/23dc-hilights/merlin_167657547_244b4344-8e54-4f6e-b164-f6fdaf970648-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

{[}\emph{Follow our}
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/impeachment-trial-live-01-24}{\emph{live
blog on the Trump impeachment trial}}\emph{.}{]}

\hypertarget{for-day-2-of-their-opening-arguments-the-house-impeachment-managers-focused-on-the-abuse-of-power-charge-against-trump}{%
\subsection{For Day 2 of their opening arguments, the House impeachment
managers focused on the abuse of power charge against
Trump.}\label{for-day-2-of-their-opening-arguments-the-house-impeachment-managers-focused-on-the-abuse-of-power-charge-against-trump}}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/01/22/us/impeachment-managers.html?action=click\&module=Top\%20Stories\&pgtype=Homepage}{The
seven House impeachment managers}, led by Representative Adam B. Schiff,
Democrat of California, resumed oral arguments on Thursday, with 16
hours and 42 minutes remaining, and started to build out their legal
case that President Trump abused the power of his office --- one of
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/12/10/us/politics/articles-impeachment-document-pdf.html}{two
articles of impeachment against}him.

The Democratic-led House also charged Mr. Trump with obstruction of
Congress for preventing current and former Trump administration
officials from testifying during the House inquiry and ignoring requests
for relevant documents. Managers plan to address that charge on Friday.

At the start of Thursday's session, the Democrats had 16 hours and 42
minutes left to convince Republican senators that Mr. Trump should be
removed from office.

Representative Jerrold Nadler of New York, the chairman of the Judiciary
Committee, which drafted the articles of impeachment, cited
constitutional law experts who testified last year that Mr. Trump's
efforts to pressure President Volodymyr Zelensky of Ukraine rose to the
level of impeachment.

``If what we are talking about is not impeachable, then nothing is
impeachable,'' Mr. Nadler said, echoing
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/12/04/us/politics/michael-gerhardt.html}{Michael
J. Gerhardt}, a constitutional law expert who testified in a House
hearing in the fall.

Mr. Schiff delivered the final argument of the day, pushing more
explicitly than ever for Mr. Trump's removal from office.

Urging senators to re-evaluate the now familiar July phone call between
Mr. Trump and Mr. Zelensky, he asked whether they truly believed that
Mr. Trump would put the nation's interests before his own.

``You know you can't trust this president to do what is right for this
country,'' he said. ``You can trust he will do what's right for Donald
Trump.''

``If you find him guilty, you must find that he should be removed,'' Mr.
Schiff concluded. ``Because right matters. Because the truth matters.
Otherwise, we are lost.''

\hypertarget{in-a-trial-about-the-presidents-interactions-with-ukraine-house-managers-kept-bringing-up-russia}{%
\subsection{In a trial about the president's interactions with Ukraine,
House managers kept bringing up
Russia.}\label{in-a-trial-about-the-presidents-interactions-with-ukraine-house-managers-kept-bringing-up-russia}}

For the second straight day, House impeachment managers repeatedly
referred to Russia, and its influence over the president in particular,
as they presented an argument that Mr. Trump should be removed from
office for a pressure campaign on Ukraine.

``This theory was brought to you by the Kremlin,'' Mr. Schiff said at
one point Thursday afternoon as he described to senators a
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/10/03/us/politics/trump-ukraine-conspiracy.html}{debunked
conspiracy theory} that Ukraine, not Russia, hacked into Democrats'
emails in 2016 with the goal of helping Hillary Clinton win the
election. The House managers have argued that Mr. Trump's interest in
bolstering that theory played a central role in his interactions with
Ukraine, Russia's adversary.

``The Russians not only got him to deflect blame from their interference
in our democracy, but they got him to withhold military aid,'' Mr.
Schiff said. ``Now of course, there was this convergence of interest
between the Kremlin and the president.

``The president wasn't pushing Kremlin talking points just to do
Vladimir Putin a favor,'' he continued. ``He was doing it because it
helped him.''

Russia, and in particular its role in the 2016 presidential election,
remains a sore subject for many senators. Democrats had once expected
the president to be impeached for his dealings with Russia in 2016, and
Republicans denounced a special counsel inquiry into the matter,
accusing Democrats and senior law enforcement officials of pushing this
narrative because they wanted to undermine Mr. Trump's victory. The
final report from the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/04/23/us/politics/trump-mueller-obstruction.html}{stopped
short} of concluding whether Mr. Trump obstructed justice and threw to
Congress the fate of his investigation.

\hypertarget{democrats-devoted-part-of-their-case-to-the-bidens-a-decision-trumps-lawyer-viewed-as-a-mistake}{%
\subsection{Democrats devoted part of their case to the Bidens, a
decision Trump's lawyer viewed as a
mistake.}\label{democrats-devoted-part-of-their-case-to-the-bidens-a-decision-trumps-lawyer-viewed-as-a-mistake}}

The House managers made a strategic decision on Thursday to focus
extensive attention on the actions of former Vice President Joseph R.
Biden Jr. and his son, Hunter Biden.

The lengthy presentation --- by Representative Sylvia R. Garcia of
Texas, one of the House managers --- was aimed at proving that
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/09/22/us/politics/biden-ukraine-trump.html}{there
was no basis to Mr. Trump's assertions} that the former vice president
and his son did improper things in Ukraine.

``Common sense will tell us that this allegation against Joe Biden is
false,'' Ms. Garcia told the senators.

But allies of Mr. Trump quickly pounced on the extended discussion about
the Bidens to insist that the impeachment trial should include scrutiny
of their actions, and potentially a move to call them as witnesses.

Mr. Trump's Republican defenders have long argued that
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/01/22/us/politics/impeachment-articles-arguments.html}{the
president's demand} that Ukraine announce investigations into the Bidens
was not improper because he was merely interested in rooting out
corruption in that country.

At least one of Mr. Trump's lawyers suggested the Democrats made a
mistake in focusing on the former vice president and his son.

``They have opened the door,'' said Jay Sekulow, a personal lawyer for
Mr. Trump and a member of his impeachment legal defense team. ``It's now
relevant.''

\emph{--- Michael D. Shear}

\hypertarget{democrats-called-out-one-of-trumps-lawyers-and-a-republican-senator-for-double-talk}{%
\subsection{Democrats called out one of Trump's lawyers and a Republican
senator for double
talk.}\label{democrats-called-out-one-of-trumps-lawyers-and-a-republican-senator-for-double-talk}}

Mr. Nadler worked on Thursday to undermine an argument from Mr. Trump's
defense team that a president can be impeached only for committing an
ordinary crime, and that abuse of power does not qualify. While
constitutional scholars have
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/01/20/us/politics/trump-impeachment-legal-defense.html}{disputed
that interpretation} of the Constitution, Mr. Nadler chose to highlight
past statements of two of Mr. Trump's most prominent defenders.

Senators were shown a news clip featuring a member of Mr. Trump's
current defense team,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/01/17/us/politics/alan-dershowitz-trump.html}{Alan
M. Dershowitz}, from 1998, when President Bill Clinton was facing
impeachment. In the clip, Mr. Dershowitz disputed the idea that a
president needed to commit a ``technical crime'' to be impeached.

``It certainly doesn't have to be a crime,'' Mr. Dershowitz said at the
time. ``If you have somebody who completely corrupts the office of
president and who abuses trust and who poses great danger to our
liberty, you don't need a technical crime.''

Mr. Dershowitz, a professor emeritus at Harvard Law School, offered a
different view only days ago.

``Without a crime, there can be no impeachment,''
\href{http://transcripts.cnn.com/TRANSCRIPTS/2001/19/sotu.01.html}{he
said Sunday on CNN}. Mr. Dershowitz is expected to make the same
argument when he takes to the Senate floor in the coming days.

The managers also went after Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South
Carolina, with a clip from 1999, when he was an impeachment manager
during Mr. Clinton's trial.

``It's just when you're using your office in a way that hurts people,
you've committed a high crime,'' Mr. Graham said at the time.

\hypertarget{democrats-repeatedly-showed-public-clips-of-trump-to-make-their-case-against-him}{%
\subsection{Democrats repeatedly showed public clips of Trump to make
their case against
him.}\label{democrats-repeatedly-showed-public-clips-of-trump-to-make-their-case-against-him}}

Impeachment managers used Mr. Trump's own words against him on Thursday
as they argued that he should be removed from office for abuse of power.

In trying to make the case that some administration officials understood
what the president wanted of Ukraine and ``just how wrong it was,'' Mr.
Schiff let the defendant do the talking.

At one point, a video clip from October aired in the Senate chamber
showing Mr. Trump answering a reporter's question about what he really
wanted from Mr. Zelensky.

``I would think that, if they were honest about it, they'd start a major
investigation into the Bidens,'' Mr. Trump said in the clip. ``It's a
very simple answer.''

In another clip, Mr. Trump referred to the conspiracy theory that
Ukraine interfered with his campaign in 2016.

``There was a lot of corruption having to do with the 2016 election
against us, and we want to get to the bottom it, and it's very important
that we do,'' Mr. Trump said.

``He's not concerned about actual corruption cases,'' Mr. Schiff said of
the clip, ``only matters that affect him personally.''

\hypertarget{trump-woke-up-in-washington-for-the-first-time-since-his-trial-started-in-earnest}{%
\subsection{Trump woke up in Washington for the first time since his
trial started in
earnest.}\label{trump-woke-up-in-washington-for-the-first-time-since-his-trial-started-in-earnest}}

Back from Davos, Switzerland, where he was attending the World Economic
Forum, Mr. Trump used
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/impeachment-trial-live-01-23/trump-back-in-washington-attacks-democrats-and-their-impeachment-arguments}{Twitter
on Thursday morning} to lob insults at Democrats and to quote people on
Fox News who lobbed insults at Democrats.

And while his afternoon is packed with travel, the president found time
\href{https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/1220410391668371457?ref_src=twsrc\%5Etfw\%7Ctwcamp\%5Etweetembed\&ref_url=https\%3A\%2F\%2Fd-28178312941550050575.ampproject.net\%2F2001071857360\%2Fframe.html}{to
continue to offer his own commentary} as Mr. Nadler was addressing the
Senate, suggesting that Mr. Trump was, indeed, watching the proceedings
live.

The president left the White House on Thursday afternoon to travel to
Florida for the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/11/14/us/politics/trump-doral-rnc.html}{Republican
National Committee's winter meeting}, set to be held at one of his
family's properties.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
