Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}What Is the Logan Act?

\url{https://nyti.ms/2lMeKm5}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{what-is-the-logan-act}{%
\section{What Is the Logan Act?}\label{what-is-the-logan-act}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2017/02/15/us/15logan/15logan-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By \href{http://www.nytimes.com/by/charlie-savage}{Charlie Savage}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Feb. 14, 2017
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

The
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2017/02/13/us/politics/donald-trump-national-security-adviser-michael-flynn.html}{resignation
under pressure} on Monday night of President Trump's national security
adviser, Michael T. Flynn, centers on the F.B.I.'s scrutiny of his phone
calls in late 2016 with the Russian ambassador, Sergey I. Kislyak. The
two apparently discussed sanctions the Obama administration was
developing to punish Russia over allegations of interference in the 2016
presidential election; officials have asserted that Russia hacked
Democratic emails and provided them to WikiLeaks for publication to help
Mr. Trump.

As a political matter, Mr. Flynn's fall may have more to do with having
misled the vice president-elect at the time, Mike Pence, who
\href{http://www.cbsnews.com/news/face-the-nation-transcript-january-15-2017-pence-manchin-gingrich/}{falsely
told the public} that there had been no discussion of sanctions, or with
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2017/02/12/us/politics/national-security-council-turmoil.html}{chaos
and dysfunction} on the National Security Council on his watch, than
with any realistic legal exposure. But the affair has elevated interest
in a law called the Logan Act.

\hypertarget{what-is-the-logan-act-1}{%
\subsection{What is the Logan Act?}\label{what-is-the-logan-act-1}}

The Logan Act is \href{https://www.law.cornell.edu/uscode/text/18/953}{a
1799 statute} that bars private citizens from interfering with
diplomatic relations between the United States and foreign governments.
It makes it a felony, punishable by a fine or imprisonment of up to
three years, if an American citizen, without government authorization,
interacts ``with any foreign government or any officer or agent thereof,
with intent to influence the measures or conduct of any foreign
government or of any officer or agent thereof, in relation to any
disputes or controversies with the United States, or to defeat the
measures of the United States.''

\hypertarget{does-the-act-apply-to-a-president-elect-and-his-transition-team}{%
\subsection{Does the act apply to a president-elect and his transition
team?}\label{does-the-act-apply-to-a-president-elect-and-his-transition-team}}

As a preliminary matter, it remains unclear whether then-President-elect
Trump --- as opposed to Mr. Pence --- knew about Mr. Flynn's
conversations with the Russian ambassador. (After the announcement by
the Russian president, Vladimir V. Putin, that he would not expel
American officials in response to new sanctions because there would soon
be a different president, Mr. Trump responded with a Twitter
\href{https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/814919370711461890?ref_src=twsrc\%5Etfw}{post}
that said, ``Great move on delay (by V. Putin) --- I always knew he was
very smart!'')

But even if Mr. Trump sanctioned the conversation, on its face the Logan
Act appears to apply to a president-elect and his top aides, said
Laurence Tribe, a Harvard Law School constitutional law professor.

``A president-elect is not an official of the United States,'' Mr. Tribe
said. ``There is no reason why the Logan Act would not apply to the
president-elect since it applies to all private citizens, and the people
working on the transition are all working in a private-citizen capacity.
They have not taken the oath, so they are covered by the act --- to the
extent that matters.''

\hypertarget{what-is-the-history-of-prosecuting-people-under-the-logan-act}{%
\subsection{What is the history of prosecuting people under the Logan
Act?}\label{what-is-the-history-of-prosecuting-people-under-the-logan-act}}

The Logan Act appears to be a so-called dead letter, meaning a law that
remains technically on the books but is essentially defunct or
toothless.

A \href{https://fas.org/sgp/crs/misc/RL33265.pdf}{study by the
Congressional Research Service in 2015} said nobody has ever been
prosecuted under the statute and identified only one instance of an
indictment under the law: in 1803, the United States attorney in
Kentucky obtained from a grand jury an indictment of a Kentucky farmer
who had written an article in support of creating a separate nation in
the territory west of the fledgling United States that would be an ally
to France. But the prosecutor dropped the case. A recent
\href{https://poseidon01.ssrn.com/delivery.php?ID=224027017022099121070082026090107120034088085082033007113020114000022115104107023106005038115104046010035023078005096096027102121014024022061107126079029078089015087036049055088087120014001126002121007071106124122018031070093097075101077115022073103030\&EXT=pdf}{draft
scholarly paper} posted online by a Federal Appeals Court law clerk
identified a second apparent such indictment, involving the
\href{http://query.nytimes.com/mem/archive-free/pdf?res=9406E4DB1331E234BC4D53DFB4668389649FDE}{reported
arrest in 1852} of a man who wrote a letter to the president of Mexico.

Legal scholars have also raised questions about whether the act violates
First Amendment free speech protections, although Mr. Tribe said he
believed it would be constitutional if applied narrowly to core
diplomatic negotiations with another government.

\hypertarget{how-has-the-logan-act-been-used}{%
\subsection{How has the Logan Act been
used?}\label{how-has-the-logan-act-been-used}}

The Logan Act has functioned primarily as rhetorical ammunition for the
party that holds the White House during partisan disputes over a foreign
policy matter. When White House opponents, usually in Congress, encroach
on diplomatic matters, invoking the Logan Act enables the pro-White
House party to denounce the other side as not just wrongheaded but
lawbreakers.

During the Reagan administration, for example, the Democratic speaker of
the House, Jim Wright of Texas,
\href{http://www.nytimes.com/1987/11/15/weekinreview/peace-salvo-sandinistas-launch-an-offensive-on-capitol-hill.html}{tried
to help develop a peace deal in Nicaragua} by interacting directly with
its president, Daniel Ortega Saavedra, even as the Reagan administration
took a harder line and supported overthrowing the Sandinista government.
Similarly, during the Obama administration, 47 Republican senators
signed a letter to the government of Iran
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/10/world/asia/white-house-faults-gop-senators-letter-to-irans-leaders.html}{warning
the ayatollahs} that President Obama's successor might not follow
through on promises Mr. Obama was making as part of negotiations over a
deal to end Iran's nuclear program. During such debates, some White
House defenders portrayed the congressional opposition as having
violated the Logan Act.

\hypertarget{does-that-mean-mr-flynn-is-not-in-any-realistic-legal-trouble}{%
\subsection{Does that mean Mr. Flynn is not in any realistic legal
trouble?}\label{does-that-mean-mr-flynn-is-not-in-any-realistic-legal-trouble}}

Given its history, it seems highly unlikely that the Justice Department
under Mr. Trump will try to prosecute Mr. Flynn for violating the Logan
Act. However, that would not rule out other legal problems.

For example, if it turns out that Mr. Flynn made a false statement not
just to Mr. Pence but also to F.B.I. agents about his conversations with
the Russian ambassador, that could be a
\href{https://www.law.cornell.edu/uscode/text/18/1001}{separate offense}
for which there is a history of prosecuting high-level officials. Most
recently, late in the Obama administration, former Gen. James Cartwright
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2016/10/18/us/marine-general-james-cartwright-leak-fbi.html}{pleaded
guilty} to making false statements to F.B.I. agents investigating a leak
about cyberattacks on Iran's nuclear program. Mr. Obama
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2017/01/17/us/politics/obama-pardons-james-cartwright-general-who-lied-to-fbi-in-leak-case.html}{pardoned}
him before leaving office.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{Â©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
