Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}Trump Impeachment Inquiry
Updates: The Complaint, the Testimony, the Reaction

\url{https://nyti.ms/2ntVYFC}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

Nov. 20, 2019, 11:32 a.m. ET

Nov. 20, 2019, 11:32 a.m. ET

\hypertarget{trump-impeachment-inquiry-updates-the-complaint-the-testimony-the-reaction}{%
\section{Trump Impeachment Inquiry Updates: The Complaint, the
Testimony, the
Reaction}\label{trump-impeachment-inquiry-updates-the-complaint-the-testimony-the-reaction}}

A whistle-blower's complaint accused President Trump of using his office
to try to get Ukraine to help him in 2020. The acting intelligence chief
told Congress that the controversy is ``unprecedented.''

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/nicholas-fandos}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/11/06/multimedia/author-nicholas-fandos/author-nicholas-fandos-thumbLarge-v2.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/nicholas-fandos}{Nicholas Fandos}

\hypertarget{heres-what-you-need-to-know}{%
\subsubsection{Here's what you need to
know:}\label{heres-what-you-need-to-know}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-e368d76}{The whistle-blower's complaint
  accuses Trump of using his office to get Ukraine to help his
  re-election, then covering it up.}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-27535a8d}{The whistle-blower is a C.I.A.
  officer who was detailed to work at the White House at one point.}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-1b122281}{Trump attacked the whistle-blower,
  alluding to punishment for spies, while Republicans largely held the
  line.}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-12b58971}{The acting intelligence chief
  defended the whistle-blower, calling the complaint ``totally
  unprecedented.''}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-1d7bb150}{Pelosi accused the White House of
  covering up the Ukraine matter.}
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{the-whistle-blowers-complaint-accuses-trump-of-using-his-office-to-get-ukraine-to-help-his-re-election-then-covering-it-up}{%
\subsection{The whistle-blower's complaint accuses Trump of using his
office to get Ukraine to help his re-election, then covering it
up.}\label{the-whistle-blowers-complaint-accuses-trump-of-using-his-office-to-get-ukraine-to-help-his-re-election-then-covering-it-up}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2019/09/30/us/politics/26dc-complaint1-sub/26dc-complaint1-sub-videoSixteenByNine3000.jpg}

``In the course of my duties, I have received information from multiple
U.S. government officials that the President of the United States is
using the power of his office to solicit interference from a foreign
country in the 2020 U.S. election.'' Thus began an explosive criminal
complaint drafted by an American intelligence officer and released by
the House Intelligence Committee on Thursday.

At the center of the whistle-blower's complaint is a July call between
Mr. Trump and President Volodymyr Zelensky of Ukraine. Mr. Trump brought
up American aid to that country --- without explicitly mentioning that
he had just frozen a military aid package of hundreds of millions of
dollars --- and then pressed the Ukrainian leader to investigate former
Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr.

The whistle-blower, who did not listen directly to the call, also said
that in an attempt to ``lock down'' all records of the call, White House
lawyers told officials to move the transcript into a separate system
reserved for classified information that is especially sensitive. These
actions, the whistle-blower suggested, showed that those involved
``understood the gravity of what had transpired.''

The complaint goes on to say the president's personal lawyer, Rudolph W.
Giuliani, is ``a central figure in this effort,'' but that Attorney
General William P. Barr ``appears to be involved as well.''

White House officials dismissed the significance of the document.
``Nothing has changed with the release of this complaint, which is
nothing more than a collection of thirdhand accounts of events and
cobbled-together press clippings --- all of which shows nothing
improper,'' the press secretary Stephanie Grisham said. She added, ``The
White House will continue to push back on the hysteria and false
narratives being peddled by Democrats and many in the mainstream
media.''

Read on:
\textbf{\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/09/26/us/politics/whistleblower-complaint-released.html}{White
House Tried to `Lock Down' Ukraine Call Records, Whistle-Blower Says}}

And more:
\textbf{\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/09/26/us/politics/whistleblower-declassified-report.html}{8
Takeaways From the Whistle-Blower Complaint}}

\hypertarget{the-whistle-blower-is-a-cia-officer-who-was-detailed-to-work-at-the-white-house-at-one-point}{%
\subsection{The whistle-blower is a C.I.A. officer who was detailed to
work at the White House at one
point.}\label{the-whistle-blower-is-a-cia-officer-who-was-detailed-to-work-at-the-white-house-at-one-point}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2019/09/26/us/politics/26dc-impeach-briefing-wh/merlin_161542140_f6b07da6-c108-4fbf-834d-78f15e24c93b-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

The man has since returned to the C.I.A., according to three people
familiar with his identity. Little else is known about him. His
complaint suggested he was an analyst by training and made clear he was
steeped in details of American policy toward Europe, demonstrating a
sophisticated understanding of Ukrainian politics and at least some
knowledge of the law.

The whistle-blower's expertise will likely add to lawmakers' confidence
about the merits of his complaint, and tamp down allegations that he
might have misunderstood what he learned about Mr. Trump.

Lawyers for the whistle-blower refused to confirm that he worked for the
C.I.A. and said that publishing information about him was dangerous.

``Any decision to report any perceived identifying information of the
whistle-blower is deeply concerning and reckless, as it can place the
individual in harm's way,'' said Andrew Bakaj, his lead counsel. ``The
whistle-blower has a right to anonymity.''

Dean Baquet, the executive editor of The New York Times, said The Times
was right to publish information about the whistle-blower. ``The role of
the whistle-blower, including his credibility and his place in the
government, is essential to understanding one of the most important
issues facing the country --- whether the president of the United States
abused power and whether the White House covered it up.''

\emph{{[}}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/09/26/reader-center/whistle-blower-identity.html}{\emph{Our
executive editor, Dean Baquet, addressed readers' concerns about the
decision to publish limited information about the
whistle-blower.}}\emph{{]}}

\emph{--- Adam Goldman, Michael S. Schmidt and Julian E. Barnes}

Read on:
\textbf{\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/09/26/us/politics/who-is-whistleblower.html}{Whistle-Blower
Is a C.I.A. Officer Who Was Detailed to the White
House}}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/09/26/us/politics/who-is-whistleblower.html}{}

\hypertarget{trump-attacked-the-whistle-blower-alluding-to-punishment-for-spies-while-republicans-largely-held-the-line}{%
\subsection{Trump attacked the whistle-blower, alluding to punishment
for spies, while Republicans largely held the
line.}\label{trump-attacked-the-whistle-blower-alluding-to-punishment-for-spies-while-republicans-largely-held-the-line}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2019/09/28/us/politics/vid26-whistle-blower/vid26-whistle-blower-videoSixteenByNine3000.jpg}

``I want to know who's the person who gave the whistle-blower the
information because that's close to a spy,'' Mr. Trump on Thursday
morning told staff from the United States Mission to the United Nations.
``You know what we used to do in the old days when we were smart with
spies and treason, right? We used to handle it a little differently than
we do now.''

The remark stunned the audience, according to a person briefed on what
took place, who had notes of the president's comments. Mr. Trump
condemned Mr. Biden's role in Ukraine at a time when his son Hunter
Biden was on the board of a Ukrainian energy company, and said the
whistle-blower never heard the call in question.

When he returned from New York, Mr. Trump resumed his diatribe against
Democrats. ``There should be a way of stopping it, maybe legally through
the courts,'' he said.

Republicans largely stayed in line behind Mr. Trump.
\href{https://www.politico.com/news/2019/09/25/mcconnell-ukraine-trump-001034}{In
a statement to Politico}, Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the
majority leader, dismissed as ``laughable'' the Democrats' assertion
that Mr. Trump's behavior in the Ukraine matter should lead to his
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2019/11/20/us/politics/trump-impeachment-hearings.html}{impeachment}.

Representative Kevin McCarthy, the Republican leader, complained that
the whistle-blower ``has no primary sources,'' even though the complaint
makes clear that the author spoke to numerous people with direct
knowledge of the call.

Some Republicans sounded more cautious. Representative Will Hurd, a
moderate Texas Republican who has announced he will not run for
re-election,
\href{https://twitter.com/HurdOnTheHill/status/1177210957589831680}{wrote
on Twitter} that the complaint was ``concerning'' and needs to be fully
investigated.

Read on:
\textbf{\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/09/26/us/politics/trump-whistle-blower-spy.html}{Trump
Attacks Whistle-Blower's Sources and Alludes to Punishment for Spies}}

\hypertarget{the-acting-intelligence-chief-defended-the-whistle-blower-calling-the-complaint-totally-unprecedented}{%
\subsection{The acting intelligence chief defended the whistle-blower,
calling the complaint ``totally
unprecedented.''}\label{the-acting-intelligence-chief-defended-the-whistle-blower-calling-the-complaint-totally-unprecedented}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2019/09/26/us/politics/26dc-impeach-video-sub/26dc-impeach-video-sub-videoSixteenByNine3000.jpg}

Joseph Maguire, the
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/09/26/us/politics/joseph-maguire-intelligence.html}{acting
director of national intelligence} at the center of the fight over a
whistle-blower complaint about
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2019/11/20/us/politics/trump-impeachment-hearings.html}{President
Trump's} dealings with Ukraine, said the whistle-blower ``acted in good
faith'' and that ``everything here in this matter is totally
unprecedented.''

In fact, he told Representative Raja Krishnamoorthi, Democrat of
Illinois, that he would not have accepted the post of acting director of
national intelligence if he knew of the case.

Facing tough questioning from Republicans and Democrats, he defended
both the whistle-blower's actions and his handling of the case, which he
called ``urgent and important.''

The White House did not order him to keep the complaint from Congress,
he said. His delay was about sorting through possible claims of
executive privilege.

As the hearing wound down, the spy chief said the matter was in
Congress's hands. ``My responsibility was to get you the whistle-blower
letter and get the other information released. I have done my duty,'' he
told the committee. Whether to investigate further ``is on the shoulders
of the legislative branch and this committee.''

\hypertarget{pelosi-accused-the-white-house-of-covering-up-the-ukraine-matter}{%
\subsection{Pelosi accused the White House of covering up the Ukraine
matter.}\label{pelosi-accused-the-white-house-of-covering-up-the-ukraine-matter}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2019/09/26/us/politics/26dc-pelosi-vid/26dc-pelosi-vid-videoSixteenByNine3000.jpg}

Speaker Nancy Pelosi, echoing the language of Watergate, accused the
White House of engaging in ``a cover-up'' of the Ukraine affair, citing
a whistle-blower complaint that said Trump administration officials
worked to ``lock down'' all records of a call between President Trump
and Ukraine's president.

``This is a cover-up,'' Ms. Pelosi told reporters at her weekly news
conference.

The speaker refused to discuss a timeline for the impeachment inquiry
she only embraced this week, but she did indicate that the consensus in
the House Democratic Caucus is that the inquiry should concentrate on
Ukraine.

``The inquiry and the consensus in our caucus is that our focus now is
on this allegation,'' she said.

Several Democratic presidential candidates also accused Mr. Trump of
attempting to hide his call with Ukraine's leader after the complaint's
release.

At least five candidates --- Senators Kamala Harris, Amy Klobuchar,
Bernie Sanders and Elizabeth Warren, and the former housing secretary
Julián Castro --- all accused Mr. Trump of a ``cover-up.''

Read on:
\textbf{\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/09/24/us/politics/impeachment-trump-explained.html}{How
the Impeachment Process Works}}

Sheryl Gay Stolberg and Katie Benner contributed reporting from
Washington and Maggie Haberman, Katie Glueck and Matt Stevens from New
York.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
