Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/us}{U.S.}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/us}{U.S.}\textbar{}Isaias Live Updates: Tornadoes Are a
Threat as Storm Charges North

\url{https://nyti.ms/2D8JyeB}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

LIVE UPDATES

Updated~

Aug. 4, 2020, 3:15 p.m. ET

Aug. 4, 2020, 3:15 p.m. ET

\hypertarget{isaias-live-updates-tornadoes-are-a-threat-as-storm-charges-north}{%
\section{Isaias Live Updates: Tornadoes Are a Threat as Storm Charges
North}\label{isaias-live-updates-tornadoes-are-a-threat-as-storm-charges-north}}

At least two people were killed after a tornado touched down in Bertie
County, N.C., and caused significant damage to a neighborhood there.

Right Now

The center of Isaias is northwest of New York City, with the storm
bringing heavy rain and strong winds, and causing power losses for as
many as two million electricity customers.

\hypertarget{heres-what-you-need-to-know}{%
\subsubsection{Here's what you need to
know:}\label{heres-what-you-need-to-know}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-362830dd}{Isaias is bringing the threat of
  tornadoes as it barrels north.}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-7961bdbc}{At least two people were killed by a
  tornado in North Carolina.}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-34e5d4e4}{The storm is knocking out power over
  wide areas.}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-29c12cc}{New York City may get less rain but
  more wind.}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-5066ef1c}{Homes burned and cars were swept
  away where the storm made landfall.}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-665175e7}{Simultaneous disasters are exposing
  the hard reality of climate change.}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-e77dd06}{Is a face mask much use in a tropical
  storm? Not if it gets wet.}
\end{itemize}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/04/us/4hpstorm1/4hpstorm1-videoSixteenByNine3000-v2.jpg}

\subsection{}

Isaias is bringing the threat of tornadoes as it barrels north.

Isaias pounded a large swath of the Atlantic Coast on Tuesday,
unleashing heavy rains and winds as fast as 70 miles per hour as it
swept through the Carolinas and into the Northeast.

Isaias, which made landfall in North Carolina as a Category 1 hurricane
and quickly weakened to a tropical storm, left a trail of floods, fires
and hundreds of thousands of people without electricity. Some of the
storm's most devastating effects, including the deaths of at least two
people, were wrought by a series of tornadoes that it spawned across its
path.

New York and New England were on alert and bracing for the worst of the
storm to hit later on Tuesday, with tropical storm warnings reaching as
far up the Atlantic Coast as Martha's Vineyard in Massachusetts.

Gov. Philip D. Murphy of New Jersey
\href{https://twitter.com/GovMurphy/status/1290468549232922624}{declared
a state of emergency} for the entire state, and closed government
offices. Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo of New York said the front end of the
storm had already arrived in parts of the state.

``I urge New Yorkers to look out for local weather alerts, exercise
caution and avoid unnecessary travel, especially if you are in the
storm's direct path,'' he
\href{https://twitter.com/NYGovCuomo/status/1290660414666178562}{said on
Twitter}.

At 3 p.m. Eastern, the center of Isaias, which is written as Isa√≠as in
Spanish and pronounced ees-ah-EE-ahs, was about 60 miles west-northwest
of New York City, near the village of Monticello.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/07/31/us/hurricane-isaias-tracker-map.html}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/07/31/us/hurricane-isaias-tracker-map-promo-1596209917104/hurricane-isaias-tracker-map-promo-1596209917104-articleLarge-v10.jpg}

\hypertarget{isaias-tracking-map}{%
\subsection{Isaias Tracking Map}\label{isaias-tracking-map}}

Follow the storm's path as it moves north along the Atlantic Coast.

Officials said that the storm's rapid pace, moving nearly 35 m.p.h.,
stood to help limit river flooding and allowed the authorities to
mobilize swiftly in assessing the toll.

``All in all, this storm got in, got out pretty quickly,'' Gov. Roy
Cooper of North Carolina said in an interview on ``Good Morning
America'' on Tuesday. Because of that, he added, the damage was not ``as
great as it could have been.''

Tornadoes had landed in parts of northeastern North Carolina,
southeastern Virginia and southern New Jersey. Another likely touched
down near Dover, Del.
\href{https://slack-redir.net/link?url=https\%3A\%2F\%2Ftwitter.com\%2FRichWirdzekWx\%2Fstatus\%2F1290684400825438208}{Photos}
and
\href{https://slack-redir.net/link?url=https\%3A\%2F\%2Ftwitter.com\%2FDKDRinc\%2Fstatus\%2F1290688365830995969}{videos}
posted to social media showed trees snapped and pieces of buildings
blown on top of vehicles. Tornado threats would continue north along the
coast and into New England, and the New York City region was under a
tornado watch until 4 p.m.

Isaias could cause flash flooding around much of the Mid-Atlantic
region, the National Hurricane Center said, with ``potentially
life-threatening urban flooding'' possible in Washington, Baltimore and
other cities along and just west of I-95. The storm had delivered only a
glancing blow to Florida as it skirted the coast there, with officials
expressing relief that it failed to cause the level of damage they had
feared. Georgia was largely spared as well.

\hypertarget{-1}{%
\subsection{}\label{-1}}

At least two people were killed by a tornado in North Carolina.

The authorities in Bertie County, N.C., were assessing the devastation
caused by a tornado that ripped through a neighborhood overnight,
killing at least two people.

Television footage showed a rural patch of mobile homes that had been
eviscerated, leaving streaks of debris. One home had been reduced to
splintered wood and metal, piled with kitchen appliances, furniture and
laundry.

\hypertarget{live-updates-isaias}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/04/us/isaias-storm-updates.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Live
Updates: Isaias}}{Live Updates: Isaias}}\label{live-updates-isaias}}

Updated 2020-08-04T19:13:56.865Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/04/us/isaias-storm-updates.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-362830dd}{Isaias
  is bringing the threat of tornadoes as it barrels north.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/04/us/isaias-storm-updates.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-7961bdbc}{At
  least two people were killed by a tornado in North Carolina.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/04/us/isaias-storm-updates.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-34e5d4e4}{The
  storm is knocking out power over wide areas.}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/04/us/isaias-storm-updates.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

The Bertie County sheriff, John Holley, told reporters on Tuesday that
the tornado touched down in the early morning hours on Tuesday,
shredding the cluster of homes so intensely that only two still stood.

``The rest of them is pretty much gone,'' he said
\href{https://www.13newsnow.com/video/news/local/north-carolina/bertie-county-sheriff-john-holley-talks-about-fatality-in-north-carolina/291-99306d30-d640-4e9a-97fa-0221d565f5df}{in
an interview with WVEC-TV}, a television station based in Hampton, Va.,
adding that he had regularly passed the community during 38 years with
the Sheriff's Department and it was now unrecognizable. ``It don't look
real,'' he said. ``It's sad and it's hard.''

The authorities said that at least 12 people had been hospitalized. Mr.
Holley said that his deputies were looking for at least three people who
were unaccounted for.

``Our hearts are heavy as we continue to survey damage and get the big
picture about what transpired and just how many were impacted,'' said
Ron Wesson, the chairman of the Bertie County Board of Commissioners.

The authorities made it to the community in the northeast corner of the
state before the storm had even passed, county officials said, with
emergency workers contending with the wind and rain in the dark of night
as they pulled people from their homes.

``We want to emphasize that this is not a recovery mission, and rescues
are still taking place,'' Mitch Cooper, the emergency management
director for Bertie County, said on Tuesday.

Officials were also trying to take stock of the aftermath across the
state. ``We've had a number of tornadoes,'' Governor Cooper, a Democrat,
said on ``Good Morning America.'' ``I'm not sure of the count yet.''

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/04/us/04isaias-briefing02/merlin_175290774_e44c4b98-5c6c-463b-9399-486509592ffb-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\hypertarget{-2}{%
\subsection{}\label{-2}}

The storm is knocking out power over wide areas.

More than two million utility customers along the storm's path in North
Carolina, Virginia, Maryland, Delaware, New Jersey, Pennsylvania and New
York were without power, according to
\href{https://slack-redir.net/link?url=http\%3A\%2F\%2FPoweroutage.us}{Poweroutage.us},
a website that tracks and aggregates reports from utilities.

As of 1:45 p.m. Eastern time, more than one million customers were
without power in New Jersey, a number significantly higher than in any
other state. In Eastern North Carolina and Virginia, 448,066 utility
customers were without power, and in Pennsylvania more than 356,000
customers were affected.

Storms can disrupt power in a number of ways. Strong wind gusts can
sometimes snap cables and poles directly, though utilities try to build
and maintain their infrastructure to be wind-resistant. Often the
culprit is a broken tree limb or debris from a building that strikes a
power line, or a skidding vehicle hitting a pole. Lightning strikes can
damage equipment, and so can wind-driven rain or flash floodwaters.

Downed power lines can remain dangerous even when the lights nearby seem
to be out, and wet conditions add to the danger. Utility companies like
Dominion Energy warn the public to
\href{https://twitter.com/DominionEnergy/status/1290609115954323457}{stay
at least 30 feet away}, and not to attempt to move them.

Loss of off-site power caused one reactor at the Brunswick nuclear power
plant in Southport, N.C., to automatically shut down overnight,
according to
\href{https://www.nrc.gov/reading-rm/doc-collections/event-status/event/2020/20200804en.html}{a
Nuclear Regulatory Commission notice}. The plant's other reactor was
unaffected. The report said safety systems worked as intended and the
impact of the shutdown was minimal.

\hypertarget{-3}{%
\subsection{}\label{-3}}

New York City may get less rain but more wind.

Image

Park rangers patroled the beach ahead of Tropical Storm Isaias in Queens
on Tuesday.Credit...Brendan Mcdermid/Reuters

The projected path of the storm has shifted slightly westward on
Tuesday, giving New York City and the surrounding areas a slight
reprieve from the heaviest expected rainfall.

But the shift has also increased the chance of severe weather in the
region, including the possibility of ``weak, brief'' tornadoes, said
Matthew Wunsch, a meteorologist with the National Weather Service. A
tornado watch is in effect until 4 p.m. for New York City, Long Island,
much of New Jersey and parts of Connecticut.

Even with the worst rain falling to the west, the New York City area
could still see some heavy bands of rainfall pass through in the morning
and afternoon, Mr. Wunsch said. Winds will pick up in the afternoon,
with sustained speeds of 35 to 45 m.p.h. and gusts over 60 m.p.h., he
said, and coastal flooding is expected in the evening and through
tomorrow.

Mr. Wunsch said the fast-moving storm was likely to inflict far less
damage overall than Hurricane Sandy did in October 2012. ``Sandy was
such a large-scale event, and it happened over such a long period of
time,'' he said. ``It was just a different beast altogether.''

Even so, officials in New York City were bracing for the bad weather and
urging residents to be vigilant for wind, rain and power outages.
Beaches were closed on Tuesday.

Gov. Phillip D. Murphy of New Jersey declared a state of emergency and
asked people to stay off the roads and to secure loose furniture and
other items that could be blown around by the high winds. He said
``hundreds of thousands'' of utility customers could lose power in the
state, depending on the severity of the wind gusts and the specific
track of the storm.

The southern end of the state was already being hit Tuesday morning,
with a tornado reported in Strathmere in Cape May County.

Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo of New York said in a statement that the state had
rescue teams standing by with boats and high-water vehicles in areas
that could be hardest hit by the storm. The state had also sent out
water pumps, chain saws, sandbags and bottled water, he said, noting
that up to six inches of rain could fall in some areas.

\hypertarget{-4}{%
\subsection{}\label{-4}}

Homes burned and cars were swept away where the storm made landfall.

Several homes caught fire, cars were swept away in floodwater, and
outdoor stairways were ripped off houses as Hurricane Isaias made
landfall in Ocean Isle Beach, N.C., on Monday night.

Morgan Strenk watched from her vacation home as rising water flooded the
streets outside and filled her basement with three feet of water.

``We didn't think it was going to get to this level,'' she said.

And while the water crept higher, a more urgent threat emerged: Stepping
onto her porch, Ms. Strenk smelled smoke, and saw a house across the
street going up in flames. The fire then spread to a neighboring house.

When a family came out of another nearby house, Ms. Strenk said she
signaled with her flashlight to invite them to come shelter with her on
the opposite side of the street.

One of the houses burned completely to the ground, Ms. Strenk said. Only
a burned front porch and stairway remains of the other. Photos she took
show a burned structure with only the stilts remaining, and a car that
was swept up by the flood and dropped nose-down in a pool of water.

``The streets are just covered with debris, a lot of houses right on the
shoreline lost their stairs,'' she said on Tuesday. ``There's random
pieces of furniture all over the place.''

In all, fire crews had to put out at least five structure fires, said
Tony Casey, a spokesman for Horry County Fire Rescue, which had come
from South Carolina to help the local firefighters.

\hypertarget{-5}{%
\subsection{}\label{-5}}

Simultaneous disasters are exposing the hard reality of climate change.

Twin emergencies on two coasts this week --- Hurricane Isaias and the
Apple Fire, which has burned 27,000 acres in Southern California ---
offer a preview of life in a warming world and the steady danger of
overlapping disasters.

And in both places, as well as everywhere between, a
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/world/coronavirus-maps.html}{pandemic}
that keeps worsening.

Experts say that the pair of hazards bracketing the country this week
offers a preview of life under climate change: a relentless grind of
overlapping disasters, major or minor.

The coronavirus pandemic has further
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/22/climate/fema-volunteer-disaster-response.html}{exposed
flaws} in the nation's defenses, including
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/10/26/climate/building-codes-secret-deal.html}{weak
construction standards} in vulnerable areas,
\href{https://newrepublic.com/article/158486/towns-arent-equipped-handle-climate-emergencies}{underfunded}
government agencies, and racial and income
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/17/climate/pollution-poverty-coronavirus.html}{disparities}
that put some communities
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/24/climate/houston-flooding-race.html}{at
greater risk}. Experts argue that the country must fundamentally rethink
how it prepares for similar disasters as the effects of global warming
accelerate.

``State and local governments already stretched with Covid responses
must now stretch even further,'' said Lisa Anne Hamilton, adaptation
program director at the Georgetown Climate Center in Washington. Better
planning and preparation are crucial, she added, as the frequency and
intensity of disasters increase.

\hypertarget{-6}{%
\subsection{}\label{-6}}

Is a face mask much use in a tropical storm? Not if it gets wet.

Image

People walking to Juno Beach, Fla., on Sunday wore face masks despite
the rainy conditions.~Credit...Saul Martinez for The New York Times

In recent weeks as the coronavirus has been resurgent in many parts of
the country, experts and politicians alike have implored people to
protect themselves and others by always wearing a face mask in public.

Does that apply when you have to be out in the gusting wind and driving
rain of a tropical storm? Our health columnist Tara Parker-Pope says,
probably not: Face masks
\href{https://www.nursingtimes.net/clinical-archive/infection-control/the-effectiveness-of-surgical-face-masks-what-the-literature-shows-30-09-2003/}{aren't
as effective} when they are wet.

For one thing, it's much harder to breathe through a wet mask than a dry
one, Ms. Parker-Pope notes. And on top of that, a moist or wet mask
doesn't filter as well as a dry mask. The Centers for Disease Control
and Prevention, which recommends mask-wearing in general, says they
\href{https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/prevent-getting-sick/cloth-face-cover-guidance.html}{should
not be worn when doing things that may get the mask wet. }

It doesn't take a tropical storm to drench a mask, of course. They can
become soaked with condensation from your breath or sweat from your
face, and some people think of wetting them deliberately to cool off in
hot weather. But the harm done is the same, wherever the moisture comes
from.

A paper surgical mask that gets soaked should probably be discarded, Ms.
Parker-Pope advises, but a cloth mask can be washed, dried and re-used.

When rain is coming down in buckets, social distancing is not likely to
be a problem, and any viral particles exhaled by an infected person
probably would be quickly diluted by gusting wind and rain. So there is
little need to wear a mask out in a rainstorm, Ms. Parker-Pope notes:
``In fact, you should take it off and keep it dry, so if you need to
duck into a store to wait out the storm, you have a dry mask to wear
indoors.''

Reporting was contributed by Johnny Diaz, Christopher Flavelle, Henry
Fountain, Patrick J. Lyons, Tara Parker-Pope, Rick Rojas, Daniel Victor,
Will Wright, Alan Yuhas and Mihir Zaveri

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{¬©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
