Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}Tom Price Is Confirmed as
Health Secretary

\url{https://nyti.ms/2kaHTph}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{tom-price-is-confirmed-as-health-secretary}{%
\section{Tom Price Is Confirmed as Health
Secretary}\label{tom-price-is-confirmed-as-health-secretary}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2017/02/10/us/10confirm/10confirm-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/robert-pear}{Robert Pear} and
\href{http://www.nytimes.com/by/thomas-kaplan}{Thomas Kaplan}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Feb. 10, 2017
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

WASHINGTON --- The Senate early Friday approved the nomination of
Representative Tom Price to be secretary of health and human services,
putting him in charge of President Trump's efforts to dismantle the
Affordable Care Act.

By a vote of 52 to 47, the Senate confirmed Mr. Price, Republican of
Georgia, after a debate that focused as much on his ethics and
investments as on his views on health policy. Democrats denounced his
desire to rein in the growth of Medicare and Medicaid by making
fundamental changes to the programs, which insure more than 100 million
Americans.

Senator Michael B. Enzi, Republican of Wyoming, said that Mr. Price, a
62-year-old orthopedic surgeon from the suburbs of Atlanta, was ``one of
the most capable, well-prepared individuals that President Trump could
have chosen.''

``Who better than a doctor to head an organization that covers the wide
variety of major health care programs?'' Mr. Enzi asked.

The majority leader, Senator Mitch McConnell, Republican of Kentucky,
said Mr. Price ``knows more about health care policy than just about
anyone.''

No senators crossed party lines on the roll-call vote, which ended after
2 a.m. on Friday.

Democrats said that Mr. Price, a House member since 2005, had shown bad
judgment by actively trading shares of medical and pharmaceutical
companies while shaping health policy in Congress. Mr. Price has denied
wrongdoing and said
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2017/01/24/us/politics/tom-price-nominee-secretary-of-health-and-human-services.html}{at
a confirmation hearing}, ``Everything that I did was ethical,
aboveboard, legal and transparent.''

But he recently amended his financial disclosure statement to report a
higher value for his investment in a small Australian biotechnology
company, and Senator Patty Murray of Washington, the senior Democrat on
the Senate health committee, said his financial dealings raised serious
questions about potential insider trading that ought to be investigated
by the Securities and Exchange Commission.

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2017/02/10/us/politics/tom-price-confirmation-vote.html}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2017/02/09/us/politics/tom-price-confirmation-vote-1486704106771/tom-price-confirmation-vote-1486704106771-largeHorizontalJumbo-v3.png}

\hypertarget{how-senators-voted-on-tom-price-for-health-and-human-services-secretary}{%
\subsection{How Senators Voted on Tom Price for Health and Human
Services
Secretary}\label{how-senators-voted-on-tom-price-for-health-and-human-services-secretary}}

The Senate voted to confirm Tom Price as health and human services
secretary.

``While Congressman Price served on the powerful Ways and Means
Committee, he traded in health care stocks, pushed policies that helped
his portfolio and got special access to a promising stock deal,'' said
Senator Ron Wyden of Oregon, the senior Democrat on the Finance
Committee.

Mr. Price will be the first physician to lead the Department of Health
and Human Services since Dr. Louis W. Sullivan stepped down at the end
of the first Bush administration in January 1993.

As secretary, Mr. Price will be responsible for a department with an
annual budget of more than \$1 trillion. Agencies within the department
regulate food and drugs, sponsor much of the nation's biomedical
research and combat public health threats, including the Zika virus,
opioid drug abuse and bioterrorism.

Some of the Democrats' animus against Mr. Price stems from experience.
Working with him over the last 12 years, they say, they have found him
to be an effective advocate for conservative policies that they abhor.

``Buying and selling health care stocks as a member of Congress while
you're voting and helping those companies, that's bad enough,'' said
Senator Sherrod Brown, Democrat of Ohio. ``But what he wants to do to
maybe the greatest program in American history, Medicare, is much, much
worse.''

Senator John Cornyn of Texas, the No. 2 Senate Republican, said that
Democrats were
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2017/01/31/us/politics/democrats-seize-on-acting-attorney-generals-firing-to-try-to-block-nominee.html}{dragging
their feet} on confirming Mr. Trump's nominees because of a desire to
``block, stall and obstruct this president at every turn.''

Mr. Price has
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2016/11/28/us/politics/tom-price-secretary-health-and-human-services.html}{led
efforts to repeal the Affordable Care Act} and proposed a replacement
plan that would roll back federal insurance standards and give states
more authority.

``You could say his chief qualification for the job of replacing
Obamacare is he had the good sense to oppose it in the first place,''
said Senator Tom Cotton, Republican of Arkansas.

Democrats see it differently. ``This is the first vote in the
dismantling of the Affordable Care Act,'' said Senator Maria Cantwell of
Washington. Senator Jeanne Shaheen, Democrat of New Hampshire, said Mr.
Price had been ``a rabid supporter of defunding Planned Parenthood'' and
``seems to have no higher priority than to terminate health coverage for
millions of people.''

As chairman of the House Budget Committee, Mr. Price supported proposals
to shift Medicare away from its open-ended commitment to pay for medical
services and toward a fixed government contribution for each
beneficiary, which could be used for either private insurance or
traditional Medicare. Such proposals could increase costs for some
people.

The Senate Democratic leader, Chuck Schumer of New York, said Mr. Price
had ``dedicated his life to destroying Medicare as we know it.''

To make their case, Democrats highlighted a 2009
\href{http://www.politico.com/story/2009/07/how-the-gop-wants-to-fix-health-care-025581?paginate=false}{op-ed
article} in which Mr. Price said, ``Nothing has had a greater negative
effect on the delivery of health care than the federal government's
intrusion into medicine through Medicare.''

However, Mr. Trump, as a presidential candidate, often said he did not
intend to cut Medicare.

Mr. Price has endorsed the idea of giving each state a fixed amount of
federal money in the form of a block grant to provide health care to
low-income people on Medicaid. That would be a radical change. Since its
creation in 1965, Medicaid has been an open-ended entitlement. If more
people become eligible, states receive more federal money.

Democrats have expressed outrage at many of Mr. Trump's cabinet picks
but have not mustered the votes to stop them.

Senator Orrin G. Hatch, Republican of Utah and chairman of the Finance
Committee, said Democrats had smeared Mr. Price with ``a vague patchwork
of allegations of ethical impropriety.'' He discerned a pattern:
Democrats, he said, ``have appeared to be apoplectic about almost every
single nominee we've had before us.''

The Senate already had confirmed Mr. Trump's nominees to lead six other
departments ---
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2017/01/20/us/politics/trump-cabinet-confirmation-mattis-kelly.html}{defense},
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2017/02/07/us/politics/betsy-devos-education-secretary-confirmed.html}{education},
homeland security,
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2017/02/08/us/politics/jeff-sessions-attorney-general-confirmation.html}{justice},
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2017/02/01/us/politics/rex-tillerson-secretary-of-state-confirmed.html}{state}
and transportation --- as well as his picks for director of the Central
Intelligence Agency and United Nations ambassador. After confirming Mr.
Price, the Senate turned to the nomination of
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2016/12/19/business/dealbook/steven-mnuchin-trump-treasury-hedge-funds.html}{Steven
T. Mnuchin}, Mr. Trump's pick to be Treasury secretary.

Senate confirmation is expected early next week for Mr. Mnuchin, a
former hedge fund manager and Goldman Sachs executive who was national
finance chairman for Mr. Trump's presidential campaign.

But Mr. Mnuchin, like Mr. Price, has been criticized by Democrats, who
boycotted a Finance Committee vote on his nomination. Mr. Mnuchin
initially failed to disclose nearly \$100 million of his assets to the
committee, and he faced scrutiny over the foreclosure practices of the
OneWest bank when he was its chairman.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{Â©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
