Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}Trump Overrules Tillerson,
Rejecting Elliott Abrams for Deputy Secretary of State

\url{https://nyti.ms/2ktyNok}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

First 100 Days Briefing

\hypertarget{trump-overrules-tillerson-rejecting-elliott-abrams-for-deputy-secretary-of-state}{%
\section{Trump Overrules Tillerson, Rejecting Elliott Abrams for Deputy
Secretary of
State}\label{trump-overrules-tillerson-rejecting-elliott-abrams-for-deputy-secretary-of-state}}

By \href{http://www.nytimes.com/by/maggie-haberman}{Maggie Haberman},
\href{http://www.nytimes.com/by/jonathan-weisman}{Jonathan Weisman} and
\href{http://www.nytimes.com/by/eric-lichtblau}{Eric Lichtblau}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Feb. 10, 2017
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

■ President Trump, Japan's prime minister, Shinzo Abe, and their wives
will fly to Mar-a-Lago in Palm Beach, Fla., for dinner and a weekend of
golf.

■ Treasury Secretary-nominee Steven Mnuchin's confirmation vote,
originally slated for a rare Saturday session in the Senate, has been
pushed to Monday.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2017/02/11/us/11hundredbriefing/11hundredbriefing-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\hypertarget{trump-rejects-abrams-as-deputy-secretary-of-state}{%
\subsection{Trump rejects Abrams as deputy secretary of
state}\label{trump-rejects-abrams-as-deputy-secretary-of-state}}

Mr. Trump overruled his newly minted secretary of state, Rex W.
Tillerson, and rejected the secretary's choice for his deputy at the
department, two people briefed on the decision said Friday.

The deputy's job was denied for Elliott Abrams, a conservative who had
served under President Ronald Reagan and President George W. Bush, deals
a blow to Mr. Tillerson in his first week on the job. The rejection of
Mr. Abrams leaves Mr. Tillerson without a sherpa to help guide the
first-time government official around the State Department headquarters.

Mr. Trump had a productive meeting with Mr. Abrams on Tuesday, according
to a White House official and a person close to Mr. Abrams. But after it
took place, Mr. Trump learned of Mr. Abrams's pointed criticisms of the
president when he was running for president, the administration official
said. Among those criticisms was a column headlined
\href{http://www.weeklystandard.com/when-you-cant-stand-your-candidate/article/2002283}{``When
You Can't Stand Your Candidate,''}which appeared in May 2016 in The
Weekly Standard.

Mr. Trump has been increasingly focused on who was with him or against
him during his campaign, according to several people who have spoken
with him in recent days.

Mr. Tillerson had argued strongly for Mr. Abrams. So had Jared Kushner,
Mr. Trump's son-in-law and a senior adviser. Senator Tom Cotton,
Republican of Arkansas who is closely aligned with friends of Mr.
Abrams', and some members of the pro-Israel lobbying group Aipac, had
been reaching out to Democratic senators to impress upon them the
importance of Mr. Abrams receiving Senate confirmation.

Aides to Mr. Trump did not respond to an email seeking comment.

\hypertarget{democrats-turn-up-heat-on-flynn}{%
\subsection{Democrats turn up heat on
Flynn}\label{democrats-turn-up-heat-on-flynn}}

The revelation that Michael T. Flynn, President Trump's national
security adviser,
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2017/02/09/us/flynn-is-said-to-have-talked-to-russians-about-sanctions-before-trump-took-office.html?_r=0}{apparently
discussed sanctions with Russia's ambassador to the United States}in the
weeks before the inauguration has given Democrats a new cudgel to revive
discussions of Mr. Trump's ties to Russian President Vladimir V. Putin.

And they are swinging it.

Representative Eric Swalwell of California, the ranking Democrat on the
C.I.A. subcommittee of the House Intelligence Committee, called it ``a
crime for someone outside of our government to negotiate with foreign
entities on our nation's behalf.''

Senators Christopher S. Murphy of Connecticut and Edward J. Markey of
Massachusetts, both Democrats, were similarly scathing in a joint
statement. Said Mr. Murphy:

\begin{quote}
``There is no good way to explain today's report that Michael Flynn was
coordinating sanctions relief for Russia before his boss was
inaugurated. Either Donald Trump directed his National Security Adviser
to undermine U.S. foreign policy on Russia, or Michael Flynn went rogue
and did it on his own. Then he either lied to the Vice President or the
Vice President went on television to lie to the American people.
Whatever transpired, the President needs to get his White House under
control.''
\end{quote}

\hypertarget{candidate-for-solicitor-general-drops-out}{%
\subsection{Candidate for solicitor general drops
out}\label{candidate-for-solicitor-general-drops-out}}

With the legal fight over President Trump's travel ban apparently headed
for the Supreme Court, a leading contender for the job of arguing the
government's cases before the highest court has dropped out of
consideration.

The candidate, Charles J. Cooper, said he was withdrawing as a possible
nominee for solicitor general of the United States ``after witnessing
the treatment of my friend Jeff Sessions,'' who was approved as attorney
general Wednesday evening after bruising attacks by Senate Democrats
over his civil rights record.

Mr. Cooper, a conservative Washington lawyer who argued against gay
marriage in an important California case, said that after what Mr.
Sessions ``had to endure at the hands of a partisan opposition that will
say anything and do anything to advance their political interests, I am
unwilling to subject myself, my family, and my friends to such a
process.''

His withdrawal appears to leave George T. Conway, a New York lawyer who
is married to Kellyanne Conway, a top White House aide, as the leading
contender for solicitor general. Mr. Trump said Thursday that he
expected to select a new nominee in about a week. Whoever gets confirmed
for the job could end up arguing the legality of Mr. Trump's travel ban
before the Supreme Court.

\hypertarget{big-beautiful--and-pricey}{%
\subsection{`Big, beautiful' --- and
pricey}\label{big-beautiful--and-pricey}}

No wonder Mr. Trump wants the Mexicans to pay for it.

The wall on the southern border --- really a set of fences and walls ---
would take three and a half years to build and would cost \$21.6
billion, according to an internal report by the Department of Homeland
Security that was
\href{http://www.reuters.com/article/us-usa-trump-immigration-wall-exclusive-idUSKBN15O2ZN}{seen
by Reuters}.

That's well over the \$12 billion estimated by Mr. Trump during the
campaign, and the upper bound of \$15 billion cited by Republican
leaders in Congress.

At a time when federal deficits are again expected to grow, the amount
is not pocket change. As the population ages and draws on Social
Security, Medicare and Medicaid, the Congressional Budget Office is
already expecting the government
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2017/01/24/us/politics/budget-deficit-trump.html?_r=0}{to
heap nearly \$10 trillion} onto the federal debt over the coming decade
--- and that is with statutory caps on domestic and military spending.
Mr. Trump has already vowed to bust through those caps on the military
side of the ledger, something that would take an act of Congress.

Now he'll have to pay extra for his promised wall --- either out of
existing domestic programs or above the nondefense caps.

\hypertarget{presidential-viewing-habits--exposed}{%
\subsection{Presidential viewing habits ...
exposed}\label{presidential-viewing-habits--exposed}}

Mr. Trump is still pretty miffed that a three-judge panel of the Ninth
Circuit Court of Appeals unanimously upheld a restraining order against
his travel ban from seven majority-Muslim countries.

We can also deduce what he was watching on television: MSNBC's Morning
Joe.

Wonder why it took 12 minutes to compose that post on Twitter.

\hypertarget{that-sudden-talk-with-china}{%
\subsection{That sudden talk with
China}\label{that-sudden-talk-with-china}}

On Thursday night, The New York Times published a scoop: the president
of the United States had not spoken to the president of China, Xi
Jinping, who was icing him out over his unorthodox call with the leader
of Taiwan during his transition to power, and his suggestion that just
maybe, Washington would no longer follow the ``One China'' policy (which
affirms that Taiwan is a province of the mainland).

Hours later, the White House issued a statement that, hey, not only had
Mr. Trump just spoken to Mr. Xi, he had also expressed support for the
One China policy after all --- something Mr. Trump had said he would do
only in return for concessions.

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2017/02/09/world/asia/donald-trump-china-xi-jinping-letter.html?hp\&action=click\&pgtype=Homepage\&clickSource=story-heading\&module=a-lede-package-region\&region=top-news\&WT.nav=top-news}{The
Times story was rewritten accordingly}, capturing the news.

But Mr. Trump does not accept the chronology --- at least not publicly.

\hypertarget{the-campaign-never-ends}{%
\subsection{The campaign never ends}\label{the-campaign-never-ends}}

Hillary Clinton has been slow to emerge after her November defeat. But
there she was on social media Thursday night, praising
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2017/02/09/us/politics/appeals-court-trump-travel-ban.html}{the
unanimous decision by a three-judge panel} of the Ninth Circuit Court of
Appeals to uphold a nationwide restraining order against Mr. Trump's
travel ban for seven majority-Muslim countries.

To which Kellyanne Conway, the Trump campaign-manager-turned-White House
adviser, had a reply.

Winning is everything.

\hypertarget{house-republicans-face-a-backlash}{%
\subsection{House Republicans face a
backlash}\label{house-republicans-face-a-backlash}}

First came the video of Representative Mike Coffman of Colorado sneaking
out a back door to avoid the angry crowd gathered for his town hall
meeting --- but his suburban Denver district is swingy.

Then Representative Tom McClintock of California had to flee under guard
as constituents in Roseville demanded to know why he was so bent on
repealing the Affordable Care Act. But hey, it's California --- even
though his turf outside Sacramento isn't exactly Berkeley.

But Utah? On Wednesday, it was Representative Jason Chaffetz's turn ---
in the reddest of states, in the Salt Lake City suburb Cottonwood
Heights.

It's getting ugly out there.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
