Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/world/asia}{Asia Pacific}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/world/asia}{Asia Pacific}\textbar{}Coronavirus Map:
Tracking the Global Outbreak

\href{https://nyti.ms/2t6WE75}{https://nyti.ms/2t6WE75}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/news-event/coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{The
Coronavirus Outbreak}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  live\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/08/world/coronavirus-updates.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Latest
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Maps
  and Cases}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Vaccine
  Tracker}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/world/coronavirus-tips-advice.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{F.A.Q.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/live/2020/08/07/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Markets
  \& Economy}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{coronavirus-map-tracking-the-global-outbreak}{%
\section{Coronavirus Map: Tracking the Global
Outbreak}\label{coronavirus-map-tracking-the-global-outbreak}}

By The New York TimesUpdated August 8, 2020, 6:15 P.M. E.T.

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/world/coronavirus-maps.html}{World}~

COUNTRIES

\textbar{}
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html}{U.S.A.}~

STATES

~
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-testing.html}{Testing}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/world/americas/brazil-coronavirus-cases.html}{Brazil}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/world/canada/canada-coronavirus-cases.html}{Canada}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/world/europe/france-coronavirus-cases.html}{France}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/world/europe/germany-coronavirus-cases.html}{Germany}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/world/asia/india-coronavirus-cases.html}{India}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/world/europe/italy-coronavirus-cases.html}{Italy}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/world/americas/mexico-coronavirus-cases.html}{Mexico}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/world/europe/spain-coronavirus-cases.html}{Spain}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/world/europe/united-kingdom-coronavirus-cases.html}{U.K.}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/alabama-coronavirus-cases.html}{Alabama}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/alaska-coronavirus-cases.html}{Alaska}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/arizona-coronavirus-cases.html}{Arizona}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/arkansas-coronavirus-cases.html}{Arkansas}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/california-coronavirus-cases.html}{California}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/colorado-coronavirus-cases.html}{Colorado}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/connecticut-coronavirus-cases.html}{Connecticut}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/delaware-coronavirus-cases.html}{Delaware}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/florida-coronavirus-cases.html}{Florida}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/georgia-coronavirus-cases.html}{Georgia}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/hawaii-coronavirus-cases.html}{Hawaii}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/idaho-coronavirus-cases.html}{Idaho}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/illinois-coronavirus-cases.html}{Illinois}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/indiana-coronavirus-cases.html}{Indiana}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/iowa-coronavirus-cases.html}{Iowa}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/kansas-coronavirus-cases.html}{Kansas}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/kentucky-coronavirus-cases.html}{Kentucky}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/louisiana-coronavirus-cases.html}{Louisiana}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/maine-coronavirus-cases.html}{Maine}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/maryland-coronavirus-cases.html}{Maryland}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/massachusetts-coronavirus-cases.html}{Massachusetts}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/michigan-coronavirus-cases.html}{Michigan}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/minnesota-coronavirus-cases.html}{Minnesota}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/mississippi-coronavirus-cases.html}{Mississippi}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/missouri-coronavirus-cases.html}{Missouri}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/montana-coronavirus-cases.html}{Montana}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/nebraska-coronavirus-cases.html}{Nebraska}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/nevada-coronavirus-cases.html}{Nevada}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/new-hampshire-coronavirus-cases.html}{New
Hampshire}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/new-jersey-coronavirus-cases.html}{New
Jersey}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/new-mexico-coronavirus-cases.html}{New
Mexico}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/new-york-coronavirus-cases.html}{New
York}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/north-carolina-coronavirus-cases.html}{North
Carolina}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/north-dakota-coronavirus-cases.html}{North
Dakota}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/ohio-coronavirus-cases.html}{Ohio}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/oklahoma-coronavirus-cases.html}{Oklahoma}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/oregon-coronavirus-cases.html}{Oregon}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/pennsylvania-coronavirus-cases.html}{Pennsylvania}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/puerto-rico-coronavirus-cases.html}{Puerto
Rico}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/rhode-island-coronavirus-cases.html}{Rhode
Island}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/south-carolina-coronavirus-cases.html}{South
Carolina}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/south-dakota-coronavirus-cases.html}{South
Dakota}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/tennessee-coronavirus-cases.html}{Tennessee}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/texas-coronavirus-cases.html}{Texas}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/utah-coronavirus-cases.html}{Utah}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/vermont-coronavirus-cases.html}{Vermont}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/virginia-coronavirus-cases.html}{Virginia}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/washington-coronavirus-cases.html}{Washington}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/washington-dc-coronavirus-cases.html}{Washington,
D.C.}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/west-virginia-coronavirus-cases.html}{West
Virginia}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/wisconsin-coronavirus-cases.html}{Wisconsin}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/wyoming-coronavirus-cases.html}{Wyoming}

~

0

200,000 cases

Feb.

March

April

May

June

July

Aug.

New cases

7-day average

Total cases

19.4 million+

Deaths

722,469

Includes confirmed and probable cases where available

\protect\hyperlink{map}{Map}\protect\hyperlink{countries}{Country
table}\protect\hyperlink{cases}{New
cases}\protect\hyperlink{tips}{Tips}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/08/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html}{Latest
news Â»}

The
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/prepare-for-coronavirus.html}{coronavirus
pandemic} has sickened more than 19,447,600 people, according to
official counts. As of Saturday evening, at least 722,400 people have
died, and the virus has been detected in nearly every country, as these
maps show.

Hot spots

Total cases

Deaths

Per capita

Average daily cases per 100,000 people in the past week

Few or no cases

Share of population with a reported case

No cases reported

Double-click to zoom into the map.

Use two fingers to pan and zoom. Tap for details.

Sources: Local governments; The Center for Systems Science and
Engineering at Johns Hopkins University; National Health Commission of
the People's Republic of China; World Health Organization.

About this data The map shows where the average number of reported cases
over the past two weeks is increasing, decreasing or about the same.
Countries with an increase in the rate of cases are shaded darker.
Countries with fewer than 100 cases over the past two weeks are not
shaded. Data for the West Bank and Gaza was reported together by the
Palestinian Health Ministry and includes only Palestinian-controlled
land. Russia is reporting data for Crimea, a peninsula it
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2014/03/19/world/europe/ukraine.html}{annexed
in 2014} in a move that led to international sanctions. Data for some
countries, like the United States and France, include counts for
overseas territories. Japan's count includes 696 cases and seven deaths
from a cruise ship that docked in Yokohama.

The coronavirus pandemic is ebbing in some of the countries that were
hit hard early on, but the number of new cases is growing faster than
ever worldwide, with more than 200,000 reported each day on average.

We have updated the charts in the table below to show weekly cases per
capita to better reveal when new hot spots emerged and receded. The
charts were previously showing the rate of change in cases.

Cases

Deaths

Show all

Weekly cases per capita shows the share of population with a new
reported case for each week. Weeks without a reported case are shaded
gray.

Almost twice as many countries have reported a significant rise in new
cases over the past two weeks as have reported significant declines,
according to a New York Times database.

\hypertarget{where-new-cases-are-increasing}{%
\subsection{Where new cases are
increasing}\label{where-new-cases-are-increasing}}

Total cases Cases per capita

Charts show daily cases per capita and are on the same scale.

7-day average

\textbf{India} Jan. 22 Aug. 7

\textbf{Peru}

\textbf{Colombia}

\textbf{Spain}

\textbf{U.K.}

\textbf{Turkey}

\textbf{Argentina}

\textbf{Germany}

\textbf{France}

\textbf{Iraq}

\textbf{Philippines}

\textbf{Bolivia}

\textbf{Ukraine}

\textbf{Belgium}

\textbf{Romania}

\textbf{Netherlands}

\textbf{Singapore}

\textbf{Poland}

\textbf{Japan}

\textbf{Switzerland}

\textbf{Morocco}

\textbf{Uzbekistan}

\textbf{Venezuela}

\textbf{Nepal}

\textbf{Costa Rica}

\textbf{Australia}

\textbf{Denmark}

\textbf{Kosovo}

\textbf{Norway}

\textbf{Zambia}

\textbf{Finland}

\textbf{Paraguay}

\textbf{Albania}

\textbf{Lebanon}

\textbf{Greece}

\textbf{Djibouti}

\textbf{Libya}

\textbf{Equatorial Guinea}

\textbf{Maldives}

\textbf{Zimbabwe}

\textbf{Cuba}

\textbf{Namibia}

\textbf{Cape Verde}

\textbf{Slovakia}

\textbf{South Sudan}

\textbf{Lithuania}

\textbf{Mozambique}

\textbf{Suriname}

\textbf{Estonia}

\textbf{Guinea-Bissau}

\textbf{Iceland}

\textbf{Benin}

\textbf{Tunisia}

\textbf{Angola}

\textbf{Latvia}

\textbf{Uganda}

\textbf{Cyprus}

\textbf{Burkina Faso}

\textbf{Syria}

\textbf{Gambia}

\textbf{Malta}

\textbf{Togo}

\textbf{Jamaica}

\textbf{Andorra}

\textbf{Bahamas}

\textbf{Vietnam}

\textbf{Lesotho}

\textbf{Guyana}

\textbf{Aruba}

\textbf{Comoros}

\textbf{Faroe Islands}

\textbf{Trinidad and Tobago}

\textbf{Papua New Guinea}

\textbf{Sint Maarten}

\textbf{Turks and Caicos Islands}

\textbf{Belize}

\textbf{Barbados}

\textbf{Seychelles}

\textbf{Bhutan}

+ Show all + Show less

Charts show daily cases and are individually scaled to the maximum for
each country.

7-day average

\textbf{India} 2,088,611 total cases Jan. 22 Aug. 7

\textbf{Peru} 463,875

\textbf{Colombia} 367,204

\textbf{Spain} 314,362

\textbf{U.K.} 309,005

\textbf{Turkey} 238,450

\textbf{Argentina} 235,677

\textbf{Germany} 215,336

\textbf{France} 197,921

\textbf{Iraq} 147,389

\textbf{Philippines} 126,885

\textbf{Bolivia} 87,891

\textbf{Ukraine} 81,534

\textbf{Belgium} 72,784

\textbf{Romania} 60,623

\textbf{Netherlands} 58,604

\textbf{Singapore} 54,929

\textbf{Poland} 51,167

\textbf{Japan} 46,135

\textbf{Switzerland} 36,451

\textbf{Morocco} 32,007

\textbf{Uzbekistan} 29,652

\textbf{Venezuela} 24,166

\textbf{Nepal} 22,592

\textbf{Costa Rica} 22,081

\textbf{Australia} 20,698

\textbf{Denmark} 14,751

\textbf{Kosovo} 9,869

\textbf{Norway} 9,568

\textbf{Zambia} 7,903

\textbf{Finland} 7,568

\textbf{Paraguay} 6,508

\textbf{Albania} 6,275

\textbf{Lebanon} 5,951

\textbf{Greece} 5,421

\textbf{Djibouti} 5,338

\textbf{Libya} 5,079

\textbf{Equatorial Guinea} 4,821

\textbf{Maldives} 4,769

\textbf{Zimbabwe} 4,451

\textbf{Cuba} 2,829

\textbf{Namibia} 2,802

\textbf{Cape Verde} 2,780

\textbf{Slovakia} 2,566

\textbf{South Sudan} 2,463

\textbf{Lithuania} 2,231

\textbf{Mozambique} 2,213

\textbf{Suriname} 2,203

\textbf{Estonia} 2,147

\textbf{Guinea-Bissau} 2,032

\textbf{Iceland} 1,955

\textbf{Benin} 1,936

\textbf{Tunisia} 1,656

\textbf{Angola} 1,538

\textbf{Latvia} 1,288

\textbf{Uganda} 1,267

\textbf{Cyprus} 1,222

\textbf{Burkina Faso} 1,158

\textbf{Syria} 1,125

\textbf{Gambia} 1,090

\textbf{Malta} 1,035

\textbf{Togo} 1,028

\textbf{Jamaica} 987

\textbf{Andorra} 955

\textbf{Bahamas} 830

\textbf{Vietnam} 797

\textbf{Lesotho} 742

\textbf{Guyana} 538

\textbf{Aruba} 396

\textbf{Comoros} 396

\textbf{Faroe Islands} 295

\textbf{Trinidad and Tobago} 243

\textbf{Papua New Guinea} 188

\textbf{Sint Maarten} 177

\textbf{Turks and Caicos Islands} 170

\textbf{Belize} 146

\textbf{Barbados} 138

\textbf{Seychelles} 126

\textbf{Bhutan} 108

+ Show all + Show less

These countries have had growth in newly reported cases in the last 14
days.

\hypertarget{where-new-cases-are-mostly-the-same}{%
\subsection{Where new cases are mostly the
same}\label{where-new-cases-are-mostly-the-same}}

Total cases Cases per capita

Charts show daily cases per capita and are on the same scale.

7-day average

\textbf{Brazil} Jan. 22 Aug. 7

\textbf{Russia}

\textbf{Mexico}

\textbf{Chile}

\textbf{Iran}

\textbf{Pakistan}

\textbf{Italy}

\textbf{Indonesia}

\textbf{Egypt}

\textbf{Ecuador}

\textbf{Mainland China}

\textbf{Sweden}

\textbf{Dominican Rep.}

\textbf{Panama}

\textbf{Kuwait}

\textbf{U.A.E.}

\textbf{Ghana}

\textbf{Afghanistan}

\textbf{Algeria}

\textbf{Moldova}

\textbf{Ireland}

\textbf{Kenya}

\textbf{Ethiopia}

\textbf{Austria}

\textbf{El Salvador}

\textbf{Czech Republic}

\textbf{South Korea}

\textbf{Bosnia and Herzegovina}

\textbf{Bulgaria}

\textbf{Malaysia}

\textbf{Gabon}

\textbf{Guinea}

\textbf{Tajikistan}

\textbf{Hungary}

\textbf{Central African Republic}

\textbf{Hong Kong}

\textbf{Republic of Congo}

\textbf{Thailand}

\textbf{Somalia}

\textbf{Eswatini}

\textbf{Sri Lanka}

\textbf{Mali}

\textbf{New Zealand}

\textbf{Liberia}

\textbf{Niger}

\textbf{Chad}

\textbf{SÃ£o TomÃ© and PrÃ­ncipe}

\textbf{Botswana}

\textbf{San Marino}

\textbf{Channel Islands}

\textbf{Tanzania}

\textbf{Taiwan}

\textbf{Myanmar}

\textbf{Mauritius}

\textbf{Isle of Man}

\textbf{Mongolia}

\textbf{Eritrea}

\textbf{Cayman Islands}

\textbf{Gibraltar}

\textbf{Bermuda}

\textbf{Brunei}

\textbf{Monaco}

+ Show all + Show less

Charts show daily cases and are individually scaled to the maximum for
each country.

7-day average

\textbf{Brazil} 2,962,442 total cases Jan. 22 Aug. 7

\textbf{Russia} 880,563

\textbf{Mexico} 469,407

\textbf{Chile} 371,023

\textbf{Iran} 324,692

\textbf{Pakistan} 283,487

\textbf{Italy} 250,103

\textbf{Indonesia} 123,503

\textbf{Egypt} 95,147

\textbf{Ecuador} 93,572

\textbf{Mainland China} 91,778

\textbf{Sweden} 82,323

\textbf{Dominican Rep.} 77,709

\textbf{Panama} 72,560

\textbf{Kuwait} 71,199

\textbf{U.A.E.} 62,300

\textbf{Ghana} 40,533

\textbf{Afghanistan} 37,054

\textbf{Algeria} 34,639

\textbf{Moldova} 27,443

\textbf{Ireland} 26,644

\textbf{Kenya} 25,837

\textbf{Ethiopia} 22,253

\textbf{Austria} 21,919

\textbf{El Salvador} 19,978

\textbf{Czech Republic} 18,146

\textbf{South Korea} 14,562

\textbf{Bosnia and Herzegovina} 13,687

\textbf{Bulgaria} 13,209

\textbf{Malaysia} 9,070

\textbf{Gabon} 7,923

\textbf{Guinea} 7,777

\textbf{Tajikistan} 7,706

\textbf{Hungary} 4,653

\textbf{Central African Republic} 4,641

\textbf{Hong Kong} 4,007

\textbf{Republic of Congo} 3,637

\textbf{Thailand} 3,348

\textbf{Somalia} 3,227

\textbf{Eswatini} 3,036

\textbf{Sri Lanka} 2,841

\textbf{Mali} 2,561

\textbf{New Zealand} 1,569

\textbf{Liberia} 1,230

\textbf{Niger} 1,153

\textbf{Chad} 942

\textbf{SÃ£o TomÃ© and PrÃ­ncipe} 878

\textbf{Botswana} 804

\textbf{San Marino} 699

\textbf{Channel Islands} 597

\textbf{Tanzania} 509

\textbf{Taiwan} 479

\textbf{Myanmar} 359

\textbf{Mauritius} 344

\textbf{Isle of Man} 336

\textbf{Mongolia} 293

\textbf{Eritrea} 285

\textbf{Cayman Islands} 203

\textbf{Gibraltar} 197

\textbf{Bermuda} 157

\textbf{Brunei} 142

\textbf{Monaco} 128

+ Show all + Show less

\hypertarget{where-new-cases-are-decreasing}{%
\subsection{Where new cases are
decreasing}\label{where-new-cases-are-decreasing}}

Total cases Cases per capita

Charts show daily cases per capita and are on the same scale.

7-day average

\textbf{United States} Jan. 22 Aug. 7

\textbf{South Africa}

\textbf{Saudi Arabia}

\textbf{Bangladesh}

\textbf{Canada}

\textbf{Qatar}

\textbf{Kazakhstan}

\textbf{Israel}

\textbf{Oman}

\textbf{Belarus}

\textbf{Guatemala}

\textbf{Portugal}

\textbf{Honduras}

\textbf{Nigeria}

\textbf{Bahrain}

\textbf{Armenia}

\textbf{Kyrgyzstan}

\textbf{Azerbaijan}

\textbf{Serbia}

\textbf{Cameroon}

\textbf{Ivory Coast}

\textbf{West Bank \& Gaza}

\textbf{Madagascar}

\textbf{Sudan}

\textbf{North Macedonia}

\textbf{Senegal}

\textbf{Democratic Republic of Congo}

\textbf{Haiti}

\textbf{Luxembourg}

\textbf{Mauritania}

\textbf{Croatia}

\textbf{Malawi}

\textbf{Nicaragua}

\textbf{Montenegro}

\textbf{Slovenia}

\textbf{Rwanda}

\textbf{Sierra Leone}

\textbf{Yemen}

\textbf{Uruguay}

\textbf{Jordan}

\textbf{Georgia}

\textbf{Burundi}

\textbf{Cambodia}

+ Show all + Show less

Charts show daily cases and are individually scaled to the maximum for
each country.

7-day average

\textbf{United States} 5,000,204 total cases Jan. 22 Aug. 7

\textbf{South Africa} 545,476

\textbf{Saudi Arabia} 287,262

\textbf{Bangladesh} 255,113

\textbf{Canada} 118,985

\textbf{Qatar} 112,650

\textbf{Kazakhstan} 97,829

\textbf{Israel} 82,279

\textbf{Oman} 81,357

\textbf{Belarus} 68,738

\textbf{Guatemala} 56,189

\textbf{Portugal} 52,537

\textbf{Honduras} 46,365

\textbf{Nigeria} 45,687

\textbf{Bahrain} 43,307

\textbf{Armenia} 40,185

\textbf{Kyrgyzstan} 39,571

\textbf{Azerbaijan} 33,481

\textbf{Serbia} 27,863

\textbf{Cameroon} 17,718

\textbf{Ivory Coast} 16,524

\textbf{West Bank \& Gaza} 13,928

\textbf{Madagascar} 12,922

\textbf{Sudan} 11,894

\textbf{North Macedonia} 11,754

\textbf{Senegal} 11,003

\textbf{Democratic Republic of Congo} 9,436

\textbf{Haiti} 7,599

\textbf{Luxembourg} 7,113

\textbf{Mauritania} 6,498

\textbf{Croatia} 5,543

\textbf{Malawi} 4,575

\textbf{Nicaragua} 3,902

\textbf{Montenegro} 3,549

\textbf{Slovenia} 2,247

\textbf{Rwanda} 2,128

\textbf{Sierra Leone} 1,887

\textbf{Yemen} 1,796

\textbf{Uruguay} 1,325

\textbf{Jordan} 1,246

\textbf{Georgia} 1,216

\textbf{Burundi} 400

\textbf{Cambodia} 246

+ Show all + Show less

Note: Countries are grouped according to how the seven-day average of
new cases has changed from two weeks ago to today. Countries with fewer
than 100 cases are not shown.

The outbreak was initially defined by a series of shifting epicenters
--- including Wuhan, China; Iran; northern Italy; Spain; and New York.

Cases worldwide leveled off in April after social distancing measures
were put in place in many of the areas with early outbreaks.

But as countries began to reopen in May and June, the United States was
unable to contain a resurgence of the disease, making it one of the main
drivers of rising case numbers around the world.

On average, the United States now accounts for about 20 percent of all
new cases reported worldwide every day.

\hypertarget{new-reported-cases-by-day-across-the-world}{%
\subsubsection{New reported cases by day across the
world}\label{new-reported-cases-by-day-across-the-world}}

0

100,000

200,000 cases

Feb.

March

April

May

June

July

Aug.

New cases

7-day average

Note: The seven-day average is the average of a day and the previous six
days of data.

\hypertarget{new-reported-deaths-by-day-across-the-world}{%
\subsubsection{New reported deaths by day across the
world}\label{new-reported-deaths-by-day-across-the-world}}

0

5,000

10,000 deaths

Feb.

March

April

May

June

July

Aug.

New deaths

7-day average

Note: Scale for deaths chart is adjusted from cases chart to display
trend.

The New York Times has found that official
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/04/28/us/coronavirus-death-toll-total.html}{tallies
in the United States} and
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/04/21/world/coronavirus-missing-deaths.html}{in
more than a dozen other countries} have undercounted deaths during the
coronavirus outbreak because of limited testing availability.

Follow our coverage of the
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/08/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html}{coronavirus
pandemic here.}

\hypertarget{united-states}{%
\subsection{United States}\label{united-states}}

The number of known coronavirus cases in the United States continues to
grow quickly. As of Saturday evening, at least 5,000,200 people across
every state, plus Washington, D.C., and four U.S. territories, have
tested positive for the virus, according to a New York Times database,
and at least 161,800 patients with the virus have died.

See our
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html}{page
of maps, charts and tables} tracking every coronavirus case in the U.S.

After case numbers fell steadily in April and May,
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html}{cases
in the United States} are growing again at about the same rapid pace as
when infections were exploding in New York City in late March. But the
hotspots are now mainly spread across the southern and western parts of
the country.

The New York Times is engaged in an effort to track the details of
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html}{every
reported case in the United States}, collecting information from
federal, state and local officials around the clock. The numbers in this
article are being updated several times a day based on the latest
information our journalists are gathering from around the country. The
Times has
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/coronavirus-county-data-us.html?action=click\&module=Spotlight\&pgtype=Homepage}{made
that data public} in hopes of helping researchers and policymakers as
they seek to slow the pandemic and prevent future ones.

\hypertarget{about-the-data}{%
\subsection{About the data}\label{about-the-data}}

In data for the United States, The Times is now including cases and
deaths that have been identified by public health officials as probable
coronavirus patients. Some states and counties only report figures in
which a coronavirus infection was confirmed through testing. Because
confirmed cases are widely considered to be an undercount of the true
toll, some state and local governments have started identifying probable
cases and deaths using criteria that were developed by states and the
federal government.

\textbf{Confirmed cases and deaths} are counts of individuals whose
coronavirus infections were confirmed by a laboratory test.
\textbf{Probable cases and deaths} count individuals who did not have a
confirmed test but were evaluated using criteria developed by national
and local governments. Some governments are reporting only confirmed
cases, while others are reporting both confirmed and probable numbers.
And there is also another set of governments that are reporting the two
types of numbers combined without providing a way to separate the
confirmed from the probable. The Times is now using the total of
confirmed and probable counts when they are available individually or
combined. Otherwise only the confirmed count will be shown.

Governments often revise data or report a large increase in cases on a
single day without historical revisions, which can cause an irregular
pattern in the daily reported figures. The Times is excluding these
anomalies from seven-day averages when possible.

Read more about the methodology and download county-level data for
coronavirus cases in the United States from The New York Times
\href{https://github.com/nytimes/covid-19-data}{on GitHub}.

\hypertarget{tracking-the-coronavirus}{%
\subsection{Tracking the Coronavirus}\label{tracking-the-coronavirus}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/world/coronavirus-maps.html}{World}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/04/21/world/coronavirus-missing-deaths.html}{World
  Deaths}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/04/23/upshot/five-ways-to-monitor-coronavirus-outbreak-us.html}{U.S.
  Cities}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/05/05/us/coronavirus-death-toll-us.html}{U.S.
  Deaths}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-testing.html}{Testing}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-nursing-homes.html}{Nursing
  homes}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/nyregion/new-york-city-coronavirus-cases.html}{New
  York City}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/states-reopen-map-coronavirus.html}{Reopening}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html}{Vaccines}
\end{itemize}

Countries

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/world/americas/brazil-coronavirus-cases.html}{Brazil}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/world/canada/canada-coronavirus-cases.html}{Canada}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/world/europe/france-coronavirus-cases.html}{France}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/world/europe/germany-coronavirus-cases.html}{Germany}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/world/asia/india-coronavirus-cases.html}{India}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/world/europe/italy-coronavirus-cases.html}{Italy}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/world/americas/mexico-coronavirus-cases.html}{Mexico}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/world/europe/spain-coronavirus-cases.html}{Spain}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/world/europe/united-kingdom-coronavirus-cases.html}{U.K.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html}{United
  States}
\end{itemize}

State by state

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/alabama-coronavirus-cases.html}{Alabama}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/alaska-coronavirus-cases.html}{Alaska}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/arizona-coronavirus-cases.html}{Arizona}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/arkansas-coronavirus-cases.html}{Arkansas}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/california-coronavirus-cases.html}{California}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/colorado-coronavirus-cases.html}{Colorado}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/connecticut-coronavirus-cases.html}{Connecticut}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/delaware-coronavirus-cases.html}{Delaware}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/florida-coronavirus-cases.html}{Florida}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/georgia-coronavirus-cases.html}{Georgia}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/hawaii-coronavirus-cases.html}{Hawaii}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/idaho-coronavirus-cases.html}{Idaho}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/illinois-coronavirus-cases.html}{Illinois}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/indiana-coronavirus-cases.html}{Indiana}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/iowa-coronavirus-cases.html}{Iowa}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/kansas-coronavirus-cases.html}{Kansas}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/kentucky-coronavirus-cases.html}{Kentucky}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/louisiana-coronavirus-cases.html}{Louisiana}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/maine-coronavirus-cases.html}{Maine}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/maryland-coronavirus-cases.html}{Maryland}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/massachusetts-coronavirus-cases.html}{Massachusetts}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/michigan-coronavirus-cases.html}{Michigan}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/minnesota-coronavirus-cases.html}{Minnesota}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/mississippi-coronavirus-cases.html}{Mississippi}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/missouri-coronavirus-cases.html}{Missouri}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/montana-coronavirus-cases.html}{Montana}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/nebraska-coronavirus-cases.html}{Nebraska}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/nevada-coronavirus-cases.html}{Nevada}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/new-hampshire-coronavirus-cases.html}{New
  Hampshire}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/new-jersey-coronavirus-cases.html}{New
  Jersey}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/new-mexico-coronavirus-cases.html}{New
  Mexico}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/new-york-coronavirus-cases.html}{New
  York}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/north-carolina-coronavirus-cases.html}{North
  Carolina}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/north-dakota-coronavirus-cases.html}{North
  Dakota}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/ohio-coronavirus-cases.html}{Ohio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/oklahoma-coronavirus-cases.html}{Oklahoma}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/oregon-coronavirus-cases.html}{Oregon}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/pennsylvania-coronavirus-cases.html}{Pennsylvania}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/puerto-rico-coronavirus-cases.html}{Puerto
  Rico}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/rhode-island-coronavirus-cases.html}{Rhode
  Island}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/south-carolina-coronavirus-cases.html}{South
  Carolina}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/south-dakota-coronavirus-cases.html}{South
  Dakota}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/tennessee-coronavirus-cases.html}{Tennessee}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/texas-coronavirus-cases.html}{Texas}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/utah-coronavirus-cases.html}{Utah}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/vermont-coronavirus-cases.html}{Vermont}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/virginia-coronavirus-cases.html}{Virginia}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/washington-coronavirus-cases.html}{Washington}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/washington-dc-coronavirus-cases.html}{Washington,
  D.C.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/west-virginia-coronavirus-cases.html}{West
  Virginia}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/wisconsin-coronavirus-cases.html}{Wisconsin}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/wyoming-coronavirus-cases.html}{Wyoming}
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{what-you-can-do}{%
\subsection{What you can do}\label{what-you-can-do}}

Experts'
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/02/health/coronavirus-profile-covid.html}{understanding
of how the Covid-19 works is growing}. It seems that there are
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/coronavirus-how-it-spreads.html}{four
factors that most likely play a role}: how close you get to an infected
person; how long you are near that person; whether that person expels
viral droplets on or near you; and how much you touch your face
afterwards.
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/08/05/well/covid-19-symptoms.html}{Here
is a guide to the symptoms of Covid-19.}

You can help reduce your risk and do your part to protect others by
following some
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/prepare-for-coronavirus.html}{basic
steps}:

Keep your distance from others. Stay at least six feet away from people
outside your household as much as possible.

Wear a mask outside your home. A mask protects others from your germs,
and it protects you from infection as well. The more people who wear
masks, the more we all stay safer.

Wash your hands often. Anytime you come in contact with a surface
outside your home, scrub with soap for at least 20 seconds, rinse and
then dry your hands with a clean towel.

Avoid touching your face. The virus can spread when our hands come into
contact with the virus, and we touch our nose, mouth or eyes. Try to
keep your hands away from your face unless you have just recently washed
them.

Here's a
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/world/coronavirus-tips-advice.html}{complete
guide on how you can prepare} for the coronavirus outbreak.

Note: Data are based on reports at the time of publication. At times,
officials revise reports or offer incomplete information. Population
data from World Bank.

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/sarah-almukhtar}{Sarah Almukhtar},
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/aliza-aufrichtig}{Aliza Aufrichtig},
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/matthew-bloch}{Matthew Bloch}, Julia
Calderone, \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/keith-collins}{Keith
Collins}, Matthew Conlen, Lindsey Cook, Gabriel Gianordoli,
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/amy-harmon}{Amy Harmon},
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/rich-harris}{Rich Harris},
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/adeel-hassan}{Adeel Hassan},
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/jon-huang}{Jon Huang}, Danya Issawi,
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/danielle-ivory}{Danielle Ivory},
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/kk-rebecca-lai}{K.K. Rebecca Lai}, Alex
Lemonides, \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/allison-mccann}{Allison
McCann}, \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/richard-a-oppel-jr}{Richard A.
Oppel Jr.}, \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/jugal-k-patel}{Jugal K.
Patel}, Julie Walton Shaver,
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/anjali-singhvi}{Anjali Singhvi},
Charlie Smart, \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/mitch-smith}{Mitch
Smith}, \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/derek-watkins}{Derek Watkins},
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/timothy-williams}{Timothy Williams},
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/jin-wu}{Jin Wu} and
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/karen-yourish}{Karen Yourish}. ~~Â·~~
Reporting was contributed by Jordan Allen, Jeff Arnold,
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/ian-austen}{Ian Austen},
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/mike-baker}{Mike Baker},
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/ellen-barry}{Ellen Barry}, Samone
Blair, Nicholas Bogel-Burroughs, Aurelien Breeden, Elisha Brown, Emma
Bubola, Maddie Burakoff, Alyssa Burr, Christopher Calabrese, Sarah
Cahalan, Zak Cassel, Robert Chiarito, Matt Craig, Yves De Jesus, Brendon
Derr, Brandon DuprÃ©, Melissa Eddy, John Eligon, Timmy Facciola, Bianca
Fortis, Matt Furber, Robert Gebeloff,
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/matthew-goldstein}{Matthew Goldstein},
Grace Gorenflo, Rebecca Griesbach, Lauryn Higgins, Josh Holder, Jake
Holland, Jon Huang, Anna Joyce, Ann Hinga Klein, Jacob LaGesse, Alex
Lim, Patricia Mazzei, Jesse McKinley, Miles McKinley, K.B. Mensah, Sarah
Mervosh, Jacob Meschke, Lauren Messman, Andrea Michelson, Jaylynn
Moffat-Mowatt, Steven Moity, Paul Moon, Thomas Gibbons-Neff, Anahad
O'Connor, Ashlyn O'Hara, Azi Paybarah, Elian Peltier, Sean Plambeck,
Elisabetta Povoledo, Cierra S. Queen, Savannah Redl, Scott Reinhard,
Thomas Rivas, Frances Robles, Natasha Rodriguez, Alison Saldanha,
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/kai-schultz}{Kai Schultz}, Alex
Schwartz, Emily Schwing, Libby Seline, Sarena Snider, Brandon Thorp,
Alex Traub, Maura Turcotte, Tracey Tully, Lisa Waananen Jones, Amy
Schoenfeld Walker, Jeremy White and
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/sameer-yasir}{Sameer Yasir}. ~~Â·~~ Data
acquisition and additional work contributed by Will Houp, Andrew Chavez,
Michael Strickland, Tiff Fehr, Miles Watkins,
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/josh-williams}{Josh Williams}, Albert
Sun, Shelly Seroussi, Nina Pavlich, Carmen Cincotti, Ben Smithgall,
Andrew Fischer, \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/rachel-shorey}{Rachel
Shorey}, \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/blacki-migliozzi}{Blacki
Migliozzi}, Alastair Coote, Steven Speicher, Hugh Mandeville, Robin
Berjon, Thu Trinh, Carolyn Price, James G. Robinson, Phil Wells, Yanxing
Yang, Michael Beswetherick, Michael Robles, Nikhil Baradwaj, Ariana
Giorgi and Bella Virgilio.

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{Â©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
