Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/world/asia}{Asia
Pacific}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/world/asia}{Asia Pacific}\textbar{}As Coronavirus Cases
Spiral, South Korea Raises Threat Alert Level

\url{https://nyti.ms/2Vm7Msx}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{the-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=0d975c00-e109-11ea-a073-25c439efb2c1}{The
Coronavirus
Outbreak}}{The Coronavirus Outbreak}}\label{the-coronavirus-outbreak}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  live\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/17/world/coronavirus-covid.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=0d975c01-e109-11ea-a073-25c439efb2c1}{Latest
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=0d975c02-e109-11ea-a073-25c439efb2c1}{Maps
  and Cases}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=0d978310-e109-11ea-a073-25c439efb2c1}{Vaccine
  Tracker}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/17/us/k-12-schools-reopening.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=0d978311-e109-11ea-a073-25c439efb2c1}{State
  of Play for K-12}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/17/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=0d978312-e109-11ea-a073-25c439efb2c1}{Markets
  \& Economy}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{as-coronavirus-cases-spiral-south-korea-raises-threat-alert-level}{%
\section{As Coronavirus Cases Spiral, South Korea Raises Threat Alert
Level}\label{as-coronavirus-cases-spiral-south-korea-raises-threat-alert-level}}

The move will empower the government to lock down cities, bar visitors
from China and unilaterally restrict the movement of people.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/02/23/world/23skorea-virus01/merlin_169380729_67ac6d1f-10c1-46b2-b0ef-6fd6b8e0bec6-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/choe-sang-hun}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/07/18/multimedia/author-choe-sang-hun/author-choe-sang-hun-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/choe-sang-hun}{Choe
Sang-Hun}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Published Feb. 23, 2020Updated Feb. 25, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

SEOUL, South Korea --- As South Korea struggles to contain a
\href{http://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/02/25/world/asia/daegu-south-korea-coronavirus.html}{snowballing
coronavirus outbreak}, its president on Sunday raised the country's
alert level to the highest for the first time in a decade, which
empowered the government to lock down cities, bar visitors from China
and unilaterally restrict the movement of people.

In raising the alert level, President Moon Jae-in is effectively
acknowledging that the virus is threatening to spin out of control,
after
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/world/asia/china-wuhan-coronavirus-maps.html}{the
number of cases} has jumped to 763 in a few days and the death toll has
risen to six.

The world is closely watching South Korea, concerned that it has become
another hot spot of infection outside China. Emerging outbreaks in South
Korea, Iran and Italy have provoked fear that the epidemic could turn
into a global pandemic, as countries impose
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/02/21/business/coronavirus-airline-travel.html}{more
travel restrictions} and containment measures.

The United States has raised its travel advisories for South Korea and
Japan, warning about ``sustained community spread.'' Israel denied entry
to 130 South Koreans on board a Korean Air flight that landed in Tel
Aviv on Saturday, forcing them to return home on the same plane.

In recent days, the South Korean government has shut day care centers,
banned outdoor rallies and postponed the reopening of schools in early
March. Churches are asking congregants to stay home and pray online
instead.

But Mr. Moon said South Korea faced a ``wholly different situation''
after the quickly expanding outbreak of the virus among members of a
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/02/21/world/asia/south-korea-coronavirus-shincheonji.html}{Shincheonji
Church of Jesus} in Daegu, South Korea's fourth-largest city, 180 miles
southeast of Seoul. More than half of all the patients in the country
are either members of Shincheonji or their relatives and other contacts.

In Daegu, shopping districts, supermarkets and parks were empty as the
government asked citizens to stay home.

On Sunday, South Korean officials said they had no immediate plan to bar
Chinese visitors --- as some conservative news outlets and other critics
have demanded --- or lock down any cities. But by putting the country on
the highest alert, they showed their resolve to take more aggressive
steps if needed.

This is the first time since 2009 that the country has been put on the
highest alert; at that time, it was battling the swine flu spreading
around the world.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/02/23/world/23skorea-virus02/23skorea-virus02-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

``We should not be bound by regulations, nor should we shy away from
unprecedented strong measures,'' Mr. Moon said at an emergency
government meeting on Sunday.

The alert, known as Level 4, will allow the government to allocate more
money for fighting the virus and make it easier for health officials to
acquire the personal data of people suspected of being infected, as well
as outlaw religious and other gatherings.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-the-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/17/world/coronavirus-covid.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: The Coronavirus
Outbreak}}{Latest Updates: The Coronavirus Outbreak}}\label{latest-updates-the-coronavirus-outbreak}}

Updated 2020-08-18T03:48:43.730Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/17/world/coronavirus-covid.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-6fdbc8ef}{U.S.
  college campuses grapple with coronavirus fears, outbreaks and
  protests.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/17/world/coronavirus-covid.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-7e47207}{For
  primary and secondary school students and staff, it's been a difficult
  back-to-school season.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/17/world/coronavirus-covid.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-44c3fee2}{At
  the Democratic National Convention, Cuomo and others assail Trump's
  handling of the virus.}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/17/world/coronavirus-covid.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

More live coverage:
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/17/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Markets}

It will also empower health officials to control air, train and other
public traffic around the country.

Health officials hope that the number of new patients connected to
Shincheonji will drop significantly within a week or so. They have
already screened most members of the church showing potential symptoms,
and many have been tested for the virus.

``We are faced with a watershed moment in the case of the coronavirus,''
Mr. Moon said. ``The coming few days will be a critical time for us.
This will be a momentous time when the central government, local
governments and the whole people must wage an all-out, concerted
response to the problem.''

Until now, South Korean officials had been reluctant to raise the alert
level, worried that such a drastic measure would hurt the country's
already slowing economy, as well as undermine its image as a country
safe for travel. In China where the virus originated, the economy has
come to a standstill, while the country has been essentially cut off
from the rest of the world.

South Korea's economic troubles have deepened in recent weeks, with
exports to China, its biggest trading partner, sharply dropping because
of the outbreak. South Korean auto and other companies that rely on
parts from China have also suffered.

Despite its extensive ties with China, South Korea had initially
appeared to cope well in containing the spread of the coronavirus. After
reporting its first case on Jan. 20, the number of patients remained
low. By Feb. 15, the country had 28 cases and no deaths.

Image

Medical workers carried a patient infected with coronavirus to a
hospital in Chuncheon.Credit...Yonhap, via Agence France-Presse ---
Getty Images

A few days later, the situation began to unravel, when an infected
patient was found in the large congregation of the Shincheonji Church in
Daegu, a city of 2.4 million. Since then, the number of patients has
exploded, mostly among members of Christian church and people connected
to them.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{}

\hypertarget{the-coronavirus-outbreak-}{%
\subsubsection{The Coronavirus Outbreak
›}\label{the-coronavirus-outbreak-}}

\hypertarget{frequently-asked-questions}{%
\paragraph{Frequently Asked
Questions}\label{frequently-asked-questions}}

Updated August 17, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{why-does-standing-six-feet-away-from-others-help}{%
  \paragraph{Why does standing six feet away from others
  help?}\label{why-does-standing-six-feet-away-from-others-help}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    The coronavirus spreads primarily through droplets from your mouth
    and nose, especially when you cough or sneeze. The C.D.C., one of
    the organizations using that measure,
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/14/health/coronavirus-six-feet.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{bases
    its recommendation of six feet} on the idea that most large droplets
    that people expel when they cough or sneeze will fall to the ground
    within six feet. But six feet has never been a magic number that
    guarantees complete protection. Sneezes, for instance, can launch
    droplets a lot farther than six feet,
    \href{https://jamanetwork.com/journals/jama/fullarticle/2763852}{according
    to a recent study}. It's a rule of thumb: You should be safest
    standing six feet apart outside, especially when it's windy. But
    keep a mask on at all times, even when you think you're far enough
    apart.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{i-have-antibodies-am-i-now-immune}{%
  \paragraph{I have antibodies. Am I now
  immune?}\label{i-have-antibodies-am-i-now-immune}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    As of right
    now,\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/22/health/covid-antibodies-herd-immunity.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{that
    seems likely, for at least several months.} There have been
    frightening accounts of people suffering what seems to be a second
    bout of Covid-19. But experts say these patients may have a
    drawn-out course of infection, with the virus taking a slow toll
    weeks to months after initial exposure. People infected with the
    coronavirus typically
    \href{https://www.nature.com/articles/s41586-020-2456-9}{produce}
    immune molecules called antibodies, which are
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/07/health/coronavirus-antibody-prevalence.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{protective
    proteins made in response to an
    infection}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/07/health/coronavirus-antibody-prevalence.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{.
    These antibodies may} last in the body
    \href{https://www.nature.com/articles/s41591-020-0965-6}{only two to
    three months}, which may seem worrisome, but that's perfectly normal
    after an acute infection subsides, said Dr. Michael Mina, an
    immunologist at Harvard University. It may be possible to get the
    coronavirus again, but it's highly unlikely that it would be
    possible in a short window of time from initial infection or make
    people sicker the second time.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{im-a-small-business-owner-can-i-get-relief}{%
  \paragraph{I'm a small-business owner. Can I get
  relief?}\label{im-a-small-business-owner-can-i-get-relief}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    The
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/small-business-loans-stimulus-grants-freelancers-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{stimulus
    bills enacted in March} offer help for the millions of American
    small businesses. Those eligible for aid are businesses and
    nonprofit organizations with fewer than 500 workers, including sole
    proprietorships, independent contractors and freelancers. Some
    larger companies in some industries are also eligible. The help
    being offered, which is being managed by the Small Business
    Administration, includes the Paycheck Protection Program and the
    Economic Injury Disaster Loan program. But lots of folks have
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/05/07/business/small-business-loans-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{not
    yet seen payouts.} Even those who have received help are confused:
    The rules are draconian, and some are stuck sitting on
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/02/business/economy/loans-coronavirus-small-business.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{money
    they don't know how to use.} Many small-business owners are getting
    less than they expected or
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/10/business/Small-business-loans-ppp.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{not
    hearing anything at all.}
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{what-are-my-rights-if-i-am-worried-about-going-back-to-work}{%
  \paragraph{What are my rights if I am worried about going back to
  work?}\label{what-are-my-rights-if-i-am-worried-about-going-back-to-work}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Employers have to provide
    \href{https://www.osha.gov/SLTC/covid-19/standards.html}{a safe
    workplace} with policies that protect everyone equally.
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/coronavirus-money-unemployment.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{And
    if one of your co-workers tests positive for the coronavirus, the
    C.D.C.} has said that
    \href{https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/community/guidance-business-response.html}{employers
    should tell their employees} -\/- without giving you the sick
    employee's name -\/- that they may have been exposed to the virus.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{what-is-school-going-to-look-like-in-september}{%
  \paragraph{What is school going to look like in
  September?}\label{what-is-school-going-to-look-like-in-september}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    It is unlikely that many schools will return to a normal schedule
    this fall, requiring the grind of
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/05/us/coronavirus-education-lost-learning.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{online
    learning},
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/29/us/coronavirus-child-care-centers.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{makeshift
    child care} and
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/03/business/economy/coronavirus-working-women.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{stunted
    workdays} to continue. California's two largest public school
    districts --- Los Angeles and San Diego --- said on July 13, that
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/13/us/lausd-san-diego-school-reopening.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{instruction
    will be remote-only in the fall}, citing concerns that surging
    coronavirus infections in their areas pose too dire a risk for
    students and teachers. Together, the two districts enroll some
    825,000 students. They are the largest in the country so far to
    abandon plans for even a partial physical return to classrooms when
    they reopen in August. For other districts, the solution won't be an
    all-or-nothing approach.
    \href{https://bioethics.jhu.edu/research-and-outreach/projects/eschool-initiative/school-policy-tracker/}{Many
    systems}, including the nation's largest, New York City, are
    devising
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/26/us/coronavirus-schools-reopen-fall.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{hybrid
    plans} that involve spending some days in classrooms and other days
    online. There's no national policy on this yet, so check with your
    municipal school system regularly to see what is happening in your
    community.
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

For now, the outbreak has been largely limited to Daegu and the
surrounding North Kyongsang Province, which account for the majority of
the infections. But several new cases have emerged in towns across South
Korea, most of them Shincheonji worshipers who have attended church
services in Daegu or people who have traveled to the city or have met
people from there.

``A large number of people gathered in a very closed space, holding
their prayer services together for one to two hours,'' said Jung
Eun-kyeong, director of the Korea Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention, referring to the Shincheonji church. ``In such an
environment, it was likely that even a few patients spread the disease
to many people.''

Although health officials have frantically tried to track down church
members and direct contacts, they acknowledged that it had become
increasingly hard to establish the chain of transmissions once the
community spread began. Shincheonji worshipers have been noted for their
secrecy, often hiding their membership even to their parents, said
former members and experts on religious sects.

In their efforts to contain the outbreak, officials have designated
coronavirus-only hospitals and have required all people visiting regular
hospitals with respiratory symptoms to be tested for the virus. With
some towns fearing a lack of hospital beds, the government recently
expedited the approval of newly built hospital wards so they could be
quickly used to accommodate more patients.

Subway stations, coffee shops and movie theaters were all required to
install hand sanitizers for customers to use. The government also
empowered doctors to order a coronavirus test even if a patient doesn't
want it.

During a telephone call with President Xi Jinping of China on Thursday,
President Moon sympathized with Beijing's efforts to battle the virus,
saying that ``China's difficulties are our own difficulties.''

Image

In Seoul on Friday. South Korean officials had been reluctant to raise
the alert level, worried that such drastic measures would hurt the
country's already slowing economy.Credit...Chung Sung-Jun/Getty Images

More than 10,000 Chinese students are expected to return to South Korea
in the coming week after winter vacations, as their South Korean
universities are scheduled to reopen in early March. That has raised
fears among some South Koreans.

On Sunday, officials said the Chinese students will be asked not to come
to school for two weeks, officials said. The government also changed the
opening day of kindergartens and high schools, to March 9, from March 2.

``We don't agree with the argument that we are trying to catch
mosquitoes while keeping the windows open,'' Health Minister Park
Neung-hoo said last week, dismissing the demand for a ban on Chinese
visitors, as the United States and dozens of other countries have done.
He said more people have been infected by South Koreans' returning from
China than by Chinese visitors.

The raising of the alert level came a day after thousands of older
Christian activists dismissed his government's appeals not to gather in
large groups and pressed ahead with their weekly anti-government
protest. They accused Mr. Moon of mismanaging the economy and being too
friendly toward North Korea and China. At the protest, most of the
participants wore masks but loudly chanted antigovernment slogans and
``Amens.''

``We will defend South Korea even if we get infected with the virus and
die,'' said
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/11/08/world/asia/jun-kwang-hoon-pastor-.html}{the
Rev. Jun Kwang-hoon}, who had organized the rally, shouted at the
cheering crowd. ``Those of you who are here are true Christians. Even if
we contract the virus, the Lord will cure us.''

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
