Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/us}{U.S.}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/us}{U.S.}\textbar{}Mask Rules Expand Across U.S. as
Clashes Over the Mandates Intensify

\url{https://nyti.ms/2CCmVOV}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/news-event/coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{The
Coronavirus Outbreak}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  live\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/01/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Latest
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Maps
  and Cases}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Vaccine
  Tracker}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/07/29/us/schools-reopening-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{What
  School May Look Like}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/live/2020/07/31/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Economy}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{mask-rules-expand-across-us-as-clashes-over-the-mandates-intensify}{%
\section{Mask Rules Expand Across U.S. as Clashes Over the Mandates
Intensify}\label{mask-rules-expand-across-us-as-clashes-over-the-mandates-intensify}}

More retailers and states are instituting mask requirements, but
tensions are mounting for people who see the rules as infringements.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/07/16/us/16virus-masks05/merlin_174293298_ec953435-cc00-469e-a828-d6143bfb7f35-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/sarah-mervosh}{Sarah Mervosh},
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/manny-fernandez}{Manny Fernandez} and
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/campbell-robertson}{Campbell Robertson}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Published July 16, 2020Updated July 31, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

As images of
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/07/17/upshot/coronavirus-face-mask-map.html}{people
wearing surgical masks} flashed across the screen, Morgan Freeman's
deep, soothing voice delivered a message to America: ``When you wear a
mask, you have my respect. Because your
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/29/us/politics/louie-gohmert-positive-coronavirus-mask.html}{mask}
doesn't protect you --- it protects me.''

Using familiar actors, stirring background music and the arresting eyes
of people peering out above their masks, a broad national ad campaign
unveiled on Thursday by New York State, once the center of the
coronavirus pandemic, aimed to educate people about how covering their
mouths and noses could save lives.

That it was needed at all --- six months since the virus was first
detected in the United States --- speaks to the lingering fight about
the use of masks. At local government meetings and in the checkout lines
of big-box stores, Americans continue to wrestle over one of the
simplest methods that health officials recommend for stopping the spread
of the virus.

A tidal wave of new mask requirements has been issued in the last few
days, amid surging cases in many regions, including more than 75,000 new
coronavirus cases across the country on Thursday, the most in a single
day. Face coverings will be required at stores like Walmart, Target and
CVS, and in a growing number of Republican-led states where governors
once resisted such mandates.

More than half the states have issued statewide mask requirements,
including Arkansas, where Gov. Asa Hutchinson, a Republican, announced a
face covering requirement on Thursday, after previously taking a more
hands-off approach. Gov. Jared Polis of Colorado, a Democrat, also
issued a mask order on Thursday, after questioning whether such a
mandate would be enforceable.

But there remains firm resistance in many circles, including from some
Republican leaders who view mask requirements as a threat to personal
liberty.

Gov. Brian Kemp of Georgia, who announced this week that he was
suspending all local mask mandates, filed a lawsuit on Thursday
challenging the authority of leaders in Atlanta to require masks inside
their city's limits. As the mayor of Atlanta, the suit said, Keisha
Lance Bottoms ``does not have the legal authority to modify, change or
ignore Governor Kemp's orders,'' only to carry them out.

And in Oklahoma, Gov. Kevin Stitt said this week that he remained
opposed to a mask order, even after he became the
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/15/us/oklahoma-governor-coronavirus-stitt.html}{first
governor known to test positive for the virus}. ``You can't pick and
choose what freedoms you are going to give people,'' Mr. Stitt said
during the Zoom call on which he announced his positive test.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-global-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/01/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: Global Coronavirus
Outbreak}}{Latest Updates: Global Coronavirus Outbreak}}\label{latest-updates-global-coronavirus-outbreak}}

Updated 2020-08-02T07:42:09.613Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/01/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-34047410}{The
  U.S. reels as July cases more than double the total of any other
  month.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/01/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-780ec966}{Top
  U.S. officials work to break an impasse over the federal jobless
  benefit.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/01/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-2bc8948}{Its
  outbreak untamed, Melbourne goes into even greater lockdown.}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/01/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

More live coverage:
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/live/2020/07/31/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Markets}

Masks have been broadly accepted in many European and Asian countries.
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/14/world/europe/uk-coronavirus-masks-mandate.html}{Britain}
and France issued nationwide mask orders for certain public places this
week, joining a long list of nations that already required them.

But in the United States, there was initially confusion and shifting
guidance over masks. The issue became politicized when, even as the
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention began urging Americans to
wear face coverings, President Trump stressed that the measure was
voluntary, and said that he did not think he was
``\href{https://www.nytimes.com/video/us/politics/100000007070943/trump-mask-coronavirus.html}{going
to be doing it}.'' Mr. Trump
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/12/style/president-trump-face-mask.html}{publicly
wore a mask for the first time} on Saturday.

Early in the pandemic, federal officials instructed Americans not to buy
or wear masks. The guidance came in part because of an early, limited
understanding of the virus and because of shortages in medical-grade
masks, which were needed for essential workers.

In April,
\href{https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/prevent-getting-sick/cloth-face-cover-guidance.html?CDC_AA_refVal=https\%3A\%2F\%2Fwww.cdc.gov\%2Fcoronavirus\%2F2019-ncov\%2Fprevent-getting-sick\%2Fcloth-face-cover.html}{the
C.D.C. revised that guidance}, advising that cloth face coverings were
recommended.

Public health officials increasingly see masks as a powerful weapon
against the virus, particularly after the World Health Organization
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/09/health/virus-aerosols-who.html}{acknowledged
that the virus can be airborne}, with tiny respiratory droplets able to
linger in the air for hours. Masks can block dangerous respiratory
droplets that would otherwise be spread by infected people, and
universal mask wearing can help stop inadvertent transmission by people
who are asymptomatic.

In an example
\href{https://www.cdc.gov/media/releases/2020/p0714-americans-to-wear-masks.html}{cited
by the C.D.C. this week}, vigilant mask wearing was credited with
preventing two ill stylists at a hair salon in Missouri from spreading
the virus to nearly 140 clients, none of whom became ill. Dr. Robert R.
Redfield, the director of the C.D.C.,
\href{https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jzHIhSZ_fiA}{said in an interview}
with the Journal of the American Medical Association on Tuesday that if
all Americans embraced rigorous mask wearing, the country could control
the virus within one to two months.

The vast majority of Americans support wearing masks, polling suggests.
\href{https://news.gallup.com/poll/315590/americans-face-mask-usage-varies-greatly-demographics.aspx}{According
to a Gallup survey} conducted online from June 29 to July 5, 72 percent
of adults surveyed said they always or very often wore a mask when
outside their homes, while 18 percent said they wore a mask rarely or
never.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/07/16/us/16virus-masks03/merlin_174634779_f154f890-c2b2-4070-a9e5-df1a46ee4bba-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

But in some conservative areas, wearing a face covering is also seen as
a political and cultural symbol, and mask requirements have been
considered a serious infringement.

``It's absolutely not acceptable in a free world,'' said Ammon Bundy,
who once led an armed takeover of an Oregon wildlife refuge and was ****
protesting a mask ordinance in Idaho on Thursday.

Idaho has faced a sharp rise in cases and warnings from hospital leaders
about the trajectory in the state, and a local health board scheduled a
meeting to discuss masks. But a heated discussion emerged on Thursday
between protesters and local health officials. A young girl began
crying, police officers arrived to calm the situation, and the board
canceled the meeting.

In Provo, Utah, dozens of people packed a county commissioners meeting
where officials were scheduled to discuss whether students should wear
masks when they return to school in the fall. That meeting on Wednesday
was postponed shortly after it started --- many people in the audience
had shown up without masks.

Some in the audience booed the chairman of the commission when he
pointed out that the crowd was not following public health guidelines.

``This is the exact opposite of what we need to be doing,'' the county
chairman, Tanner Ainge, a Republican, said, his mask looped around his
ears but lowered to his chin. ``We are supposed to be physically
distancing, wearing masks.''

Clashing views on masks have grown especially pronounced in parts of the
Deep South. The Republican governors of neighboring states, Alabama and
Georgia, issued markedly different orders on Wednesday despite facing
urgent outbreaks.

Gov. Kay Ivey of Alabama issued a statewide mask order, drawing blowback
from some in the ranks of the Republican-held State Legislature, even as
Mr. Kemp suspended all local mask mandates, a move that affected at
least a dozen cities and drew pledges of defiance from some officials.

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/news-event/coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{}

\hypertarget{the-coronavirus-outbreak-}{%
\subsubsection{The Coronavirus Outbreak
›}\label{the-coronavirus-outbreak-}}

\hypertarget{frequently-asked-questions}{%
\paragraph{Frequently Asked
Questions}\label{frequently-asked-questions}}

Updated July 27, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{should-i-refinance-my-mortgage}{%
  \paragraph{Should I refinance my
  mortgage?}\label{should-i-refinance-my-mortgage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/coronavirus-money-unemployment.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{It
    could be a good idea,} because mortgage rates have
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/16/business/mortgage-rates-below-3-percent.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{never
    been lower.} Refinancing requests have pushed mortgage applications
    to some of the highest levels since 2008, so be prepared to get in
    line. But defaults are also up, so if you're thinking about buying a
    home, be aware that some lenders have tightened their standards.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{what-is-school-going-to-look-like-in-september}{%
  \paragraph{What is school going to look like in
  September?}\label{what-is-school-going-to-look-like-in-september}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    It is unlikely that many schools will return to a normal schedule
    this fall, requiring the grind of
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/05/us/coronavirus-education-lost-learning.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{online
    learning},
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/05/29/us/coronavirus-child-care-centers.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{makeshift
    child care} and
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/03/business/economy/coronavirus-working-women.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{stunted
    workdays} to continue. California's two largest public school
    districts --- Los Angeles and San Diego --- said on July 13, that
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/13/us/lausd-san-diego-school-reopening.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{instruction
    will be remote-only in the fall}, citing concerns that surging
    coronavirus infections in their areas pose too dire a risk for
    students and teachers. Together, the two districts enroll some
    825,000 students. They are the largest in the country so far to
    abandon plans for even a partial physical return to classrooms when
    they reopen in August. For other districts, the solution won't be an
    all-or-nothing approach.
    \href{https://bioethics.jhu.edu/research-and-outreach/projects/eschool-initiative/school-policy-tracker/}{Many
    systems}, including the nation's largest, New York City, are
    devising
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/26/us/coronavirus-schools-reopen-fall.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{hybrid
    plans} that involve spending some days in classrooms and other days
    online. There's no national policy on this yet, so check with your
    municipal school system regularly to see what is happening in your
    community.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{is-the-coronavirus-airborne}{%
  \paragraph{Is the coronavirus
  airborne?}\label{is-the-coronavirus-airborne}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    The coronavirus
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/04/health/239-experts-with-one-big-claim-the-coronavirus-is-airborne.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{can
    stay aloft for hours in tiny droplets in stagnant air}, infecting
    people as they inhale, mounting scientific evidence suggests. This
    risk is highest in crowded indoor spaces with poor ventilation, and
    may help explain super-spreading events reported in meatpacking
    plants, churches and restaurants.
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/06/health/coronavirus-airborne-aerosols.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{It's
    unclear how often the virus is spread} via these tiny droplets, or
    aerosols, compared with larger droplets that are expelled when a
    sick person coughs or sneezes, or transmitted through contact with
    contaminated surfaces, said Linsey Marr, an aerosol expert at
    Virginia Tech. Aerosols are released even when a person without
    symptoms exhales, talks or sings, according to Dr. Marr and more
    than 200 other experts, who
    \href{https://academic.oup.com/cid/article/doi/10.1093/cid/ciaa939/5867798}{have
    outlined the evidence in an open letter to the World Health
    Organization}.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{what-are-the-symptoms-of-coronavirus}{%
  \paragraph{What are the symptoms of
  coronavirus?}\label{what-are-the-symptoms-of-coronavirus}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Common symptoms
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/symptoms-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{include
    fever, a dry cough, fatigue and difficulty breathing or shortness of
    breath.} Some of these symptoms overlap with those of the flu,
    making detection difficult, but runny noses and stuffy sinuses are
    less common.
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/04/27/health/coronavirus-symptoms-cdc.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{The
    C.D.C. has also} added chills, muscle pain, sore throat, headache
    and a new loss of the sense of taste or smell as symptoms to look
    out for. Most people fall ill five to seven days after exposure, but
    symptoms may appear in as few as two days or as many as 14 days.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{does-asymptomatic-transmission-of-covid-19-happen}{%
  \paragraph{Does asymptomatic transmission of Covid-19
  happen?}\label{does-asymptomatic-transmission-of-covid-19-happen}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    So far, the evidence seems to show it does. A widely cited
    \href{https://www.nature.com/articles/s41591-020-0869-5}{paper}
    published in April suggests that people are most infectious about
    two days before the onset of coronavirus symptoms and estimated that
    44 percent of new infections were a result of transmission from
    people who were not yet showing symptoms. Recently, a top expert at
    the World Health Organization stated that transmission of the
    coronavirus by people who did not have symptoms was ``very rare,''
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/09/world/coronavirus-updates.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq\#link-1f302e21}{but
    she later walked back that statement.}
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

``It's like a rebellion,'' said Russell Edwards, a Democrat and the
mayor pro tem of Athens-Clarke County, Ga., where Mr. Kemp is from.

Before Mr. Kemp's suit was filed, Mayor Bottoms of Atlanta, a Democrat
who has tested positive for the virus, seemed to anticipate the
governor's challenge of her authority to maintain a mask order. ``I am
not afraid of the city being sued,'' she said, ``and I will put our
policies up against anyone's, any day of the week.''

In New York, where the virus hit early and hard, there is fear that
opposition to masks in other parts of the country could lead to a
resurgence in the state. Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo, a Democrat, on Thursday
unveiled the national ad campaign to promote mask wearing with eight
30-second television spots featuring stars such as Robert De Niro and
Jamie Foxx.

The campaign comes as New York --- which managed to slow an outbreak
that has resulted in more than 30,000 deaths --- is trying to prevent
the virus from seeping back into the state. Travelers from 22 states
where cases are rising are supposed to quarantine for 14 days upon
arrival in New York.

``We can only beat this virus if we are united as one, not divided by
ideology or politics,'' Mr. Cuomo said, adding: ``I wear a mask to
protect you and you wear a mask to protect me. It is simple as that.''

Republican governors in states with surging cases are increasingly
facing pressures from all sides. After Gov. Greg Abbott of Texas
reversed his position on face masks and issued a statewide order,
Republican groups in a handful of counties passed resolutions censuring
him. While the resolutions are symbolic, they are among the strongest
ways local leaders can voice their disapproval.

Mr. Abbott defended his mask order on Thursday as necessary to prevent
another stay-at-home order. ``I know that many of you all are frustrated
--- so am I. I know that many of you do not like the mask requirement
--- I don't either,'' he said in a video message at the virtual state
Republican convention. ``The last thing that any of us want is to lock
Texas back down again. We must do all that we can to prevent that.''

Image

Protesters of a proposed citywide mask ordinance in Tulsa, Okla., this
week.Credit...Ian Maule/Tulsa World, via Associated Press

In Oklahoma, Governor Stitt has enjoyed support from fellow Republicans
for his approach to face masks. He has not issued a statewide order and
routinely makes public appearances without a mask --- at meetings at the
State Capitol, at Mr. Trump's rally in Tulsa last month and, recently,
\href{https://kfor.com/news/local/oklahoma-governor-kevin-stitt-says-he-tested-positive-for-covid-19/}{at
a Walmart in Oklahoma City}.

Mr. Stitt's support from allies appeared unchanged after he tested
positive for the virus.

``It hasn't changed his view on it --- it doesn't change my view on
it,'' State Senator Nathan Dahm, who is a Republican from the Tulsa
suburb of Broken Arrow and who remains opposed to a statewide mandate.
``He understands the risk of wearing a mask or not wearing a mask. That
was his choice. We wish him a speedy recovery.''

The state's urban centers, though, are moving toward requiring masks.
The Tulsa City Council passed a mask ordinance on Wednesday, deciding in
a 7-2 vote to require people to wear a face covering in a business,
school or public place, and the City Council in Oklahoma City was set to
vote on a similar citywide indoor mask ordinance on Friday.

Mr. Dahm said he also opposed the local ordinances. While he said he
carried a mask with him, and would wear it if required to do so to enter
a business or if someone he was talking with asked him to wear it, ``my
default is to not wear a mask.''

Karen Keith, a Democrat and a commissioner in Tulsa County, said she
considered herself ``the queen of wearing a mask.''

Nevertheless, she is now among the growing number of Oklahomans who have
contracted the virus, which she said she believed she picked up while on
a road trip through Texas, at a convenience store where few people were
masked.

``Good Lord, people, you have to wear a seatbelt. You have to have a
driver's license. You can't drive while you're drunk,'' she said.
``There are all sorts of rules and regulations that you have to follow
every single day. This is not some infringement on anybody's rights.''

Reporting was contributed by Mike Baker, Luis Ferré Sadurní, Shawn
Hubler, Richard Perez-Pena, Sean Plambeck, Mark Walker and Will Wright.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
