Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/podcasts/the-daily}{The Daily}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/podcasts/the-daily}{The Daily}\textbar{}Where We Stand on the
Pandemic

\url{https://nyti.ms/2Yx8yDP}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{the-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=209f3f10-f1ea-11ea-82b9-9bc3e682e067\&variant=undefined}{The
Coronavirus
Outbreak}}{The Coronavirus Outbreak}}\label{the-coronavirus-outbreak}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  live\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/08/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=209f3f11-f1ea-11ea-82b9-9bc3e682e067\&variant=undefined}{Latest
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=209f3f12-f1ea-11ea-82b9-9bc3e682e067\&variant=undefined}{Maps
  and Cases}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=209f3f13-f1ea-11ea-82b9-9bc3e682e067\&variant=undefined}{Vaccine
  Tracker}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/02/your-money/eviction-moratorium-covid.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=209f3f14-f1ea-11ea-82b9-9bc3e682e067\&variant=undefined}{Eviction
  Moratorium}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/09/02/magazine/food-insecurity-hunger-us.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=209f3f15-f1ea-11ea-82b9-9bc3e682e067\&variant=undefined}{American
  Hunger}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

transcript

Back to The Daily

bars

0:00/26:42

-26:42

transcript

\hypertarget{where-we-stand-on-the-pandemic}{%
\subsection{Where We Stand on the
Pandemic}\label{where-we-stand-on-the-pandemic}}

\hypertarget{hosted-by-michael-barbaro-produced-by-stella-tan-eric-krupke-and-jessica-cheung-and-edited-by-lisa-chow}{%
\subsubsection{Hosted by Michael Barbaro, produced by Stella Tan, Eric
Krupke and Jessica Cheung, and edited by Lisa
Chow}\label{hosted-by-michael-barbaro-produced-by-stella-tan-eric-krupke-and-jessica-cheung-and-edited-by-lisa-chow}}

\hypertarget{as-summer-draws-to-a-close-four-new-developments-in-the-treatment-and-understanding-of-the-coronavirus-have-arisen-in-the-united-states-and-abroad}{%
\paragraph{As summer draws to a close, four new developments in the
treatment and understanding of the coronavirus have arisen in the United
States and
abroad.}\label{as-summer-draws-to-a-close-four-new-developments-in-the-treatment-and-understanding-of-the-coronavirus-have-arisen-in-the-united-states-and-abroad}}

Tuesday, August 25th, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item
  michael barbaro\\
  From The New York Times, I'm Michael Barbaro. This is ``The Daily.''

  Today: My colleague, Donald G. McNeil Jr. on four new developments in
  the treatment and understanding of the coronavirus.

  It's Tuesday, August 25.

  Donald, we wanted to check back in with you because the summer is
  drawing to a close and there have been a few major developments in the
  pandemic that we wanted to better understand by talking to you, our
  resident expert on the coronavirus. And the first development involves
  a new treatment in the U.S. So tell us about that.
\item
  archived recording (president donald trump)\\
  Thank you very much. It's good to see you all. Hope you have ---
\end{itemize}

donald g. mcneil jr.

So just in time for the Republican convention, the Food and Drug
Administration director, on the podium with his boss, the head of
H.H.S., and his boss, the President of the United States ---

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  archived recording (president donald trump)\\
  Today, I'm pleased to make a truly historic announcement in our battle
  against the China virus that will save countless lives.
\end{itemize}

donald g. mcneil jr.

--- gave emergency use authorization ---

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  archived recording (president donald trump)\\
  --- a powerful term, emergency use authorization for a treatment known
  as convalescent plasma.
\end{itemize}

donald g. mcneil jr.

--- to a therapy called convalescent plasma.

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  archived recording (president donald trump)\\
  Because the F.D.A. has really stepped up and especially over the last
  few days in getting this done. The results have been incredible. And I
  think you'll see the results even go up very substantially. So we
  appreciate it and ---
\end{itemize}

michael barbaro

And Donald, what is convalescent plasma?

donald g. mcneil jr.

Convalescent plasma is the serum from blood that's taken from people who
are convalescing, who are recovering from having had Covid. You draw out
about a pint of their blood. You spin it down to take off the red blood
cells and white blood cells, and then you keep the serum that contains a
lot of things, including the antibodies. I probably shouldn't admit
this, but I used to sell plasma when I was in college.

michael barbaro

Wait, I'm sorry, whose plasma did you sell?

donald g. mcneil jr.

Mine.

michael barbaro

Huh.

donald g. mcneil jr.

Yeah, \$5 for the first donation a week, \$15 for the second. I paid my
rent for part of the time in college that way. And I assume, although I
never asked back then, that they wanted it for the clotting factors they
had for hemophiliacs.

michael barbaro

And just to be clear, who were you selling it to, presumably not like
somebody off the street?

donald g. mcneil jr.

No, no, to a blood bank.

michael barbaro

And why would anyone pay for your plasma or anyone else's plasma for
that matter? What is so special about blood plasma?

donald g. mcneil jr.

It contains your antibodies. And antibodies is what they need to kill
the virus as it's going through them.

michael barbaro

Got it. And so this is now being applied to Covid-19?

donald g. mcneil jr.

Yes. People who have had Covid and are immune to it are in very high
demand for their plasma, which has antibodies in it, which is what the
president and the F.D.A. approved for emergency use authorization this
weekend.

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  archived recording (president donald trump)\\
  And today, I once again urge all Americans who have recovered from the
  virus to go to coronavirus.gov and sign up and donate plasma today,
  please.
\end{itemize}

michael barbaro

And what was the evidence that the Trump administration cited in
granting this emergency use authorization for blood plasma?

donald g. mcneil jr.

There is a program to distribute plasma and analyze the results run by
the Mayo Clinic. And they are aiming to give the plasma out to 70,000
patients and see how they do. And the result was that people who got
plasma did not do better across the board. But if you splice out a
subgroup of people who were under 80 years old, hospitalized, but not on
ventilators, were given a high dose of plasma, not a low or medium dose,
and were given it within three days of diagnosis, those people did
better. And better was defined as --- they seemed to have a 35 percent
lower chance of dying.

michael barbaro

So a narrow slice of that overall group of people who got this blood
plasma did 35 percent better. And that was the basis for this emergency
authorization?

donald g. mcneil jr.

Yes, but some doctors, some experts are unhappy with the way this is
done, because they would want to know a lot more things. Even in the
context of this trial, they would like to know what other treatments
those patients got just in case they got something like the steroids
that we already know save people, or the remdesivir that we already know
saves people. And really, what they'd like to see is a real randomized
clinical trial done in which half the people got plasma and the other
half of the people got placebo, and neither the doctors nor the patients
knew who was getting which.

michael barbaro

Right.

donald g. mcneil jr.

Because that's really the only way in order to prove something really
works.

michael barbaro

So why not undertake such a clinical trial now?

donald g. mcneil jr.

The Tony Faucis and Francis Collins would love to. The problem is that
people are so excited about the idea of plasma, because it's been talked
up, that they refuse to go into a clinical trial. Because they would get
a 50 percent chance of getting the placebo. And once you're sick, you
don't want that. You want --- hey, if you think it saves me, give it to
me.

michael barbaro

Oh, that's interesting. So the government's decision --- the Trump
administration's decision to talk up blood plasma as a potential
treatment, even though there's not a ton of evidence for it, might
actually make it harder to do the kind of gold standard clinical trial
test that lots of doctors, it sounds like --- including Anthony Fauci
--- would want to know whether or not plasma really is a serious therapy
for Covid-19.

donald g. mcneil jr.

Yeah, and that's exactly what happened with hydroxychloroquine. It was
talked up so much that people wanted it. And so it became hard to do the
clinical trials, in which they got a 50 percent chance of getting a
placebo, because they didn't want it. They heard the president say it's
a miracle drug, so they insisted on it.

michael barbaro

And of course, in the case of hydroxychloroquine, that too was granted
an emergency authorization from the Trump administration as a treatment.
But then subsequent testing showed it was not considered effective and
it was not considered so safe. And that emergency authorization was
eventually rescinded.

donald g. mcneil jr.

It was not considered effective at all, and it was definitely dangerous.
And so emergency authorization was rescinded.

michael barbaro

So this potentially could be a similar situation?

donald g. mcneil jr.

Yes, in fact a doctor said that to me yesterday exactly. This feels like
hydroxychloroquine all over again. And the president is hoping to be
able to announce a miracle. And that's the tone --- the calls for the
press conference on Sunday where you know, gigantic therapeutic
breakthrough, going to come through this evening. And then everybody was
saying, I think he's going to talk about convalescent plasma, which
we've known about since the 1890s. And what this really is, is it's a
bureaucratic breakthrough, because hospitals are going to find it easier
to use plasma than they did before, because they don't have to go to the
Mayo Clinic for permission to enroll in the trial. But that's all. And
what Tony Fauci and Francis Collins and Clifford Lane and the others at
the N.I.H. said just in the last week or so, we don't think an emergency
use authorization should be granted. And the president basically just
reversed them.

michael barbaro

Or overruled them?

donald g. mcneil jr.

Yeah.

michael barbaro

OK, so Donald, the second big recent development in the pandemic
involves a case of reinfection out of Asia. Tell us about that.

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  archived recording\\
  Researchers in China say a 33-year-old man living in Hong Kong is the
  first person confirmed to have been reinfected with the coronavirus.
\end{itemize}

donald g. mcneil jr.

So the case is about a man who gets infected in Hong Kong early in the
year, recovers. Four and a half months later goes to Spain, gets sick
again, recovers. And so doctors know that he got infected twice.

michael barbaro

Which is kind of the nightmare situation?

donald g. mcneil jr.

Yeah.

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  archived recording\\
  Right, well, this is a potentially serious setback tonight in our war
  against coronavirus. This new case you mentioned out of Hong Kong
  really does put into question that belief that so many of us have had
  --- that if you've got coronavirus once, you couldn't get it again.
\end{itemize}

donald g. mcneil jr.

The reason that would worry people is because, well, that would imply
that we're never free of the disease and maybe a vaccine wouldn't work.
Because if you've got a vaccine, you're protected, and then you know, a
couple of months later, you got infected again. Then you know the
vaccine's a bust.

michael barbaro

Right, infection is supposed to equal immunity.

donald g. mcneil jr.

Infection is supposed to produce immunity, yes.

Now in this case that was just reported out of Hong Kong, this doesn't
shock immunologists.

michael barbaro

Why not?

donald g. mcneil jr.

Well, because it's been known that even with some diseases where you
think getting it provides lifetime immunity, some people get it again.
And what happened in this guy's case was his first bout of the disease
was mild. And his second bout was so mild it was asymptomatic. He didn't
realize he had it. And what may have happened in this case is that he
had such a mild infection the first time that he got over it. But he
really didn't produce enough long-lasting immunity in the form of
antibodies to prevent him from getting a second infection. So the
reaction of doctors is well, this is a curiosity, and it's kind of the
exception that proves the rule. But it's not something to panic about.
This is not common. This is not something we're seeing all over the
place. There's millions and millions and millions of infections around
the world, and we've only seen one proven case, so don't worry that this
means the end of the vaccine or the vaccine won't work or anything like
that.

michael barbaro

So this does not fundamentally change our understanding of immunity from
a Covid-19 infection?

donald g. mcneil jr.

We're still in the gray area where we don't know how long immunity
lasts. But we suspect it lasts for a year or more. Although that's
impossible to prove, because this disease is only --- it didn't come
into existence before December.

michael barbaro

Got it.

donald g. mcneil jr.

But looking at other diseases like it, that's what the best
immunologists expected to happen.

michael barbaro

Donald, immunity for a year or so would probably imply that whenever a
vaccine is ready, it might last just a year. Or is that too big a
logical leap?

donald g. mcneil jr.

So the answer is, nobody knows yet.

Because we don't have the vaccine, and we don't have a year's experience
with the virus. But we know that some viruses mutate so fast that you
need a vaccine every year, typically the flu virus. We know that this
virus mutates at about one third the rate of flu. So maybe if it hangs
around, we'll need a new shot every three years, rather than every year
as you do with flu. But this is all a big gray area. It's really hard to
say. No expert is going to say, we know what's going to happen.

michael barbaro

We'll be right back.

{[}music{]}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  archived recording 1\\
  Chinese military is actually giving doses of the vaccine developed by
  a unit of the China National Pharmaceutical Group to soldiers and
  employees traveling overseas. That still though, is in the phase 3
  testing. It's experimental.
\item
  archived recording 2\\
  Russia is claiming victory in the worldwide race for a coronavirus
  vaccine. The government is clearing a vaccine for use, despite not
  putting it through a third round of testing on humans. President
  Vladimir Putin insists the vaccine is safe, and says one of his
  daughters has been inoculated.
\end{itemize}

michael barbaro

Donald, our third development relates to the progress that we are making
in the battle for a vaccine. And the biggest of these developments seem
to be occurring overseas in Russia and in China. And I was hoping you
could update us on those.

donald g. mcneil jr.

Yeah, both the Russians and just recently, the Chinese, say they have
started distributing their vaccines without having done the phase 3
safety and efficacy trials that we are doing here.

michael barbaro

And those are the ones that are double blind with the placebo, like we
talked about before?

donald g. mcneil jr.

Right. And more importantly, they recruit tens of thousands of people. I
think for these trials, we're recruiting 30,000 people per vaccine. So
immunologists and vaccine executives here say, this is crazy what the
Russians and the Chinese are doing. You don't release a vaccine before
you've done the big safety trial, because problems that you did not find
earlier could crop up. And the big dangerous problem, the one that
everybody is worried about, is that the vaccine makes you more likely to
have a bad outcome if you do have the virus --- as in more likely to get
hospitalized and die. So doctors here think the Russians and the Chinese
are very irresponsible to do this. It looks like they may be doing it
for competitive reasons. The Russians wanted --- they called their
vaccine Sputnik. They want to brag that hey, we beat the United States.
We beat the world at this, you know, as they did with Sputnik back in
1957 or whatever it was for a satellite in space. So what they're really
doing is using their own population as the guinea pigs for doing the
safety and efficacy testing on the vaccine. And one hopes that, you
know, they are following those first 30,000 guinea pigs really carefully
to see if they pick up any dangerous signals that are there. You want to
make sure that the vaccines go to people you think are likely to do well
--- you know, healthy young people --- and then you move it out into the
risk groups.

michael barbaro

But, Donald, and maybe I'm being unnecessarily provocative here, but how
different is what China and Russia are doing with these vaccines from
what the United States and our F.D.A. is doing with hydroxychloroquine
and blood plasma? Which is starting to authorize the delivery of it to
people before it's gone through those kind of gold standard,
double-blind placebo tests.

donald g. mcneil jr.

It's similar, and yet it's different. It's similar, because we are
letting it be generally distributed before it's been proven that it
works and is totally safe. It's different, because hydroxychloroquine
did have a long safety record. Convalescent plasma does have a long
safety record. These vaccines that the Chinese and the Russians are
using have no safety record other than the tests they've done just in
the last two or three months, presumably on you know, maybe 1,000
people. Another important difference between what the Russians and
Chinese are doing with their vaccines and what we're doing with
treatments here is that treatments are given to people who are already
sick and in trouble. Like, you can take wild chances with cancer
treatments when you have patients who were on the brink of death and
there's nothing else that will save them.

michael barbaro

Right.

donald g. mcneil jr.

Whereas vaccines are given to healthy people, even sometimes to babies
and pregnant women. So you do not want something that is at all unsafe,
because you turn someone from healthy into unhealthy. You've done more
damage than if you just left them alone.

michael barbaro

So our risky emergency authorizations are less risky than what China and
Russia are doing with vaccines, because our emergency authorizations are
going into sick people, theirs are going into healthy people?

donald g. mcneil jr.

Correct.

michael barbaro

OK, so Donald, finally, the fourth development here in the United States
is a somewhat happy one for a change. And that centers around the
current infection rate in the United States, which is flat.

donald g. mcneil jr.

Yes, it's flattening. But I don't see this as a happy story. What are we
flattening at, about 40,000 cases a day? You know, even in our good
period back in June when we thought we were doing well, we had 20,000
cases a day. I mean, none of this has been a good-news story. We have an
out-of-control epidemic in this country. And the fact that we've brought
it down by 10,0000 cases is good-ish news relative to how bad it was
getting. But I don't think we should pat ourselves on our national back
over getting down to 40,000 new cases a day.

michael barbaro

And what are the implications of us even staying at such an infection
rate?

donald g. mcneil jr.

The implications are that a lot of people are going to continue to die.
You know, this is like climbing a mountain. And you get up to 14,000
feet, and you stay at 14,000 feet because you're walking through a
meadow. It's still hard to breathe up at that altitude. It's not a happy
situation. We're not going back down to zero. We're going back down to a
few hundred cases a day, which some other countries have gone to, that
the implication is that we're going to have more people hospitalized,
more people die. We're going to see our death numbers go up beyond
200,000, definitely on the way to 300,000. Don't know exactly when it's
going to reach that, but we're steadily plodding, day after day, up that
peak of deaths.

michael barbaro

I don't want to let that slide by. You're saying that it feels likely
that the United States will hit 300,000 before the pandemic's over.

donald g. mcneil jr.

Oh before it's over? Yeah, the question is when before it's over? I
mean, it's not just me. It's the models. Some models suggest that it's
is going to be, you know, well before Christmas.

michael barbaro

300,000 American dead before Christmas would be absolutely horrific.

donald g. mcneil jr.

Yeah, it would. And we can avoid that by being smart, using masks,
socially distancing. All the usual things. But we have to do it.

michael barbaro

And of course, the fall in the U.S., beyond everything we're talking
about means something else, which is the flu. The flu is now about to
kind of merge with the coronavirus. And I know that that has raised some
fears. Is that something you worry about?

donald g. mcneil jr.

No.

michael barbaro

Why not?

donald g. mcneil jr.

And I'm kind of an outlier on this. But there are doctors who agree with
me. The flu doesn't sit around, hide in the country during the year. Flu
travels. It migrates to the southern hemisphere and hits them in the
middle of their winter. And then it comes back in the fall. But flu
transmission went to zero in this country in the third week of April
during lockdown. It just went boom, right down to zero. And then it did
not really go south.

michael barbaro

Because people aren't really flying south?

donald g. mcneil jr.

Right. It turns out that flu in Australia is down by 99 percent this
year. And in the rest of the southern hemisphere, it's way, way, way,
way down too --- you know, Chile, Argentina, New Zealand. If it isn't
big there, and there are no flights from there to here, you can't reseed
flu here. And also, practicing social distancing as we are now, cuts
down flu transmission in any year. So I don't expect a big flu season.
But I still think everybody should get their flu shot. And I got mine,
in case I'm wrong.

michael barbaro

So it sounds like another incentive to abide by all the rules around the
coronavirus is that it has very nicely diminished the flu.

donald g. mcneil jr.

And other respiratory diseases --- R.S.V., and the cold coronaviruses,
and things. Any respiratory disease, they get knocked out. All those
diseases have dropped in this country.

michael barbaro

But still, I'm hearing you say in your role as our collective conscience
that everyone should still get the flu vaccine just in case, in order to
kind of take it off our plate. And here, I should say, Donald, and I've
always wanted to be you're A student in this respect. I got the flu
vaccine just a few days ago.

donald g. mcneil jr.

Good, excellent. I got mine. I got the senior shot, the four times as
powerful one that you can't get unless you're 65.

michael barbaro

I don't think I got that one.

donald g. mcneil jr.

I've had people ask me, how do I get one of those? And I'm like, nope,
insurance will not pay for it until you're over 65. But then --- and you
know, I kind a slightly sorer arm than usual, I think. But you know,
that's actually a good sign. It means the shot is working.

michael barbaro

Well, Donald, thank you very much. We appreciate it.

donald g. mcneil jr.

You're welcome.

michael barbaro

On Monday night, The Times reported that many scientists have been
startled by the way that the F.D.A. has interpreted and communicated
data about the effectiveness of blood plasma in treating Covid-19.
Several of them, including those who worked on the Mayo Clinic study
cited by the Trump administration, said they cannot figure out the
origins of the claim that it reduced deaths by 35 percent and are highly
doubtful of that figure.

We'll be right back.

{[}music{]}

Here's what else you need to know today.

\begin{itemize}
\item
  archived recording\\
  {[}GUN SHOTS{]} {[}ALARM SOUNDING{]}

  Unrest in the city of Kenosha, Wisconsin turned violent on Monday
  night as protests over the police shooting of a black man there, Jacob
  Blake, gave way to fires, destruction and looting. By early Tuesday
  morning, a strip of stores in Kenosha's downtown was consumed by
  flames. Blake was shot repeatedly by a white officer as he tried to
  get inside his car. The shooting appeared to be unprovoked and was
  immediately condemned by Wisconsin's governor. The officers involved
  in the encounter have been placed on administrative leave as an
  investigation continues. And ---
\item
  archived recording 1\\
  Madam Chairman, Louisiana proudly casts its 46 votes for President
  Donald J. Trump.
\item
  archived recording 2\\
  Michigan, the Great Lakes state, is going to cast all 73 votes for
  President Donald J. Trump.
\item
  archived recording 3\\
  In order to keep America first, the state of Arizona casts our 57
  votes for President Donald J. Trump. {[}CHEERING{]}
\end{itemize}

michael barbaro

During the opening night of the Republican National Convention in
Charlotte, President Trump was nominated for a second term after an
in-person roll call by delegates.

\begin{itemize}
\item
  archived recording\\
  (CHANTING) Four more years! Four more years!
\item
  archived recording (president donald trump)\\
  Yeah, if you want to really drive them crazy, you say, 12 more years.
\item
  archived recording\\
  (CHANTING) 12 more years! 12 more years!
\end{itemize}

michael barbaro

In a short speech accepting the nomination, Trump sought to cast doubt
on this fall's election by attacking mail-in voting and accusing
Democrats, without evidence, of seeking to steal the election.

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  archived recording (nikki haley)\\
  Last time, Joe's boss was Obama. This time it would be Pelosi, Sanders
  and the squad. Their vision for America is socialism. And we know that
  socialism has failed everywhere. They want to tell Americans how to
  live and what to think.
\end{itemize}

michael barbaro

Later in the night, a series of speakers, including Trump's first
ambassador to the United Nations, Nikki Haley, claimed that Joe Biden, a
moderate, would pursue a left-wing agenda that would undermine American
values at home and overseas.

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  archived recording (nikki haley)\\
  This president has a record of strength and success. The former vice
  president has a record of weakness and failure. Joe Biden is good for
  Iran and ISIS, great for communist China, and he's a godsend to
  everyone who wants America to apologize, abstain and abandon our
  values. Donald Trump takes a different approach. He's tough on China.
  And he took on ISIS and won. And he tells the world what it needs to
  hear.
\end{itemize}

michael barbaro

That's it for ``The Daily.'' I'm Michael Barbaro. See you tomorrow.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/column/the-daily}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2017/01/29/podcasts/the-daily-album-art/the-daily-album-art-square320-v4.png}The
Daily}Subscribe:

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://itunes.apple.com/us/podcast/id1200361736}{Apple
  Podcasts}
\item
  \href{https://www.google.com/podcasts?feed=aHR0cHM6Ly9yc3MuYXJ0MTkuY29tL3RoZS1kYWlseQ\%3D\%3D}{Google
  Podcasts}
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{where-we-stand-on-the-pandemic-1}{%
\section{Where We Stand on the
Pandemic}\label{where-we-stand-on-the-pandemic-1}}

\hypertarget{as-summer-draws-to-a-close-four-new-developments-in-the-treatment-and-understanding-of-the-coronavirus-have-arisen-in-the-united-states-and-abroad-1}{%
\subsection{As summer draws to a close, four new developments in the
treatment and understanding of the coronavirus have arisen in the United
States and
abroad.}\label{as-summer-draws-to-a-close-four-new-developments-in-the-treatment-and-understanding-of-the-coronavirus-have-arisen-in-the-united-states-and-abroad-1}}

Hosted by Michael Barbaro, produced by Stella Tan, Eric Krupke and
Jessica Cheung, and edited by Lisa Chow

Transcript

transcript

Back to The Daily

bars

0:00/26:42

-0:00

transcript

\hypertarget{where-we-stand-on-the-pandemic-2}{%
\subsection{Where We Stand on the
Pandemic}\label{where-we-stand-on-the-pandemic-2}}

\hypertarget{hosted-by-michael-barbaro-produced-by-stella-tan-eric-krupke-and-jessica-cheung-and-edited-by-lisa-chow-1}{%
\subsubsection{Hosted by Michael Barbaro, produced by Stella Tan, Eric
Krupke and Jessica Cheung, and edited by Lisa
Chow}\label{hosted-by-michael-barbaro-produced-by-stella-tan-eric-krupke-and-jessica-cheung-and-edited-by-lisa-chow-1}}

\hypertarget{as-summer-draws-to-a-close-four-new-developments-in-the-treatment-and-understanding-of-the-coronavirus-have-arisen-in-the-united-states-and-abroad-2}{%
\paragraph{As summer draws to a close, four new developments in the
treatment and understanding of the coronavirus have arisen in the United
States and
abroad.}\label{as-summer-draws-to-a-close-four-new-developments-in-the-treatment-and-understanding-of-the-coronavirus-have-arisen-in-the-united-states-and-abroad-2}}

Tuesday, August 25th, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item
  michael barbaro\\
  From The New York Times, I'm Michael Barbaro. This is ``The Daily.''

  Today: My colleague, Donald G. McNeil Jr. on four new developments in
  the treatment and understanding of the coronavirus.

  It's Tuesday, August 25.

  Donald, we wanted to check back in with you because the summer is
  drawing to a close and there have been a few major developments in the
  pandemic that we wanted to better understand by talking to you, our
  resident expert on the coronavirus. And the first development involves
  a new treatment in the U.S. So tell us about that.
\item
  archived recording (president donald trump)\\
  Thank you very much. It's good to see you all. Hope you have ---
\end{itemize}

donald g. mcneil jr.

So just in time for the Republican convention, the Food and Drug
Administration director, on the podium with his boss, the head of
H.H.S., and his boss, the President of the United States ---

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  archived recording (president donald trump)\\
  Today, I'm pleased to make a truly historic announcement in our battle
  against the China virus that will save countless lives.
\end{itemize}

donald g. mcneil jr.

--- gave emergency use authorization ---

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  archived recording (president donald trump)\\
  --- a powerful term, emergency use authorization for a treatment known
  as convalescent plasma.
\end{itemize}

donald g. mcneil jr.

--- to a therapy called convalescent plasma.

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  archived recording (president donald trump)\\
  Because the F.D.A. has really stepped up and especially over the last
  few days in getting this done. The results have been incredible. And I
  think you'll see the results even go up very substantially. So we
  appreciate it and ---
\end{itemize}

michael barbaro

And Donald, what is convalescent plasma?

donald g. mcneil jr.

Convalescent plasma is the serum from blood that's taken from people who
are convalescing, who are recovering from having had Covid. You draw out
about a pint of their blood. You spin it down to take off the red blood
cells and white blood cells, and then you keep the serum that contains a
lot of things, including the antibodies. I probably shouldn't admit
this, but I used to sell plasma when I was in college.

michael barbaro

Wait, I'm sorry, whose plasma did you sell?

donald g. mcneil jr.

Mine.

michael barbaro

Huh.

donald g. mcneil jr.

Yeah, \$5 for the first donation a week, \$15 for the second. I paid my
rent for part of the time in college that way. And I assume, although I
never asked back then, that they wanted it for the clotting factors they
had for hemophiliacs.

michael barbaro

And just to be clear, who were you selling it to, presumably not like
somebody off the street?

donald g. mcneil jr.

No, no, to a blood bank.

michael barbaro

And why would anyone pay for your plasma or anyone else's plasma for
that matter? What is so special about blood plasma?

donald g. mcneil jr.

It contains your antibodies. And antibodies is what they need to kill
the virus as it's going through them.

michael barbaro

Got it. And so this is now being applied to Covid-19?

donald g. mcneil jr.

Yes. People who have had Covid and are immune to it are in very high
demand for their plasma, which has antibodies in it, which is what the
president and the F.D.A. approved for emergency use authorization this
weekend.

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  archived recording (president donald trump)\\
  And today, I once again urge all Americans who have recovered from the
  virus to go to coronavirus.gov and sign up and donate plasma today,
  please.
\end{itemize}

michael barbaro

And what was the evidence that the Trump administration cited in
granting this emergency use authorization for blood plasma?

donald g. mcneil jr.

There is a program to distribute plasma and analyze the results run by
the Mayo Clinic. And they are aiming to give the plasma out to 70,000
patients and see how they do. And the result was that people who got
plasma did not do better across the board. But if you splice out a
subgroup of people who were under 80 years old, hospitalized, but not on
ventilators, were given a high dose of plasma, not a low or medium dose,
and were given it within three days of diagnosis, those people did
better. And better was defined as --- they seemed to have a 35 percent
lower chance of dying.

michael barbaro

So a narrow slice of that overall group of people who got this blood
plasma did 35 percent better. And that was the basis for this emergency
authorization?

donald g. mcneil jr.

Yes, but some doctors, some experts are unhappy with the way this is
done, because they would want to know a lot more things. Even in the
context of this trial, they would like to know what other treatments
those patients got just in case they got something like the steroids
that we already know save people, or the remdesivir that we already know
saves people. And really, what they'd like to see is a real randomized
clinical trial done in which half the people got plasma and the other
half of the people got placebo, and neither the doctors nor the patients
knew who was getting which.

michael barbaro

Right.

donald g. mcneil jr.

Because that's really the only way in order to prove something really
works.

michael barbaro

So why not undertake such a clinical trial now?

donald g. mcneil jr.

The Tony Faucis and Francis Collins would love to. The problem is that
people are so excited about the idea of plasma, because it's been talked
up, that they refuse to go into a clinical trial. Because they would get
a 50 percent chance of getting the placebo. And once you're sick, you
don't want that. You want --- hey, if you think it saves me, give it to
me.

michael barbaro

Oh, that's interesting. So the government's decision --- the Trump
administration's decision to talk up blood plasma as a potential
treatment, even though there's not a ton of evidence for it, might
actually make it harder to do the kind of gold standard clinical trial
test that lots of doctors, it sounds like --- including Anthony Fauci
--- would want to know whether or not plasma really is a serious therapy
for Covid-19.

donald g. mcneil jr.

Yeah, and that's exactly what happened with hydroxychloroquine. It was
talked up so much that people wanted it. And so it became hard to do the
clinical trials, in which they got a 50 percent chance of getting a
placebo, because they didn't want it. They heard the president say it's
a miracle drug, so they insisted on it.

michael barbaro

And of course, in the case of hydroxychloroquine, that too was granted
an emergency authorization from the Trump administration as a treatment.
But then subsequent testing showed it was not considered effective and
it was not considered so safe. And that emergency authorization was
eventually rescinded.

donald g. mcneil jr.

It was not considered effective at all, and it was definitely dangerous.
And so emergency authorization was rescinded.

michael barbaro

So this potentially could be a similar situation?

donald g. mcneil jr.

Yes, in fact a doctor said that to me yesterday exactly. This feels like
hydroxychloroquine all over again. And the president is hoping to be
able to announce a miracle. And that's the tone --- the calls for the
press conference on Sunday where you know, gigantic therapeutic
breakthrough, going to come through this evening. And then everybody was
saying, I think he's going to talk about convalescent plasma, which
we've known about since the 1890s. And what this really is, is it's a
bureaucratic breakthrough, because hospitals are going to find it easier
to use plasma than they did before, because they don't have to go to the
Mayo Clinic for permission to enroll in the trial. But that's all. And
what Tony Fauci and Francis Collins and Clifford Lane and the others at
the N.I.H. said just in the last week or so, we don't think an emergency
use authorization should be granted. And the president basically just
reversed them.

michael barbaro

Or overruled them?

donald g. mcneil jr.

Yeah.

michael barbaro

OK, so Donald, the second big recent development in the pandemic
involves a case of reinfection out of Asia. Tell us about that.

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  archived recording\\
  Researchers in China say a 33-year-old man living in Hong Kong is the
  first person confirmed to have been reinfected with the coronavirus.
\end{itemize}

donald g. mcneil jr.

So the case is about a man who gets infected in Hong Kong early in the
year, recovers. Four and a half months later goes to Spain, gets sick
again, recovers. And so doctors know that he got infected twice.

michael barbaro

Which is kind of the nightmare situation?

donald g. mcneil jr.

Yeah.

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  archived recording\\
  Right, well, this is a potentially serious setback tonight in our war
  against coronavirus. This new case you mentioned out of Hong Kong
  really does put into question that belief that so many of us have had
  --- that if you've got coronavirus once, you couldn't get it again.
\end{itemize}

donald g. mcneil jr.

The reason that would worry people is because, well, that would imply
that we're never free of the disease and maybe a vaccine wouldn't work.
Because if you've got a vaccine, you're protected, and then you know, a
couple of months later, you got infected again. Then you know the
vaccine's a bust.

michael barbaro

Right, infection is supposed to equal immunity.

donald g. mcneil jr.

Infection is supposed to produce immunity, yes.

Now in this case that was just reported out of Hong Kong, this doesn't
shock immunologists.

michael barbaro

Why not?

donald g. mcneil jr.

Well, because it's been known that even with some diseases where you
think getting it provides lifetime immunity, some people get it again.
And what happened in this guy's case was his first bout of the disease
was mild. And his second bout was so mild it was asymptomatic. He didn't
realize he had it. And what may have happened in this case is that he
had such a mild infection the first time that he got over it. But he
really didn't produce enough long-lasting immunity in the form of
antibodies to prevent him from getting a second infection. So the
reaction of doctors is well, this is a curiosity, and it's kind of the
exception that proves the rule. But it's not something to panic about.
This is not common. This is not something we're seeing all over the
place. There's millions and millions and millions of infections around
the world, and we've only seen one proven case, so don't worry that this
means the end of the vaccine or the vaccine won't work or anything like
that.

michael barbaro

So this does not fundamentally change our understanding of immunity from
a Covid-19 infection?

donald g. mcneil jr.

We're still in the gray area where we don't know how long immunity
lasts. But we suspect it lasts for a year or more. Although that's
impossible to prove, because this disease is only --- it didn't come
into existence before December.

michael barbaro

Got it.

donald g. mcneil jr.

But looking at other diseases like it, that's what the best
immunologists expected to happen.

michael barbaro

Donald, immunity for a year or so would probably imply that whenever a
vaccine is ready, it might last just a year. Or is that too big a
logical leap?

donald g. mcneil jr.

So the answer is, nobody knows yet.

Because we don't have the vaccine, and we don't have a year's experience
with the virus. But we know that some viruses mutate so fast that you
need a vaccine every year, typically the flu virus. We know that this
virus mutates at about one third the rate of flu. So maybe if it hangs
around, we'll need a new shot every three years, rather than every year
as you do with flu. But this is all a big gray area. It's really hard to
say. No expert is going to say, we know what's going to happen.

michael barbaro

We'll be right back.

{[}music{]}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  archived recording 1\\
  Chinese military is actually giving doses of the vaccine developed by
  a unit of the China National Pharmaceutical Group to soldiers and
  employees traveling overseas. That still though, is in the phase 3
  testing. It's experimental.
\item
  archived recording 2\\
  Russia is claiming victory in the worldwide race for a coronavirus
  vaccine. The government is clearing a vaccine for use, despite not
  putting it through a third round of testing on humans. President
  Vladimir Putin insists the vaccine is safe, and says one of his
  daughters has been inoculated.
\end{itemize}

michael barbaro

Donald, our third development relates to the progress that we are making
in the battle for a vaccine. And the biggest of these developments seem
to be occurring overseas in Russia and in China. And I was hoping you
could update us on those.

donald g. mcneil jr.

Yeah, both the Russians and just recently, the Chinese, say they have
started distributing their vaccines without having done the phase 3
safety and efficacy trials that we are doing here.

michael barbaro

And those are the ones that are double blind with the placebo, like we
talked about before?

donald g. mcneil jr.

Right. And more importantly, they recruit tens of thousands of people. I
think for these trials, we're recruiting 30,000 people per vaccine. So
immunologists and vaccine executives here say, this is crazy what the
Russians and the Chinese are doing. You don't release a vaccine before
you've done the big safety trial, because problems that you did not find
earlier could crop up. And the big dangerous problem, the one that
everybody is worried about, is that the vaccine makes you more likely to
have a bad outcome if you do have the virus --- as in more likely to get
hospitalized and die. So doctors here think the Russians and the Chinese
are very irresponsible to do this. It looks like they may be doing it
for competitive reasons. The Russians wanted --- they called their
vaccine Sputnik. They want to brag that hey, we beat the United States.
We beat the world at this, you know, as they did with Sputnik back in
1957 or whatever it was for a satellite in space. So what they're really
doing is using their own population as the guinea pigs for doing the
safety and efficacy testing on the vaccine. And one hopes that, you
know, they are following those first 30,000 guinea pigs really carefully
to see if they pick up any dangerous signals that are there. You want to
make sure that the vaccines go to people you think are likely to do well
--- you know, healthy young people --- and then you move it out into the
risk groups.

michael barbaro

But, Donald, and maybe I'm being unnecessarily provocative here, but how
different is what China and Russia are doing with these vaccines from
what the United States and our F.D.A. is doing with hydroxychloroquine
and blood plasma? Which is starting to authorize the delivery of it to
people before it's gone through those kind of gold standard,
double-blind placebo tests.

donald g. mcneil jr.

It's similar, and yet it's different. It's similar, because we are
letting it be generally distributed before it's been proven that it
works and is totally safe. It's different, because hydroxychloroquine
did have a long safety record. Convalescent plasma does have a long
safety record. These vaccines that the Chinese and the Russians are
using have no safety record other than the tests they've done just in
the last two or three months, presumably on you know, maybe 1,000
people. Another important difference between what the Russians and
Chinese are doing with their vaccines and what we're doing with
treatments here is that treatments are given to people who are already
sick and in trouble. Like, you can take wild chances with cancer
treatments when you have patients who were on the brink of death and
there's nothing else that will save them.

michael barbaro

Right.

donald g. mcneil jr.

Whereas vaccines are given to healthy people, even sometimes to babies
and pregnant women. So you do not want something that is at all unsafe,
because you turn someone from healthy into unhealthy. You've done more
damage than if you just left them alone.

michael barbaro

So our risky emergency authorizations are less risky than what China and
Russia are doing with vaccines, because our emergency authorizations are
going into sick people, theirs are going into healthy people?

donald g. mcneil jr.

Correct.

michael barbaro

OK, so Donald, finally, the fourth development here in the United States
is a somewhat happy one for a change. And that centers around the
current infection rate in the United States, which is flat.

donald g. mcneil jr.

Yes, it's flattening. But I don't see this as a happy story. What are we
flattening at, about 40,000 cases a day? You know, even in our good
period back in June when we thought we were doing well, we had 20,000
cases a day. I mean, none of this has been a good-news story. We have an
out-of-control epidemic in this country. And the fact that we've brought
it down by 10,0000 cases is good-ish news relative to how bad it was
getting. But I don't think we should pat ourselves on our national back
over getting down to 40,000 new cases a day.

michael barbaro

And what are the implications of us even staying at such an infection
rate?

donald g. mcneil jr.

The implications are that a lot of people are going to continue to die.
You know, this is like climbing a mountain. And you get up to 14,000
feet, and you stay at 14,000 feet because you're walking through a
meadow. It's still hard to breathe up at that altitude. It's not a happy
situation. We're not going back down to zero. We're going back down to a
few hundred cases a day, which some other countries have gone to, that
the implication is that we're going to have more people hospitalized,
more people die. We're going to see our death numbers go up beyond
200,000, definitely on the way to 300,000. Don't know exactly when it's
going to reach that, but we're steadily plodding, day after day, up that
peak of deaths.

michael barbaro

I don't want to let that slide by. You're saying that it feels likely
that the United States will hit 300,000 before the pandemic's over.

donald g. mcneil jr.

Oh before it's over? Yeah, the question is when before it's over? I
mean, it's not just me. It's the models. Some models suggest that it's
is going to be, you know, well before Christmas.

michael barbaro

300,000 American dead before Christmas would be absolutely horrific.

donald g. mcneil jr.

Yeah, it would. And we can avoid that by being smart, using masks,
socially distancing. All the usual things. But we have to do it.

michael barbaro

And of course, the fall in the U.S., beyond everything we're talking
about means something else, which is the flu. The flu is now about to
kind of merge with the coronavirus. And I know that that has raised some
fears. Is that something you worry about?

donald g. mcneil jr.

No.

michael barbaro

Why not?

donald g. mcneil jr.

And I'm kind of an outlier on this. But there are doctors who agree with
me. The flu doesn't sit around, hide in the country during the year. Flu
travels. It migrates to the southern hemisphere and hits them in the
middle of their winter. And then it comes back in the fall. But flu
transmission went to zero in this country in the third week of April
during lockdown. It just went boom, right down to zero. And then it did
not really go south.

michael barbaro

Because people aren't really flying south?

donald g. mcneil jr.

Right. It turns out that flu in Australia is down by 99 percent this
year. And in the rest of the southern hemisphere, it's way, way, way,
way down too --- you know, Chile, Argentina, New Zealand. If it isn't
big there, and there are no flights from there to here, you can't reseed
flu here. And also, practicing social distancing as we are now, cuts
down flu transmission in any year. So I don't expect a big flu season.
But I still think everybody should get their flu shot. And I got mine,
in case I'm wrong.

michael barbaro

So it sounds like another incentive to abide by all the rules around the
coronavirus is that it has very nicely diminished the flu.

donald g. mcneil jr.

And other respiratory diseases --- R.S.V., and the cold coronaviruses,
and things. Any respiratory disease, they get knocked out. All those
diseases have dropped in this country.

michael barbaro

But still, I'm hearing you say in your role as our collective conscience
that everyone should still get the flu vaccine just in case, in order to
kind of take it off our plate. And here, I should say, Donald, and I've
always wanted to be you're A student in this respect. I got the flu
vaccine just a few days ago.

donald g. mcneil jr.

Good, excellent. I got mine. I got the senior shot, the four times as
powerful one that you can't get unless you're 65.

michael barbaro

I don't think I got that one.

donald g. mcneil jr.

I've had people ask me, how do I get one of those? And I'm like, nope,
insurance will not pay for it until you're over 65. But then --- and you
know, I kind a slightly sorer arm than usual, I think. But you know,
that's actually a good sign. It means the shot is working.

michael barbaro

Well, Donald, thank you very much. We appreciate it.

donald g. mcneil jr.

You're welcome.

michael barbaro

On Monday night, The Times reported that many scientists have been
startled by the way that the F.D.A. has interpreted and communicated
data about the effectiveness of blood plasma in treating Covid-19.
Several of them, including those who worked on the Mayo Clinic study
cited by the Trump administration, said they cannot figure out the
origins of the claim that it reduced deaths by 35 percent and are highly
doubtful of that figure.

We'll be right back.

{[}music{]}

Here's what else you need to know today.

\begin{itemize}
\item
  archived recording\\
  {[}GUN SHOTS{]} {[}ALARM SOUNDING{]}

  Unrest in the city of Kenosha, Wisconsin turned violent on Monday
  night as protests over the police shooting of a black man there, Jacob
  Blake, gave way to fires, destruction and looting. By early Tuesday
  morning, a strip of stores in Kenosha's downtown was consumed by
  flames. Blake was shot repeatedly by a white officer as he tried to
  get inside his car. The shooting appeared to be unprovoked and was
  immediately condemned by Wisconsin's governor. The officers involved
  in the encounter have been placed on administrative leave as an
  investigation continues. And ---
\item
  archived recording 1\\
  Madam Chairman, Louisiana proudly casts its 46 votes for President
  Donald J. Trump.
\item
  archived recording 2\\
  Michigan, the Great Lakes state, is going to cast all 73 votes for
  President Donald J. Trump.
\item
  archived recording 3\\
  In order to keep America first, the state of Arizona casts our 57
  votes for President Donald J. Trump. {[}CHEERING{]}
\end{itemize}

michael barbaro

During the opening night of the Republican National Convention in
Charlotte, President Trump was nominated for a second term after an
in-person roll call by delegates.

\begin{itemize}
\item
  archived recording\\
  (CHANTING) Four more years! Four more years!
\item
  archived recording (president donald trump)\\
  Yeah, if you want to really drive them crazy, you say, 12 more years.
\item
  archived recording\\
  (CHANTING) 12 more years! 12 more years!
\end{itemize}

michael barbaro

In a short speech accepting the nomination, Trump sought to cast doubt
on this fall's election by attacking mail-in voting and accusing
Democrats, without evidence, of seeking to steal the election.

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  archived recording (nikki haley)\\
  Last time, Joe's boss was Obama. This time it would be Pelosi, Sanders
  and the squad. Their vision for America is socialism. And we know that
  socialism has failed everywhere. They want to tell Americans how to
  live and what to think.
\end{itemize}

michael barbaro

Later in the night, a series of speakers, including Trump's first
ambassador to the United Nations, Nikki Haley, claimed that Joe Biden, a
moderate, would pursue a left-wing agenda that would undermine American
values at home and overseas.

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  archived recording (nikki haley)\\
  This president has a record of strength and success. The former vice
  president has a record of weakness and failure. Joe Biden is good for
  Iran and ISIS, great for communist China, and he's a godsend to
  everyone who wants America to apologize, abstain and abandon our
  values. Donald Trump takes a different approach. He's tough on China.
  And he took on ISIS and won. And he tells the world what it needs to
  hear.
\end{itemize}

michael barbaro

That's it for ``The Daily.'' I'm Michael Barbaro. See you tomorrow.

Previous

More episodes ofThe Daily

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/08/podcasts/the-daily/Daniel-Prude-BLM-police.html?action=click\&module=audio-series-bar\&region=header\&pgtype=Article}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/09/08/world/08daily-1/08daily-1-thumbLarge.jpg}}

September 8, 2020~~•~ 30:10What Happened to Daniel Prude?

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/04/podcasts/the-daily/Godspell-theater-coronavirus.html?action=click\&module=audio-series-bar\&region=header\&pgtype=Article}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/09/04/world/04daily-godspell/04daily-godspell-thumbLarge.jpg}}

September 4, 2020~~•~ 28:25Bringing the Theater Back to Life

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/03/podcasts/the-daily/hong-kong-china-jimmy-lai.html?action=click\&module=audio-series-bar\&region=header\&pgtype=Article}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/09/03/world/03daily-jimmylai/03daily-jimmylai-thumbLarge.jpg}}

September 3, 2020~~•~ 33:56Jimmy Lai vs. China

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/02/podcasts/the-daily/belarus-protests-lukashenko.html?action=click\&module=audio-series-bar\&region=header\&pgtype=Article}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/09/02/world/02daily-2/02daily-2-thumbLarge.jpg}}

September 2, 2020~~•~ 38:59A High-Stakes Standoff in Belarus

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/01/podcasts/the-daily/joe-biden-protests-trump.html?action=click\&module=audio-series-bar\&region=header\&pgtype=Article}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/09/01/world/01daily-1/01daily-1-thumbLarge.jpg}}

September 1, 2020~~•~ 28:14Joe Biden's Rebuttal

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/31/podcasts/the-daily/flint-michigan-police-officer.html?action=click\&module=audio-series-bar\&region=header\&pgtype=Article}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/31/world/31daily-1/31daily-1-thumbLarge.jpg}}

August 31, 2020~~•~ 44:02`Who Replaces Me?'

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/30/podcasts/the-daily/california-wildfires-prisoners.html?action=click\&module=audio-series-bar\&region=header\&pgtype=Article}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2017/09/03/magazine/03audm-firefighters4/03firefighters4-thumbLarge.jpg}}

August 30, 2020The Sunday Read: `In the Line of Fire'

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/28/podcasts/the-daily/donald-trump-junior-campaign.html?action=click\&module=audio-series-bar\&region=header\&pgtype=Article}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/28/world/28daily-2/28daily-2-thumbLarge.jpg}}

August 28, 2020~~•~ 36:33Donald Trump Jr.'s Journey to Republican
Stardom

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/27/podcasts/the-daily/kenosha-wisconsin-protests.html?action=click\&module=audio-series-bar\&region=header\&pgtype=Article}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/27/world/27daily-kenosha-2/27daily-kenosha-2-thumbLarge.jpg}}

August 27, 2020~~•~ 31:35On the Ground in Kenosha

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/26/podcasts/the-daily/republican-convention-suburbs.html?action=click\&module=audio-series-bar\&region=header\&pgtype=Article}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/26/world/26daily-suburban/26daily-suburban-thumbLarge.jpg}}

August 26, 2020~~•~ 33:18Trump's Suburban Strategy

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/25/podcasts/the-daily/coronavirus-plasma-reinfection.html?action=click\&module=audio-series-bar\&region=header\&pgtype=Article}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/25/world/25daily-covid/25daily-covid-thumbLarge.jpg}}

August 25, 2020~~•~ 26:42Where We Stand on the Pandemic

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/24/podcasts/the-daily/gun-violence-new-york.html?action=click\&module=audio-series-bar\&region=header\&pgtype=Article}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/24/world/24daily-guncrime-nyc/24daily-guncrime-nyc-thumbLarge.jpg}}

August 24, 2020~~•~ 33:12A Surge in Shootings

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/column/the-daily}{See All
Episodes ofThe Daily}

Next

Aug. 25, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\emph{\textbf{Listen and subscribe to our podcast from your mobile
device:}}\\
\textbf{\href{https://itunes.apple.com/us/podcast/the-daily/id1200361736?mt=2}{\emph{Via
Apple Podcasts}}} \emph{\textbf{\textbar{}}}
\textbf{\href{https://open.spotify.com/show/3IM0lmZxpFAY7CwMuv9H4g?si=SfuMSC55R1qprFsRZU3_zw}{\emph{Via
Spotify}}} \emph{\textbf{\textbar{}}}
\textbf{\href{http://www.stitcher.com/podcast/the-new-york-times/the-daily-10}{\emph{Via
Stitcher}}}

In the U.S., emergency-use authorization has been granted for
convalescent plasma, the efficacy of which is yet to be robustly tested.
For some, this echoes the situation with hydroxychloroquine and the
government's subsequent U-turn on its rollout.

Meanwhile, America's infection rate appears to be flattening out --- but
at tens of thousands of cases per day. This stands in stark contrast to
China, where daily cases are under 40.

Overseas, a Hong Kong resident has been reinfected with the virus, the
first recorded instance of a second bout. And Russia and China have
begun distributing vaccines, sidestepping Phase 3 safety trials to the
incredulity of immunologists and vaccine executives.

We check back in with Donald G. McNeil Jr. on the coronavirus and the
impact of these developments.

\textbf{On today's episode:}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/donald-g-mcneil-jr}{Donald
  G. McNeil Jr.}, a science and health reporter for The New York Times
\end{itemize}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/25/world/25daily-covid/merlin_174857940_4c396b5d-ac72-4a66-9a16-0f8fc99a3dad-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\textbf{Background reading:}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  A 33-year-old man in Hong Kong was infected with the coronavirus for a
  second time.
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/24/health/coronavirus-reinfection.html?searchResultPosition=1}{It
  is unclear how often people might become reinfected, and how soon
  after the first bout}.
\item
  Despite
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/24/us/coronavirus-cases-decreasing.html?searchResultPosition=1}{flattening},
  America's infection rate remains one of the highest in the world.
\item
  The F.D.A. has permitted the expansion of convalescent plasma
  treatment after
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/23/us/politics/fda-plasma-coronavirus.html?searchResultPosition=4}{pressure
  from President Trump}.
\item
  Russia has approved a coronavirus vaccine and is
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/11/world/europe/russia-coronavirus-vaccine-approval.html?searchResultPosition=6}{set
  to begin mass vaccinations in the fall}. China has reportedly been
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/reuters/2020/08/22/us/22reuters-health-coronavirus-vaccine-china-experimental.html?searchResultPosition=8}{giving
  experimental vaccines} to high-risk groups since July.
\end{itemize}

\emph{Tune in, and tell us what you think. Email us at}
\href{mailto:thedaily@NYTimes.com}{\emph{thedaily@NYTimes.com}}\emph{.
Follow Michael Barbaro on Twitter:}
\href{https://twitter.com/mikiebarb}{\emph{@mikiebarb}}\emph{. And if
you're interested in advertising with ``The Daily,'' write to us at}
\href{mailto:thedaily-ads@NYTimes.com}{\emph{thedaily-ads@NYTimes.com}}\emph{.}

Donald G. McNeil Jr. contributed reporting.

``The Daily'' is made by Theo Balcomb, Andy Mills, Lisa Tobin, Rachel
Quester, Lynsea Garrison, Annie Brown, Clare Toeniskoetter, Paige
Cowett, Michael Simon Johnson, Brad Fisher, Larissa Anderson, Wendy
Dorr, Chris Wood, Jessica Cheung, Stella Tan, Alexandra Leigh Young,
Lisa Chow, Eric Krupke, Marc Georges, Luke Vander Ploeg, Kelly Prime,
Julia Longoria, Sindhu Gnanasambandan, M.J. Davis Lin, Austin Mitchell,
Neena Pathak, Dan Powell, Dave Shaw, Sydney Harper, Daniel Guillemette,
Hans Buetow, Robert Jimison, Mike Benoist, Bianca Giaever, Liz O.
Baylen, Asthaa Chaturvedi and Rachelle Bonja. Our theme music is by Jim
Brunberg and Ben Landsverk of Wonderly. Special thanks to Sam Dolnick,
Mikayla Bouchard, Lauren Jackson, Julia Simon, Mahima Chablani, Nora
Keller, Sofia Milan and Desiree Ibekwe.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
