Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/us}{U.S.}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/us}{U.S.}\textbar{}With Weinstein Conviction, Jury
Delivers a Verdict on \#MeToo

\url{https://nyti.ms/2VfnUfj}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

News Analysis

\hypertarget{with-weinstein-conviction-jury-delivers-a-verdict-on-metoo}{%
\section{With Weinstein Conviction, Jury Delivers a Verdict on
\#MeToo}\label{with-weinstein-conviction-jury-delivers-a-verdict-on-metoo}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/02/21/multimedia/00assessweinsteinconvict/merlin_169281399_f4050797-eeff-4976-b090-4c6b8721874f-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/megan-twohey}{Megan
Twohey} and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/jodi-kantor}{Jodi Kantor}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Feb. 24, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

The criminal case against
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/02/25/us/politics/trump-weinstein-verdict.html}{Harvey
Weinstein} was a long shot.

Many of his accusers were bracing for an acquittal. Fellow prosecutors
across the country were quietly questioning whether the New York
district attorney, Cyrus R. Vance Jr., had made a mistake by bringing
charges.

But by pushing the boundaries of sex-crimes prosecutions, the Manhattan
prosecutors delivered what many people declared a victory for the global
movement against sexual misconduct that Mr. Weinstein's actions had
helped ignite.

``It's a perfect test case of what happens when a culture begins to
shift,'' said Deborah Tuerkheimer, a law professor at Northwestern.

Along the way, one accuser had to be dropped from the case amid
allegations of police misconduct. The central victims acknowledged
having had consensual sex with the Hollywood producer after being
attacked by him, and one had an intimate relationship with him that
stretched for several years. Prosecutors almost never try cases in those
circumstances, deeming them
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/02/07/nyregion/harvey-weinstein-trial-consent.html}{too
messy to win convictions}. At every turn, Mr. Weinstein's lawyers argued
he was a victim of the \#MeToo movement gone too far.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/02/24/nyregion/harvey-weinstein-trial-rape-verdict.html}{The
jury's verdict} was ultimately mixed. Mr. Weinstein was acquitted of two
counts of predatory sexual assault, the most serious charges against
him. The jury had suggested on Friday that it was deadlocked on those
counts.

``This wasn't `Believe all women,' and certainly not `Believe everything
women are saying,''' said Isabelle Kirshner, a former Manhattan
prosecutor turned criminal defense lawyer, who has represented men
accused of sexual assault. ``It looks like they were fairly careful on
what they decided.''

But prosecutors persuaded the jury to convict on two felony sexual
assault charges --- which could send him to prison for up to 29 years
--- suggesting that accountability stretches from the court of public
opinion to the court of criminal law.

On Monday, some of Mr. Weinstein's more than 90 accusers, and others
around the world, reacted to the verdict with relief, tears and
gratitude that the law had spoken for them.

``For so long these women believed that he was untouchable and could
never be held responsible, but now the criminal justice system has found
him guilty,'' said Tarana Burke, the founder of the \#MeToo movement.
``That sends a powerful message.''

\emph{{[}Ashley Judd and other Weinstein accusers}
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/02/24/nyregion/harvey-weinstein-accusers.html?action=click\&module=Intentional\&pgtype=Article}{\emph{spoke
to The Times about the verdict.}}\emph{{]}}

The \#MeToo movement helped propel the prosecution. Mr. Vance, the
district attorney, had drawn criticism for failing to prosecute Mr.
Weinstein in 2015 after an Italian model complained to the police that
the producer had grabbed her breasts and tried to force his hand up her
skirt. And some of Mr. Weinstein's accusers who had not previously gone
to the police were then willing to participate in the criminal justice
process if it meant supporting and protecting other women.

``I just wanted to add my voice in support, and share my experience with
the hopes of helping anyone else who was'' victimized, Miriam Haley, a
former production assistant, said on the witness stand.

``I did it for all of us,'' Dawn Dunning, who served as a supporting
witness in the trial, said in an interview on Monday. ``I did it for the
women who couldn't testify. I couldn't not do it.''

Joan Illuzzi, the lead prosecutor, did not have much by way of forensic
evidence or direct witnesses to prove wrongdoing. Instead, her team
strove to establish a pattern of predation, putting four additional
women on the stand who told similar stories of rape or abuse by Mr.
Weinstein. Those types of supporting witnesses had proved crucial in the
successful prosecution of Bill Cosby in 2018. In the Weinstein trial,
they provided testimony that was much larger than the sum of its parts,
reflecting the collective power of women's voices at the core of
\#MeToo.

For decades Mr. Weinstein
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2017/12/05/us/harvey-weinstein-complicity.html}{used
high-priced lawyers and secret settlements} to silence women with
allegations of sexual misconduct against him. But during the trial,
which began in early January, he was the one who could not speak. On the
advice of his lawyers, he did not take the stand. Instead, he listened
as six women testified about what they said he had done to them.

Many of the women described being humiliated by the producer. As they
spoke, Mr. Weinstein often appeared humiliated. At one point, as one
accuser, Jessica Mann, described his genitals, Mr. Weinstein hung his
head.

To counter the allegations, Mr. Weinstein and his legal team drummed
home the message that \#MeToo had spun out of control.

On the day of his arrest, he walked into a TriBeCa precinct house
carrying a biography of Elia Kazan, the Hollywood director who became a
victim of McCarthyism. He switched counsel several times, finally
setting on Donna Rotunno, a Chicago lawyer who framed much of her
defense as a broader attack on \#MeToo. She argued that Mr. Weinstein's
sexual encounters were consensual, that his accusers were lying to
achieve celebrity status, that women weren't taking responsibility for
their safety, and that men were the true victims and the movement had
robbed them of their fundamental rights.

In
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/02/07/podcasts/the-daily/weinstein-trial.html}{an
interview with ``The Daily,''} Ms. Rotunno asserted that she had never
been a victim of sexual assault because she had never put herself ``in
that position.''

In her closing argument, she criticized what she said was ``a universe
that strips adult women of common sense, autonomy and responsibility.''

But the jury appears to have rejected those arguments. The Weinstein
verdict could prove a symbolic turning point, legal experts said,
showing that sex crimes don't necessarily follow neat scripts and
reshaping public beliefs about which victims deserve their day in court.

The verdict provides hope that we can ``have a criminal justice system
that reflects the reality of sexual violence,'' said Fatima Goss Graves,
the president of the National Women's Law Center.

Mr. Weinstein's legal team has already said it will appeal the
convictions, of rape and criminal sexual act. The producer also faces a
separate criminal prosecution in Los Angeles, where he has been charged
with raping one woman and sexually assaulting another.

Jane Manning, a former Queens prosecutor and founder of the Women's
Equal Justice Project, said she hoped the Weinstein case would inspire
other prosecutors around the country to pursue similarly challenging
cases.

``That's how to cultivate the skill set to try them successfully,'' she
said. ``We need prosecutors to show courage.''

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{Â©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
