Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/world}{World}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/world}{World}\textbar{}Research Boosts Evidence of Masks'
Utility, Some Experts Say

\url{https://nyti.ms/3g5gKSr}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{The
Coronavirus Outbreak}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  live\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/04/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Latest
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Maps
  and Cases}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Vaccine
  Tracker}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/02/us/covid-college-reopening.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{College
  Reopening}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/03/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Economy}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{research-boosts-evidence-of-masks-utility-some-experts-say}{%
\section{Research Boosts Evidence of Masks' Utility, Some Experts
Say}\label{research-boosts-evidence-of-masks-utility-some-experts-say}}

Masks have long been known to help stop infected people from spreading
the virus, but some research suggests they also protect the uninfected.
President Trump shared a video with misinformation about the virus.

\begin{itemize}
\item
  July 27, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

This briefing has ended. Read live coronavirus updates
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/28/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html}{here}.

\hypertarget{heres-what-you-need-to-know}{%
\subsubsection{Here's what you need to
know:}\label{heres-what-you-need-to-know}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-68280489}{Masks may also protect people
  wearing them, some experts say.}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-4e079f3e}{Don't play ball: Canceled Major
  League games are the latest sign of how the virus has upended summer.}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-42d380d8}{President Trump shares a video
  containing misinformation about hydroxychloroquine.}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-718e6382}{Republicans seek to slash expiring
  jobless payments by two-thirds as part of \$1 trillion recovery bill.}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-512ba64b}{Trump, reverting to form, says
  `governors should be opening up states that they're not reopening.'}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-216a816a}{Dr. Birx wants to see all of
  Tennessee require masks --- but stops short of asking for a statewide
  mandate.}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-5e8a1d38}{Boris Johnson's new tactic against
  the virus: urge Britons to lose weight.}
\end{itemize}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/07/27/us/politics/27virus-briefing-masks/27virus-briefing-masks-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\hypertarget{masks-may-also-protect-people-wearing-them-some-experts-say}{%
\subsection{Masks may also protect people wearing them, some experts
say.}\label{masks-may-also-protect-people-wearing-them-some-experts-say}}

Researchers have long known that masks can
\href{https://journals.plos.org/plospathogens/article?id=10.1371/journal.ppat.1003205}{prevent
people from spreading airway germs} to others.

But now experts are pointing to evidence suggesting that masks
\href{https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/23498357/}{also protect the people
wearing them}, lessening the severity of symptoms, or in some instances,
staving off infection entirely.

Different kinds of masks ``block virus to a different degree, but they
all block the virus from getting in,'' said Dr. Monica Gandhi, an
infectious disease physician at the University of California, San
Francisco. If any virus particles do breach these barriers, she said,
the disease might still be milder.

Dr. Gandhi and her colleagues make this argument in a
\href{https://ucsf.app.box.com/s/blvolkp5z0mydzd82rjks4wyleagt036}{paper}
to be published in the Journal of General Internal Medicine. Drawing
from animal experiments and observations of various events during the
pandemic, they contend that people wearing face coverings will take in
fewer coronavirus particles.

Dr. Tsion Firew, an emergency physician at Columbia University who
wasn't involved in the work, cautioned that the links between masking
and milder disease haven't yet been proved as cause and effect.

Ideas about the importance of viral dose in the development of disease
have cropped up in the medical literature since
\href{https://academic.oup.com/aje/article-abstract/27/3/493/99616}{at
least the 1930s}. More recently, scientists have gone as far as to
\href{https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/25416753/}{puff different amounts
of a flu virus} up the noses of human volunteers. The more virus in this
nasal plume, they found, the likelier the participants were to get
infected and experience symptoms.

That sort of experiment can't be done ethically for the new coronavirus,
given how dangerous it is. But earlier this year, a team of researchers
in China tried something similar in hamsters: They housed
coronavirus-infected and healthy animals in adjoining cages, some of
which were separated by buffers made of surgical masks. Many of the
healthy hamsters behind the partitions never got infected. And the
unlucky animals who did
\href{https://academic.oup.com/cid/article/doi/10.1093/cid/ciaa644/5848814}{got
less sick} than their ``maskless'' neighbors.

Rules around mask wearing have been highly politicized. President Trump
spent months questioning their utility and refusing to wear one in
public, though he has recently changed course.

\hypertarget{dont-play-ball-canceled-major-league-games-are-the-latest-sign-of-how-the-virus-has-upended-summer}{%
\subsection{Don't play ball: Canceled Major League games are the latest
sign of how the virus has upended
summer.}\label{dont-play-ball-canceled-major-league-games-are-the-latest-sign-of-how-the-virus-has-upended-summer}}

Image

An empty stadium during an M.L.B. game between the Miami Marlins and the
Philadelphia Phillies on Sunday. The Marlins canceled their home opener
after 14 members of the team tested positive for the
coronavirus.Credit...Chris Szagola/Associated Press

Another of summer's most cherished rites was upended by the pandemic on
Monday when the attempted return of Major League Baseball hit a snag, as
the Miami Marlins postponed their home opener after 14 members of the
team tested positive for the coronavirus.

The troubled return of the national pastime, after
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/25/sports/rob-manfred-mlb-season.html}{months
of careful planning,} was only the latest sign that the virus, instead
of ebbing over the summer as officials had once hoped it would, is
spreading at record levels across wide sections of the United States.

A month that began with
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/02/us/coronavirus-fourth-of-july.html}{canceled
July 4 fireworks displays} across the country and
\href{https://www.miamigov.com/Notices/News-Media/4th-of-July-Weekend-in-the-City-of-Miami}{sporadic
beach closures} has continued with edicts shutting down
\href{https://www.nola.com/news/coronavirus/article_0a3bbc54-ce03-11ea-97ba-cfbad95a9c94.html}{the
bars of Bourbon Street} in New Orleans and
the\href{https://www.asafenashville.org/roadmap-for-reopening-nashville-phase-2-guidance-and-resources/}{dance
floors of Nashville}. Now a new round of cancellations
---\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/27/sports/baseball/marlins-game-canceled.html}{including
the Marlins game and a Phillies game in Philadelphia}, where the
visiting Yankees would have had to use the same clubhouse that the
Marlins had --- is continuing to disrupt summer life.

The infections, and postponements, cast a pall over baseball's plans to
attempt a 60-game season using 30 stadiums,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/24/sports/baseball/blue-jays-buffalo.html}{including
a ballpark in Buffalo for the Toronto Blue Jays}, who were barred from
playing home games by the Canadian government because of the risk of
travel to and from the United States.

Dr. Anthony S. Fauci, the nation's top infectious disease expert, warned
early on about how the pandemic would transform professional sports. He
threw out the first pitch at baseball's opening game last Thursday
between the Yankees and Washington Nationals, an image featured on a
limited-edition Topps NOW baseball card that Topps said sold 51,512
copies during its 24-hour offering.

Topps said that the demand for the card was more than double the
previous record for a Topps NOW card, which was 19,396 copies of a
Vladimir Guerrero Jr. card in 2019.

There will also be no summer blockbuster at the local movie theater:
``Tenet,'' the Christopher Nolan thriller that Warner Bros. had hoped
would lure fans back to multiplexes this month, has been postponed until
Sept. 4, the beginning of Labor Day weekend.

The political blockbusters planned for later this summer --- the
national conventions --- will be unrecognizable from in years past.
President Trump said last week that he was bowing to the reality of the
virus and canceling the convention activities he had tried to move to
Jacksonville, Fla., after officials in North Carolina, where they were
initially supposed to be held, had insisted on enforcing health
guidelines. And Democrats have long been working on
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/17/us/politics/democratic-convention-milwaukee.html}{a
scaled-back convention in Milwaukee} where they plan to nominate Joseph
R. Biden Jr.

One of the other big television events of the summer --- the Olympics
--- is off, too. Tokyo, where the games were supposed to be underway
right now, instead finds itself grappling
with\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/24/world/asia/japan-coronavirus.html}{record
numbers of new cases on several recent days.}

Even the unofficial end of summer --- the start of the school year ---
is being postponed in many districts, where officials say that they need
more time to prepare for classes, which will be held in person in some
places and online in others.

\hypertarget{president-trump-shares-a-video-containing-misinformation-about-hydroxychloroquine}{%
\subsection{President Trump shares a video containing misinformation
about
hydroxychloroquine.}\label{president-trump-shares-a-video-containing-misinformation-about-hydroxychloroquine}}

Image

President Trump in May revealing he was taking hydroxychloroquine as a
preventive measure.Credit...Doug Mills/The New York Times

President Trump shared on his Twitter account Monday night a viral video
containing a series of false or misleading medical claims about the
coronavirus, as social media companies scrambled to halt the video's
rapid spread.

Facebook and YouTube removed versions of the video, and Twitter later
removed the post shared by the president. At least one version, which
was shared on Facebook by the right-wing Breitbart news site, had
garnered over 13 million views before it was removed. Other versions of
the video, including shorter, edited clips, were still online Monday
night.

The video featured what appeared to be a group of doctors in white
coats, standing in front of the Supreme Court building in Washington,
D.C., in what appeared to be a news conference. The doctors made a
series of misleading claims, including that hydroxychloroquine could be
taken as a preventive measure.

The use of the drug to treat or prevent coronavirus has been
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/hydroxychloroquine-coronavirus.html}{widely
disputed by the medical establishment}. The Food and Drug Administration
\href{https://www.fda.gov/media/138945/download}{revoked its emergency
authorization} in June after deeming it ``unlikely to be effective''
while carrying potential risks, and the National Institutes of Health
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/20/health/hydroxychloroquine-coronavirus-trial.html}{halted
clinical trials of the drug in June}. But Mr. Trump repeatedly boosted
the drug in the early months of the crisis, and said in June he was
taking it himself.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-global-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/04/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: Global Coronavirus
Outbreak}}{Latest Updates: Global Coronavirus Outbreak}}\label{latest-updates-global-coronavirus-outbreak}}

Updated 2020-08-04T10:03:05.885Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/04/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-6b644638}{`Long
  days, long nights': Washington prepares for a prolonged fight over
  virus relief.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/04/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-7af9fca0}{Israel's
  rocky reopening of its schools may be a lesson for the U.S.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/04/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-33bf9168}{Hurricane
  Isaias arrives in North Carolina as officials along the East Coast
  scramble.}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/04/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

More live coverage:
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/03/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Markets}

It was the most recent example of
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/20/technology/plandemic-movie-youtube-facebook-coronavirus.html}{misinformation
that has spread about the coronavirus}, at times being shared by Mr.
Trump and others in the White House. A YouTube spokesman said in a
statement that the video had been removed for ``violating Covid-19
misinformation policies.''

\hypertarget{republicans-seek-to-slash-expiring-jobless-payments-by-two-thirds-as-part-of-1-trillion-recovery-bill}{%
\subsection{Republicans seek to slash expiring jobless payments by
two-thirds as part of \$1 trillion recovery
bill.}\label{republicans-seek-to-slash-expiring-jobless-payments-by-two-thirds-as-part-of-1-trillion-recovery-bill}}

Image

Processing unemployment insurance claims last week in Tulsa, Okla. Many
Republicans dislike the supplemental aid put in place by the stimulus
law.Credit...Joseph Rushmore for The New York Times

Republicans are seeking a \$400-per-week reduction in unemployment
benefits in their \$1 trillion economic recovery package, initially
lowering the extra federal payments for tens of millions of jobless
Americans from \$600 to \$200, according to Senator Mitch McConnell,
Republican of Kentucky and the majority leader.

The proposal to slash the jobless aid by two-thirds, part of a
Republican plan they began rolling out on Monday afternoon, is likely to
be among the most bitterly contested issues in bipartisan negotiations
over the next round of pandemic relief. Democrats support a \$3 trillion
package that includes extending the \$600-per-week federal payments,
which expire on Friday, through the end of the year.

Many Republicans detest the supplement to state jobless aid, put in
place by the \$2.2 trillion stimulus law, arguing that it is a
disincentive to returning to work because it exceeds what some workers
can earn in regular wages. The Republican proposal, which has
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/23/us/politics/republicans-stimulus-coronavirus.html}{badly
divided the party}, envisions eventually shifting to a new system of
calculating benefits that would cap payments at about 70 percent of a
worker's prior income,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/23/business/economy/unemployment-benefits.html}{which
would also amount to about \$200 per week}.

It also proposes another round of \$1,200 direct payments to Americans.

In a nod to the long odds of striking a deal before the benefits expire
on Friday, administration officials continue to
\href{https://slack-redir.net/link?url=https\%3A\%2F\%2Fwww.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion\%2F2020\%2F07\%2F26\%2Fus\%2Fpolitics\%2Fcoronavirus-stimulus-bill-unemployment.html}{float
the prospect of speeding through a much narrower bill} that would extend
extra jobless aid, provide funding for schools and enact new liability
shields for operating businesses.

But Democrats have rejected that idea, saying it would sap momentum for
other crucial relief measures.

Democratic leaders left a nearly two-hour meeting with White House
officials on Monday evening saying they were unsatisfied with the
opening bid Republicans had put forward and all but taunting their
Senate counterparts for struggling to coalesce around a proposal.

``If they're not even getting to the fundamentals of food and rent and
economic survival, they're not really ready to have a serious
negotiation,'' Speaker Nancy Pelosi of California said after nearly two
hours of meeting with Steven Mnuchin, the Treasury secretary; Mark
Meadows, the White House chief of staff; and Senator Chuck Schumer of
New York, the minority leader. Mr. Schumer added, ``We hope they can get
their act together --- we very much want to get something done for the
needs of the people.''

Mr. Meadows, as he left Ms. Pelosi's office with Mr. Mnuchin, declared
it a good meeting and said the pair would return on Tuesday.

Both Democratic leaders said they planned to carefully review the
Republican offer overnight.

\hypertarget{trump-reverting-to-form-says-governors-should-be-opening-up-states-that-theyre-not-reopening}{%
\subsection{Trump, reverting to form, says `governors should be opening
up states that they're not
reopening.'}\label{trump-reverting-to-form-says-governors-should-be-opening-up-states-that-theyre-not-reopening}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/07/27/us/politics/27virus-trump-vid-promo/27virus-trump-vid-promo-videoSixteenByNine3000.jpg}

Even as the virus rages across much of the nation, forcing many states
to slow or reverse their reopenings, President Trump said on Monday that
more states should be opening up.

During a visit to a North Carolina biotechnology lab, Mr. Trump boasted
that progress toward a vaccine was ``substantially ahead of schedule''
and that a breakthrough would lead to a ``tremendous'' economic
recovery.

In the next breath, Mr. Trump complained that ``a lot of the governors
should be opening up states that they're not opening, and we'll see what
happens with them.''

It was something of a return to form for Mr. Trump, who has
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/17/us/politics/trump-coronavirus-governors.html}{long
pressed states to reopen}, downplaying the threat of the virus, but who
had
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/21/us/politics/trump-coronavirus-masks.html}{seemed
to shift last week} when he declared at the White House that the virus
``will probably, unfortunately, get worse before it gets better.''

But on Monday, Mr. Trump also urged Americans to ``especially focus on
maintaining a social distance, maintaining rigorous hygiene, avoid large
gatherings and crowded indoor bars and wears masks when appropriate.''
And he then donned a mask himself for a subsequent tour of the lab
facility, where researchers are making components for a potential
vaccine.

Mr. Trump spoke after the White House announced that his national
security adviser,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/27/us/politics/robert-obrien-virus.html}{Robert
C. O'Brien, had tested positive for the coronavirus}, making him the
most senior White House official known to have contracted the virus. In
a statement, the White House said that Mr. O'Brien ``has mild symptoms''
and is working remotely from ``a secure location off site.''

Mr. O'Brien typically works from a West Wing office that is steps away
from the Oval Office. It is unclear when he was last in contact with Mr.
Trump, although he joined him on a
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/10/us/politics/trump-florida-maduro.html}{July
10 trip to Florida}. A photo of Mr. O'Brien taken after he left the
plane in Miami shows him without a mask.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/07/27/upshot/coronavirus-pooled-testing.html}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/07/24/us/up-pooled-testing-promo-1595625370916/up-pooled-testing-promo-1595625370916-articleLarge-v3.png}

\hypertarget{how-to-test-more-people-for-coronavirus-without-actually-needing-more-tests}{%
\subsection{How to Test More People for Coronavirus Without Actually
Needing More
Tests}\label{how-to-test-more-people-for-coronavirus-without-actually-needing-more-tests}}

Pooled testing, which can make one coronavirus test as powerful as five,
is particularly useful when the infection rate is low. Its use could
free up more tests for places where the virus is more widespread.

\hypertarget{dr-birx-wants-to-see-all-of-tennessee-require-masks--but-stops-short-of-asking-for-a-statewide-mandate}{%
\subsection{Dr. Birx wants to see all of Tennessee require masks --- but
stops short of asking for a statewide
mandate.}\label{dr-birx-wants-to-see-all-of-tennessee-require-masks--but-stops-short-of-asking-for-a-statewide-mandate}}

Image

Dr. Deborah Birx in Washington last week.Credit...Doug Mills/The New
York Times

Dr. Deborah L. Birx, the Trump administration's coronavirus response
coordinator, made it clear during a visit to Tennessee on Monday that
she believed that everyone in the state should be required to wear masks
--- but she stopped short of publicly asking its governor to issue a
statewide mandate.

``We need 100 percent of the counties, including the rural counties, to
have these mandates,'' Dr. Birx said
\href{https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=y1UBeX0x-I8}{during a news
conference}.

Then the state's governor, Bill Lee, a Republican, took to the lectern
and was asked if Dr. Birx had pressed him to issue a statewide mandate.
``We talked about statewide mandates. We also talked about alternative
approaches,'' he said. Tennessee reported 2,871 new cases on Sunday, the
most it has reported in a single day, according to
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/tennessee-coronavirus-cases.html}{a
New York Times database.}

It was another example of how the nation's patchwork of rules and
recommendations at different levels of government has complicated
efforts to control the virus.

Federal health officials issue guidelines and make recommendations, but
state and local officials do not always follow them. Mr. Trump has been
dismissive of or slow to promote some federal recommendations --- it
took weeks for him to appear in a mask after health experts called for
face coverings --- and suggested on Monday that more governors should
reopen.

As Kentucky officials weighed new restrictions, Dr. Birx said over the
weekend that the leaders of nearby states should consider doing the same
by closing bars again and issuing restrictions on public gatherings ``to
really make it possible to control the pandemic before it gets worse.''

Gov. Andy Beshear of Kentucky said Monday that the state's bars would
have to close again to slow the spread, about a month after they had
reopened. He also reduced the legal restaurant capacity from 50 percent
to 25 percent, and issued an informal recommendation that schools wait
until the third week of August to resume in-person classes.

Kentucky had already implemented two other recommendations put forward
by Dr. Birx: requiring face masks for public indoor spaces, and limiting
social gatherings to 10 people. ``I don't want to be a state where
casket makers are running out,'' Mr. Beshear said.

States in the South and Midwest are facing the prospect of shutting down
parts of their economies again to try to stem the virus, which the Trump
administration and many governors have increasingly been forced to
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/21/us/politics/trump-coronavirus-masks.html}{recognize
as unrelenting}.
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/26/world/coronavirus-live-updates.html\#link-44261c05}{Florida}
has surpassed New York, an early center of the pandemic in the United
States when testing was scarce, in the number of known cases. And on
Monday, Oklahoma and New Mexico broke state records for single-day
cases. Texas became the fourth state to record over 400,000 total cases,
after California, Florida and New York.

And despite increased testing capacity across the nation, there is a
consensus among federal state and local officials that test results are
taking too long.

\hypertarget{boris-johnsons-new-tactic-against-the-virus-urge-britons-to-lose-weight}{%
\subsection{Boris Johnson's new tactic against the virus: urge Britons
to lose
weight.}\label{boris-johnsons-new-tactic-against-the-virus-urge-britons-to-lose-weight}}

Britain will crack down on junk food advertising and introduce calorie
counts on menus in an effort to tackle obesity and ease the pressure on
the country's National Health Service amid the coronavirus pandemic, the
government said on Monday.

For the British prime minister, Boris Johnson, the intersection of
obesity and the coronavirus is personal. Mr. Johnson was, by his own
admission, ``way overweight'' when he was admitted to the hospital after
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/05/world/europe/coronavirus-queen-elizabeth-speech.html}{becoming
ill with Covid-19 this year}, and his health deteriorated to such an
extent that
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/09/world/europe/coronavirus-boris-johnson-britain.html}{at
one point he needed intensive care}.

Studies have
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/16/health/coronavirus-obesity-higher-risk.html}{linked
obesity to a greater risk of serious illness or death from Covid-19},
and Mr. Johnson,
\href{https://www.express.co.uk/news/uk/1314742/Boris-Johnson-health-reforms-obesity-latest}{writing
in the British newspaper The Daily Express}, described his time in
hospital as a ``wake-up call.''

``We all put things off --- I know I have,'' Mr. Johnson wrote. ``I've
wanted to lose weight for ages and like many people I struggle with my
weight.''

As part of the government's
\href{https://www.gov.uk/government/news/new-obesity-strategy-unveiled-as-country-urged-to-lose-weight-to-beat-coronavirus-covid-19-and-protect-the-nhs}{new
obesity strategy}, advertisements for any food high in fat, sugar or
salt will be banned on television and online until 9 p.m. to avoid hours
when children are most likely to see them. There will also be a
consultation on whether Britain should entirely ban online ads for junk
food.

All large restaurants and cafes will be required to add a calorie count
to their menus, and the government will look into adding calorie labels
to alcoholic drinks.

Promotional offers like ``buy one, get one free'' on fatty or sugary
foods will also be prohibited.

\hypertarget{protesters-in-puerto-rico-blame-tourists-heedless-behavior-for-rising-cases}{%
\subsection{Protesters in Puerto Rico blame tourists' heedless behavior
for rising
cases.}\label{protesters-in-puerto-rico-blame-tourists-heedless-behavior-for-rising-cases}}

Image

A banner urging visitors to wear face masks in San Juan.Credit...Ricardo
Arduengo/Agence France-Presse --- Getty Images

Instead of the welcome that a tourism-hungry island would usually
extend, travelers to Puerto Rico over the weekend encountered angry
protesters outside the San Juan airport, demanding that the airport be
closed to tourists.

The protesters' complaint: Too many visitors have been blithely ignoring
social-distancing precautions and mask mandates.

A caravan of cars honking their horns, with protesters holding up signs,
blocked traffic into the airport, and some protesters on foot clashed
with police.

``We are going to continue with this caravan and with this fight,
because this is a question of life or death,'' one protester, Ricardo
Santos Ortiz, said on
\href{https://www.wapa.tv/noticias/locales/manifestacion-que-exigia-cerrar-aeropuerto-culmina-con-un-arresto_20131122482738.html}{WAPA-TV}
Saturday.

Puerto Rico reopened to tourism July 15, but a day later Gov. Wanda
Vázquez Garced reversed course, pushing the opening off for a month and
shutting many businesses down again, because coronavirus cases were
soaring on the island. That has not stopped tourists from arriving
anyway, often flying in from virus hot spots around the U.S. to vacation
in one of the few tropical getaways that Americans can visit now.

About 12,000 people have flown to San Juan from Miami so far in July,
five times as many as in April, according to Greg Chin, a spokesperson
for Miami International Airport. José Reyes of the Puerto Rico National
Guard said in
\href{https://www.wapa.tv/noticias/locales/alarmante-cantidad-de-viajeros-que-llegan-de-la-florida-a-puerto-rico_20131122482429.html}{a
televised interview} last week that only about 20 percent of arriving
visitors were complying with Puerto Rico's requirement that they have a
negative coronavirus test from the previous 72 hours.

Puerto Rico shut down early, before any U.S. state, and managed to avoid
a major coronavirus outbreak in the spring. But its daily case counts
have soared in the last two weeks, and residents say the influx of
tourists is to blame for much of the rise.

Videos of unmasked tourists
\href{https://www.telemundopr.com/noticias/puerto-rico/sin-mascarilla-y-distanciamiento-decenas-de-turistas-por-la-libre-en-condado/2105861/}{dancing
in the streets} and
\href{https://www.facebookcorewwwi.onion/100000978562895/videos/4176373252405252/}{scuffling
at the airport} have recently gone viral, and some businesses have
\href{https://www.telemundopr.com/noticias/puerto-rico/sin-mascarilla-y-distanciamiento-decenas-de-turistas-por-la-libre-en-condado/2105861/}{called
the police} to deal with tourists who became aggressive when asked to
wear a mask.

Though the island's hotels are open, much else is shut down, including
hotel swimming pools, casinos and tourist attractions; beaches are
closed except for solo exercise.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{}

\hypertarget{the-coronavirus-outbreak-}{%
\subsubsection{The Coronavirus Outbreak
›}\label{the-coronavirus-outbreak-}}

\hypertarget{frequently-asked-questions}{%
\paragraph{Frequently Asked
Questions}\label{frequently-asked-questions}}

Updated August 3, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{im-a-small-business-owner-can-i-get-relief}{%
  \paragraph{I'm a small-business owner. Can I get
  relief?}\label{im-a-small-business-owner-can-i-get-relief}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    The
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/small-business-loans-stimulus-grants-freelancers-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{stimulus
    bills enacted in March} offer help for the millions of American
    small businesses. Those eligible for aid are businesses and
    nonprofit organizations with fewer than 500 workers, including sole
    proprietorships, independent contractors and freelancers. Some
    larger companies in some industries are also eligible. The help
    being offered, which is being managed by the Small Business
    Administration, includes the Paycheck Protection Program and the
    Economic Injury Disaster Loan program. But lots of folks have
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/05/07/business/small-business-loans-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{not
    yet seen payouts.} Even those who have received help are confused:
    The rules are draconian, and some are stuck sitting on
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/02/business/economy/loans-coronavirus-small-business.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{money
    they don't know how to use.} Many small-business owners are getting
    less than they expected or
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/10/business/Small-business-loans-ppp.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{not
    hearing anything at all.}
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{what-are-my-rights-if-i-am-worried-about-going-back-to-work}{%
  \paragraph{What are my rights if I am worried about going back to
  work?}\label{what-are-my-rights-if-i-am-worried-about-going-back-to-work}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Employers have to provide
    \href{https://www.osha.gov/SLTC/covid-19/standards.html}{a safe
    workplace} with policies that protect everyone equally.
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/coronavirus-money-unemployment.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{And
    if one of your co-workers tests positive for the coronavirus, the
    C.D.C.} has said that
    \href{https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/community/guidance-business-response.html}{employers
    should tell their employees} -\/- without giving you the sick
    employee's name -\/- that they may have been exposed to the virus.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{should-i-refinance-my-mortgage}{%
  \paragraph{Should I refinance my
  mortgage?}\label{should-i-refinance-my-mortgage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/coronavirus-money-unemployment.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{It
    could be a good idea,} because mortgage rates have
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/16/business/mortgage-rates-below-3-percent.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{never
    been lower.} Refinancing requests have pushed mortgage applications
    to some of the highest levels since 2008, so be prepared to get in
    line. But defaults are also up, so if you're thinking about buying a
    home, be aware that some lenders have tightened their standards.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{what-is-school-going-to-look-like-in-september}{%
  \paragraph{What is school going to look like in
  September?}\label{what-is-school-going-to-look-like-in-september}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    It is unlikely that many schools will return to a normal schedule
    this fall, requiring the grind of
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/05/us/coronavirus-education-lost-learning.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{online
    learning},
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/29/us/coronavirus-child-care-centers.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{makeshift
    child care} and
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/03/business/economy/coronavirus-working-women.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{stunted
    workdays} to continue. California's two largest public school
    districts --- Los Angeles and San Diego --- said on July 13, that
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/13/us/lausd-san-diego-school-reopening.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{instruction
    will be remote-only in the fall}, citing concerns that surging
    coronavirus infections in their areas pose too dire a risk for
    students and teachers. Together, the two districts enroll some
    825,000 students. They are the largest in the country so far to
    abandon plans for even a partial physical return to classrooms when
    they reopen in August. For other districts, the solution won't be an
    all-or-nothing approach.
    \href{https://bioethics.jhu.edu/research-and-outreach/projects/eschool-initiative/school-policy-tracker/}{Many
    systems}, including the nation's largest, New York City, are
    devising
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/26/us/coronavirus-schools-reopen-fall.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{hybrid
    plans} that involve spending some days in classrooms and other days
    online. There's no national policy on this yet, so check with your
    municipal school system regularly to see what is happening in your
    community.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{is-the-coronavirus-airborne}{%
  \paragraph{Is the coronavirus
  airborne?}\label{is-the-coronavirus-airborne}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    The coronavirus
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/04/health/239-experts-with-one-big-claim-the-coronavirus-is-airborne.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{can
    stay aloft for hours in tiny droplets in stagnant air}, infecting
    people as they inhale, mounting scientific evidence suggests. This
    risk is highest in crowded indoor spaces with poor ventilation, and
    may help explain super-spreading events reported in meatpacking
    plants, churches and restaurants.
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/06/health/coronavirus-airborne-aerosols.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{It's
    unclear how often the virus is spread} via these tiny droplets, or
    aerosols, compared with larger droplets that are expelled when a
    sick person coughs or sneezes, or transmitted through contact with
    contaminated surfaces, said Linsey Marr, an aerosol expert at
    Virginia Tech. Aerosols are released even when a person without
    symptoms exhales, talks or sings, according to Dr. Marr and more
    than 200 other experts, who
    \href{https://academic.oup.com/cid/article/doi/10.1093/cid/ciaa939/5867798}{have
    outlined the evidence in an open letter to the World Health
    Organization}.
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{a-late-stage-trial-of-a-potential-vaccine-will-enroll-people-at-89-sites-around-the-united-states}{%
\subsection{A late-stage trial of a potential vaccine will enroll people
at 89 sites around the United
States.}\label{a-late-stage-trial-of-a-potential-vaccine-will-enroll-people-at-89-sites-around-the-united-states}}

Image

The entrance of Moderna Therapeutics in Cambridge, Mass., in
May.Credit...Tony Luong for The New York Times

One of the first large studies of safety and effectiveness of a
coronavirus vaccine in the United States began on Monday, according to
the National Institutes of Health and the biotech company Moderna, which
collaborated to develop the vaccine.

The first shot was given to a person at 6:45 a.m., Dr. Anthony S. Fauci,
the nation's leading infections disease expert, told reporters.

The study, a Phase 3 clinical trial, will enroll 30,000 healthy people
at about 89 sites around the country. Half will receive two shots of the
vaccine, 28 days apart, and half will receive two shots of a saltwater
placebo. Neither the volunteers nor the medical staff giving the
injections will know who is getting the real vaccine.

Dr. Fauci estimated that the trial's full enrollment of 30,000 will be
completed by the end of the summer, and that results might be available
by November. Even earlier results might be possible, he said, but added
that he doubted that would be the case.

A second company, Pfizer, announced Monday afternoon that it would also
begin a late-stage study of a coronavirus vaccine, on Tuesday. Pfizer
has been working with a German company, BioNTech. Their study will also
include 30,000 people, from 39 states in the United States, and from
Brazil, Argentina and Germany.

The government announced last week that it had reached
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/22/us/politics/pfizer-coronavirus-vaccine.html}{a
\$1.95 billion deal to buy 100 million doses of Pfizer's vaccine} by the
year's end, but only if the trial proves it safe and effective.

At the news briefing, Dr. Francis Collins, the director of the National
Institutes of Health, said that at least three other Phase 3 trials
would be starting soon, each needing 30,000 patients. Those trials will
involve vaccines made by Novavax, by a collaboration of the University
of Oxford and AstraZeneca, and by Johnson \& Johnson. All are part of
the U.S. government's Operation Warp Speed.

Once volunteers are vaccinated, researchers will be looking for side
effects and waiting to see if the vaccine significantly lowers cases of
Covid-19. The study will also try to find out if it can prevent severe
Covid-19 cases and death; if it can prevent infection entirely, based on
lab tests; and if just one shot can prevent the illness.

\href{https://slack-redir.net/link?url=https\%3A\%2F\%2Fwww.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion\%2F2020\%2F07\%2F14\%2Fhealth\%2Fcornavirus-vaccine-moderna.html\%3FsearchResultPosition\%3D5}{Earlier
tests of the vaccine} showed that it stimulated a strong immune
response, with minor and transient side effects like sore arms, fatigue,
achiness and fever. But exactly what type of immune response is needed
to prevent the illness is not known, so Phase 3 studies are essential to
determine whether a vaccine really works.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/06/09/us/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker-promo-1591728041922/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker-promo-1591728041922-articleLarge-v34.png}

\hypertarget{coronavirus-vaccine-tracker}{%
\subsection{Coronavirus Vaccine
Tracker}\label{coronavirus-vaccine-tracker}}

A look at all the vaccines that have reached trials in humans.

\hypertarget{35-lifeguards-are-infected-in-an-outbreak-at-the-jersey-shore}{%
\subsection{35 lifeguards are infected in an outbreak at the Jersey
Shore.}\label{35-lifeguards-are-infected-in-an-outbreak-at-the-jersey-shore}}

Image

The Beach Haven borough of Long Beach Island in March.Credit...Hannah
Yoon for The New York Times

Long Beach Island, a popular summertime destination along the Jersey
Shore, is now a different kind of hot spot.

Thirty-five lifeguards from two boroughs on the barrier island --- Surf
City and Harvey Cedars --- recently
\href{http://lbihealth.com/wp-content/uploads/2020/07/pressrelease727.pdf}{tested
positive for the coronavirus}, the island's health department announced
on Monday.

Public health officials said that half of the lifeguards were
experiencing mild symptoms and the rest were asymptomatic. None were
hospitalized, the officials said.

The outbreak was traced to two social gatherings that the lifeguards
attended on July 12 and July 14, according to the Long Beach Island
Health Department, which said it dispatched nurses to investigate cases
and issue quarantine orders.

``Based on our investigation so far, the workplace was not the source of
transmission and practices likely prevented additional cases,'' the
Health Department said in a news release on Monday. ``The youth and
young adults should recognize they are not immune to this virus.''

During a daily briefing on the coronavirus pandemic on Monday, Gov. Phil
Murphy of New Jersey mentioned the outbreak on Long Beach Island and
said he was troubled by reports of large social gatherings of young
people.

``This is among us, folks,'' Mr. Murphy said. ``Any of us who thinks we
can just put our feet up and relax and let this take its course is not
paying attention, particularly congregating inside, in close proximity,
poor ventilation, without face coverings. You're looking for trouble.
You're absolutely looking for trouble, no matter how old you are.''

In Harvey Cedars, 18 of 73 lifeguards were infected, according to the
\href{http://www.harveycedars.org/}{borough's website}, which said that
its beaches were still open and fully staffed. The lifeguards who tested
positive for the virus will not be allowed to return to work until they
meet the safety protocols set by the island's health department,
according to a post on the borough's website. It was not immediately
clear what those protocols are.

When reached by phone on Monday evening, the mayor of Surf City, Francis
R. Hodgson Sr., refused to comment.

On Long Beach Island, only one lifeguard is allowed in a lifeguard stand
under social distancing guidelines that the island's Health Department
said it implemented at the start of the season. Lifeguards must report
directly to their stand, and communal activities are barred, health
officials said.

\hypertarget{the-doctor-behind-the-data-in-discredited-studies-is-said-to-have-a-history-of-misrepresenting-information}{%
\subsection{The doctor behind the data in discredited studies is said to
have a history of misrepresenting
information.}\label{the-doctor-behind-the-data-in-discredited-studies-is-said-to-have-a-history-of-misrepresenting-information}}

Image

Dr. Sapan Desai, center on the left, during a 2015 training simulation
at the Memorial Center for Learning and Innovation in Springfield,
Ill.Credit...Rich Saal/The State Journal-Register, via USA TODAY NETWORK

The doctor who supplied the data for two discredited Covid-19 studies
had a history of cutting corners and misrepresenting information as he
pursued his ambitions, former colleagues say.

In May, Dr. Sapan Desai published two high-profile studies, including
one that found that anti-malaria drugs promoted by President Trump had
harmed patients being treated for Covid-19. The study almost instantly
disrupted multiple clinical trials amid the pandemic. (The Food and Drug
Administration said that hydroxychloroquine has not been shown to be
safe and effective and should not be used outside clinical trials.)

Last month, both studies were retracted by the medical journals that had
published them, after researchers around the world suggested the data
was dubious. Dr. Desai, who declined to share the raw data even with his
co-authors, claimed it was culled from a massive trove acquired by
Surgisphere, a business he started during his residency.

The New York Times interviewed more than two dozen people who have known
Dr. Desai over the past two decades. He has cast himself as an ambitious
physician, an entrepreneur with an M.B.A. and a prolific researcher
published in medical journals.

But more than a dozen doctors who worked with him during training and
residency said they had often found him to be an unreliable physician,
who seemed less interested in patient care than in his company and a
medical journal he founded.

``You couldn't trust what he said,'' said Dr. Vanessa Olcese, a former
chief resident who worked with Dr. Desai at Duke University Medical
Center.

U.S. ROUNDUP

\hypertarget{googles-employees-will-work-from-home-until-mid-2021}{%
\subsection{Google's employees will work from home until
mid-2021.}\label{googles-employees-will-work-from-home-until-mid-2021}}

Sundar Pichai, the chief executive of Google's parent company, Alphabet,
told employees Monday that they would not be expected back in the office
until mid-2021.

The company's work force, which has been working remotely since March,
had previously been told to expect a return to offices in January 2021.

A Google spokesman said: ``To give employees the ability to plan ahead,
we are extending our global voluntary work from home option through June
30, 2021, for roles that don't need to be in the office.''

Technology companies moved quickly with work-from-home policies, and
have been reluctant to bring workers back too early. In May, Facebook
said it would allow many employees to work from home permanently.

In other developments around the United States:

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \textbf{Washington, D.C.}, said travelers should quarantine themselves
  for 14 days if they arrive
  \href{https://coronavirus.dc.gov/release/dc-health-releases-list-high-risk-states}{from
  27 ``high-risk'' states} that meet certain criteria, including
  California, Florida and Texas. Residents in nearby Maryland and
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/virginia-coronavirus-cases.html}{Virginia}
  --- which are both seeing increased numbers of cases --- are exempted
  from the order. People arriving after essential travel in those states
  or arriving in Washington for essential travel should self-monitor.
  Many states across the United States
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/10/travel/state-travel-restrictions.html}{have
  added restrictions on incoming travelers} in hopes of curbing the
  spread of the virus.
\item
  The Labor Department has been struggling to process a pileup of
  \textbf{compensation claims from federal workers} who have fallen ill
  with the coronavirus, according to an audit by the department's
  inspector general. The department expects to have received roughly
  6,000 claims by next Tuesday, and has been slow to sift through the
  ones it has received already, according
  to\href{https://www.oig.dol.gov/public/reports/oa/2020/19-20-004-04-001.pdf}{the
  report}: As of June 16, the department had processed only 911 of the
  2,866 claims it had received.
\item
  Twenty-three states
  \href{http://www.ncbex.org/ncbe-covid-19-updates/july-2020-bar-exam-jurisdiction-information/status-table/}{are
  going ahead
  with}\textbf{\href{http://www.ncbex.org/ncbe-covid-19-updates/july-2020-bar-exam-jurisdiction-information/status-table/}{in-person
  bar exams}} --- the grueling tests that aspiring lawyers must pass to
  practice --- on Tuesday and Wednesday, despite the recent surge in
  coronavirus cases across the country. Most of the states are in the
  South or Midwest; many, like Mississippi, Missouri and Oklahoma, have
  seen sharp recent rises in case reports. The danger posed by having
  numerous test-takers sitting in the same rooms for hours has prompted
  many other states to postpone the exam until later in the year, switch
  to administering it online, or both. Some states that usually give the
  exam in early September have also announced postponements.
\item
  Gov. Gavin Newsom of \textbf{California} announced a \$52 million
  grant from the federal government aimed at slowing the virus's rampage
  through the states's Central Valley, where residents of predominantly
  Latino communities have consistently been required to keep showing up
  at work in fields or meatpacking plants and
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/22/us/coronavirus-ca-warehouse-workers.html}{warehouses}.
  The money will go toward more focused testing efforts to identify
  outbreaks, education for employees and employers about rights to sick
  leave and other safety issues, as well as improvements to quarantine
  and isolation protocols.
\item
  State officials in \textbf{Texas} changed their methodology for
  reporting coronavirus deaths on Monday, causing a spike in their data.
  More than 6,000 people in Texas are now known to have died from the
  coronavirus, according to a New York Times database that uses state
  and county data, an increase of more than 1,000 since Sunday.
\item
  The gym chain \textbf{Planet Fitness}
  \href{https://www.planetfitness.com/club-cleanliness}{announced}
  Monday that guests would be required to wear masks at all times while
  inside its facilities, effective Aug. 1. The announcement follows
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/which-stores-require-masks.html}{similar
  policies by national chains} in recent weeks. Planet Fitness opened
  its 2,000th gym in December 2019.
\item
  \textbf{\href{https://coronavirus.gwu.edu/}{George Washington
  University}} **** announced on Monday that all undergraduate classes
  would be taught online this fall as the
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&module=styln-coronavirus\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{number
  of cases rises in Washington, D.C., Maryland and Virginia}. The
  university said it would provide on-campus housing to a limited number
  of students with extenuating personal or academic circumstances.
  \emph{(An earlier version of this briefing reported erroneously that
  Georgetown University would also be holding all classes online.)}
\item
  The \textbf{Metro Atlantic Athletic Conference}
  \href{https://maacsports.com/news/2020/7/27/general-maac-statement-of-fall-sports-competition.aspx}{said
  it would cancel fall sports}competition because of virus concerns,
  including men's and women's soccer, women's volleyball, and men's and
  women's cross country. It joined the
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/08/sports/ncaafootball/ivy-league-fall-sports-football-coronavirus.html}{Ivy
  League and the Patriot League} in placing sports on hold.
\item
  The surge in coronavirus infections in \textbf{Missouri} has
  temporarily shut down Harris-Stowe State University in St. Louis, less
  than a month before the fall semester was set to begin, because of a
  cluster of reported infections among campus employees. The
  historically black university conducted all its summer classes online
  this year, so there were few students and faculty members on the
  campus. But a smattering of other university employees have been
  working there since May, and the city of St. Louis and the surrounding
  county have been reporting high rates of infection.
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{the-carefully-tended-grapes-of-france-are-condemned-to-become-hand-gel-after-a-wine-market-collapse}{%
\subsection{The carefully tended grapes of France are condemned to
become hand gel after a wine market
collapse.}\label{the-carefully-tended-grapes-of-france-are-condemned-to-become-hand-gel-after-a-wine-market-collapse}}

Across France, thousands of winemakers, famous and obscure, are facing
moments of heartbreak.

The economic crisis, combined with the Trump administration's 25 percent
tax on French wines in a trade war dispute with Europe, has collapsed
the wine market.

So some of the wine for which France is famous will wind up as hand
sanitizer.

The 2020 harvest, blessed by abundant sunshine, is barely a month away.
The wine vats must be emptied for the new production. The distillery is
the only option.

``We're producing more than we can sell,'' said Thibaut Specht, a
winemaker in Alsace. ``We have no choice.''

Marion Borès's family business, Domaine Borès, in Reichsfeld, is sending
off half its production --- 320,000 liters --- to a distiller for
conversion into alcohol for sanitizer. ``It's like you are saying
goodbye to somebody who is very dear to you,'' she said.

GLOBAL ROUNDUP

\hypertarget{north-korea-accused-a-defector-of-bringing-in-the-virus-but-theres-no-evidence-of-that}{%
\subsection{North Korea accused a defector of bringing in the virus, but
there's no evidence of
that.}\label{north-korea-accused-a-defector-of-bringing-in-the-virus-but-theres-no-evidence-of-that}}

Image

North Korea's leader has placed Kaesong, a city of 300,000 on the border
with South Korea, under total lockdown.Credit...Naohiko Hatta/Kyodo
News, via Associated Press

After North Korea on Sunday
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/25/world/asia/north-korea-coronavirus-kim-jong-un.html}{accused
a man of secretly crossing} into the country from South Korea and
bringing the virus with him, Seoul went in search of any defectors ​in
​the South who were missing.

By Monday,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/27/world/asia/north-korea-defector-coronavirus.html}{South
Korean officials had zeroed in} on a 24-year-old man, identified only by
his family name, Kim, who in 2017 swam across the western inter-Korea
border to defect to the South. On July 19, he swam back across the
border into Kaesong in the North, they said.

It was not immediately clear why the defector had crossed. The South
Korean news agency Yonhap reported that the man had been wanted by the
South Korean police for questioning after a rape accusation.

North Korea said on Sunday that the North Korean man was ``suspected to
have been infected with the vicious virus'' and could be the country's
first case. And the reverse defection prompted the North's leader, Kim
Jong-un, to order a total lockdown of Kaesong, a border city of 300,000,
and declare a ``maximum'' national emergency.

Until Sunday, North Korea had ​repeatedly ​said that it had no Covid-19
cases.
The\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/31/world/asia/north-korea-coronavirus.html?action=click\&module=RelatedLinks\&pgtype=Article}{claim
was questioned by outside experts}.

South Korea officials could not say whether the man might have ​carried
the virus across the border.

In other news from around the world:

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \textbf{Vietnam}, which on Saturday
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/25/world/asia/coronavirus-vietnam.html}{broke
  a streak of 100 days without a local virus transmission}, will
  evacuate 80,000 people from the central city of Danang after four
  residents there tested positive this weekend.
\item
  \textbf{Hong Kong} will prohibit dining in restaurants, limit public
  gatherings to two people and require mask-wearing in public at all
  times, officials said on Monday, reacting to a spike in coronavirus
  cases. The territory reported 145 cases on Monday, its highest
  single-day count since the pandemic began.
\item
  \textbf{Belgium's} prime minister reinstated strict social-distancing
  rules on Monday, saying she was taking aggressive steps to avoid
  another lockdown. She ordered Belgians not to socialize with more than
  five people and restricted all shopping visits to 30 minutes. Such
  measures were in place this spring, as Belgium was just emerging from
  a strict lockdown. Belgium's infection numbers remain small but are
  increasing quickly, particularly in the second-largest city, Antwerp.
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \textbf{Lebanon} on Monday ordered bars, houses of worship, cinemas,
  sporting events and markets to close for two weeks as part of a
  \href{https://www.reuters.com/article/us-health-coronavirus-lebanon/lebanon-reimposes-covid-19-restrictions-as-infections-spike-idUSKCN24S2FV?il=0}{lockdown
  after a surge in infections}, Reuters reported, citing state media
  accounts. Some shops, banks and schools will be allowed to open, but
  only for two days a week.
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  The virus has been surging across \textbf{Zambia}, with the government
  announcing a
  \href{https://web.facebookcorewwwi.onion/mohzambia/posts/1652250194949631?_rdc=1\&_rdr}{record
  number of cases}. Last week,
  \href{https://www.facebookcorewwwi.onion/mohzambia/posts/1651296328378351}{the
  authorities also said} that 15 lawmakers and 11 members of staff had
  tested positive.
\item
  The \textbf{Australian Open}, the premier golf tournament on the PGA
  Australasia Tour,
  \href{https://www.golf.org.au/ausopen/australian-open-postponed-for-2020/}{won't
  be played this year because of the pandemic}, Golf Australia
  announced. The event, which is in its 105th year, had been scheduled
  for November.
\item
  Dr. Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, the director general of the
  \textbf{World Health Organization}, said Monday that the coronavirus
  was ``easily the most severe'' global health emergency that the
  organization has declared. He defended how the W.H.O. has handled it
  from critics including Mr. Trump, who have accused it of being slow to
  sound the alarm, and added that the pandemic ``has shown what humans
  are capable of, both positively and negatively.''
\end{itemize}

Reporting was contributed by Julie Bosman, Stephen Castle, Troy Closson,
Emily Cochrane, Lindsey Rogers Cook, Michael Cooper, Michael Crowley,
Nicholas Fandos, Julia Echikson, Sheera Frenkel, Gillian Friedman, Ellen
Gabler, Kevin Granville, Denise Grady, Rebecca Halleck, Shawn Hubler,
Choe Sang-Hun, Tyler Kepner, Patrick J. Lyons, Tiffany May, David
McCabe, Raphael Minder, Zach Montague, Adam Nossiter, Richard C.
Paddock, Roni Caryn Rabin, Edgar Sandoval, Anna Schaverien, Kaly Soto,
Eileen Sullivan, Neil Vigdor, Daniel Victor, Will Wright and Katherine
J. Wu.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
