Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}Four Years After Beau
Biden's Death, His Father Bonds With Voters in Pain

\url{https://nyti.ms/2IbRB8T}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Election
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/biden-vice-president-2020.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Biden's
  V.P. Search}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/07/24/us/politics/trump-biden-campaign-donors.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Map
  of Donations}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/elections/delegate-count-primary-results.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Delegate
  Count}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2019/us/politics/2020-presidential-candidates.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{The
  Candidates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Politics
  Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{four-years-after-beau-bidens-death-his-father-bonds-with-voters-in-pain}{%
\section{Four Years After Beau Biden's Death, His Father Bonds With
Voters in
Pain}\label{four-years-after-beau-bidens-death-his-father-bonds-with-voters-in-pain}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2019/05/30/us/30biden-grief-2/merlin_154854888_a3fe94b1-7dcf-4e44-b624-eeea1baa80e3-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By Katie Glueck

\begin{itemize}
\item
  May 30, 2019
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

PHILADELPHIA --- Joseph R. Biden Jr. has a habit of bringing people to
tears.

For Teri Inverso, a Pennsylvania voter attending Mr. Biden's
Philadelphia rally this month, the moment came as she talked about her
late parents and recalled how the former vice president coped with
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2015/05/31/us/politics/joseph-r-biden-iii-vice-presidents-son-beau-dies-at-46.html}{the
death of his son Beau}.

For Lisa Gatto, a sister-in-law of former Representative Steve Israel,
it was when she once opened up to Mr. Biden about her experience
battling breast cancer, Mr. Israel recalled.

And for State Senator Pam Jochum of Iowa, it happened as she recounted
Mr. Biden's condolence messages after her daughter died, and his own
experiences with grief.

``Everyone has had someone in their life that they lost,'' Ms. Jochum
said.

``And the fact that he was able to pick up the pieces shows us you can
continue on another pathway to make a difference,'' she added. ``That
resiliency, the tenacity it takes to keep moving, it's not easy, but you
can do it.''

{[}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/politics?smid=rd?action=click\&module=Intentional\&pgtype=Article}{\emph{Sign
up for our politics newsletter and join the conversation around the 2020
presidential race.}}{]}

Four years ago this Thursday, Mr. Biden's 46-year-old son Beau ---
Joseph R. Biden III, the former attorney general of Delaware --- died of
brain cancer,
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2015/06/01/us/beau-bidens-death-triggers-an-outpouring-of-grief.html}{a
loss that the nation witnessed} as Mr. Biden was serving his final years
as vice president. In 1972, Mr. Biden's first wife and a baby daughter
were killed in a car accident.

Now, as Mr. Biden mounts his third run for the presidency, there is
evidence that his family tragedies have helped him form connections with
voters grappling with their own hardships. While political candidates
often try to project sympathy --- Bill Clinton was especially known for
wearing his heart on his sleeve --- some Democrats said they felt a bond
with Mr. Biden that transcended traditional political factors: They
consider him to be a singularly experienced candidate when it comes to
endurance and empathy.

``Some politicians have a sixth sense for weakness,'' said Mr. Israel, a
New York Democrat. ``Some can sense power. Joe Biden has a sixth sense
for people who are struggling.''

That dynamic is often on display on the campaign trail, where voters
share emotional stories of illness or loss before taking a photo with
the former vice president or asking him a question. It was
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/04/26/us/politics/biden-the-view.html}{a
central theme} of Mr. Biden's appearance on ``The View'' after he
announced for president. And it was evident in voter surveys compiled by
at least one would-be rival to Mr. Biden.

Howard Wolfson, a senior adviser to former Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg of
New York, oversaw focus groups and polling when Mr. Bloomberg was
considering a 2020 presidential run. In the focus groups, Mr. Wolfson
said, there was ``a surprisingly high level of awareness'' of Mr.
Biden's biography, and of ``some of the personal tragedies that he
experienced in particular.''

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2019/05/30/us/30biden-grief-3/c7bc708c4d924c3b9b51fc1ed30f74aa-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

``The awareness created a real sense of affinity and empathy,'' Mr.
Wolfson said. ``Affinity with him, empathy for him and a real sense that
his tragedies made him more relatable to them, and them more relatable
to him.''

\hypertarget{latest-updates-2020-election}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: 2020
Election}}{Latest Updates: 2020 Election}}\label{latest-updates-2020-election}}

Updated 2020-08-01T01:26:45.732Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-29fdff45}{Kamala
  Harris, a top vice-presidential contender, confronts double
  standards.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-13ec3d9c}{Karen
  Bass and Susan Rice are rising on Biden's vice-presidential
  shortlist.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-49e9a016}{Trump
  says Russian bounties to kill U.S. troops `never took place.'}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

{[}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2019/us/politics/2020-presidential-candidates.html?action=click\&module=Intentional\&pgtype=Article}{\emph{Keep
up with the 2020 field with our candidate tracker.}}{]}

Mr. Biden's personal story is not enough to sustain a candidacy, of
course: Many Democratic operatives and, privately, some Biden allies say
they expect his current commanding lead in the polls to erode as he
confronts a party base that has moved left in recent years, and as other
candidates demonstrate their abilities to take on President Trump. Some
Democrats also noted that any candidate's biography, however compelling,
was unlikely to drive votes on its own.

``Ultimately the candidate is still going to have to make the sell on
his or her vision for the country,'' said former Gov. Jim Hodges of
South Carolina, a Democrat who is so far neutral in the 2020
primary**.** ``It's going to need to be consistent with the desires and
motivations of those voters.''

Former Representative Ryan Costello, a Republican who served a moderate
suburban Philadelphia-area district through 2018, said Mr. Biden's
biography could be compelling to the centrist voters he represented
there.

``There are a lot of independent voters that tend to vote the person,
not the party,'' he said. ``Somebody who's looking for someone who shows
a certain sense of compassion, understands what personal tragedy,
adversity is, can see a connection with what the vice president is going
through.''

(Personal appeal could also benefit President Trump, who has a strong
ability to connect with conservatives and some independents, Mr.
Costello added.)

In his first five weeks as a candidate, Mr. Biden has frequently brought
up the illness and death of Beau Biden, often as he discusses health
care and insurance access. He also sometimes mentions the death of his
first wife and daughter, as he did on Wednesday in Dallas, telling the
story of the accident --- which happened shortly after he was first
elected to the Senate --- to a room of school-age children. His sons,
Beau and Hunter Biden, then young boys, were injured in the car crash,
and Mr. Biden was
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/1973/01/03/archives/biden-takes-oath-friday.html}{sworn
in} from the hospital as they recovered.

``For decades Joe did not talk on the campaign trail or in public events
about the ways in which life really, you know, brought him to his knees,
the loss of Neilia and his daughter and the ways in which those first
couple of years were incredibly hard for him,'' said Senator Chris Coons
of Delaware, referring to Mr. Biden's first wife. ``In recent years he's
opened up a great deal more about it.''

On Thursday, Mr. Biden attended a Memorial Day service in New Castle,
Del., where he gave brief remarks, acknowledging his son's death and
noting that one of Beau Biden's children, Natalie, was in attendance.

``Beau cared a great deal about being here,'' Mr. Biden said of his son,
who was a veteran.

``You all know the loss of a loved one. Somehow --- the pain fades a
little bit,'' Mr. Biden said, but the memories ``are bittersweet.''

Image

A crowd for Mr. Biden gathered in Nashua, N.H., earlier this month. Some
voters consider Mr. Biden to be a singularly experienced candidate when
it comes to endurance and empathy.Credit...Elizabeth Frantz for The New
York Times

In interviews across campaign stops this month, voters who were inclined
toward Mr. Biden, especially those familiar with grief, repeatedly
pointed to his family story as evidence that he could handle the rigors
of the presidency.

As she waited for Mr. Biden to take the stage on a sunny Saturday
morning in Philadelphia, Ms. Inverso pointed to Mr. Biden's losses ---
and to her own --- as gutting experiences that force a different kind of
perspective.

``That gives you a crash course in what's important in life,'' she said.
``You hear that in his words. He's sincere. He cares.''

Angie French of Milford, N.H., who attended a campaign event with Mr.
Biden in Nashua this month, said her brother died of glioblastoma, the
same aggressive brain cancer that killed Beau Biden.

``He's had just so much loss in his life, yet this man goes on and just
brings, I don't know, just brings such a good feeling to people, again,
such empathy,'' said Ms. French, 45. ``And we need a lot of that in the
world today.''

Certainly, Mr. Biden is not the only candidate to face personal loss,
nor the only one embraced by voters as empathetic.

This year, Mayor Pete Buttigieg's father died just as the Indiana
Democrat was starting his presidential campaign. Senator Kamala Harris
of California speaks frequently about her late mother; Senator Elizabeth
Warren of Massachusetts is open about the struggles her family faced
after her father's heart attack. Representative Eric Swalwell of
California, another presidential candidate, sent flowers for the
services of Ms. Jochum's daughter. (Ms. Jochum, a veteran Iowa Democrat,
has not endorsed a candidate but called Mr. Biden ``the top of my list
right now.'')

Madeline Israel, Mr. Israel's mother, heard from Mr. Biden by phone when
her husband was ill, and again after his death.

``These were not typical sympathy calls, these were a human being to a
human being,'' Ms. Israel, 84, said. ``Of course I've never forgotten
them. It just meant the world.''

When asked whether she is supporting Mr. Biden for president, Ms. Israel
replied, ``Oh, of course,'' before adding, ``As of this moment.''

``The main factor for me is somebody who can unite this country and the
world,'' she said. ``Somebody that has enough experience and background.
I mean, what he is as a human being may be part of it, but there's too
much at stake for me to put my own personal little feelings into my
decision.''

\hypertarget{our-2020-election-guide}{%
\section{Our 2020 Election Guide}\label{our-2020-election-guide}}

Updated July 31, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{the-latest}{%
  \subsection{The Latest}\label{the-latest}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    President Trump's assault on the Postal Service is intersecting with
    his attacks on mail-in voting.
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/politics/trump-usps-mail-delays.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Voting
    rights groups say it is a recipe for disaster.}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{bidens-vp-search}{%
  \subsection{Biden's V.P. Search}\label{bidens-vp-search}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/biden-vice-president-2020.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Here
    are 13 women} who have been under consideration to be Joe Biden's
    running mate, and why each might be chosen --- and might not be.
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{keep-up-with-our-coverage}{%
  \subsection{Keep Up With Our
  Coverage}\label{keep-up-with-our-coverage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Get an
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{email}
    recapping the day's news
  \end{itemize}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Download our mobile app on
    \href{https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nytimes/id284862083?ls=1\&mat_click_id=5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\&referrer=mat_click_id\%3D5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\%26link_click_id\%3D722930677036718082}{iOS}
    and
    \href{http://a.localytics.com/android?id=com.nytimes.android\&referrer=utm_source\%3Dother_nyt_mobile_web\%26utm_medium\%3DWeb\%2520page\%26utm_term\%3DGeneral\%2520Mobile\%2520Page\%26utm_campaign\%3DNYT\%2520Mobile\%2520General\%2520Page}{Android}
    and turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
