Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/health}{Health}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/health}{Health}\textbar{}Trump Administration Files
Formal Request to Strike Down All of Obamacare

\url{https://nyti.ms/2Lh493m}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Election
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/biden-vice-president-2020.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Biden's
  V.P. Search}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/07/24/us/politics/trump-biden-campaign-donors.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Map
  of Donations}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/elections/delegate-count-primary-results.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Delegate
  Count}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2019/us/politics/2020-presidential-candidates.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{The
  Candidates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Politics
  Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{trump-administration-files-formal-request-to-strike-down-all-of-obamacare}{%
\section{Trump Administration Files Formal Request to Strike Down All of
Obamacare}\label{trump-administration-files-formal-request-to-strike-down-all-of-obamacare}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2019/05/01/science/01ACA-APPEAL/merlin_92914837_9b64685b-25f9-477a-ae47-b6851e16aa2f-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/jan-hoffman}{Jan Hoffman} and
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/abby-goodnough}{Abby Goodnough}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  May 1, 2019
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

The Trump administration formally declared its opposition to the entire
Affordable Care Act on Wednesday, arguing in a federal appeals court
filing that the signature Obama-era legislation was unconstitutional and
should be struck down.

Such a decision
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/03/26/health/obamacare-trump-health.html}{could
end health insurance for some 21 million Americans} and affect many
millions more who benefit from the law's protections for people with
pre-existing medical conditions and required coverage for pregnancy,
prescription drugs and mental health.

In filing the brief, the administration abandoned
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/06/07/us/politics/trump-affordable-care-act.html?searchResultPosition=2}{an
earlier position} --- that some portions of the law, including the
provision allowing states to expand their Medicaid programs, should
stand. The switch,
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/03/25/us/politics/obamacare-unconstitutional-trump-aca.html}{which
the administration disclosed in late March}, has confounded many people
in Washington, even within the Republican Party, who came to realize
that health insurance and a commitment to protecting the A.C.A. were
among the main issues that propelled Democrats to a majority in the
House of Representatives last fall.

The filing was made in a case challenging the law brought by Ken Paxton,
the attorney general of Texas, and 17 other Republican-led states. In
December, a federal judge from the Northern District of Texas, Reed
O'Connor,
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/12/14/health/obamacare-unconstitutional-texas-judge.html?searchResultPosition=2}{ruled
that the law was unconstitutional}.

A group of 21 Democratic-led states, headed by California, immediately
appealed, and the case is now before the Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals
in New Orleans. The House of Representatives has joined the case as well
to defend the law.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-2020-election}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: 2020
Election}}{Latest Updates: 2020 Election}}\label{latest-updates-2020-election}}

Updated 2020-08-01T01:26:45.732Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-29fdff45}{Kamala
  Harris, a top vice-presidential contender, confronts double
  standards.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-13ec3d9c}{Karen
  Bass and Susan Rice are rising on Biden's vice-presidential
  shortlist.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-49e9a016}{Trump
  says Russian bounties to kill U.S. troops `never took place.'}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

Democrats wasted no time responding to the filing Wednesday. Xavier
Becerra, the attorney general of California, a Democrat, said: ``The
Trump administration chose to abandon ship in defending our national
health care law and the hundreds of millions of Americans who depend on
it for their medical care. Our legal coalition will vigorously defend
the law and the Americans President Trump has abandoned.''

The government's brief did not shed light on why it had altered its
earlier position, referring only to ``further consideration and review
of the district court's opinion.''

Oral arguments in the appeals court are expected in July, with a
possible decision by the end of the year, as the 2020 presidential
campaign gets going in earnest. Whichever side loses is expected to
appeal to the Supreme Court.

The Justice Department's request to expedite oral arguments, granted
last month, suggests that the administration is eager for a final
ruling. In its application, it said that ``prompt resolution of this
case will help reduce uncertainty in the health care sector, and other
areas affected by the Affordable Care Act.''

Democrats, seizing on the health law's popularity and its decisive role
in their winning the House last fall, are already using the case as a
cudgel against President Trump as his re-election campaign gets started.
The law's guarantee of coverage for people with pre-existing medical
conditions, in particular, remains very popular with voters in both
parties as well as independents.

But
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/03/27/us/politics/trump-aca.html}{Mr.
Trump has appeared undaunted}, tweeting in April that ``Republicans will
always support Pre-Existing Conditions'' and that a replacement plan
``will be on full display during the Election as a much better \& less
expensive alternative to Obamacare.''

Instead of providing specifics, though, Mr. Trump, members of his
administration and other Republicans have focused on attacking the
Medicare for All plans that some Democratic presidential candidates have
sponsored or endorsed as a dangerous far-left idea that would, as Mr.
Trump tweeted, cause millions of Americans ``to lose their beloved
private health insurance.''

As the administration and Texas noted in their briefs, Judge O'Connor's
ruling turned on the law's requirement that most people have health
coverage or be subject to a tax penalty.

But in the 2017 tax legislation, Congress reduced that penalty to zero,
effectively eliminating it. Judge O'Connor, the plaintiff states, and
now the Trump administration reasoned that, like a house of cards, when
the tax penalty fell, the so-called individual mandate became
unconstitutional and unenforceable. Therefore, the entire law had to
fall as well.

Mr. Paxton, the Texas attorney general, whose office also filed a brief
on Wednesday, said: ``Congress meant for the individual mandate to be
the centerpiece of Obamacare. Without the constitutional justification
for the centerpiece, the law must go down.''

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/12/15/health/texas-aca-ruling-unconstitutional.html?searchResultPosition=1}{Whether
that position will survive judicial scrutiny} is another question.
Nicholas Bagley, who teaches health law at the University of Michigan
Law School, noted that only two lawyers signed the brief. That is highly
unusual in a case with such a high profile, he said.

``This is a testament to the outrageousness of the Justice Department
position, that no reasonable argument could be made in the statute's
defense,'' Mr. Bagley said. ``It is a truly indefensible position. This
is just partisan hardball.''

Many legal scholars have also said that even before appellate judges
wade into the more obscure pools of legal reasoning, they could reach a
decision by addressing the question of congressional intent. If Congress
had meant the erasure of the tax penalty to wipe out the entire act,
such an argument goes, it would have said so.

If the Fifth Circuit overturns the O'Connor decision, there is no
guarantee that the Supreme Court would take an appeal. The court has
ruled on two earlier A.C.A. challenges, finding in favor of the act,
although narrowing it.

Of course, the composition of the Supreme Court has since changed.

\hypertarget{our-2020-election-guide}{%
\section{Our 2020 Election Guide}\label{our-2020-election-guide}}

Updated July 31, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{the-latest}{%
  \subsection{The Latest}\label{the-latest}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    President Trump's assault on the Postal Service is intersecting with
    his attacks on mail-in voting.
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/politics/trump-usps-mail-delays.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Voting
    rights groups say it is a recipe for disaster.}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{bidens-vp-search}{%
  \subsection{Biden's V.P. Search}\label{bidens-vp-search}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/biden-vice-president-2020.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Here
    are 13 women} who have been under consideration to be Joe Biden's
    running mate, and why each might be chosen --- and might not be.
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{keep-up-with-our-coverage}{%
  \subsection{Keep Up With Our
  Coverage}\label{keep-up-with-our-coverage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Get an
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{email}
    recapping the day's news
  \end{itemize}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Download our mobile app on
    \href{https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nytimes/id284862083?ls=1\&mat_click_id=5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\&referrer=mat_click_id\%3D5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\%26link_click_id\%3D722930677036718082}{iOS}
    and
    \href{http://a.localytics.com/android?id=com.nytimes.android\&referrer=utm_source\%3Dother_nyt_mobile_web\%26utm_medium\%3DWeb\%2520page\%26utm_term\%3DGeneral\%2520Mobile\%2520Page\%26utm_campaign\%3DNYT\%2520Mobile\%2520General\%2520Page}{Android}
    and turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
