<div id="app">

<div>

<div class="NYTAppHideMasthead css-zz1s19 e1suatyy0">

<div class="section css-ui9rw0 e1suatyy2">

<div class="css-11hrj97 er09x8g0">

<div class="css-6n7j50">

</div>

<span class="css-1dv1kvn">Sections</span>

<div class="css-10488qs">

<span class="css-1dv1kvn">SEARCH</span>

</div>

[Skip to content](#site-content)[Skip to site index](#site-index)

</div>

<div id="masthead-section-label" class="css-1fnb9ct eaxe0e00">

[Out
There](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/column/out-there)

</div>

<div class="css-10698na e1huz5gh0">

</div>

</div>

<div id="masthead-bar-one" class="section hasLinks css-15hmgas e1csuq9d3">

<div class="css-uqyvli e1csuq9d0">

</div>

<div class="css-1uqjmks e1csuq9d1">

</div>

<div class="css-9e9ivx">

[](https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie&client_id=vi)

</div>

<div class="css-1bvtpon e1csuq9d2">

[Today’s Paper](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper)

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div data-aria-hidden="false">

<div id="site-content" data-role="main">

<div id="top-wrapper" class="css-15p45cc eaca97t0" type="top">

<div id="top-slug" class="css-19x0jxb eaca97t1" hidden="">

Advertisement

</div>

[Continue reading the main
story](#after-top)

<div class="ad top-wrapper" style="text-align:center;height:100%;display:block;min-height:90px">

<div id="top" class="place-ad" data-position="top" data-size-key="top">

</div>

</div>

<div id="after-top">

</div>

</div>

<div id="collection-out-there" class="section css-15h4p1b e9abtgs0">

<div class="css-1j21atc e1svk9qx1">

<div class="css-fmiefx e1svk9qx2">

<div class="css-1hk7r2m eu54l5x0">

<div id="sponsor-wrapper" class="css-7a1pgi eaca97t0" type="sponsor" hidden="">

<div id="sponsor-slug" class="css-1l4mleb eaca97t1" hidden="">

Supported by

</div>

[Continue reading the main
story](#after-sponsor)

<div id="sponsor" class="ad sponsor-wrapper" style="text-align:left;height:100%;display:block">

</div>

<div id="after-sponsor">

</div>

</div>

</div>

### <span class="css-hue6tr ezz4tcd1">[Science](/section/science)</span>

</div>

<div class="css-nfcc9b e1svk9qx3">

<div class="css-zpl4ow e1svk9qx7">

![avatar](https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/07/30/multimedia/author-dennis-overbye/author-dennis-overbye-thumbLarge.png)

</div>

<div class="css-vl9dhg e1svk9qx5">

<div class="css-1nrhkj6 e1svk9qx6">

# Out There

<div class="follow-button-placeholder" data-collection-id="">

</div>

</div>

## <span>A collection of “Out There” columns published in The New York Times.</span> <span class="css-dd5dyy">More**</span>

</div>

</div>

## <span>A collection of “Out There” columns published in The New York Times.</span> <span class="css-dd5dyy">More**</span>

</div>

<div class="css-1ywsdp4">

Mr. Overbye's reporting can range from zero-gravity fashion shows and
science in the movies to the status of Pluto, the death of the Earth and
the fate of the universe.

He joined The Times in 1998 as deputy science editor, resuming a
newspaper career that had been disrupted in the ninth grade when he lost
his job as editor of the junior high paper after being in a classroom
after hours where erasers were thrown. In the meantime, he graduated
from M.I.T. with a physics degree, failed to finish a novel and worked
as a writer and editor at Sky and Telescope and Discover magazines.

He has written two books: "Lonely Hearts of the Cosmos, The Scientific
Search for the Secret of the Universe" (HarperCollins 1991, and Little,
Brown, 1999), and "Einstein in Love, A Scientific Romance" (Viking,
2000). As a result of the latter, there are few occasions for which he
cannot rustle up a quotation - appropriate or not - from Albert
Einstein.

In 2001, realizing that the reporters were having more fun and got to
take cooler trips than editors, he switched to being a reporter. He has
been covering the universe for more than 30 years, but lately he
professes to be amazed that a huge chunk of his work is devoted to two
topics that did not exist only a decade or so ago: the proliferation of
planets beyond our own solar system; and the mysterious dark energy that
seems to be souping up the expansion of the universe and spurring
metaphysical-sounding debates among astronomers and physicists.

He lives with his wife, Nancy, and daughter, Mira, in Morningside
Heights. In their house, he reports, Pluto is still a planet.

</div>

<div class="css-1rclpnj ekkqrpp0">

</div>

<div class="css-185go5a e1o5byef0">

<div class="css-15cbhtu">

  - [Latest](#stream-panel)
  - <span class="css-6n7j50">Search</span>
    <div class="control">
    <div class="label-container css-1dv1kvn">
    Search
    </div>
    <div class="css-wm4t3d">
    **<span id="clear-search-input" class="css-1dv1kvn">Clear this text
    input</span>
    </div>
    </div>
    <span class="css-1iovbfw"></span>

<div id="stream-panel" class="section css-8msx5b e1jz0cab1">

<div class="css-13mho3u">

1.  
    
    <div class="css-1cp3ece">
    
    <div class="css-1l4spti">
    
    [](/2020/07/27/science/mars-sarah-stewart-johnson.html)
    
    <div class="css-79elbk">
    
    ![](https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/07/27/science/27SCI-OUTTHERE-MARS-promo/27SC-OUTTHERE-MARS-promo-thumbWide.jpg?quality=75&auto=webp&disable=upscale)
    
    </div>
    
    ## Coming of Age on Mars
    
    In a new book, planetary scientist Sarah Stewart Johnson recalls how
    the Red Planet drew her to become a scientist.
    
    <div class="css-1nqbnmb ea5icrr0">
    
    By <span class="css-1n7hynb">Dennis
    Overbye</span>
    
    </div>
    
    </div>
    
    <div class="css-1lc2l26 e1xfvim33">
    
    </div>
    
    </div>

2.  
    
    <div class="css-1cp3ece">
    
    <div class="css-1l4spti">
    
    [](/2020/07/10/science/astronomy-galaxies-attractor-universe.html)
    
    <div class="css-79elbk">
    
    ![](https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/07/21/science/10cosmicwall-mw/10cosmicwall-mw-thumbWide-v3.jpg?quality=75&auto=webp&disable=upscale)
    
    </div>
    
    ## Beyond the Milky Way, a Galactic Wall
    
    Astronomers have discovered a vast assemblage of galaxies hidden
    behind our own, in the “zone of avoidance.”
    
    <div class="css-1nqbnmb ea5icrr0">
    
    By <span class="css-1n7hynb">Dennis
    Overbye</span>
    
    </div>
    
    </div>
    
    <div class="css-1lc2l26 e1xfvim33">
    
    </div>
    
    </div>

3.  
    
    <div class="css-1cp3ece">
    
    <div class="css-1l4spti">
    
    [](/2020/06/25/science/black-hole-collision-ligo.html)
    
    <div class="css-79elbk">
    
    ![](https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/06/30/science/25SCI-BLACKHOLE/25SCI-BLACKHOLE-thumbWide.jpg?quality=75&auto=webp&disable=upscale)
    
    </div>
    
    ## Two Black Holes Colliding Not Enough? Make It Three
    
    Astronomers claim to have seen a flash from the merger of two black
    holes within the maelstrom of a third, far bigger one.
    
    <div class="css-1nqbnmb ea5icrr0">
    
    By <span class="css-1n7hynb">Dennis
    Overbye</span>
    
    </div>
    
    </div>
    
    <div class="css-1lc2l26 e1xfvim33">
    
    </div>
    
    </div>

4.  
    
    <div class="css-1cp3ece">
    
    <div class="css-1l4spti">
    
    [](/2020/06/24/science/black-hole-ligo-gravitational.html)
    
    <div class="css-79elbk">
    
    ![](https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/07/07/science/23SCI-OUTTHERE-LIGO/23SCI-OUTTHERE-LIGO-thumbWide.jpg?quality=75&auto=webp&disable=upscale)
    
    </div>
    
    ## A Black Hole’s Lunch Provides a Treat for Astronomers
    
    Scientists have discovered the heaviest known neutron star, or maybe
    the lightest known black hole: “Either way it breaks a record.”
    
    <div class="css-1nqbnmb ea5icrr0">
    
    By <span class="css-1n7hynb">Dennis
    Overbye</span>
    
    </div>
    
    </div>
    
    <div class="css-1lc2l26 e1xfvim33">
    
    </div>
    
    </div>

5.  
    
    <div class="css-1cp3ece">
    
    <div class="css-1l4spti">
    
    [](/2020/06/17/science/xenon-axions-neutrinos-tritium.html)
    
    <div class="css-79elbk">
    
    ![](https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/06/23/science/17SCI-OUTTHERE-XENON1/17SCI-OUTTHERE-XENON1-thumbWide.jpg?quality=75&auto=webp&disable=upscale)
    
    </div>
    
    ## Seeking Dark Matter, They Detected Another Mystery
    
    Do signals from beneath an Italian mountain herald a revolution in
    physics?
    
    <div class="css-1nqbnmb ea5icrr0">
    
    By <span class="css-1n7hynb">Dennis
    Overbye</span>
    
    </div>
    
    </div>
    
    <div class="css-1lc2l26 e1xfvim33">
    
    </div>
    
    </div>

6.  
    
    <div class="css-1cp3ece">
    
    <div class="css-1l4spti">
    
    [](/2020/06/15/science/oumuamua-astronomy-comets.html)
    
    <div class="css-79elbk">
    
    ![](https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/06/16/science/16SCI-OUTTHERE-ICEBERG/16SCI-OUTTHERE-ICEBERG-thumbWide.jpg?quality=75&auto=webp&disable=upscale)
    
    </div>
    
    ## Oumuamua: Neither Comet nor Asteroid, but a Cosmic Iceberg
    
    A new study suggests the interloper may have arisen in an
    interstellar cloud, where stars are sometimes born.
    
    <div class="css-1nqbnmb ea5icrr0">
    
    By <span class="css-1n7hynb">Dennis
    Overbye</span>
    
    </div>
    
    </div>
    
    <div class="css-1lc2l26 e1xfvim33">
    
    </div>
    
    </div>

7.  
    
    <div class="css-1cp3ece">
    
    <div class="css-1l4spti">
    
    [](/2020/06/05/science/black-hole-astronomy.html)
    
    <div class="css-79elbk">
    
    ![](https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/06/09/science/05SCI-OUTTHERE-BLACKHOLE1/05SCI-OUTTHERE-BLACKHOLE1-thumbWide.jpg?quality=75&auto=webp&disable=upscale)
    
    </div>
    
    ## Watch This Black Hole Blow Bubbles
    
    A black hole was seen shooting electrified gas and energy into
    space. Each blob contained about 400 million billion pounds of
    matter.
    
    <div class="css-1nqbnmb ea5icrr0">
    
    By <span class="css-1n7hynb">Dennis
    Overbye</span>
    
    </div>
    
    </div>
    
    <div class="css-1lc2l26 e1xfvim33">
    
    </div>
    
    </div>

8.  
    
    <div class="css-1cp3ece">
    
    <div class="css-1l4spti">
    
    [](/2020/06/02/science/coronavirus-space-travel-colonization.html)
    
    <div class="css-79elbk">
    
    ![](https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/06/02/science/00SCI-OUTTHERE-GREATFILTER1/00SCI-OUTTHERE-GREATFILTER1-thumbWide.jpg?quality=75&auto=webp&disable=upscale)
    
    </div>
    
    ## Going Viral, or Not, in the Milky Way
    
    Is the pandemic a rehearsal for our own cosmic mortality?
    
    <div class="css-1nqbnmb ea5icrr0">
    
    By <span class="css-1n7hynb">Dennis
    Overbye</span>
    
    </div>
    
    </div>
    
    <div class="css-1lc2l26 e1xfvim33">
    
    </div>
    
    </div>

9.  
    
    <div class="css-1cp3ece">
    
    <div class="css-1l4spti">
    
    [](/2020/05/20/science/nancy-grace-roman-telescope.html)
    
    <div class="css-79elbk">
    
    ![](https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/05/20/science/20OUTTHERE-TELESCOPE2/20OUTTHERE-TELESCOPE2-thumbWide.jpg?quality=75&auto=webp&disable=upscale)
    
    </div>
    
    ## NASA Names Dark Energy Telescope for Nancy Grace Roman
    
    Dr. Roman was a pioneer at NASA, joining the agency in its early
    days and becoming its first chief astronomer.
    
    <div class="css-1nqbnmb ea5icrr0">
    
    By <span class="css-1n7hynb">Dennis
    Overbye</span>
    
    </div>
    
    </div>
    
    <div class="css-1lc2l26 e1xfvim33">
    
    </div>
    
    </div>

10. 
    
    <div class="css-1cp3ece">
    
    <div class="css-1l4spti">
    
    [](/2020/05/20/science/galaxy-early-universe-astronomy.html)
    
    <div class="css-79elbk">
    
    ![](https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/05/26/science/20SCI-GALAXY1/20SCI-GALAXY1-thumbWide.jpg?quality=75&auto=webp&disable=upscale)
    
    </div>
    
    ## The Galaxy That Grew Up Too Fast
    
    A vast wheel of gas in the primordial cosmos is forcing astronomers
    to rethink how some of the universe’s largest structures may have
    formed.
    
    <div class="css-1nqbnmb ea5icrr0">
    
    By <span class="css-1n7hynb">Dennis Overbye</span>
    
    </div>
    
    </div>
    
    <div class="css-1lc2l26 e1xfvim33">
    
    </div>
    
    </div>

<div class="css-13mho3u">

<div class="css-1t62hi8">

<div class="css-1stvaey">

Show
More

<div>

<div style="border:0;clip:rect(0 0 0 0);height:1px;margin:-1px;overflow:hidden;white-space:nowrap;padding:0;width:1px;position:absolute" data-role="log" data-aria-live="assertive">

</div>

<div style="border:0;clip:rect(0 0 0 0);height:1px;margin:-1px;overflow:hidden;white-space:nowrap;padding:0;width:1px;position:absolute" data-role="log" data-aria-live="assertive">

</div>

<div style="border:0;clip:rect(0 0 0 0);height:1px;margin:-1px;overflow:hidden;white-space:nowrap;padding:0;width:1px;position:absolute" data-role="log" data-aria-live="polite">

</div>

<div style="border:0;clip:rect(0 0 0 0);height:1px;margin:-1px;overflow:hidden;white-space:nowrap;padding:0;width:1px;position:absolute" data-role="log" data-aria-live="polite">

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="css-g6hk37 supplemental">

<div id="mid1-wrapper" class="css-10wkyv7 eaca97t0" type="lede">

<div id="mid1-slug" class="css-1tag3rd eaca97t1">

Advertisement

</div>

[Continue reading the main
story](#after-mid1)

<div id="mid1" class="ad mid1-wrapper" style="text-align:center;height:100%;display:block;min-height:250px">

</div>

<div id="after-mid1">

</div>

</div>

<div id="mktg-wrapper" class="css-oxle51 eaca97t0" type="mktg">

<div id="mktg-slug" class="css-1tag3rd eaca97t1">

Advertisement

</div>

[Continue reading the main
story](#after-mktg)

<div id="mktg" class="ad mktg-wrapper" style="text-align:center;height:100%;display:block">

</div>

<div id="after-mktg">

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

## Site Index

<div>

</div>

## Site Information Navigation

  - [© <span>2020</span> <span>The New York Times
    Company</span>](https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice)

<!-- end list -->

  - [NYTCo](https://www.nytco.com/)
  - [Contact
    Us](https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us)
  - [Work with us](https://www.nytco.com/careers/)
  - [Advertise](https://nytmediakit.com/)
  - [T Brand Studio](http://www.tbrandstudio.com/)
  - [Your Ad
    Choices](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy#how-do-i-manage-trackers)
  - [Privacy](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy)
  - [Terms of
    Service](https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service)
  - [Terms of
    Sale](https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale)
  - [Site
    Map](https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion)
  - [Help](https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us)
  - [Subscriptions](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW)

</div>

</div>
