Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/nyregion}{New York}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/nyregion}{New York}\textbar{}Jamaal Bowman Proves
Ocasio-Cortez Was No Fluke

\url{https://nyti.ms/2OAdIt7}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/news-event/george-floyd-protests-minneapolis-new-york-los-angeles?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Race
and America}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/26/us/protests-portland-seattle-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Protesters
  Return to Other Cities}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/24/us/portland-oregon-protests-white-race.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Portland
  at the Center}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/23/podcasts/the-daily/portland-protests.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Podcast:
  Showdown in Portland}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/07/16/us/black-lives-matter-protests-louisville-breonna-taylor.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{45
  Days in Louisville}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{jamaal-bowman-proves-ocasio-cortez-was-no-fluke}{%
\section{Jamaal Bowman Proves Ocasio-Cortez Was No
Fluke}\label{jamaal-bowman-proves-ocasio-cortez-was-no-fluke}}

Mr. Bowman beat Representative Eliot Engel, a 16-term incumbent, in a
race that pitted the Democratic Party's progressive wing against the
establishment.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/06/23/nyregion/00nyprimary-16hfo/merlin_172005066_12e19073-0aad-4bfe-89ac-6d3d38d7a1f4-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/jesse-mckinley}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/02/20/multimedia/author-jesse-mckinley/author-jesse-mckinley-thumbLarge.jpg}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/jesse-mckinley}{Jesse McKinley}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Published July 17, 2020Updated Aug. 3, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

After a little-known candidate named Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez stunned a
powerful Queens congressman in a 2018 primary, Democratic Party leaders
were determined to never be surprised the same way again, vowing to
\href{https://thehill.com/homenews/campaign/435332-dems-seek-to-stifle-primary-challenges-to-incumbents}{protect
incumbents} and clashing with Ms. Ocasio-Cortez and other upstarts for
pushing for more progressive candidates.

On Friday, it became clear that those efforts had failed, as another
unlikely challenger, Jamaal Bowman, shocked the Democratic establishment
by defeating Representative Eliot L. Engel, overcoming the attempts of
old-guard party elite like Hillary Clinton, House Speaker Nancy Pelosi
and Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo to save a 16-term incumbent.

Mr. Bowman, 44, did so by running against Republicans in Washington and
the caution of centrist Democrats everywhere, capitalizing on
seven-figure spending by progressive groups to help him win the primary
in a district that straddles the Bronx and Westchester County.

``It means this country is ready, it's yearning, it's excited for
progressive change,'' Mr. Bowman, a middle school principal from
Yonkers, said on Friday. ``And it's excited to finally hold elected
officials accountable.''

Unlike Ms. Ocasio-Cortez's victory, Mr. Bowman's looks more like an
indicator than an anomaly: He is one of three younger, insurgent
Democrats in New York who seem poised to tilt the state's, and the
party's, congressional delegation further to the left.

The other two, Mondaire Jones and Ritchie Torres, are candidates for
open seats in two neighboring districts. If elected, they would be the
first openly gay Black men in Congress. On Tuesday, Mr. Jones was
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/14/nyregion/mondaire-jones-house-primary.html}{declared
the winner} of the primary in a district that covers parts of
Westchester and Rockland counties; Mr. Torres holds a healthy lead in
his Bronx district's race.

Another veteran Democrat, Representative Carolyn Maloney, is fighting
for her political life in the district that includes Manhattan's East
Side. Ms. Maloney holds a slim lead over another left-wing challenger,
Suraj Patel. The contest, like the one Mr. Bowman won and many others in
New York, has dragged on as election officials grapple with the deluge
of
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/03/nyregion/nyc-mail-ballots-voting.html}{absentee
ballots that were cast by mail} because of the coronavirus pandemic.

The crush of absentee ballots --- more than 50 percent of the total cast
in some races ---
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/17/nyregion/election-absentee-ballots-primary.html}{has
overwhelmed election officials} who are accustomed to handling far fewer
than that. The disqualification of thousands of ballots for small
technical errors has also raised the specter of widespread voter
disenfranchisement, and concerns about how prepared officials are for an
even bigger turnout in November.

One candidate who will not have to worry about a November election is
Mr. Engel, who on Friday wished Mr. Bowman well, and said that he
``never for a minute thought of this as my seat.''

``It's the people's seat,'' the congressman said in a statement.

With his loss, Mr. Engel became the fifth House incumbent and second
Democrat --- Daniel Lipinski of Illinois
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/18/us/politics/marie-newman-dan-lipinski-illinois.html}{was
the other} --- to fall in this year's primaries. The Republicans who
lost were
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/03/us/politics/steve-king-iowa-primary.html}{Steve
King of Iowa},
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/14/us/politics/denver-riggleman-virginia-primary-bob-good.html}{Denver
Riggleman of Virginia} and
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/30/us/lauren-boebert-colorado.html}{Scott
Tipton of Colorado}.

As the chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, Mr. Engel had
practiced a form of old-school politics: rising slowly through the party
ranks; grabbing an aisle seat at the State of the Union so he could
glad-hand presidents as they passed; and boasting of the perks he
brought home to his district.

Entering his fourth decade in Washington, Mr. Engel, 73, seemed
consistently surprised by the level of opposition he faced in this
year's race. He positioned himself as a dependable liberal voice in
Congress,
\href{https://engelforcongress.com/priorities/healthcare/}{citing his
own support} for Medicare for All, action on
\href{https://engelforcongress.com/priorities/climate-change/}{climate
change} and securing billions of dollars for housing programs.

``You know, I'm pretty progressive myself,'' Mr. Engel said in an
interview just weeks before the June 23 primary.

But he also seemed badly out of step with the challenges of campaigning
amid the pandemic, a crisis that killed more than 4,500 people in the
Bronx and Westchester and caused typical retail politics --- talking to
constituents on the street, attending town halls, handing out pamphlets
--- to be replaced by Zoom calls and live-streamed debates.

``Engel wasn't running against Bowman,'' said Hank Sheinkopf, a veteran
Democratic political consultant. ``He was running against Been Around
Too Long. And Been Around Too Long won.''

Mr. Bowman was aided by an array of stars from the Democratic Party's
left wing, including Senator Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts, as well
as Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont and Ms. Ocasio-Cortez, who defeated
Joseph Crowley, the No. 4 House Democrat at the time, in 2018 (and
fought off her own primary challenger this year).

He also got ample financial help from liberal groups like the Working
Families Party and political action committees like the Justice
Democrats, which jointly spent more than \$1 million to oust Mr. Engel.
Justice Democrats also recruited Mr. Bowman, after recommendations for
education activists.

A first-time candidate with a fiery anti-establishment message, Mr.
Bowman ran a campaign that built firmly on the pillars of current
progressive policy: reforming the criminal justice system, addressing
income inequality and embracing Medicare for All. He also preached about
the need for broader social changes such as what he called ``righting
the wrongs of our country's history toward a better future.''

Those issues took on new urgency as the United States reeled after the
killing in police custody of George Floyd in late May. The protests that
followed were broadly incorporated into, and invigorated, the Black
Lives Matter movement, and provided Mr. Bowman, who is Black and said he
had
been\href{https://twitter.com/jamaalbowmanny/status/1267979573200932865}{physically
attacked by the police} as a child, with a powerful talking point.

The Black Lives Matter movement also served as a backdrop for a
cringe-inducing moment for Mr. Engel. At a social justice event in the
Bronx in early June, he
\href{https://twitter.com/emilyngo/status/1267873270218600448}{was
caught on microphone} suggesting that he was only there because of his
contested race.

``If I didn't have a primary,'' he said, ``I wouldn't care.''

Some analysts say Mr. Bowman's win --- and strong showings by Mr. Jones,
Mr. Torres, and Mr. Patel --- reinforces the power of Black and other
minority voters in an
\href{https://www.census.gov/quickfacts/newyorkcitynewyork}{increasingly
diverse city}.

``The demographics have flipped,'' said Peter Ragone, a former top aide
to Mayor Bill de Blasio and a regular adviser to Democratic politicians.
``And it's accelerating with a velocity that no one could have
anticipated.''

Mr. Bowman, who
\href{https://twitter.com/JamaalBowmanNY/status/1275167126563762177}{said
his campaign had made a million calls} to voters, also hammered Mr.
Engel for not being in the district during the crisis, suggesting that
the incumbent spent much of his time at a home he owns in suburban
Maryland. Mr. Engel sought to refute the assertion, saying he was a
steady presence in the district, including in Riverdale, where he lives.

In the campaign's closing weeks, as Mr. Bowman gained momentum and
prominent backers, prominent allies of Mr. Engel tried to salvage his
flagging campaign. Ms. Clinton
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/15/us/politics/hillary-clinton-eliot-engel.html?searchResultPosition=1}{endorsed
him} a week before the primary, followed in short order by Mr. Cuomo, a
third-term Democrat who said Mr. Engel deserved a vote because
\href{https://twitter.com/jessemckinley/status/1273706531868102658}{``seniority
matters.''}

Those pleas followed endorsements from Ms. Pelosi, James E. Clyburn, the
House majority whip; and Hakeem **** Jeffries, the House Democratic
Caucus chairman. All were for naught, as Mr. Bowman won big in the Bronx
and bested Mr. Engel by a comfortable margin in Westchester.

In a statement released shortly after The Associated Press
\href{https://twitter.com/AP_Politics/status/1284144985651249154}{declared
him the winner on Frida}y, Mr. Bowman referred to both his compelling
personal story and the continuing reckoning on race and policing in
America.

``I'm a Black man who was raised by a single mother in a housing
project,'' he said. ``That story doesn't usually end in Congress. But
today, that 11-year-old boy who was beaten by police is about to be your
next representative.''

Mr. Bowman is the prohibitive favorite to win in November given that
Democrats outnumber Republicans more than four-to-one in the district.
There is no Republican candidate, and only one other challenger, Patrick
McManus of the Conservative Party.

In an interview, Mr. Bowman promised to bring the same energy to
Washington that he brought to his campaign. He bashed President Trump as
a man who was proving himself to be ``not only be a fascist, but a
racist,'' and he pledged to fight for racial and economic justice,
public education, protecting the environment and more.

Despite his insurgent campaign, Mr. Bowman added that he was looking
forward to finding common ground in with his fellow House Democrats.

``I look forward to getting to Congress and working with my colleagues
in the Democratic Party, regardless of if they are quote-unquote
establishment,'' he said, adding, ``At this moment in our country's
history, we have to work together.''

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
