Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}Michael Cohen Secretly Taped
Trump Discussing Payment to Playboy Model

\url{https://nyti.ms/2myEPqA}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{michael-cohen-secretly-taped-trump-discussing-payment-to-playboy-model}{%
\section{Michael Cohen Secretly Taped Trump Discussing Payment to
Playboy
Model}\label{michael-cohen-secretly-taped-trump-discussing-payment-to-playboy-model}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/07/21/us/politics/21dc-tape/21dc-tape-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By \href{http://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/matt-apuzzo}{Matt Apuzzo},
\href{http://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/maggie-haberman}{Maggie
Haberman} and
\href{http://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/michael-s-schmidt}{Michael S.
Schmidt}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  July 20, 2018
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/es/2018/07/20/trump-cohen-abogado-grabado-secreto-playboy}{Leer
en espa√±ol}

WASHINGTON --- \emph{Updated July 25, 2018: The audio recording of Mr.
Cohen and Mr. Trump discussing hush money for a former Playboy model has
been released.}
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/07/25/us/politics/trump-michael-cohen-recording.html}{\emph{Read
our latest coverage.}} \emph{The audio is also available below.}

President Trump's longtime lawyer, Michael D. Cohen, secretly recorded a
conversation with Mr. Trump two months before the presidential election
in which they discussed payments to a former Playboy model who said she
had an affair with Mr. Trump, according to lawyers and others familiar
with the recording.

The F.B.I. seized the recording this year during a raid on Mr. Cohen's
office. The Justice Department is investigating Mr. Cohen's involvement
in paying women to tamp down embarrassing news stories about Mr. Trump
ahead of the 2016 election. Prosecutors want to know whether that
violated federal campaign finance laws, and any conversation with Mr.
Trump about those payments would be of keen interest to them.

The recording's existence appears to undercut the Trump campaign's
denial of any knowledge of payments to the model. It further draws Mr.
Trump into questions about tactics he and his associates used to keep
aspects of his personal and business life a secret. And it highlights
the potential legal and political danger that Mr. Cohen represents to
Mr. Trump. Once the keeper of many of Mr. Trump's secrets, Mr. Cohen is
now seen as increasingly willing to consider cooperating with
prosecutors.

\hypertarget{listen-trump-and-michael-cohen-discuss-hush-money-for-playboy-model}{%
\subsubsection{Listen: Trump and Michael Cohen Discuss Hush Money for
Playboy
Model}\label{listen-trump-and-michael-cohen-discuss-hush-money-for-playboy-model}}

The New York Times obtained a copy of Mr. Cohen's secretly recorded
conversation with Mr. Trump, his client at the time.

The former model, Karen McDougal, says she began a nearly yearlong
affair with Mr. Trump in 2006, shortly after Mr. Trump's wife, Melania,
gave birth to their son, Barron. Ms. McDougal sold her story for
\$150,000 to The National Enquirer, which was supportive of Mr. Trump,
during the final months of the presidential campaign, but the tabloid
sat on the story, which kept it from becoming public. The practice,
known as ``catch and kill,'' effectively silenced Ms. McDougal for the
remainder of the campaign.

Rudolph W. Giuliani, Mr. Trump's personal lawyer, confirmed in a
telephone conversation on Friday that Mr. Trump had discussed payments
to Ms. McDougal with Mr. Cohen in person on the recording. He said that
it was less than two minutes long and that Mr. Trump did not know he was
being recorded, and he claimed that the president had done nothing
wrong.

Mr. Giuliani said there was no indication on the tape that Mr. Trump
knew before the conversation about the payment from the Enquirer's
parent company, American Media Inc., to Ms. McDougal.

``Nothing in that conversation suggests that he had any knowledge of it
in advance,'' Mr. Giuliani said. The recording cuts off, according to
three people familiar with it, and it is not clear how the discussion
ended.

\emph{{[}}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/04/10/us/politics/trump-cohen-raids-legal-issues.html}{\emph{Read
about}} \emph{how attorney-client privilege applies --- and doesn't ---
between Mr. Trump and Mr. Cohen.{]}}

Mr. Giuliani initially indicated the men discussed a payment from Mr.
Trump to Ms. McDougal --- separate from the Enquirer's payment --- to
buy her story. Later, he said Mr. Trump and Mr. Cohen had actually
discussed buying the rights to Ms. McDougal's story from the Enquirer.
Such a move would have effectively reimbursed the newspaper for its
payments to her, though Mr. Giuliani disputed that characterization.

That payment was never made, Mr. Giuliani said, adding that Mr. Trump
had told Mr. Cohen that if he were to make a payment related to Ms.
McDougal, to write a check rather than send cash, so it could be
properly documented.

A person close to Mr. Cohen disputed Mr. Giuliani's description of the
discussion over how to pay A.M.I. for the rights to Ms. McDougal's story
and suggested the tape would back up Mr. Cohen.

Neither of Mr. Giuliani's descriptions of the conversations explains
why, when The Wall Street Journal
\href{https://www.wsj.com/articles/national-enquirer-shielded-donald-trump-from-playboy-models-affair-allegation-1478309380?mod=e2twp}{revealed
the existence of the A.M.I. payment} days before the election, Mr.
Trump's campaign spokeswoman, Hope Hicks, said, ``We have no knowledge
of any of this.'' She said Ms. McDougal's claim of an affair was
``totally untrue.''

Mr. Cohen's lawyers discovered the recording as part of their review of
the seized materials and shared it with Mr. Trump's lawyers, according
to the three people briefed on the matter.

``Obviously, there is an ongoing investigation, and we are sensitive to
that,'' Mr. Cohen's lawyer, Lanny J. Davis, said in a statement. ``But
suffice it to say that when the recording is heard, it will not hurt Mr.
Cohen. Any attempt at spin cannot change what is on the tape.''

Mr. Cohen rejected repeated requests for comment. Mr. Trump ignored
shouted questions about it from reporters as he left the White House on
Friday afternoon and departed for a weekend at his golf club in
Bedminster, N.J.

David J. Pecker, the chairman of A.M.I., is a friend of Mr. Trump's, and
Ms. McDougal has accused Mr. Cohen of secretly taking part in the deal
--- an allegation that is now part of the F.B.I. investigation.

``It can't be more than a minute and a half,'' Mr. Giuliani said,
referring to the length of the conversation. ``Twice someone walks in
--- someone brings soda in for them. It's not some secret
conversation.''

He added: ``Neither one seems to be concerned anyone would hear it. It
went off on irrelevant subjects that have nothing to do with this. It's
a very professional conversation between a client and a lawyer and the
client saying, `Do it right.'''

Because the tape showed Mr. Trump learning about the A.M.I. payment, it
actually helps Mr. Trump, Mr. Giuliani argued. ``In the big scheme of
things, it's powerful exculpatory evidence,'' he said. The person close
to Mr. Cohen disputed that claim but would not elaborate.

The recording is potential evidence in the campaign finance
investigation, but became tied up in a legal fight over what materials
are protected by attorney-client privilege and thus off limits to
prosecutors. It is not clear whether a federal judge has ruled on
whether prosecutors can listen to the recording.

For a decade, Mr. Cohen served as one of Mr. Trump's most trusted
fixers, aggressively taking on journalists, opposing lawyers and
business adversaries. He frequently taped his conversations, unbeknown
to the people with whom he was speaking. New York law allows one party
to a conversation to tape conversations without the other knowing.

Mr. Cohen used to say he would take a bullet for Mr. Trump, but the
relationship soured in the aftermath of the F.B.I. raids in April. In
one conversation, Mr. Cohen's lawyers inquired whether Mr. Trump planned
to pardon him, but Mr. Trump's lawyers gave no indication that the
president would do so, according to two people familiar with the
discussion.

Mr. Cohen has publicly and privately discussed the idea of cooperating
with the F.B.I. In an
\href{https://abcnews.go.com/Politics/michael-cohen-family-country-president-trump-loyalty/story?id=56304585}{interview
with ABC News this month}, Mr. Cohen seemed to openly invite prosecutors
to talk to him.

``My wife, my daughter and my son have my first loyalty and always
will,'' Mr. Cohen said. ``I put family and country first.'' The words
got Mr. Trump's attention, and he asked people if they thought Mr. Cohen
was trying to send a message, either to him or the Justice Department.

The Cohen investigation began with the special counsel, Robert S.
Mueller III, who is investigating the Trump campaign's links to Russia.
But as the Cohen case became increasingly focused on Mr. Cohen's
personal business dealings and his campaign activities unrelated to
Russia, Mr. Mueller referred it to federal prosecutors in Manhattan, who
are now leading the investigation.

The wide-ranging search warrants served on Mr. Cohen this spring show
that prosecutors are investigating Mr. Cohen's involvement in payments
to silence women about their relationships with Mr. Trump. In addition
to Ms. McDougal's arrangement, prosecutors also sought evidence of
payments to the adult film star Stephanie Clifford, who is better known
as Stormy Daniels.

Mr. Trump
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/05/04/us/politics/trump-hush-payment-stormy-daniels.html}{has
denied knowing about those payments}, though people familiar with the
arrangement
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/05/04/us/politics/trump-hush-payment-stormy-daniels.html}{have
said} he was aware of them. But his denial helped suppress public
allegations of an affair during the final months of the campaign.

Such payments, depending on how and why they were made, could represent
campaign finance violations --- a case that harks back to the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2012/06/01/us/edwards-jury-returns-not-guilty-verdict-on-one-count.html}{failed
prosecution of the former Democratic senator John Edwards}, who tried to
hide a pregnant mistress during his presidential campaign.

Mr. Cohen's case is unusual because the payment to Ms. McDougal was made
by American Media Inc. In August 2016, A.M.I. bought the rights to her
story about Mr. Trump for \$150,000 and a commitment to use its
magazines to promote her career as a fitness specialist.

Among the matters prosecutors are investigating is whether A.M.I.
considered selling or reassigning Ms. McDougal's contract to a third
party, a person with knowledge of the matter said.

Federal agents are also scrutinizing Mr. Cohen's personal financial
dealings and whether he committed fraud by lying about his assets on
bank forms. In particular, the authorities are scrutinizing taxi
medallions that Mr. Cohen owned, and whether he accurately accounted for
their value, according to several people close to the case.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{¬©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
