Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}In Iowa, the `Not Sanders'
Democrats Find Voters Torn

\url{https://nyti.ms/2O4yuBl}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/20/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{D.N.C.
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/20/us/politics/biden-presidential-nomination-dnc.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Biden's
  Speech}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/us/elections/2020-presidential-election-calendar.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Election
  Calendar}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/11/us/politics/vote-by-mail-us-states.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Voting
  by Mail}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Politics
  Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{in-iowa-the-not-sanders-democrats-find-voters-torn}{%
\section{In Iowa, the `Not Sanders' Democrats Find Voters
Torn}\label{in-iowa-the-not-sanders-democrats-find-voters-torn}}

As the liberal Bernie Sanders tightens his grip in Iowa, more
traditional Democrats remain split among his four leading competitors,
or are unsure altogether of whom to support.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/01/27/us/politics/27iowa1/merlin_167904150_640a756b-7ce7-47d2-99ba-be81aea082b0-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/jonathan-martin}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/11/06/multimedia/author-jonathan-martin/author-jonathan-martin-thumbLarge.png}}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/alexander-burns}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/09/25/multimedia/author-alexander-burns/author-alexander-burns-thumbLarge-v2.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/jonathan-martin}{Jonathan
Martin} and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/alexander-burns}{Alexander
Burns}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Jan. 27, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

BETTENDORF, Iowa --- As they streamed out of the ballroom following a
Scott County fund-raising banquet Saturday night, one after the other
Iowa Democrats admitted that they still had not decided whom to support
just over a week before the state's presidential caucuses.

But by not mentioning his name as they rattled off their short lists,
they made it clear whom they would not support: Senator Bernie Sanders,
the democratic socialist from Vermont who has taken the lead in recent
polls.

Instead, every one of the 30 still-undecided Democratic activists here
rattled off some combination of the same four names --- Senators
Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts and Amy Klobuchar of Minnesota, former
Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. and former Mayor Pete Buttigieg of
South Bend, Ind.

As Mr. Sanders tightens his grip on the party's young and left-wing
voters in Iowa, more traditional Democrats, the ones who happily sit
through marathon banquet dinners to hear the candidates and their
representatives, remain split between his four leading competitors or
remain unsure altogether about whom to rally behind.

``I have told my colleagues all along: Bernie Sanders can win with 27
percent of the vote here,'' said Representative Dave Loebsack, an Iowa
Democrat supporting Mr. Buttigieg, alluding to his fellow lawmakers,
many of whom are deeply uneasy about running with Mr. Sanders on top of
the ticket.

The fracture among mainstream Democrats here carries profound
implications for a primary that has already unsettled the party
establishment and prompted late entrants into the race.

Mr. Sanders is threatening to seize control in the early states, taking
narrow but clear polling leads in Iowa and New Hampshire and
increasingly menacing Mr. Biden's advantage in national polls. With his
mammoth online fund-raising operation, Mr. Sanders appears to be in a
position of financial strength unmatched by any other candidate besides
Michael R. Bloomberg, the billionaire former mayor of New York City.

Mr. Sanders's endurance, and his apparent rise in the earliest primary
and caucus states, reflects both the loyalty of his core supporters and
their conviction that Mr. Sanders would bring the same fighting
resilience to the general election. But even among many liberals who
admire Mr. Sanders's campaign, or some of his policy ideas, there is
deep concern about the implications of nominating a candidate from the
left whom President Trump is sure to portray as extreme.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/01/27/us/politics/27iowa2/merlin_167905155_5ba870c9-4d21-45a9-982c-769dc5cfc32c-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

``I think that Bernie is just a bridge too far for the country,'' said
Bonnie Campbell, a former Iowa attorney general who is supporting Mr.
Biden. Ms. Campbell said she would have no difficulty supporting Mr.
Sanders in the general election, but added, ``I can tell you, I hear
from friends and colleagues who say: `Oh my God, what are we going to do
if Bernie wins?'''

But in Iowa, Democrats who hope to avert that outcome do not appear
close to settling on another candidate as an alternative to Mr. Sanders.
And if more moderate voters don't coalesce behind an alternative by next
week's caucus, party traditionalists fear, Mr. Sanders could win Iowa
with only a modest plurality, emboldening his leading rivals to remain
in the race, and then notch another victory again a week later in New
Hampshire. No Democrat in modern times has lost contested races in both
Iowa and New Hampshire and claimed the nomination.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-2020-election}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/19/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: 2020
Election}}{Latest Updates: 2020 Election}}\label{latest-updates-2020-election}}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/19/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#night-3-featured-more-policy-a-focus-on-women-and-a-full-throated-rejection-of-trump-by-his-predecessor}{7h
ago}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/19/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#night-3-featured-more-policy-a-focus-on-women-and-a-full-throated-rejection-of-trump-by-his-predecessor}{Night
3 featured more policy, a focus on women and a full-throated rejection
of Trump by his predecessor.}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/19/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#trump-live-tweeted-obamas-speech-tonight-hell-appear-on-fox-news-right-before-bidens-tomorrow}{9h
ago}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/19/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#trump-live-tweeted-obamas-speech-tonight-hell-appear-on-fox-news-right-before-bidens-tomorrow}{Trump
live-tweeted Obama's speech tonight. He'll appear on Fox News right
before Biden's tomorrow.}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/19/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#advocates-for-domestic-violence-survivors-praised-biden-in-a-video}{9h
ago}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/19/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#advocates-for-domestic-violence-survivors-praised-biden-in-a-video}{Advocates
for domestic violence survivors praised Biden in a video.}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/19/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

The early primary and caucus outcomes could have an outsize impact on
later primaries, including the large states voting in March, some of
which begin collecting mail-in and early ballots in the immediate
aftermath of Iowa. If a candidate like Mr. Sanders were to seize
momentum next week, it could help him build a head start in states like
California and Texas.

It is a scenario that is deeply alarming to establishment-aligned
Democrats, if not unfamiliar. Four years ago, convinced Donald Trump
could not win the presidency, they watched with delight as he snatched
the Republican nomination without winning majorities because his more
traditional rivals divided the vote and refused to bow out.

The Democrats in this race have been as reluctant to target Mr. Sanders
as the Republicans were to target Mr. Trump four years ago; in each case
they were skeptical of his staying power and believed they had more to
gain by attacking other rivals.

Even now, as Mr. Sanders takes a lead in the first two early states, his
opponents have not delivered a sustained argument against his candidacy,
and remain reluctant to take him on: while Mr. Buttigieg drew attention
for warning in a fund-raising solicitation that a Sanders nomination
would be too risky, he notably declined to amplify his rhetoric in
television interviews over the weekend. The closest he has come to
confronting his rival on the left is to make oblique references to the
often-bitter 2016 primary between Hillary Clinton and Mr. Sanders.

``Most of us would agree the less 2020 resembles 2016 the better --- in
all respects,'' Mr. Buttigieg said in a brief interview. Each of the
would-be Stop Sanders candidates has built enough political strength to
justify forging ahead: Mr. Biden remains the national front-runner, with
unmatched support among black voters; Mr. Buttigieg and Ms. Warren both
have double-digit support in New Hampshire polls, and sizable war
chests; Ms. Klobuchar has the thinnest operation beyond Iowa of the
group, but over the weekend she earned the endorsement of New
Hampshire's influential Union Leader newspaper.

Image

Senator Elizabeth Warren remains one of the top alternatives to Mr.
Sanders for undecided democrats in Iowa.Credit...Jordan Gale for The New
York Times

Should all four move forward from Iowa, with their perceived strengths
and weaknesses, it could make it difficult for any of them to become a
rallying point for voters uneasy about Mr. Sanders.

Complicating matters further for traditionalists, and making this race
potentially even messier than Mr. Trump's primary, is the presence of
Mr. Bloomberg, who is not contesting the traditional early states in
February but has already poured more than \$270 million in advertising
into later contests and made clear to allies that he will remain in the
race should Mr. Sanders come roaring into March.

Mr. Bloomberg was on Ms. Klobuchar's mind as she left the dinner here
Saturday. She was asked if she would remain in the race if she did not
break into the top three in the caucuses, which has often been the
number of viable candidates who leave the state.

Even if you're in fourth, she was asked?

``You think it's only going to be down to four candidates even by New
Hampshire?'' she said before answering the question. ``No, it's not.''

Then, pointing to Mr. Bloomberg, she explained why the Democratic vote
may remain splintered.

``Why would I get out while he's still in?'' Ms. Klobuchar demanded.

With nearly 40 percent of Iowa voters indicating in a new New York
Times-Siena College poll that they were still not certain about whom to
support, Mr. Sanders could still suffer a reversal of fortune here.

That's in part because of the state's complex, multiphase caucusing
process, which allows supporters of underdog candidates to shift to
stronger contenders. If Mr. Sanders has the most enthusiastic base of
support in Iowa, he may be less well positioned to expand his bloc in
later rounds should moderate voters rally to one of the four other
leading candidates.

And it's Ms. Klobuchar whom Iowa Democrats are watching most closely. If
she does not reach 15 percent in most precincts, her supporters could
determine the statewide winner if they migrate mostly to one candidate.

Former Gov. Tom Vilsack of Iowa, Mr. Biden's most prominent supporter in
the state, was blunt about why Ms. Klobuchar's backers should support
the former vice president.

Mr. Biden has the best chance of winning the general election, he shares
Ms. Klobuchar's pragmatic politics and ``Joe is going to need a running
mate,'' Mr. Vilsack said.

A more urgent concern for Mr. Vilsack was the prospect of Iowa producing
a muddled result, a scenario that's more likely this year because the
state party, for the first time, is releasing raw vote totals from the
initial round of balloting as well as the final results and delegate
allocations.

``If I had to make one prediction, there will be a split decision and
that'll have repercussions,'' he said. ``Because whoever quote-unquote
wins can claim that they won, and talk about it going into New
Hampshire.''

So while they still hope to best Mr. Sanders in Iowa or New Hampshire,
several of Mr. Sanders's rivals have begun emphasizing their strengths
in states later in the calendar.

Mr. Biden's advisers and surrogates have been stressing his support
among minority communities that become important starting with the
Nevada caucuses on Feb. 22, while Ms. Warren's campaign circulated a
memo last week detailing its preparations in the March primaries that
will award most of the delegates that will settle the Democratic
nomination.

And in a conversation with volunteers before a town hall-style meeting
in Davenport on Sunday, Ms. Warren reiterated her determination to
compete into March and beyond, telling supporters she already has staff
in 30 states, according to a volunteer who attended the meeting and
spoke on the condition of anonymity.

Image

Former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr., a moderate alternative, held
a campaign event in Marshalltown, Iowa.Credit...Tamir Kalifa for The New
York Times

``We all know that this is very likely to be a long nomination
process,'' said California Assemblyman David Chiu, who on Sunday was
opening a campaign headquarters in San Francisco for Ms. Warren and said
of her campaign: ``They are going to put up a tremendous fight here in
the state.''

That phase of the race is also when Mr. Bloomberg, with his vast
personal fortune, could become a more urgent factor, either rising as an
obstacle for Mr. Sanders or further fracturing the party's moderate
wing.

In California, Mayor Robert Garcia of Long Beach, who endorsed Mr. Biden
this month, said he expected the former vice president to consolidate
support there ``once it becomes clear that there's a few candidates
left.''

But gathering support around just a few candidates could also be
difficult in California, Mr. Garcia noted, because the state's mail-in
ballots would list the names of candidates who falter or withdraw over
the course of February.

``There are going to be a lot of candidates in California, because they
are going to be on the ballot,'' he said. ``There will be some drop-off,
but they're all competitive here and that's going to continue.''

\hypertarget{our-2020-election-guide}{%
\section{Our 2020 Election Guide}\label{our-2020-election-guide}}

Updated Aug. 20, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{convention-recap}{%
  \subsection{Convention Recap}\label{convention-recap}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Joe Biden accepted the Democratic nomination, urging Americans to
    have faith that they could
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/20/us/politics/Joe-Biden-accepts-democratic-nomination.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{``overcome
    this season of darkness.''}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{news-analysis}{%
  \subsection{News Analysis}\label{news-analysis}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Looming over Mr. Biden's nomination was the ever-present shadow of
    another man who's poised to dominate the campaign:
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/20/us/politics/biden-dnc-speech-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Donald
    J. Trump}.
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{keep-up-with-our-coverage}{%
  \subsection{Keep Up With Our
  Coverage}\label{keep-up-with-our-coverage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Get an
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{email}
    recapping the day's news
  \end{itemize}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Download our mobile app on
    \href{https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nytimes/id284862083?ls=1\&mat_click_id=5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\&referrer=mat_click_id\%3D5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\%26link_click_id\%3D722930677036718082}{iOS}
    and
    \href{http://a.localytics.com/android?id=com.nytimes.android\&referrer=utm_source\%3Dother_nyt_mobile_web\%26utm_medium\%3DWeb\%2520page\%26utm_term\%3DGeneral\%2520Mobile\%2520Page\%26utm_campaign\%3DNYT\%2520Mobile\%2520General\%2520Page}{Android}
    and turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
