Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}Kamala Harris Declares
Candidacy, Evoking King and Joining Diverse Field

\url{https://nyti.ms/2HlwRyc}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/20/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{D.N.C.
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/20/us/politics/biden-presidential-nomination-dnc.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Biden's
  Speech}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/us/elections/2020-presidential-election-calendar.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Election
  Calendar}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/11/us/politics/vote-by-mail-us-states.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Voting
  by Mail}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Politics
  Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{kamala-harris-declares-candidacy-evoking-king-and-joining-diverse-field}{%
\section{Kamala Harris Declares Candidacy, Evoking King and Joining
Diverse
Field}\label{kamala-harris-declares-candidacy-evoking-king-and-joining-diverse-field}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2019/01/22/us/politics/00harris-hfo/00harris-hfo-videoSixteenByNine3000.jpg}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/astead-w-herndon}{Astead
W. Herndon}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Jan. 21, 2019
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

WASHINGTON --- Senator Kamala Harris, the California Democrat and
barrier-breaking prosecutor who became the second black woman to serve
in the United States Senate, declared her candidacy for president on
Monday, joining an increasingly crowded and diverse field in what
promises to be
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/12/31/us/politics/2020-democratic-candidates.html}{a
wide-open nomination process}.

The choreography of the announcement carried abundant symbolism: Ms.
Harris entered the race on the holiday of Martin Luther King's Birthday,
an overt nod to the historic nature of her candidacy. Her timing was
also meant to evoke Shirley Chisholm, the New York congresswoman who
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2005/01/03/obituaries/shirley-chisholm-unbossedpioneer-in-congress-is-dead-at-80.html}{became
the first woman to seek the Democratic Party's nomination for president}
47 years ago this week.

In addition, Ms. Harris will hold her first campaign event on Friday in
South Carolina, where black voters are the dominant force in the
Democratic primary, rather than start off by visiting Iowa and New
Hampshire, the two predominantly white states that hold their nomination
contests first. She will hold a kickoff rally Sunday in Oakland, Calif.,
her hometown, and a town hall in Iowa later next week.

``The core of my campaign is the people,'' Ms. Harris said at an
afternoon news conference at Howard University, the historically black
college she attended in the 1980s. ``Nobody is living their life through
the lens of one issue. And I think what people want is leadership that
sees them through the complexity of their lives and pays equal attention
to their needs. Let's not put people in a box.''

Ms. Harris's campaign is already facing skepticism from some in the
party's liberal wing, who believe she has lurched to the left only in
recent years as preparation for a presidential campaign. She has
repeatedly come under scrutiny from liberals for several
``tough-on-crime'' positions she took as a prosecutor in California,
including defending the use of the death penalty as recently as 2015 and
establishing a measure that sought to punish parents for chronically
truant children.

For the first time, the Democratic presidential race now includes
several high-profile women, with Ms. Harris joining two other prominent
senators,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/12/31/us/politics/elizabeth-warren-2020-president-announcement.html}{Elizabeth
Warren of Massachusetts} and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/01/15/us/politics/gillibrand-president-election.html}{Kirsten
Gillibrand of New York}.
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/01/11/us/politics/tulsi-gabbard-2020-president-announcement.html}{Representative
Tulsi Gabbard}, a Hawaii Democrat, has also said she is running, and
more women could enter the race in the coming weeks.

Ms. Harris made her announcement during a morning interview on ``Good
Morning America.'' She also released a video aimed at supporters and
other Democrats, debuting a campaign slogan that played off her
background as a prosecutor: ``Kamala Harris For the People.''

``The future of our country depends on you, and millions of others,
lifting our voices to fight for our American values,'' Ms. Harris said
in the video. ``Let's do this together: For ourselves, for our children,
for our country,'' she said.

Her announcement
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/01/21/us/politics/biden-crime-bill-regrets.html?action=click\&module=Top\%20Stories\&pgtype=Homepage}{kicked
off a day of tribute and outreach} to black voters by Democratic
presidential candidates and potential candidates. Senators Cory Booker
of New Jersey and Bernie Sanders of Vermont made appearances, as did Ms.
Gillibrand, Ms. Warren and former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr.,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/01/21/us/politics/biden-crime-bill-regrets.html}{who
expressed regret} for supporting crime bills earlier in his career that
have been criticized for disproportionately impacting black Americans.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-2020-election}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/19/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: 2020
Election}}{Latest Updates: 2020 Election}}\label{latest-updates-2020-election}}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/19/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#night-3-featured-more-policy-a-focus-on-women-and-a-full-throated-rejection-of-trump-by-his-predecessor}{7h
ago}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/19/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#night-3-featured-more-policy-a-focus-on-women-and-a-full-throated-rejection-of-trump-by-his-predecessor}{Night
3 featured more policy, a focus on women and a full-throated rejection
of Trump by his predecessor.}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/19/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#trump-live-tweeted-obamas-speech-tonight-hell-appear-on-fox-news-right-before-bidens-tomorrow}{9h
ago}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/19/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#trump-live-tweeted-obamas-speech-tonight-hell-appear-on-fox-news-right-before-bidens-tomorrow}{Trump
live-tweeted Obama's speech tonight. He'll appear on Fox News right
before Biden's tomorrow.}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/19/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#advocates-for-domestic-violence-survivors-praised-biden-in-a-video}{9h
ago}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/19/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#advocates-for-domestic-violence-survivors-praised-biden-in-a-video}{Advocates
for domestic violence survivors praised Biden in a video.}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/19/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

Ms. Harris's long-expected entry comes as many Democrats are eager to
find new leaders and as the party grasps for a unifying message
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/01/14/us/politics/democratic-candidates-issues-2020.html}{that
can appeal to its increasingly progressive base and more moderate voters
who have recoiled from President Trump}.

A 54-year-old former California attorney general and San Francisco
district attorney, Ms. Harris is something of a bridge between the
Democrats eyeing the race who are in their 70s, like Mr. Biden and Mr.
Sanders, and those in their 40s, like Mr. Booker and former
Representative Beto O'Rourke. Further, while she hails from one of the
country's most famously liberal cities, she has ties to both the
pragmatic and leftist wings of the party: She is rooted in the Bay
Area's Democratic establishment but has embraced a more progressive
agenda since being elected to the Senate in 2016.

While other Democrats have focused their economic policy on regulating
corporations or limiting the influence of Wall Street, Ms. Harris's
signature proposal is more focused on individuals and would provide
lower-income families with monthly cash payments of up to \$500. She has
also proposed a bail reform bill that's backed by several civil rights
groups, and she focused her initial Senate work on curbing maternal
death rates, particularly among black women.

Like many Democrats, Ms. Harris has sought to align herself with the
party's leftward drift in recent years, proclaiming her support for
``Medicare for All'' and, after an initial hesitation, disavowing most
corporate donations. She has also embraced the legalization of
recreational marijuana, a position she once rebuffed.

{[}\emph{Who's in, who's ready to join? Follow the Democratic field
with}
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/us/politics/2020-presidential-candidates.html?action=click\&module=Top\%20Stories\&pgtype=Homepage}{\emph{The
Times's candidate tracker}}.{]}

``She has long been a reform-minded prosecutor who struck a balance
between the need for public safety and reckoning with civil rights
ideals,'' said Kristen Clarke, president and executive director of the
Lawyers' Committee for Civil Rights Under Law.

But not everyone agrees that Ms. Harris can easily assuage Democrats
worried about her record as a prosecutor and district attorney.

``If Kamala Harris wants people who care about dismantling mass
incarceration and correcting miscarriages of justice to vote for her,
she needs to radically break with her past,'' wrote Lara Bazelon, a law
professor,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/01/17/opinion/kamala-harris-criminal-justice.html}{in
an opinion piece for The Times last week}.

Ms. Harris is still not yet well known to voters, but
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/01/12/us/politics/kamala-harris-democrats.html}{there
is curiosity about her among the party rank-and-file} as they face a
Democratic nomination contest that is defined primarily by its
uncertainty.

Mr. Trump has thrust issues of race and identity to the forefront of the
national debate, and with the Democratic coalition growing even more
dependent on racial minorities, Ms. Harris --- the daughter of a
Jamaican father and Indian mother --- would represent a history-making
contrast in a general election against the president.

As the first black woman in the Senate in over a decade, she garnered
attention from her perch on key committees for her intensive
interrogations of Trump administration officials and nominees, most
famously during
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2017/06/13/us/politics/kamala-harris-interrupted-jeff-sessions.html}{a
Senate Intelligence Committee hearing} with former Attorney General Jeff
Sessions.

``Did you have communication with Russian businessmen or any Russian
national? Are you aware of any communications?'' Ms. Harris asked Mr.
Sessions during the tense exchange.

``You let me qualify,'' Mr. Sessions responded. ``If I don't qualify,
you accuse me of lying, so I need to be correct as best as I can. I'm
not able to be rushed this fast. It makes me nervous.''

Ms. Harris focused her initial campaign message on broad themes of unity
and revitalization, which emphasize her unique status as one of --- if
not the --- most viable black women to ever run for president. Her
announcement video borrows language from ``Lift Every Voice and Sing,''
the song and poem written in 1900 and long referred to as America's
``black national anthem.''

She has been compared to former President Barack Obama, who also ran for
president just two years after coming to the Senate. But unlike Mr.
Obama, who became a political celebrity even before he arrived in
Washington, Ms. Harris has made her name since being elected to
Congress.

``We can't have business as usual, and I like that she's not waiting her
time --- but she wants to make this time her own,'' said Aaron Jenkins,
a 37-year-old who works in education policy and attended the National
Action Network's breakfast honoring the King holiday on Monday.

Her centrist standing in the party could also turn out to be an asset.
Her campaign advisers, which include several people who helped shepherd
her from San Francisco to Capitol Hill, believe she is well-suited to
build coalitions within the Democratic electorate, because she is not
tethered to a single faction.

However, even before she formally entered the race, Ms. Harris was
criticized by some in her own party.

One of her top aides, Larry Wallace, resigned in December after
revelations that he was involved in a harassment lawsuit and a \$400,000
settlement while working for the California Department of Justice. Ms.
Harris has said she did not know about the settlement, but she
apologized and took ``full responsibility'' for hiring Mr. Wallace.

Critics on Ms. Harris's left have also called her record into question,
pointing to a dramatic increase in the state's prison population during
her years in public office.

``Kamala Harris is a cop'' goes one often-repeated criticism that floods
the senator's social media accounts.

``There were cases where folks who made a decision in my office and
didn't consult me and I regret that,'' Ms. Harris said Monday when asked
about some of her more controversial cases. ``But there's a lot of what
I did as a prosecutor that I'm proud of.''

A Quinnipiac University poll in mid-December illustrated Ms. Harris's
potential, finding her with a favorable rating among Democrats but with
the majority of respondents still wanting ``to hear more.'' About 40
percent of Democrats had a favorable opinion of her, compared with just
4 percent who viewed her unfavorably.

Ms. Harris, the first major candidate for president from California in
over a quarter-century, could also benefit from changes to the 2020
nominating calendar. Her native state has moved up its primary to early
March, immediately after the first four early-nominating states,
presenting the possibility that she could capture a large trove of
delegates just as the contest gets underway.

Republicans were quick to denigrate her candidacy on Monday.

``Kamala Harris is arguably the least-vetted Democrat running for
president, but it's already clear how unqualified and out of touch she
is,'' the Republican National Committee said in a statement, adding,
``All she has to show for her brief time in the Senate is a radically
liberal voting record.''

Ms. Harris's campaign will be based in Baltimore with a second office in
Oakland. Among the staff members she announced Monday was Maya Harris,
her sister, who was a senior adviser to Hillary Clinton's 2016 campaign
and will serve as Ms. Harris's campaign chair.

The campaign also premiered a logo that reads ``Kamala Harris For The
People'' in blue and red letters across a yellow background. It was
intended as another nod to Ms. Chisholm, who used a similar color scheme
for her presidential campaign in 1972.

\hypertarget{our-2020-election-guide}{%
\section{Our 2020 Election Guide}\label{our-2020-election-guide}}

Updated Aug. 20, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{convention-recap}{%
  \subsection{Convention Recap}\label{convention-recap}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Joe Biden accepted the Democratic nomination, urging Americans to
    have faith that they could
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/20/us/politics/Joe-Biden-accepts-democratic-nomination.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{``overcome
    this season of darkness.''}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{news-analysis}{%
  \subsection{News Analysis}\label{news-analysis}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Looming over Mr. Biden's nomination was the ever-present shadow of
    another man who's poised to dominate the campaign:
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/20/us/politics/biden-dnc-speech-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Donald
    J. Trump}.
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{keep-up-with-our-coverage}{%
  \subsection{Keep Up With Our
  Coverage}\label{keep-up-with-our-coverage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Get an
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{email}
    recapping the day's news
  \end{itemize}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Download our mobile app on
    \href{https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nytimes/id284862083?ls=1\&mat_click_id=5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\&referrer=mat_click_id\%3D5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\%26link_click_id\%3D722930677036718082}{iOS}
    and
    \href{http://a.localytics.com/android?id=com.nytimes.android\&referrer=utm_source\%3Dother_nyt_mobile_web\%26utm_medium\%3DWeb\%2520page\%26utm_term\%3DGeneral\%2520Mobile\%2520Page\%26utm_campaign\%3DNYT\%2520Mobile\%2520General\%2520Page}{Android}
    and turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
