Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/nyregion}{New York}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/nyregion}{New York}\textbar{}After Testifying Against the
Bloods, Can Tekashi 69 Disappear?

\url{https://nyti.ms/351GNVg}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{after-testifying-against-the-bloods-can-tekashi-69-disappear}{%
\section{After Testifying Against the Bloods, Can Tekashi 69
Disappear?}\label{after-testifying-against-the-bloods-can-tekashi-69-disappear}}

He became a star witness for prosecutors, drawing death threats. Can a
viral sensation now truly vanish? And would he want to?

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2019/09/22/nyregion/22Tekashi/22Tekashi-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/ali-watkins}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2019/02/20/multimedia/author-ali-watkins/author-ali-watkins-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/ali-watkins}{Ali Watkins}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Published Sept. 22, 2019Updated Sept. 2, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

For three short days in September, the rapper
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/02/arts/music/6ix9ine-interview.html}{Tekashi
6ix9ine} was back in his element: blowing up the internet. Abandoning
his brand as a professional agitator, the Instagram celebrity became
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/09/19/nyregion/tekashi-69-case-testimony-jim-jones.html}{a
star witness for the federal government}, and testified at length about
fellow rappers and his former crew, the Nine Trey Gangsta Bloods.

But when
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/12/18/nyregion/tekashi-69-sentenced.html}{6ix9ine}
--- whose real name is
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/12/18/nyregion/tekashi-69-sentenced.html}{Daniel
Hernandez} --- stepped off the witness stand on Thursday, he stepped
into an uncertain future.

The debacle has all but eviscerated Mr. Hernandez's credibility in rap,
where fellow performers
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/09/25/nyregion/tekashi69-crime-trial.html}{have
branded him a ``snitch.''} His safety is similarly suspect; the Nine
Trey gang has not historically taken kindly to being double-crossed, and
has already threatened to kill him once.

``I knew I was going to become a target,'' he said in court. ``I knew
they were going to try and hurt me.''

\emph{{[}Read more of}
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/09/20/arts/music/tekashi-case-testimony.html}{\emph{Tekashi
69's courtroom testimony}}\emph{.{]}}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/10/03/nyregion/tekashi-69-guilty.html}{Mr.
Hernandez} was in court to testify against two of his former confidants,
Anthony Ellison, 31, and Aljermiah Mack, 33, in a sweeping racketeering
and firearms case prosecutors brought against the gang last year. For
hours last week, Mr. Hernandez walked the jury through the inner
workings of Nine Trey,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/09/30/nyregion/tekashi-69-trial-gang-violence.html}{a
prison gang with roots on Rikers Island} in the 1990s.

In doing so,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/09/24/nyregion/tekashi-69-witness-protection-program.html}{the
rapper may have decimated} any remaining good will he had left in the
rap industry as he became both a punch line and a pariah --- the subject
of intense online vitriol from his onetime peers, who expressed
astonishment at the amount of information Mr. Hernandez had provided.

Artists including Snoop Dogg, Future and Lil Durk shared memes or
pointed words denouncing 6ix9ine as a snitch, with Meek Mill writing,
``Message of the day don't be a internet gangsta \ldots{} be yourself!''

Minya Oh, best known as Miss Info, the founder of the hip-hop news
website MissInfo.tv and a former host on the rap radio station Hot 97 in
New York, called the 6ix9ine saga a ``Greek telenovela tragicomedy,''
and predicted that he would face a complex conundrum upon being
released: curiosity would be at an all-time high, but within the hip-hop
community, so would animus.

``In the attention economy, just knowing that 6ix9ine might open his
mouth somewhere is like shipping platinum,'' she said. ``But nobody with
any of their own value will ever stand next to him. So he has to exist
in a vacuum and can't leave his house. All doable things for an artist
in 2019 and beyond.''

Labels would be reluctant to allow their artists to work with him, Ms.
Oh added, ``But they all think when he gets out of jail, he will be a
big draw.''

\emph{{[}Read about 6ix9ine's}
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/09/17/nyregion/tekashi-69-testifying-court-trial.html?module=inline}{\emph{first}}\emph{,}
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/09/18/nyregion/tekashi-69-testifies-testimony-stand-court.html?module=inline}{\emph{second}}
\emph{and}
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/09/19/nyregion/tekashi-69-case-testimony-jim-jones.html?module=inline}{\emph{third}}
\emph{days of testimony.{]}}

Mr. Hernandez
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/02/01/nyregion/tekashi-69-pleads-guilty.html}{pleaded
guilty} in January to racketeering conspiracy and eight other charges.
He faces a minimum of 47 years in prison. If his cooperation is
successful, prosecutors agreed earlier this year
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/12/04/nyregion/tekashi-69-sentencing.html}{to
lobby for a lighter sentence}.

His utility as an informant has an inevitable expiration date. Mr.
Ellison's and Mr. Mack's trial is expected to conclude within days, and
it is unclear whether Mr. Hernandez would testify in any other potential
trials that could stem from the government's case against Nine Trey.

Prosecutors have indicated he could enter the witness protection
program.

Such a path would not be unprecedented. The government has successfully
relocated and protected high-profile witnesses in the past; mobsters
have started over as bakery owners, and reformed assassins have found
new careers as doll salesmen, two former federal law enforcement
officials said.

``Despite how connected we are, and the appetite for social media
content in this country, there are places where, if this kid gets a
haircut and wears normal clothes, no one would know or care who he is,''
said Jay Kramer, a former F.B.I. official who worked on organized crime
cases.

There is almost nothing in Mr. Hernandez's background that suggests a
capacity for discretion, and it is unlikely the United States Marshals
Service, which runs the witness protection program, would pay for the
removal of Mr. Hernandez's signature face tattoos.

The rapper, whose rainbow-colored hair has faded to its natural black,
transformed into a thoughtful, conscientious narrator in court. He
paused frequently to translate street slang to the jury, and showed
disarming flashes of naïveté --- he asked lawyers to explain large words
and requested clarification about questions.

That Mr. Hernandez landed in prison because of his affiliation with Nine
Trey is less surprising than his reinvention as an informant.

The Bushwick native linked up with the gang in 2017, he said, after his
first international tour, in Eastern Europe. At the time, Mr.
Hernandez's bizarre mash-up of heavy metal and hip-hop was confusing ---
and compelling --- the rap world.

But his style shifted considerably that year, when he returned to
Brooklyn and partnered with the Nine Trey gang. His multiplatinum
breakout single, ``GUMMO,'' featured several purported members of Nine
Trey in the track's music video, which went viral.

``That's what people liked,'' he said of the gang affiliation. ``It was
just a formula, a blueprint that I found that worked.''

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2019/09/22/nyregion/22Tekashi2/22Tekashi2-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Mr. Hernandez, who had amassed a gigantic internet following, became a
sort of cash cow for the Nine Trey leadership, he said, including Mr.
Ellison and Kifano (Shotti) Jordan. Both collected tens of thousands of
dollars from Mr. Hernandez's performances, he said.

Mr. Jordan pleaded guilty to federal firearms charges earlier this year
in connection with the case, and was sentenced to 15 years in prison.

Mr. Hernandez's profitability made him a coveted token in the Nine Trey
hierarchy, prosecutors said. Mr. Ellison and Mr. Jordan began warring
over control of the rapper's career, culminating in Mr. Ellison
allegedly kidnapping and robbing Mr. Hernandez last summer.

``I'm pleading with him,'' Mr. Hernandez said of the incident. ``I'm
like, `Yo, I'm scared. I have a daughter. I have a 3-year-old daughter
at home.'''

The alleged
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/09/19/nyregion/tekashi-69-case-testimony-jim-jones.html}{kidnapping},
which was widely covered at the time, would be the catalyst for Mr.
Hernandez's unraveling. By November, he had publicly renounced Nine
Trey.

``I was tired of being extorted,'' he said.

His repudiation was significant enough that the gang began discussing
how to punish Mr. Hernandez for his disloyalty,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/11/29/nyregion/tekashi6ix9ine-jail-treyway.html}{according
to wiretaps}. The threats were deemed credible, and officials with the
F.B.I. visited Mr. Hernandez to offer him protection, which he declined.

Days later, Mr. Hernandez and 11 other reputed Nine Trey members were
arrested and charged in the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/11/19/nyregion/tekashi-6ix9ine-arrested-racketeering.html}{sweeping
racketeering and firearms case}.

Twenty-four hours later, Mr. Hernandez rescinded his previous
declination to the F.B.I. He agreed to testify against his former crew.

Joe Coscarelli contributed reporting.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
