Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/world}{World}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/world}{World}\textbar{}Coronavirus Can Be Deadly for
Young Adults, Too, Study Finds

\url{https://nyti.ms/3m7eJsi}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{the-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=751352c0-f4b5-11ea-b564-bd1dfc5ec362\&variant=undefined}{The
Coronavirus
Outbreak}}{The Coronavirus Outbreak}}\label{the-coronavirus-outbreak}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  live\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/11/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=751379d0-f4b5-11ea-b564-bd1dfc5ec362\&variant=undefined}{Latest
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=751379d1-f4b5-11ea-b564-bd1dfc5ec362\&variant=undefined}{Maps
  and Cases}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=751379d2-f4b5-11ea-b564-bd1dfc5ec362\&variant=undefined}{Vaccine
  Tracker}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/10/us/politics/fda-coronavirus-vaccine.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=751379d3-f4b5-11ea-b564-bd1dfc5ec362\&variant=undefined}{F.D.A.
  Regulators' Self-Defense}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/09/upshot/coronavirus-surprise-test-fees.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=751379d4-f4b5-11ea-b564-bd1dfc5ec362\&variant=undefined}{Surprise
  Test Fees}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{coronavirus-can-be-deadly-for-young-adults-too-study-finds}{%
\section{Coronavirus Can Be Deadly for Young Adults, Too, Study
Finds}\label{coronavirus-can-be-deadly-for-young-adults-too-study-finds}}

India set another record for new infections, adding more than 96,000.
The Senate did not approve a Republican proposal for more virus aid.

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Published Sept. 10, 2020Updated Sept. 11, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

This briefing has ended. Read
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/11/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html}{live
coronavirus updates here}.

\hypertarget{heres-what-you-need-to-know}{%
\subsubsection{Here's what you need to
know:}\label{heres-what-you-need-to-know}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-39f95f8a}{A new study warns the virus is `a
  life-threatening disease in people of all ages.'}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-45cd3ae4}{A new stimulus plan before Election
  Day is looking even more unlikely.}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-2c9c9ed}{F.D.A. regulators issued a statement
  defending their integrity and alluding to potential interference.}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-7af7f6c}{A former Jets player is accused of
  fraudulently taking \$1.25 million in Covid aid.}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-517841d3}{Fearing Covid-19, North Korea has
  ordered troops on China's border to shoot to kill, a U.S. general
  says.}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-10b7514b}{The C.D.C. says health screenings at
  airports were not effective in the `current phase of the pandemic.'}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-14e948b0}{Stanford doctors issue a warning
  about a Trump adviser --- a colleague --- in an open letter.}
\end{itemize}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/09/10/us/10virus-briefing-young/merlin_174853140_f41c0fca-ff72-4635-8094-5d58b336bc08-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\hypertarget{a-new-study-warns-the-virus-is-a-life-threatening-disease-in-people-of-all-ages}{%
\subsection{A new study warns the virus is `a life-threatening disease
in people of all
ages.'}\label{a-new-study-warns-the-virus-is-a-life-threatening-disease-in-people-of-all-ages}}

The coronavirus may be best known for the brutal toll it has taken on
older adults, but a new study of hospital patients challenges the notion
that young people are impervious.

The
\href{https://jamanetwork.com/journals/jamainternalmedicine/fullarticle/2770542?guestAccessKey=87e8344a-8e2f-4ca8-8e1a-95be53bbf71e\&utm_source=silverchair\&utm_medium=email\&utm_campaign=article_alert-jamainternalmedicine\&utm_content=olf\&utm_term=090920}{research
letter from Harvard} found that among 3,222 young adults hospitalized
with Covid-19, 88 died --- about 2.7 percent. One in five required
intensive care, and one in 10 needed a ventilator to assist with
breathing.

Among those who survived, 99 patients, or 3 percent, could not be sent
home from the hospital and were transferred to facilities for ongoing
care or rehabilitation.

The study ``establishes that Covid-19 is a life-threatening disease in
people of all ages,'' wrote Dr. Mitchell Katz, a deputy editor at JAMA
Internal Medicine,
\href{https://jamanetwork.com/journals/jamainternalmedicine/fullarticle/2770541?guestAccessKey=8633865c-3c11-4ce2-9449-887ca6580677\&utm_source=silverchair\&utm_medium=email\&utm_campaign=article_alert-jamainternalmedicine\&utm_content=olf\&utm_term=090920}{in
an accompanying editorial}.

``Social distancing, facial coverings and other approaches to prevent
transmission are as important in young adults as in older people,'' it
said.

Nearly 60 percent of younger patients hospitalized with Covid-19 were
men, and a similar percentage were Black or Hispanic. Men were more
likely to need a ventilator than women, and more likely to die. Extreme
obesity and hypertension were also linked to a greater risk of
mechanical ventilation or death.

The study, which was peer reviewed and published in JAMA Internal
Medicine on Wednesday, looked at young adults discharged from more than
400 hospitals in the United States between April 1 and June 30. Over
all, just over one-third were obese, and one quarter extremely so.
Roughly one in five had diabetes, and about one in seven had
hypertension.

The senior author of the research letter, Dr. Scott D. Solomon, a
professor of medicine at Harvard, emphasized that despite the rise in
coronavirus cases among young people, the proportion who become so sick
that they require hospitalization remains low.

At the same time, he said, some will become seriously ill, and Black and
Hispanic people are overrepresented among them.

``We talk a lot about how young people can transmit the disease to
others who are more vulnerable, but we want to make the point that some
young people --- it's not a huge number compared to those getting
infected --- but a finite number are going to have serious consequences
of this disease,'' Dr. Solomon said.

Those with chronic health problems are at greater risk, but some with no
apparent vulnerabilities also become acutely ill, he said.

``There are factors that we don't understand that put people at risk
with this disease,'' Dr. Solomon said. ``They may be genetic, they may
be environmental, they may be the other viruses we've been exposed to in
our lives. There is a randomness there.''

And researchers know very little about the long-term consequences for
the young adults who recover. ``What are the effects they are going to
have weeks, months, even years down the line?'' Dr. Solomon asked.

\hypertarget{a-new-stimulus-plan-before-election-day-is-looking-even-more-unlikely}{%
\subsection{A new stimulus plan before Election Day is looking even more
unlikely.}\label{a-new-stimulus-plan-before-election-day-is-looking-even-more-unlikely}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/09/10/us/10virus-briefing-stimulus/10virus-briefing-stimulus-videoSixteenByNine3000.jpg}

A near-united front by Republicans. En masse opposition by Democrats.
And when the vote by the Senate was over Thursday, the conclusion was
just as foregone as anyone might have imaged: The Republicans' so-called
skinny stimulus plan went down.

The failure of the measure to advance spoke to the rapidly dwindling
chances that Congress will enact another recovery measure to ease the
economic toll of the pandemic before November's elections.

After months of struggling to overcome deep internal divisions over the
scope of another relief package, Republicans put the pared-down bill
forward knowing it was almost certainly going nowhere. It needed 60
votes to advance --- and Democrats, who says the measure is far too
stingy, were not inclined to oblige.

Republicans held the vote largely because it allowed them to foist blame
on Democrats for the lack of progress on a compromise stimulus bill.

``They can tell American families they care more about politics than
helping them,'' said Senator Mitch McConnell, Republican of Kentucky,
the majority leader. ``Senators who want to move forward will vote yes.
They will vote to advance this process so they can shape it into a
bipartisan product and make a law for the American people.''

The 52-47 vote was mostly along party lines, with Democrats uniformly in
opposition and one Republican, Senator Rand Paul of Kentucky, joining
them in seeking to block the measure from advancing.

The Republican plan slashed hundreds of billions of dollars from their
original \$1 trillion proposal unveiled in July. It included federal aid
for unemployed workers, small businesses, schools and vaccine
development.

Democrats, who have refused to accept any proposal less than \$2.2
trillion, argued that it did little to address the economic devastation
of the pandemic.

The measure did not include another round of stimulus checks for
taxpayers or aid to state and local governments facing financial ruin,
omissions that cut down the overall price tag of the legislation in a
bid to appease fiscal conservatives.

And while it would have revived weekly federal jobless benefits that
lapsed at the end of July, it set them at \$300 --- half the original
amount. Democrats are pressing to reinstitute the full payment.

``This bill is not going to happen because it is so emaciated, so filled
with poison pills --- it is designed to fail,'' said Senator Chuck
Schumer of New York, the minority leader, on the Senate floor. ``It's
insufficient. It's completely inadequate.''

Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin, who has been a point man in
negotiations with Democrats on a recovery package, cast doubt Wednesday
on whether any agreement could be reached, saying he was not sure
whether there was still a chance.

``We'll see,'' Mr. Mnuchin said. ``I hope there is. It's important to a
lot of people out there.''

\hypertarget{fda-regulators-issued-a-statement-defending-their-integrity-and-alluding-to-potential-interference}{%
\subsection{F.D.A. regulators issued a statement defending their
integrity and alluding to potential
interference.}\label{fda-regulators-issued-a-statement-defending-their-integrity-and-alluding-to-potential-interference}}

Image

The F.D.A. commissioner, Dr. Stephen Hahn, praised the statement on
Thursday, saying that the authors ``took the initiative to independently
express their steadfast trust in the expertise and commitment of our
organization.''Credit...Oliver Contreras for The New York Times

In
\href{https://www.usatoday.com/story/opinion/2020/09/10/sound-science-to-meet-covid-challenges-fda-career-officials-column/5756948002/}{an
opinion column} published in USA Today on Thursday, eight top regulators
at the Food and Drug Administration promised to uphold the scientific
integrity of their work and defend the agency's independence. The column
warned that ``if the agency's credibility is lost because of real or
perceived interference, people will not rely on the agency's safety
warnings.''

\hypertarget{latest-updates-the-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/11/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: The Coronavirus
Outbreak}}{Latest Updates: The Coronavirus Outbreak}}\label{latest-updates-the-coronavirus-outbreak}}

Updated 2020-09-12T04:56:54.924Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/11/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-dfb8a16}{Fauci
  cautions the virus could disrupt life in the U.S. until `maybe even
  towards the end of 2021.'}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/11/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-7104d154}{From
  Asia to Africa, China promotes its vaccine candidates to win friends.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/11/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-393ad215}{The
  other way the virus will kill: hunger.}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/11/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

More live coverage:
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/11/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Markets}

The pledge by career scientists in the federal government came amid
mounting concerns over the role the White House has played in emergency
approvals for coronavirus therapies, including convalescent plasma and
the malaria drug hydroxychloroquine, which the agency
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/15/health/fda-hydroxychloroquine-malaria.html}{later
revoked}.

The specter of political arm-twisting has grown as several drugmakers
entered large late-stage vaccine trials this summer. President Trump
told reporters on Monday that ``we're going to have a vaccine very soon,
maybe even before a very special date. You know what date I'm talking
about.''

That timeline, framed around Election Day, has been
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/04/science/covid-vaccine-pharma-pledge.html}{widely
challenged} by the administration's top health officials, who have said
that a vaccine approval by early November was improbable.

The statement in USA Today was written in large part because of fears
over political influence on the F.D.A., including from the White House,
according to senior administration officials familiar with the effort.

``We absolutely understand that the F.D.A., like other federal executive
agencies, operates in a political environment,'' the regulators wrote.
``That is a reality that we must navigate adeptly while maintaining our
independence to ensure the best possible outcomes for public health.''

\hypertarget{a-former-jets-player-is-accused-of-fraudulently-taking-125-million-in-covid-aid}{%
\subsection{A former Jets player is accused of fraudulently taking
\$1.25 million in Covid
aid.}\label{a-former-jets-player-is-accused-of-fraudulently-taking-125-million-in-covid-aid}}

Image

Josh Bellamy of the New York Jets, left, during a game against the
Buffalo Bills last year. He has been charged with fraudulently obtaining
a \$1.25 million loan from the Paycheck Protection
Program.Credit...Michael Owens/Getty Images

A wide receiver who was cut from the New York Jets on Tuesday has been
charged with fraudulently obtaining a \$1.2 million loan from the
Paycheck Protection Program and using the proceeds to buy luxury goods,
prosecutors said on Thursday.

The former player, Joshua J. Bellamy, 31, was charged with wire fraud,
bank fraud and conspiracy to commit wire fraud and bank fraud,
\href{https://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/nfl-player-charged-role-24-million-covid-relief-fraud-scheme\#:~:text=Joshua\%20J.\%20Bellamy\%2C\%2031\%2C,wire\%20fraud\%20and\%20bank\%20fraud.}{prosecutors
said}. He was arrested on Thursday morning and made an initial
appearance via Zoom in federal court in Florida.

Mr. Bellamy, of St. Petersburg, Fla., signed with the Jets in 2019 but
was
\href{https://www.newyorkjets.com/news/jets-place-wrs-quincy-enunwa-josh-bellamy-on-reserve-pup}{sidelined
with a shoulder injury} in March after playing in seven games. He was
cut from the team on Tuesday, according to a Jets spokesman. He had
played for the Chicago Bears from 2014 to 2018.

In
\href{https://www.justice.gov/opa/press-release/file/1315621/download}{a
federal complaint}, prosecutors said that Mr. Bellamy had taken part in
a scheme with 10 other defendants who collectively filed at least 90
fraudulent loan applications seeking more than \$24 million in
coronavirus relief loans. Many of those loan applications were approved
and funded by financial institutions, paying out at least \$17.4
million, prosecutors said.

Prosecutors said Mr. Bellamy had obtained a Paycheck Protection Program
loan of \$1.25 million for his own company, Drip Entertainment L.L.C.,
which he used to buy more than \$104,000 in luxury goods from Dior,
Gucci and other merchants.

Diego Weiner, Mr. Bellamy's lawyer, said it was ``very early in the
case, and Mr. Bellamy is presumed innocent.''

\hypertarget{fearing-covid-19-north-korea-has-ordered-troops-on-chinas-border-to-shoot-to-kill-a-us-general-says}{%
\subsection{Fearing Covid-19, North Korea has ordered troops on China's
border to shoot to kill, a U.S. general
says.}\label{fearing-covid-19-north-korea-has-ordered-troops-on-chinas-border-to-shoot-to-kill-a-us-general-says}}

Image

A March photograph from North Korean state media showed workers
disinfecting a bus and a parking lot in Sinuiju, a city near the Chinese
border.Credit...Korean Central News Agency, via Agence France-Presse ---
Getty Images

North Korea has deployed crack troops along its border with a
shoot-to-kill order to prevent smugglers from introducing the
coronavirus into its isolated and malnourished population, the United
States' top general in South Korea said on Thursday.

North Korea
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/31/world/asia/north-korea-coronavirus.html}{insists}
that it has not confirmed a single case of Covid-19. But outside experts
are skeptical, citing the country's decrepit public health capabilities
and the long border it shares with China, where the epidemic first
erupted. More than 90 percent of the North's external trade normally
goes through its land and sea borders with China.

North Korea shut its borders with China in late January, as fear of the
virus spread. As an added precaution, it has also deployed special
forces troops to create ``a buffer zone, one or two kilometers up on the
Chinese border,'' said Gen. Robert B. Abrams, commander of the American
military in South Korea.

``They've got shoot-to-kill orders in place,'' General Abrams said
during an\href{https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8XkZScCeCWQ}{online
conference} on Thursday, organized by the Washington-based Center for
Strategic and International Studies. ``This is fundamentally about
preventing Covid from getting into North Korea.''

Given the North's poor medical systems and its chronically malnourished
population, ``a very large outbreak could be devastating,'' he said.

As United Nations sanctions have choked North Korea's economy in recent
years, illegal smuggling across the border with China has increasingly
become a lifeline. But fear of Covid-19 has curbed smuggling as well as
legal trade.

Covid-19
``has\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/04/world/asia/north-korea-sanctions-coronavirus.html}{accelerated
the effect of sanctions} on North Korea,'' General Abrams said.

North Korea's trade with China has plummeted this year, according to
official numbers. To make things worse, the North was hit by three
typhoons in rapid succession that caused extensive damage to homes,
farmland, roads, bridges and mines.

In a series of emergency meetings of the ruling Workers' Party in recent
weeks, the North's leader, Kim Jong-un,
has\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/19/world/asia/north-korea-economy-coronavirus.html}{admitted}
that his five-year plan to rebuild the economy failed. But he has
ordered the government to undertake recovery efforts
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/14/world/asia/north-korea-floods-coronavirus.html}{without
accepting outside aid} and instructed the military to lead the recovery
work.

\hypertarget{the-cdc-says-health-screenings-at-airports-were-not-effective-in-the-current-phase-of-the-pandemic}{%
\subsection{The C.D.C. says health screenings at airports were not
effective in the `current phase of the
pandemic.'}\label{the-cdc-says-health-screenings-at-airports-were-not-effective-in-the-current-phase-of-the-pandemic}}

Image

A temperature screening monitor at Kuala Lumpur International Airport in
Malaysia on Monday.Credit...Fazry Ismail/EPA, via Shutterstock

The federal government next week will halt its policy of screening
international travelers for coronavirus symptoms at 15 designated
airports across the country, according to the Centers for Disease
Control and Prevention. Passengers from regions of the world that were
previously deemed hot spots for the virus will also no longer be
funneled to those airports, beginning Monday.

The C.D.C. said that the federal government would instead commit
resources to a different --- and vague --- set of procedures, including
``health education'' before, during and after flights, ``illness
response'' at airports, and ``potential testing.''

In
\href{https://www.cdc.gov/media/releases/2020/s-0909-covid-19-entry-strategy-air-passengers.html}{a
statement}, the C.D.C. said that the health screenings, which involved
temperature checks and interviews about possible symptoms of the
coronavirus, were no longer a sound way of detecting infections in the
``current phase of the pandemic.''

``We now have a better understanding of Covid-19 transmission that
indicates symptom-based screening has limited effectiveness because
people with Covid-19 may have no symptoms or fever at the time of
screening, or only mild symptoms,'' the agency wrote.

A federal official familiar with the policy change said that another
component of the health screenings at American airports would also be
eliminated: the collection of contact information in case a passenger is
discovered to have been exposed to the virus on a flight. But the
official said that the C.D.C. can still gather passenger information
from airlines to help local health departments with contact tracing
efforts.

Airlines for America, a trade group that represents major airlines, said
on Thursday that it supported the policy change. ``We continue to
support spending scarce screening resources where they can best be
utilized and, given the extremely low number of passengers identified by
the C.D.C. as potentially having a health issue, agree that it no longer
makes sense to continue screening at these airports,'' said Katherine
Estep, a spokeswoman for the group.

The Department of Homeland Security earlier this year instituted the
policy for travelers who had been in parts of the world ravaged by the
virus, including China and much of Europe, where many of the earliest
outbreaks in the United States were traced back to. The department
required that the passengers be screened at 15 large metropolitan
airports, including Chicago O'Hare, Washington Dulles and Newark Liberty
International.

In the days following the president's ban on travel from Europe,
employees at 13 designated airports, a number that was later expanded to
15, scrambled to roll out the new health screenings, causing confusion
at airports around the country. Crowds formed as people rushed to get
back into the country from Europe and travelers who could enter the
U.S., including those who showed signs of being physically ill, said
that
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/13/us/politics/coronavirus-travelers-screening.html}{the
screening process} was lax or nonexistent.

\hypertarget{tracking-the-coronavirus-}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html}{Tracking
the Coronavirus
›}}{Tracking the Coronavirus ›}}\label{tracking-the-coronavirus-}}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html}{}

\hypertarget{where-cases-are-highest-per-capita}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{Where cases are \textbf{highest} per
capita}{Where cases are highest per capita}}\label{where-cases-are-highest-per-capita}}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/north-dakota-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

N.D.
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/south-dakota-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

S.D.
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/missouri-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

Mo.
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/iowa-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

Iowa
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/arkansas-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

Ark.
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/oklahoma-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

Okla.
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/tennessee-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

Tenn.
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/alabama-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

Ala.
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/wisconsin-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

Wis.
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/kansas-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

Kan.
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/nebraska-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

Neb.
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/south-carolina-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

S.C.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html}{}

\hypertarget{us-hot-spots-}{%
\subsubsection{U.S. hot spots ›}\label{us-hot-spots-}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2020/03/16/coronavirus-maps/491875afa3298f8daa04797f059de38d8307c8cc/images/orphan_usa-threeByTwoSmallAt2X.png}
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/covid-college-cases-tracker.html}{}

\hypertarget{college-cases-}{%
\subsubsection{College cases ›}\label{college-cases-}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2020/03/16/coronavirus-maps/491875afa3298f8daa04797f059de38d8307c8cc/images/orphan_colleges-threeByTwoSmallAt2X.png}

\hypertarget{stanford-doctors-issue-a-warning-about-a-trump-adviser--a-colleague--in-an-open-letter}{%
\subsection{Stanford doctors issue a warning about a Trump adviser --- a
colleague --- in an open
letter.}\label{stanford-doctors-issue-a-warning-about-a-trump-adviser--a-colleague--in-an-open-letter}}

Image

Scott Atlas, a new White House coronavirus adviser, in Washington on
Thursday.Credit...Erin Schaff/The New York Times

Stanford University doctors and researchers are sounding the alarm about
one of their colleagues, Dr. Scott W. Atlas, a newly influential member
of the White House coronavirus task force.

Dozens of infectious, epidemiological and health policy experts
\href{https://int.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/data/documenttools/read-the-open-letter-from-stanford-doctors-on-scott-atlas/813b50f72b6543b4/full.pdf}{published
an open letter} on Wednesday, saying they ``have both a moral and an
ethical responsibility to call attention to the falsehoods and
misrepresentations of science recently fostered by'' Dr. Atlas.

``Many of his opinions and statements run counter to established science
and, by doing so, undermine public-health authorities and the credible
science that guides effective public health policy,'' they wrote.

Dr. Atlas, a radiologist and senior fellow at the university's
conservative Hoover Institution, has become a proponent of controversial
ideas on how to combat the virus. He has gone against recommendations
put forward by top government doctors and scientists like Anthony S.
Fauci, Deborah L. Birx, the White House coronavirus response
coordinator, and Dr. Jerome Adams, the surgeon general, promoting
instead ideas embraced by Mr. Trump that have
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/28/climate/trump-coronavirus-climate-science.html}{not
been proven scientifically}.

Dr. Atlas has argued that the science supporting mask wearing is
uncertain and that children cannot pass along the virus. He was part of
the decision in early September to modify C.D.C. testing guidelines
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/25/health/covid-19-testing-cdc.html}{to
exclude asymptomatic people} --- despite the fact that
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/06/health/coronavirus-asymptomatic-transmission.html}{research
shows} that people with no symptoms can still carry a high virus load.

He also has supported purposefully creating ``herd immunity,'' a
questionable strategy that would require mass exposure to the virus.

The letter refutes his assertions point by point.

Encouraging unchecked virus transmission to reach herd immunity would
create ``a significant increase in preventable cases, suffering and
deaths, especially among vulnerable populations, such as older
individuals and essential workers,'' the faculty members wrote. The
safest path to herd immunity, they said, ``is through deployment of
rigorously evaluated, effective vaccines that have been approved by
regulatory agencies.''

``Failure to follow the science --- or deliberately misrepresenting the
science --- will lead to immense avoidable harm,'' the authors wrote.

\hypertarget{myanmar-imposes-new-restrictions-as-coronavirus-cases-soar}{%
\subsection{Myanmar imposes new restrictions as coronavirus cases
soar.}\label{myanmar-imposes-new-restrictions-as-coronavirus-cases-soar}}

Image

A mobile health clinic on a bus during a medical checkup and contact
tracing campaign in Yangon, Myanmar, on Wednesday.Credit...Ye Aung
Thu/Agence France-Presse --- Getty Images

Myanmar has locked down half of its largest city, Yangon, and halted
travel between regions in an effort to halt the rapid spread of the
coronavirus.

Myanmar's civilian leader, Daw Aung San Suu Kyi, who has suspended her
election campaign appearances because of the virus, has urged the public
to follow health protocols as the new restrictions go into force.

``You all need to follow the rules and if not, we will take action by
law,'' she said Thursday night in a nationally televised address. ``The
law is not to punish people. It's to protect the stability of society.''

Skyrocketing infection rates have worried health officials in Myanmar.
The number of confirmed cases has gone up fivefold in less than three
weeks, reaching 2,265 on Friday morning, according to government
figures. The number of deaths has more than doubled over the past eight
days, to 14.

The chief of Yangon General Hospital, Dr. Maw Maw Oo, said that many
patients who had lost their senses of taste and smell ---
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/22/health/coronavirus-symptoms-smell-taste.html}{both
symptoms of the coronavirus} --- were coming to the hospital. Beds would
soon be at capacity, he said, and health care workers were having to
quarantine after exposures.

``If the rate continues to increase like this, I don't think we will be
able to control it,'' he said.

The Yangon lockdown affects about 2.5 million people, who were ordered
not to go to work or school. Airlines suspended all domestic flights
starting Friday.

Myanmar, long ruled by the military and torn by decades of armed
conflict with ethnic groups, remains one of the poorest countries in
Southeast Asia despite its vast wealth in natural resources.

Officials say the country's beleaguered health care system, with only
16,320 doctors for a population of 54 million people, is poorly prepared
for a major outbreak.

The government ordered a lockdown last month in Rakhine State but the
virus popped up at a karaoke club in Yangon and quickly spread from
there.

Official campaigning for Nov. 8 national elections period began Tuesday,
but Ms. Aung San Suu Kyi, who is seeking re-election to her seat in
Parliament, was forced to suspend her campaign after the virus infected
people on her personal staff and in top government offices.

She and the president, U Win Myint, tested negative this week, but
members of his staff were placed in isolation after some were found to
be infected. Three dozen journalists who report on the government were
also ordered into isolation.

\hypertarget{as-the-school-year-starts-heres-a-look-at-the-toll-of-the-virus-on-educators}{%
\subsection{As the school year starts, here's a look at the toll of the
virus on
educators.}\label{as-the-school-year-starts-heres-a-look-at-the-toll-of-the-virus-on-educators}}

Image

Teachers at Concourse Village Elementary School in the Bronx, New York,
having a socially distant meeting in the hallway last
month.Credit...Chang W. Lee/The New York Times

Demetria Bannister taught the first day of the new school year before
she got sick. A 28-year-old third-grade teacher and school choir
director, she was beginning her fifth year at Windsor Elementary in
Columbia, S.C., teaching remotely in front of a computer at her home.

Before the end of that first week, Ms. Bannister, 28, had tested
positive. On Monday, a week after the first day of school, she died.

Ms. Bannister had last been at school on Aug. 28 for a teachers' work
day; others who were at the school at the time have been notified, the
school district said in a statement. Her parents, with whom she lived,
found out they had tested positive on the day that she died, her uncle,
Heyward Bannister said. Her mother is in the hospital.

``She felt lost not being able to interact with the kids one on one,''
Mr. Bannister said. ``She missed that, she missed that.''

Ms. Bannister was just one of a number of educators who died from
Covid-19 as the 2020-21 school year began.

Image

Demetria ``Demi'' Bannister, a 28-year-old third-grade teacher and
school choir director, who died from Coronavirus.Credit...Richland
School District 2, via Associated Press

The virus has taken teachers in
\href{https://www.kmov.com/news/34-year-old-potosi-teacher-dies-after-3-week-battle-with-covid-kids-absolutely-adored/article_e7139b52-f1ed-11ea-ab1a-cf2e904c1549.html}{Missouri}
and
\href{https://www.weareiowa.com/article/news/health/coronavirus/des-moines-public-schools-ruby-van-meter-teacher-dies-from-coronavirus/524-124fb714-1268-40c3-9276-849cab42d08c}{Iowa}.
In Mississippi, a 42-year-old football coach
\href{https://www.wtva.com/content/sports/Lafayette-head-coach-remembers-Nacoma-James-572070401.html}{died
in August} while self-quarantining with coronavirus symptoms, and a
53-year-old history teacher
\href{https://www.wlox.com/2020/09/08/students-faculty-remember-vancleave-high-school-teacher-who-died-covid-complications/}{died
of the virus} earlier this week. A woman who taught special education at
an Oklahoma high school for 26 years
\href{https://ktul.com/news/local/tahlequah-moves-to-distance-learning-for-2-days-after-teacher-suddenly-dies}{died
of a heart attack} in late August, three days after learning she had the
virus.

The toll over the course of the pandemic includes hundreds of educators.
The New York City Department of Education
\href{https://www.schools.nyc.gov/about-us/news/covid-19-losses}{reported
that 75 school-based employees} had died of Covid-19 by late June, 31 of
them teachers. A
\href{https://www.edweek.org/ew/section/multimedia/educators-weve-lost-to-the-coronavirus.html}{list
in Education Week} of educators, retired and still working, who had
succumbed to the virus runs to more than 400 names.

As schools weigh when --- and how --- to reopen, the deaths offer the
grimmest reminders of the stakes for educators and students alike.

``The reason you have so many people starting remotely is, it's
unconscionable to pit learning versus life,'' said Randi Weingarten,
president of the American Federation of Teachers.

She said 210 members of the union had died from the virus.

Key Data of the Day

\hypertarget{more-than-900000-people-worldwide-have-now-died-from-the-virus}{%
\subsection{More than 900,000 people worldwide have now died from the
virus.}\label{more-than-900000-people-worldwide-have-now-died-from-the-virus}}

Image

The body of a coronavirus victim is buried in Jakarta, Indonesia, on
Tuesday. The global death toll from the virus has surpassed
900,000.Credit...Mast Irham/EPA, via Shutterstock

The global death toll from the virus has surpassed 900,000,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/world/coronavirus-maps.html}{according
to a New York Times database}, and the virus had sickened at least 27.8
million people as of Thursday morning.

Seven months into the pandemic, the virus has been detected in almost
every country.

The true death toll may be higher; The Times has found underestimates in
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/04/28/us/coronavirus-death-toll-total.html}{the
official death tallies in the United States} and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/04/21/world/coronavirus-missing-deaths.html}{in
more than a dozen other countries}. The United States has the highest
number of cases, followed by India, which reported more than 95,000 new
cases on Thursday, and Brazil. In deaths, the United States is also
first, with Brazil second and India third.

The pandemic is ebbing in some countries that were hit hard early on,
but the number of new cases is growing faster than ever worldwide, with
more than 200,000 reported each day on average. Cases are worryingly
high in the India, the United States and Israel. In Brazil, cases are
high but appear to be decreasing.

global roundup

\hypertarget{the-pandemic-collides-with-europes-migrant-crisis-to-set-off-calamity-in-greece}{%
\subsection{The pandemic collides with Europe's migrant crisis to set
off calamity in
Greece.}\label{the-pandemic-collides-with-europes-migrant-crisis-to-set-off-calamity-in-greece}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/09/10/world/10greece99/merlin_176802126_a8ae1e22-92eb-4899-9aa7-827d1c1189e0-videoSixteenByNine3000.jpg}

The thousands of asylum seekers crammed into
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/10/02/world/europe/greece-lesbos-moria-refugees.html}{Europe's
largest refugee camp}, on the Greek island of Lesbos, had for years
bridled at their squalid conditions and the endless delays in resolving
their fates. Then came the coronavirus and strict containment measures,
which compounded their misery.

The combination proved explosive, pushing frustrations over a tipping
point this week, when some camp residents burned down the camp, called
Moria, during a protest over quarantine.

That desperate act has challenged Europe's leaders once again to come up
with a lasting solution to the migration crisis.

By Thursday afternoon, a third fire in two days had erupted at Moria,
destroying what little was left untouched by
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/09/world/europe/fire-refugee-camp-lesbos-moria.html}{arson
attacks earlier in the week} and stranding nearly 12,000 people in
nearby roads and fields.

``Almost if not all of the accommodation in and around the site has been
destroyed,'' said Theodoros Alexellis, a Lesbos-based official for the
United Nations' refugee agency.

More than 400 unaccompanied children were transferred off the island.
But no other Moria refugees will be allowed to leave, said Stelios
Petsas, a Greek government spokesman.

``They thought that if they burn Moria they would be able to leave the
island undetected,'' Mr. Petsas said. ``This is not going to happen.''

He said the whereabouts of most of the 35 Moria residents who tested
positive for the virus were unknown.

Around 1,000 residents will be temporarily housed on a passenger ferry,
and hundreds more will be placed on two naval vessels. It was unclear
where the remaining 10,000 migrants would go.

In other developments around the world:

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \textbf{France}, which is battling a resurgence of the virus, reported
  a daily record for new cases on Thursday. The French Health Ministry
  said there had been 9,843 in the past 24 hours. Hospital admissions
  were also up, with 5,096 patients being treated for the virus, more
  than 600 of them described as having life-threatening infections.
\item
  \textbf{India} on Friday reported a record 96,551 new coronavirus
  cases, pushing the country's total caseload above 4.5 million,
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/world/asia/india-coronavirus-cases.html}{according
  to a Times database}. More than 76,000 deaths have been linked to
  Covid-19.
\item
  The U.S. extradition hearing of \textbf{Julian Assange}, the embattled
  WikiLeaks founder, which
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/07/world/europe/assange-court-extradition-london.html}{began
  in London this week}, was abruptly halted on Thursday because a member
  of the prosecution team may have been exposed to the coronavirus. The
  judge decided to postpone the hearing until at least Monday, pending
  the test results of the lawyer. Mr. Assange, 49, has been indicted in
  the United States on charges that he conspired with Chelsea Manning, a
  former Army intelligence analyst, to hack into a Pentagon computer
  network, and that he published the secret documents.
\item
  \textbf{Spain's} return to school has so far been ``very positive,''
  the country's education minister said on Thursday, praising the
  management and staff of schools for their efforts. Isabel Celaá, the
  education minister, told Spanish national television that as of
  Wednesday, there had only been 53 ``incidents'' related to Covid-19
  across the 28,600 schools that have gradually been reopening. She did
  not provide a specific tally of new cases among children. She also
  welcomed the fact that only ``a minority'' of parents had so far
  decided not to send back their children.
\item
  The Chinese city of \textbf{Wuhan}, where the coronavirus was first
  detected, is resuming international flights. The first is a Sept. 16
  T'way Airlines flight between Wuhan and Seoul, the South Korean
  capital, China's state-run media reported on Thursday. Several
  carriers are applying for permission to restart direct flights between
  Wuhan and other major cities in the region, according to a report in
  People's Daily, the official newspaper of the Chinese Communist Party.
\end{itemize}

U.S. ROUNDUP

\hypertarget{americans-worry-that-political-pressure-by-trump-will-lead-the-fda-to-rush-to-approve-a-vaccine}{%
\subsection{Americans worry that political pressure by Trump will lead
the F.D.A. to rush to approve a
vaccine.}\label{americans-worry-that-political-pressure-by-trump-will-lead-the-fda-to-rush-to-approve-a-vaccine}}

Image

A patient receives a shot in the first-stage safety study clinical trial
of a potential vaccine in March.Credit...Ted S. Warren/Associated Press

A clear majority of American adults are worried that political pressure
from the Trump administration will lead the Food and Drug Administration
to rush to approve a coronavirus vaccine without making sure it is safe
and effective, and nearly half hold at least one serious misconception
about coronavirus prevention and treatment, according to
\href{https://www.kff.org/coronavirus-covid-19/report/kff-health-tracking-poll-september-2020/}{a
new poll} released Thursday by the Kaiser Family Foundation.

The poll, which tracks public attitudes about a range of issues, found
that Americans are feeling more optimistic. More than six months into
the pandemic, 38 percent now say ``the worst is yet to come,'' down
nearly half from 74 percent in early April. And another 38 percent say
``the worst is behind us,'' up from 13 percent in April.

The poll, a nationally representative random sample of 1,199 adults, was
conducted between Aug. 28 and Sept. 3, and had a margin of error of plus
or minus 3 percentage points. It found that 62 percent of adults are
worried about political pressure on the F.D.A. to approve a vaccine,
with Democrats being far more worried than Republicans.

At the same time, Americans hold misconceptions about prevention and
treatment of Covid-19. One in five believe wearing a face mask is
harmful to your health, and one in four say hydroxychloroquine --- an
anti-malaria drug touted by Mr. Trump --- is an effective treatment for
coronavirus infection, despite clear evidence to the contrary and the
F.D.A.'s
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/15/health/fda-hydroxychloroquine-malaria.html}{decision
to revoke an emergency waiver for use of the medicine}.

At the same time, trust in some official sources of information on the
coronavirus is declining. About two in three adults --- 68 percent ---
now say they have at least a fair amount of trust in Dr. Anthony S.
Fauci, the director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious
Diseases, down from 78 percent in April. An equal 68 percent say they
now have trust in the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, down
16 percentage points from April.

In other U.S. news:

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \textbf{The Justice Department} said that between May and September,
  its criminal division had charged 57 people with attempting to steal
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/10/us/politics/ppp-fraud-coronavirus.html}{more
  than \$175 million in funding from the Paycheck Protection Program}, a
  federal small business relief initiative.
\item
  More than four months after Americans began emerging from lockdown
  across most states, the job market remains treacherous, according to
  new data from the Labor Department. More than
  \textbf{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/10/business/economy/unemployment-claims.html?searchResultPosition=1}{857,000
  workers filed new claims}} for state unemployment insurance last week,
  before seasonal adjustments, a slight increase from the previous week.
  Although the unemployment rate
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/04/business/economy/jobs-report.html}{has
  fallen to 8.4 percent}, the level of layoffs reflects the challenges
  for many workers in the fitful recovery.
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{nyc-public-transit-riders-can-be-fined-50-for-not-wearing-a-face-covering}{%
\subsection{N.Y.C. public transit riders can be fined \$50 for not
wearing a face
covering.}\label{nyc-public-transit-riders-can-be-fined-50-for-not-wearing-a-face-covering}}

Image

Passengers on the ``Q'' subway in Brooklyn, New York last month.
Beginning Monday, New York City transit riders will face \$50 fines for
not wearing a face covering.Credit...Earl Wilson/The New York Times

New York City's public transit riders will soon face \$50 fines for not
wearing a face covering, officials announced on Thursday.

The rule will go into effect on Monday and will be enforced by the New
York Police Department and the Metropolitan Transportation Authority's
police force, both of which patrol
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/26/nyregion/nyc-subway-bus-service-cuts.html}{the
sprawling system}. The transportation authority runs the subway, buses
and two commuter rails.

``This is really a last resort for people who refuse to wear a mask when
offered,'' said Sarah Feinberg, interim president of New York City
Transit, which runs the subway and buses. ``We believe this will get us
closer to the goal of 100-percent mask compliance.''

In April, Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo mandated that people wear face coverings
when they ride public transportation --- or risk being ejected. Since
then, the transit agency has rolled out digital posters and P.S.A.
announcements reminding straphangers of the mandate. And millions of
free masks have been handed out to riders.

Observational studies conducted by the transit agency have found that 90
percent of riders wear masks, though 15 percent of those riders are not
wearing them properly.

Transit officials hope the new fines will encourage New Yorkers
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/10/nyregion/nyc-subway-coronavirus.html}{wary
of riding public transportation} to return to the system. Ridership on
the subway is still just 25 percent of pre-pandemic levels.

``If they're not wearing a mask, we will enforce the mask-wearing
rule,'' Mr. Cuomo, who controls the M.T.A., said Thursday. ``We have to
be able to say that to give riders comfort to re-engage the system.''

Since the peak out of the outbreak in New York City, residents who break
social distancing rules could be issued fines up to \$1,000. Businesses
that allow patrons to violate state social distancing and face covering
guidelines can also face fines.

\hypertarget{the-university-of-alabama-has-issued-over-600-sanctions-to-students-for-violating-virus-rules}{%
\subsection{The University of Alabama has issued over 600 sanctions to
students for violating virus
rules.}\label{the-university-of-alabama-has-issued-over-600-sanctions-to-students-for-violating-virus-rules}}

Image

Credit...Vasha Hunt/Associated Press

Before classes began in August at the University of Alabama, the
administration issued a set of rules for the coming semester, mandating
physical distancing and mask wearing in most places and prohibiting
large gatherings and off-campus parties. It warned that violators would
face sanctions, including the possibility of a one-year suspension.

Several weeks and more than
\href{https://uasystem.edu/covid-19-dashboard/}{2,000 positive virus
tests} later, the penalties have kicked in.

According to a university spokeswoman, the university has issued 639
individual student sanctions as of Sept. 8. Thirty-three students have
effectively been suspended from campus, Deidre Stalnaker wrote in an
email message, ``while their conduct cases proceed through due
process.''

Three student organizations, she said, have received ``Covid-related
sanctions,'' and one organization is pending suspension.

College campuses across the country have had to invent on the fly a
whole new enforcement regime for the coming semester,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/22/us/college-campus-covid.html}{trying,
and often failing}, to clamp down on partying and much of the
socializing assumed to come along with college life. Students
\href{https://wvutoday.wvu.edu/stories/2020/09/06/wvu-suspends-29-students-for-covid-19-related-violations-additional-sanctions-pending}{have
been suspended} for violating safety protocols and in at least one case,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/05/world/coronavirus-covid.html}{dismissed
without a refund of their tuition}.

The University of Alabama spokeswoman did not identify what types of
violations had led to the sanctions.

In late August, the university announced a moratorium on in-person
student events outside classrooms. Common areas in dorms and fraternity
and sorority houses have been closed, and visitors prohibited.

The mayor of the city of Tuscaloosa shut down all bars for two weeks
starting Aug. 24; bars have since been allowed to reopen with
restrictions on how many people can be inside at once.

Reporting was contributed by Katie Benner, Choe Sang-Hun, Emily
Cochrane, Gillian Friedman, Christina Goldbaum, Emma Goldberg, Mike
Ives, Patrick Kingsley, Niki Kitsantonis, Michael Levenson, Raphael
Minder, Claire Moses, Tariro Mzezewa, Saw Nang, Richard C. Paddock, Roni
Caryn Rabin, Motoko Rich, Christopher F. Schuetze, Nelson D. Schwartz,
Dera Menra Sijabat, Karan Deep Singh, Sheryl Gay Stolberg, Muktita
Suhartono, Megan Specia, Noah Weiland, Lauren Wolfe, Jin Wu, Katherine
J. Wu, Ceylan Yeginsu and Elaine Yu.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
