Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}These Top Democrats Go
Further Than Biden on Diverting Police Funds

\url{https://nyti.ms/2Z8GztC}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{race-and-america}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/george-floyd-protests-minneapolis-new-york-los-angeles?name=styln-george-floyd\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=ca7cc4f0-f288-11ea-9fb0-77620a216521\&variant=undefined}{Race
and America}}{Race and America}}\label{race-and-america}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/04/nyregion/rochester-police-daniel-prude.html?name=styln-george-floyd\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=ca7cec00-f288-11ea-9fb0-77620a216521\&variant=undefined}{What
  Happened in Rochester, N.Y.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/01/us/politics/trump-fact-check-protests.html?name=styln-george-floyd\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=ca7cec01-f288-11ea-9fb0-77620a216521\&variant=undefined}{Trump
  Fact Check}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/30/us/portland-shooting-explained.html?name=styln-george-floyd\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=ca7cec02-f288-11ea-9fb0-77620a216521\&variant=undefined}{Portland
  Shooting}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/30/us/breonna-taylor-police-killing.html?name=styln-george-floyd\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=ca7cec03-f288-11ea-9fb0-77620a216521\&variant=undefined}{Breonna
  Taylor's Life and Death}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{these-top-democrats-go-further-than-biden-on-diverting-police-funds}{%
\section{These Top Democrats Go Further Than Biden on Diverting Police
Funds}\label{these-top-democrats-go-further-than-biden-on-diverting-police-funds}}

Interviews with superdelegates and members of a Biden-Sanders task force
found near-unanimous sentiment for redirecting money away from policing,
with positions beyond what Joseph R. Biden Jr. has proposed.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/06/27/us/politics/26demspolice-sub/26demspolice-sub-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/reid-j-epstein}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2019/06/25/reader-center/author-reid-epstein/9e877853d8234217b58e5762253aa771-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/reid-j-epstein}{Reid J.
Epstein}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  June 26, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

WASHINGTON --- A month after the killing of George Floyd by the police
in Minneapolis ignited a wave of nationwide protests, Democratic Party
officials are expressing broad support for significantly reallocating
funds away from police departments, with positions that go well beyond
that of the party's presumptive presidential nominee,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/joe-biden.html}{Joseph
R. Biden Jr.}

Interviews with 54 Democratic National Committee members, convention
superdelegates and members of a criminal justice task force convened by
Mr. Biden and Senator Bernie Sanders found a near-unanimous sentiment
that local governments should redirect more money toward social
services, education and mental health agencies.

Very few advocate fully defunding or abolishing the police, as some
activists have called for. But they are aligning themselves, as have
city councils in
\href{https://www.jsonline.com/story/news/local/milwaukee/2020/06/15/defunding-police-milwaukee-alderman-seek-model-10-budget-cut/3192133001/}{Milwaukee},
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/07/us/minneapolis-police-abolish.html}{Minneapolis},
\href{https://kdvr.com/news/local/new-denver-program-has-clinician-paramedic-respond-to-some-mental-health-911-calls-instead-of-police/}{Denver},
\href{https://www.kgw.com/article/news/local/portland-poised-to-shift-millions-from-police-bureau-to-street-response-team/283-2535b1dc-115a-4e4d-9e3a-48d2bcaf92be}{Portland,
Ore}., and other cities, with an increasingly popular movement to
drastically rethink the priorities surrounding law enforcement.

Their views exceed those adopted by Mr. Biden, who opposes defunding but
has proposed policing changes and said that federal aid to police
departments should be conditioned on meeting ``basic standards of
decency and honorableness.'' They also go further than what the
Biden-Sanders task force will recommend to the party's platform
committee and the Biden campaign later this month, according to several
members of the group.

``Governments are going to have to look at how they can reallocate
money,'' said Harry Reid, the former Senate majority leader. ``Of course
it's a good idea if we have more social services rather than police
because police are to be our guardians rather than warriors. There are a
lot of things we'd rather have a sociologist work through rather than a
guy with a gun and a holster.''

The issue could prove delicate for Mr. Biden as he works to unite the
party's disparate factions --- including a still-skeptical progressive
wing --- into a coalition that can defeat President Trump in November,
while rebutting the president's strategy of attacking Democrats as weak
on ``law and order.'' There is clear tension not only between Mr. Biden
and the party's base, but between the moderate voters Mr. Biden needs to
win the general election and the more liberal voters who populate
Democratic primaries.

A New York Times and Siena College national poll released this week shed
light on the diverging viewpoints. It found 63 percent of registered
voters oppose spending less money on the police. But among Mr. Biden's
supporters, 55 percent favor reducing the amount of resources spent on
law enforcement.

Stacey Walker, a county supervisor from Cedar Rapids, Iowa, whom Mr.
Sanders appointed to the criminal justice task force, supports the
movement to **** defund police departments and has been pushing the
Biden-Sanders task force toward more sweeping proposals. He suggested
that Mr. Biden had not yet caught up to the energy and sentiment that is
currently motivating many in the party.

``It seems to me right now that the vice president certainly understands
the need for police reform, but I think his vision is a little different
from some of the progressive activists on the ground,'' Mr. Walker said.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/06/27/us/politics/24demspolice2/merlin_173839446_15fa6d4d-644b-4e09-a0da-796ba8a86eaf-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

The activism in the party over law enforcement and racial injustice has
already
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/26/us/politics/charles-booker-kentucky-jamaal-bowman.html}{had
an impact} on Democratic politics.
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/24/nyregion/ny-primary-election-results.html}{It
helped boost Jamaal Bowman} to a
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/06/23/us/elections/results-new-york-house-district-16-primary-election.html}{wide
lead} over Representative Eliot Engel in a New York primary election on
Tuesday, and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/23/us/politics/kentucky-new-york-election-recap.html}{elevated
Charles Booker} into position to score an upset in the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/06/23/us/elections/results-kentucky-senate-primary-election.html}{Kentucky
Senate primary}.

More evidence emerged this week that incremental change isn't sufficient
for Democratic lawmakers, as
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/24/us/politics/senate-police-bill.html}{Senate
Democrats blocked a Republican-led effort} toward changing police
practices that they said did not do enough to address racial inequities.

Of the 54 Democratic officials surveyed, only four said they opposed
shifting funds away from law enforcement agencies.

``When it comes to the police, it seems they have to do every job that
is asked of them,'' said former Mayor Joseph R. Paolino Jr. of
Providence, R.I., who is a member of the D.N.C. ``I feel strongly that
they are here to protect us from crime and that they deserve our
support.''

Andrew Bates, a Biden campaign spokesman, said that ``bringing our
nation together to overcome systemic racism is at the heart of Joe
Biden's agenda,'' adding that Mr. Biden would fight for a range of
programs as well as for ``new grants for the community policing that is
proven to improve relationships and reduce violence.''

``He believes policing funding should be conditioned on local law
enforcement reforms to stop these horrible tragedies,'' Mr. Bates said.

The issue of reallocating law enforcement funds is so new to the
mainstream Democratic Party discussion that during the entirety of the
2020 presidential primary, not a single major candidate uttered the
phrase ``defund the police.''

Instead Mr. Sanders touted his tenure as mayor of Burlington, Vt.,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2015/11/26/us/politics/as-mayor-bernie-sanders-was-more-pragmatic-than-socialist.html}{when
he gave police officers pay raises}. His campaign was centered on
divisions related to economic injustice,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/19/us/politics/bernie-sanders-protests.html}{rather
than the explicit calls for racial justice} that have animated the
demonstrations since the Floyd killing.

``Those of us who supported Bernie in 2016 and this year have a lot to
learn about racial justice and policing,'' said Larry Cohen, the
chairman of the Sanders-aligned group Our Revolution. ``It is a core
issue that must be directly addressed and not just as part of broader
issues.''

Even Julián Castro, the former Housing secretary who offered the most
far-reaching criminal justice proposals among the 28 Democrats who ran
for president, didn't call for spending less money on law enforcement.
He said recent events had cast into sharp relief the need to adjust the
approach to that issue.

Image

Overhauling the criminal justice system was a signature issue for Julián
Castro in the 2020 Democratic presidential primary.Credit...Eric Thayer
for The New York Times

``Cities spend a huge portion of their local budgets on traditional
armed policing when situations on the ground don't require traditional
armed policing,'' said Mr. Castro, the former mayor of San Antonio.
``There's no question that what's happened in the last few weeks has
channeled, directed and broadened the calls for change.''

Demands to reduce police funding range from abolishing departments
entirely, and immediately, to phasing out tasks that have long been
assigned to law enforcement. Ted Terry, a D.N.C. member who is the
former mayor of Clarkston, Ga., called for a 50 percent reduction in
police budgets over 10 years. ``Racial justice is absolutely the most
prominent and important issue right now,'' Mr. Terry said.

Yet while his party pushes for allocating fewer resources to police
departments, Mr. Biden \href{https://joebiden.com/justice/}{has proposed
directing an additional \$300 million} toward local law enforcement
community policing efforts, funds his campaign said would come with
restrictions on use-of-force rules and requirements that departments
spend more on social programs.

There is some hope among Democrats advocating change that Mr. Biden will
eventually adopt policies reversing his career-long direction of
funneling more federal funds to police departments.

``If he stopped here I wouldn't be satisfied, but I know that he is
evolving,'' said Ron Harris, a Democratic National Committee member from
Minneapolis. ``He is listening and I anticipate that the more he listens
and the more we advocate for these things that he'll respond
accordingly.''

The issue has complicated matters on the criminal justice task force
that was formed by the Biden and Sanders campaigns after Mr. Sanders
dropped out of the race and endorsed Mr. Biden. When it was first
convened in mid-May, the group of eight was expected to focus on the
decriminalization of marijuana and phasing out the for-profit private
prison system.

After Mr. Floyd's killing, the conversation turned toward policing, and
the task force has considered proposals as robust as abolishing police
departments entirely. In the end, though, the group's recommendations to
the Biden campaign and the D.N.C.'s platform committee will not include
reducing money for law enforcement, according to people familiar with
its plans.

Yet even Mr. Biden's appointees to the task force said a potential Biden
administration should consider what incentives it offers local
governments to redirect its law enforcement resources.

Image

Former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. has proposed increasing
funding for community policing programs.Credit...Kriston Jae Bethel for
The New York Times

``You can't go downstream and say, `Why aren't there any fish?''' said
Raumesh Akbari, a Tennessee state senator from Memphis who was appointed
by the Biden campaign to serve on the task force. ``You have to go to
the top of the river and figure out what the problem is there.''

The Democrats who urge shrinking police budgets say it would reverse
decades of policies that have shifted funds away from social services
toward police departments.

``I support law enforcement, and that means realigning their mandate and
stop being asked to respond to the social service needs which our
elected officials have ignored for far too long,'' said Alma Gonzalez, a
Democratic National Committee member from Tampa, Fla.

As liberal activists and demonstrators have rallied around the ``defund
the police'' slogan, President Trump and his Republican allies have
argued that a Biden presidency would lead to chaotic scenes across
American cities. In an effort to stoke those anxieties, the president
has tweeted the phrase ``law \& order''
\href{https://twitter.com/search?q=Law\%20Order\%20(from\%3Arealdonaldtrump)\&src=typed_query\&f=live}{16
times since Mr. Floyd was killed}.

The vast majority of Democrats interviewed did not seem worried about
Mr. Trump's attacks, and said they saw little risk in having Mr. Trump
portray them as weak on law and order issues as long as they were making
practical policy proposals for redirecting police funding to other
social service agencies. The bigger risk, most of them said, is for Mr.
Biden to alienate an energized base --- exposing a potentially damaging
schism in his coalition.

``We, as black citizens, will no longer accept the minimum from the
Democrats,'' said Ray McKinnon, a Democratic National Committee member
from Charlotte, N.C. ``We will not accept the `tough on crime' Biden or
Clintons. Those days have passed and we demand that black and brown
folks are centered.''

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
