Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}Inside the Failure: 5
Takeaways on Trump's Effort to Shift Responsibility

\url{https://nyti.ms/2CsFRzP}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/03/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Election
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/biden-vice-president-2020.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Biden's
  V.P. Search}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/07/24/us/politics/trump-biden-campaign-donors.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Map
  of Donations}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/elections/delegate-count-primary-results.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Delegate
  Count}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2019/us/politics/2020-presidential-candidates.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{The
  Candidates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Politics
  Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{inside-the-failure-5-takeaways-on-trumps-effort-to-shift-responsibility}{%
\section{Inside the Failure: 5 Takeaways on Trump's Effort to Shift
Responsibility}\label{inside-the-failure-5-takeaways-on-trumps-effort-to-shift-responsibility}}

President Trump and his top aides sharply shifted their pandemic
strategy in mid-April after seizing on optimistic data suggesting the
virus would disappear, a Times investigation found.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/07/18/us/politics/18dc-virus-takeaways/merlin_174590136_a925b981-6318-4418-bec5-8ed83f553fbf-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/michael-d-shear}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/06/13/multimedia/author-michael-d-shear/author-michael-d-shear-thumbLarge-v2.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/michael-d-shear}{Michael D. Shear}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  July 18, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://cn.nytimes.com/usa/20200720/trump-coronavirus-failure-takeaways/}{阅读简体中文版}\href{https://cn.nytimes.com/usa/20200720/trump-coronavirus-failure-takeaways/zh-hant/}{閱讀繁體中文版}

WASHINGTON --- President Trump and his top aides decided to shift
primary responsibility for the coronavirus response to the states during
a critical period of weeks in mid-April, eagerly seizing on overly
optimistic predictions that the pandemic was fading so the president
could reopen the economy and focus on his re-election,
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/18/us/politics/trump-coronavirus-response-failure-leadership.html}{a
New York Times investigation found}.

The investigation revealed that critical decisions about the handling of
the virus during that crucial period were made not by the better known
coronavirus task force, but by a small group of White House aides who
convened each morning in the office of Mark Meadows, the president's
chief of staff.

One of their goals: to justify declaring victory in the fight against
the virus. In that effort they frequently sought validation from Dr.
Deborah L. Birx, a highly regarded infectious disease expert, who was
the chief evangelist in the West Wing for the idea that infections had
peaked and the virus was fading quickly.

Despite warnings from state officials and other public health experts,
Mr. Trump stuck to a deliberate strategy by pushing responsibility onto
the states almost immediately after introducing reopening guidelines.
Then he quickly undermined the guidelines by urging Democratic governors
to ``liberate'' their states from those very restrictions.

Interviews with more than two dozen senior administration officials,
state and local health officials, and a review of emails and documents,
show how a critical period in mid-April set the nation on a course to a
new surge, with the United States logging more than 65,000 new cases of
the virus each day.

Here are some of the key findings:

\hypertarget{the-room-where-it-happened}{%
\subsection{The room where it
happened.}\label{the-room-where-it-happened}}

Officials in the West Wing viewed the White House coronavirus task force
as dysfunctional, and they were increasingly dismissive of Dr. Anthony
S. Fauci, the nation's top infectious disease specialist, and officials
from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, who they believed
had been wrong in their early judgments about the course of the virus.

As a result, important elements of the administration's strategy were
formulated out of sight in Mr. Meadows's daily meetings, populated by
aides who for the most part had no experience with public health
emergencies and were taking their cues from the president.

The group convened each morning at 8 as the coronavirus crisis was
raging in April. In addition to Dr. Birx, the participants included Joe
Grogan, the president's domestic policy adviser; Marc Short, Vice
President Mike Pence's chief of staff; Russell T. Vought, the
president's acting budget director; Chris Liddell, a deputy chief of
staff, and Jared Kushner, the president's senior adviser and son-in-law;
Hope Hicks, the protector of Mr. Trump's brand; and Kevin A. Hassett, a
top economic adviser.

In the bureaucratese of their meetings, they referred to their goal as
orchestrating a ``state authority handoff.'' As Mr. Meadows would tell
people, ``Only in Washington, D.C., do they think that they have the
answer for all of America.''

\hypertarget{latest-updates-2020-election}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/03/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: 2020
Election}}{Latest Updates: 2020 Election}}\label{latest-updates-2020-election}}

Updated 2020-08-04T01:23:51.312Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/03/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-6494b448}{Trump
  assails mail-in voting anew, citing delays in declaring a winner in a
  New York congressional primary.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/03/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-3de249e6}{Obama
  issues his first slate of 2020 endorsements.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/03/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-54e34d20}{In
  a big shift, Trump is now encouraging mask-wearing in campaign
  emails.}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/03/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

\hypertarget{dr-birx-white-house-optimist}{%
\subsection{Dr. Birx: White House
optimist.}\label{dr-birx-white-house-optimist}}

Dr. Birx was more central than publicly known to the judgment inside the
West Wing that the virus was under control and on a downward path.

But her model-based assessment of the outlook failed to account for a
vital variable: how Mr. Trump's rush to urge a return to normal would
undercut the social distancing and other measures that were holding down
the numbers.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/07/18/us/politics/18dc-virus-takeaways2/merlin_171658584_720c01e8-4d3b-4fb0-9cc4-eda1e442e055-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

During the morning meetings in Mr. Meadows's office, Dr. Birx almost
always delivered what the new team was hoping for: ``All metros are
stabilizing,'' she would tell them, describing the virus as having hit
its ``peak'' around mid-April. The New York area accounted for half of
the total cases in the country, she said. The slope was heading in the
right direction. ``We're behind the worst of it.''

During much of mid-April, Dr. Birx focused intensely on the experience
that Italy had fighting the virus. In her view, it was a particularly
positive comparison, telling colleagues that the United States was on
the same trajectory as Italy, where there were huge spikes before
infections and deaths flattened to close to zero.

Dr. Birx would roam the halls of the White House, sometimes passing out
diagrams to bolster her case. ``We've hit our peak,'' she would say, and
that message would find its way back to Mr. Trump.

\hypertarget{trump-was-in-a-box-more-testing-meant-more-reported-cases}{%
\subsection{Trump was in a box: More testing meant more reported
cases.}\label{trump-was-in-a-box-more-testing-meant-more-reported-cases}}

The president quickly came to feel trapped by his own reopening
guidelines, which put him in a box of his own making.

States needed declining cases to reopen, or at least a declining rate of
positive tests. But more testing meant overall cases were destined to go
up, not down, undercutting the president's insistence that the priority
was to get the economy cranked up again.

The result was to intensify Mr. Trump's remarkable public campaign
against testing, which was among the most vivid examples of his
rejection of any informed leadership role. And it highlighted how Mr.
Trump often ended up at war with his own administration's experts and
stated policies.

Mr. Trump shifted from stressing that the nation was already doing more
than any other country
\href{https://www.politico.com/news/2020/05/14/trump-coronavirus-testing-high-case-numbers-259524}{to
deriding its importance}. By June the president was regularly making
nonsensical
\href{https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aN1eptTaWVM}{statements like},
``If we stop testing right now, we'd have very few cases, if any.''

\hypertarget{trumps-handoff-of-responsibility-had-consequences}{%
\subsection{Trump's handoff of responsibility had
consequences}\label{trumps-handoff-of-responsibility-had-consequences}}

The president's bizarre public statements, his refusal to wear a mask
and his pressure on states to get their economies going again left
governors and state officials scrambling to address a leadership vacuum
that complicated their efforts to deal with the virus.

In one case, Gov. Gavin Newsom of California was told that if he wanted
the federal government to help obtain the swabs needed to test for the
virus, he would have to ask Mr. Trump himself --- and thank him.

After offering to help acquire 350,000 testing swabs during an early
morning conversation with one of Mr. Newsom's advisers, Mr. Kushner made
it clear that the federal help would hinge on the governor doing him a
favor.

Image

Jared Kushner, Mr. Trump's senior adviser and son-in-law, leaving the
Rose Garden after the president delivered remarks on coronavirus testing
in May.Credit...Doug Mills/The New York Times

``The governor of California, Gavin Newsom, had to call Donald Trump,
and ask him for the swabs,'' recalled the adviser, Bob Kocher, an
Obama-era White House health care official.

Mayor Francis X. Suarez of Miami, a Republican, said that the White
House approach had only one focus: reopening businesses, instead of
anticipating how cities and states should respond if cases surged again.

``It was all predicated on reduction, open, reduction, open more,
reduction, open,'' he said. ``There was never what happens if there is
an increase after you reopen?

\hypertarget{the-white-house-was-slow-to-recognize-it-had-been-wrong}{%
\subsection{The White House was slow to recognize it had been
wrong.}\label{the-white-house-was-slow-to-recognize-it-had-been-wrong}}

Not until early June did White House officials even begin to recognize
that their assumptions about the course of the pandemic had proved
wrong.

In task force meetings, officials discussed whether the spike in cases
across the South was related to crowded protests over the killing of
George Floyd or perhaps a fleeting side effect of Memorial Day
gatherings.

Digging into new data from Dr. Birx, they soon concluded that the virus
was in fact spreading with invisible ferocity during the weeks in May
when states were opening up with Mr. Trump's encouragement and many were
all but declaring victory.

Even now, there are internal divisions over how far to go in having
officials publicly acknowledge the reality of the situation.

\hypertarget{our-2020-election-guide}{%
\section{Our 2020 Election Guide}\label{our-2020-election-guide}}

Updated Aug. 3, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{the-latest}{%
  \subsection{The Latest}\label{the-latest}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    President Trump again assails mail-in voting,
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/03/us/politics/trump-mail-in-voting.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{claiming
    without evidence that the process is plagued by fraud}.
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{bidens-vp-search}{%
  \subsection{Biden's V.P. Search}\label{bidens-vp-search}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/biden-vice-president-2020.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Here
    are 13 women} who have been under consideration to be Joe Biden's
    running mate, and why each might be chosen --- and might not be.
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{keep-up-with-our-coverage}{%
  \subsection{Keep Up With Our
  Coverage}\label{keep-up-with-our-coverage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Get an
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{email}
    recapping the day's news
  \end{itemize}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Download our mobile app on
    \href{https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nytimes/id284862083?ls=1\&mat_click_id=5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\&referrer=mat_click_id\%3D5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\%26link_click_id\%3D722930677036718082}{iOS}
    and
    \href{http://a.localytics.com/android?id=com.nytimes.android\&referrer=utm_source\%3Dother_nyt_mobile_web\%26utm_medium\%3DWeb\%2520page\%26utm_term\%3DGeneral\%2520Mobile\%2520Page\%26utm_campaign\%3DNYT\%2520Mobile\%2520General\%2520Page}{Android}
    and turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
