Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}Cory Booker's Exit From 2020
Race Ends a Once-Promising Political Chapter

\url{https://nyti.ms/2tgpUbn}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/11/us/trump-vs-biden?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Election
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/election-states-biden-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Paths
  to 270}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/us/elections/2020-presidential-election-calendar.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Key
  Dates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/31/us/politics/vote-by-mail-deadlines.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Voting
  by Mail}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Politics
  Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{cory-bookers-exit-from-2020-race-ends-a-once-promising-political-chapter}{%
\section{Cory Booker's Exit From 2020 Race Ends a Once-Promising
Political
Chapter}\label{cory-bookers-exit-from-2020-race-ends-a-once-promising-political-chapter}}

The New Jersey senator, who built his campaign around a message of
unity, was unable to catch on with substantial numbers of voters and
ended his quest before voting began.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2019/12/13/us/politics/00bookerout-hfo/00bookerout-hfo-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/nick-corasaniti}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/06/13/multimedia/author-nick-corasaniti/author-nick-corasaniti-thumbLarge-v2.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/nick-corasaniti}{Nick
Corasaniti}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Jan. 13, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

For almost two decades, Senator
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/cory-booker.html}{Cory
Booker} of New Jersey has been viewed as a future leader in the
Democratic Party, a former Rhodes scholar and Stanford football player
who achieved national prominence as mayor of Newark.

With a vibrant social media following and a Rolodex of influential
donors on Wall Street and in Silicon Valley, he swept to election to the
Senate and gained a spot on the powerful Judiciary Committee. In 2016,
Hillary Clinton considered Mr. Booker as a potential running mate, and
last winter he took the step many Democrats had predicted,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/02/01/us/politics/cory-booker-2020.html}{announcing
a presidential bid} built around a message of national unity.

But on Monday, that promise remained unfulfilled, as Mr. Booker ended
his campaign for the White House after nearly a year of grinding work on
the campaign trail that yielded only low-digit polling, lackluster
fund-raising and a surprising inability to electrify the broader
electorate.

``I got in this race to win, and I've always said I wouldn't continue if
there was no longer a path to victory,'' Mr. Booker said in a statement
to supporters.

The departure of Mr. Booker, 50, from a crowded Democratic field,
heralded at the outset as the most diverse in history, leaves just one
African-American candidate,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/deval-patrick.html}{Deval
Patrick}, vying for the nomination, in a party where black voters are an
essential bloc of the Democratic base.

Mr. Booker often made his case for the presidency through his biography:
as a black man whose family had to overcome racist housing
discrimination in New Jersey, and as a mayor of a predominantly black
city who saw the harm caused by hard-line criminal justice laws.

Throughout his campaign, Mr. Booker cast a spotlight on his adopted home
city. He spoke of witnessing shootings on the same street corner where
he currently lived, and of lives of young men in Newark ruined over
low-level drug crimes like marijuana possession. He frequently said on
the debate stage and on the stump that he was the ``only candidate who
lives in a low-income, black and brown community.''

Reforms he made in Newark, from schools to policing, framed the backbone
of his policies, though he was also criticized for lapses by the police
department and a controversial charter schools effort that did not lead
to immediate improvements.

He began his campaign last Feb. 1, the first day of Black History Month,
with a clarion call for unity in a deeply polarized time. He was
unrelenting in his optimism and his push for love and healing, a message
he stubbornly pushed throughout the primary even as it consistently fell
flat with voters energized by a fervent dislike of President Trump.

And despite introducing notable policies on gun control, criminal
justice reform and the racial wealth gap, his candidacy lacked a
defining issue or position on the ideological spectrum in a contest
defined more by the divide between the progressive and moderate wings of
the Democratic Party.

But his campaign also suffered from factors beyond its control. In a
historically diverse field, Mr. Booker struggled for attention amid the
excitement of new candidates like Senator Kamala Harris of California,
who allowed voters to imagine a black woman as president, or Mayor
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/pete-buttigieg.html}{Pete
Buttigieg} of South Bend, Ind., whose campaign as an openly gay man is
also historic.

Aspects of Mr. Booker's political life that were advantages for decades
suddenly became less so. His broad fund-raising base of Wall Street
bankers, pharmaceutical executives and Silicon Valley billionaires had
become pariahs to many Democrats, who viewed the influence of big donors
as corrosive. Rivals like Senators
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/elizabeth-warren.html}{Elizabeth
Warren} and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/bernie-sanders.html}{Bernie
Sanders} moved exclusively to small dollar fund-raising and sought to
make that a litmus test for the Democratic field.

The decision to drop out of the race came over the weekend, aides said,
with Mr. Booker huddling with top staff members as he wrestled with the
decision. On Sunday, he told his wider staff.

The decision to drop out largely came down to finances. Despite years of
relationships in the finance world of New York and the high-tech
corridors of California, Mr. Booker struggled to raise money throughout
2019. All told, he collected about \$22.1 million --- less than Mr.
Sanders, former vice president
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/joe-biden.html}{Joseph
R. Biden Jr.} or
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/pete-buttigieg.html}{Mr.
Buttigieg} raised just in the fourth quarter.

Money was so tight that Mr. Booker had scheduled fund-raisers in the
final two-week sprint of his campaign in California and New Jersey ---
far from the crucial battlegrounds of Iowa and New Hampshire.

Mr. Booker had not invested heavily in a digital donor program in
advance of his run, and he never successfully turned on the spigot of
small, grass-roots contributions as some of his rivals did. Entering
October, he had raised only \$4.3 million from donations of less than
\$200, less than the total haul, for instance, of Mr. Sanders in his
first 24 hours as a candidate.

Still, Mr. Booker had an enviable stable of more than 100 bundlers who
are now up for grabs, including the billionaire Donald Sussman, one of
the Democratic Party's most generous donors.

In a final push to inch up in Iowa polling and make the January debate
stage, Mr. Booker's campaign ran roughly \$300,000 in television
\href{https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CBybCrdTv_U}{ads in Iowa} in the
past two weeks, a modest sum in a race dominated by the millions spent
on the airwaves by Mr. Steyer and former Mayor
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/michael-bloomberg.html}{Michael
R. Bloomberg} of New York. The ads pushed Mr. Booker's advertising
budget, and campaign budget, to their limit.

After Mr. Booker
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/us/politics/democratic-debate-lineup.html}{fell
short of qualifying for a second consecutive debate}, denying him the
fund-raising boost that often accompanies the national broadcast, his
campaign was in a difficult position of trying to raise money from
traditional, in-person fund-raisers while also juggling his Senate
duties, including a looming impeachment trial. And without a large war
chest of campaign funds, Mr. Booker would not be able to air television
ads while he was stuck in Washington during impeachment, putting him at
a significant disadvantage compared with his well-funded opponents.

``Our campaign has reached the point where we need more money to scale
up and continue building a campaign that can win --- money we don't
have, and money that is harder to raise because I won't be on the next
debate stage and because the urgent business of impeachment will rightly
be keeping me in Washington,'' Mr. Booker told supporters on Monday.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/01/13/us/politics/13booker-out2/merlin_166913490_e8f4e4e8-0f2d-4faf-beed-a1375ae289f9-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

So Mr. Booker will return to run for re-election in New Jersey, where he
still
\href{https://www.monmouth.edu/polling-institute/reports/monmouthpoll_nj_091919/}{enjoys
favorable ratings}. The state leans decidedly Democratic and has not
elected a Republican senator in nearly 50 years.

Though the core of his presidential campaign was built on emotional
ideals, Mr. Booker focused heavily on policies that deeply affected
cities like Newark, where he was mayor for seven years. He pledged to
offer
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/06/20/us/politics/booker-drugs-clemency.html}{sweeping
clemency to thousands of nonviolent drug offenders}, and he pushed some
of the other Democratic candidates to embrace more aggressive stances on
gun control, becoming the first candidate in the field to propose a
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/05/06/us/politics/cory-booker-gun-control.html}{national
gun licensing program}.

And he focused constantly on addressing the racial wealth gap, including
an economic proposal
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/04/06/us/politics/cory-booker-2020-baby-bonds.html}{known
as baby bonds} that would create a government-run savings account for
every child born in the United States.

Though his departure from the race is unlikely to have much of an effect
on other candidates' polling, the Booker campaign was a leader in
endorsements in Iowa and New Hampshire and had a particularly notable
staff of Iowa organizers, setting up a likely scramble by the remaining
candidates to secure both endorsers and staff members in the early
nominating states.

Nearly all of the remaining Democratic candidates praised the campaign
Mr. Booker ran, and on Monday many shared photographs of Mr. Booker
offering them a hug or posing for a selfie with a voter.
\href{https://twitter.com/JoeBiden/status/1216758302421352451}{Mr. Biden
said Mr. Booker} had ``campaigned with joy and heart.''
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/andrew-yang.html}{Andrew
Yang}, who formed a friendship with Mr. Booker on the campaign trail and
regularly exchanges text messages with the senator, said he would miss
seeing Mr. Booker (and his girlfriend, the actress and activist
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/12/08/us/politics/rosario-dawson-cory-booker-iowa.html}{Rosario
Dawson}) on the trail.

``You've always been a powerful voice for justice and equality, and
you've made this primary stronger,''
\href{https://twitter.com/ewarren/status/1216760444951678977}{said}
Senator
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/elizabeth-warren.html}{Elizabeth
Warren} of Massachusetts.

\href{https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VP6mNrhIBs8\&feature=emb_logo}{In
a video released Monday}, which was backed by a gospel-like piano track
and drumbeat and featured a greatest-hits rundown of his message on the
campaign trail, Mr. Booker was upbeat until the end.

``So now I recommit myself to the work,'' Mr. Booker said. ``I can't
wait to get back on the campaign trail and campaign as hard as I can for
whoever is the eventual nominee and for candidates up and down the
ballot.''

Mr. Booker also showed a touch of humor on Monday. When a celebrity
gossip website published an article noting that Mr. Booker's exit had
supporters mourning the loss of the possibility that Ms. Dawson would
become first lady, Mr. Booker responded on Twitter, his favorite medium.

``Have you been talking to my mom?''
\href{https://twitter.com/CoryBooker/status/1216776260371828736}{he
said}.

Shane Goldmacher contributed reporting.

\hypertarget{our-2020-election-guide}{%
\section{Our 2020 Election Guide}\label{our-2020-election-guide}}

Updated ~Sept. 11, 2020

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

\begin{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{the-latest}{%
  \subsection{The Latest}\label{the-latest}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Joe Biden and President Trump put
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/11/us/politics/shanksville-trump-biden.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{hostilities
    on hold today to travel to ground zero and then to Shanksville, Pa.,
    where they separately honored 9/11 victims}.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{how-to-win-270}{%
  \subsection{How to Win 270}\label{how-to-win-270}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Joe Biden and Donald Trump need 270 electoral votes to reach the
    White House. Try building
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/election-states-biden-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{your
    own coalition of battleground states}~to see potential outcomes.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{voting-by-mail}{%
  \subsection{Voting by Mail}\label{voting-by-mail}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Will you have enough time to vote by mail in your state? Yes, but
    it's risky to procrastinate.
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/31/us/politics/vote-by-mail-deadlines.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Check
    your state's deadline.}
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/joe-biden.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{}

    \hypertarget{joe-biden}{%
    \section{Joe Biden}\label{joe-biden}}

    \hypertarget{democrat}{%
    \subsection{Democrat}\label{democrat}}

    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/donald-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{}

    \hypertarget{donald-trump}{%
    \section{Donald Trump}\label{donald-trump}}

    \hypertarget{republican}{%
    \subsection{Republican}\label{republican}}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \hypertarget{keep-up-with-our-coverage}{%
  \subsection{Keep Up With Our
  Coverage}\label{keep-up-with-our-coverage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Get an
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{email}~recapping
    the day's news
  \item
    Download our mobile app on
    \href{https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nytimes/id284862083?ls=1\&mat_click_id=5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\&referrer=mat_click_id\%3D5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\%26link_click_id\%3D722930677036718082}{iOS}~and
    \href{http://a.localytics.com/android?id=com.nytimes.android\&referrer=utm_source\%3Dother_nyt_mobile_web\%26utm_medium\%3DWeb\%2520page\%26utm_term\%3DGeneral\%2520Mobile\%2520Page\%26utm_campaign\%3DNYT\%2520Mobile\%2520General\%2520Page}{Android}~and
    turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
