Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/world/asia}{Asia
Pacific}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/world/asia}{Asia Pacific}\textbar{}Kim Jong-nam Killing
Was `Terrorist Act' by North Korea, South Says

\url{https://nyti.ms/2llCQ7E}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{kim-jong-nam-killing-was-terrorist-act-by-north-korea-south-says}{%
\section{Kim Jong-nam Killing Was `Terrorist Act' by North Korea, South
Says}\label{kim-jong-nam-killing-was-terrorist-act-by-north-korea-south-says}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2017/02/21/world/21nkorea-1/21nkorea-1-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By \href{http://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/choe-sang-hun}{Choe
Sang-Hun} and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/richard-c-paddock}{Richard
C. Paddock}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Feb. 20, 2017
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

SEOUL, South Korea --- The acting president of South Korea, Hwang
Kyo-ahn, on Monday called
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2017/02/15/world/asia/kim-jong-nam-assassination-north-korea.html}{the
killing of Kim Jong-nam}, the estranged half brother of North Korea's
leader, ``an intolerable crime against humanity and terrorist act''
masterminded by the North Korean regime.

The remarks were the strongest yet by the South Korean leadership
linking the North Korean government, led by Kim Jong-un,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2017/02/14/world/asia/kim-jong-un-brother-killed-malaysia.html}{to
the brazen killing} of Mr. Kim's half brother on Feb. 13 at Kuala Lumpur
International Airport in Malaysia.

In his remarks, Mr. Hwang also urged the world to hold North Korea
accountable for the killing.

``It starkly demonstrated the North Korean regime's recklessness and
cruelty as well as the fact that it will do anything, everything in
order to maintain its power,'' Mr. Hwang said during a meeting of
security-related cabinet ministers on Monday. ``We need to cooperate
with the international community to ensure that North Korea will pay a
just price for its terrorist act.''

Mr. Hwang's comments escalated pressure on North Korea by formally
accusing Mr. Kim's government of carrying out a terrorist attack, which
could encourage other nations, including the United States, to try to
punish the government in Pyongyang.

Mr. Hwang instructed his government to strengthen vigilance and
precautions against possible North Korean terrorist attacks on the
government and citizens of the South. He also warned that North Korea
may try military provocations to divert international attention from the
killing.

The statement came as tensions escalated Monday between North Korea and
Malaysia as the police in Kuala Lumpur press on with their investigation
of the killing, in which several North Korean citizens are being sought.

Fuji TV in Japan posted what appeared to be airport security video
footage of the attack on YouTube, which was later reposted by other
sources.

The North Korean ambassador to Malaysia, Kang Chol, called the Malaysian
inquiry politically motivated and demanded that his government be
allowed to take part. Mr. Kang also found fault with Kim Jong-nam's
autopsy.

``It has been seven days since the incident, but there is no clear
evidence on the cause of death, and at the moment we cannot trust the
investigation by the Malaysian police,'' Mr. Kang said.

The North Korean Embassy later released
\href{https://twitter.com/trinnaleong/status/833593463320907781}{a
statement} trying to raise doubts about whether the body was that of Mr.
Kim, faulting the Malaysian authorities for ``identifying the other name
alleged by the hostile foreign forces.'' The statement said the deceased
man, whom it identified as Kim Chol, held a diplomatic passport, and it
criticized the Malaysian authorities for requiring the presence of next
of kin for the body to be released.

The Malaysian Foreign Ministry said it had summoned Mr. Kang to explain
his accusation that Malaysia was ``colluding'' with North Korea's
enemies in its handling of Mr. Kim's death.

Late Monday, the Malaysian foreign minister, Anifah Aman, responded to
Mr. Kang's charges, saying they were based on ``delusions, lies and
half-truths.'' Mr. Kang's suggestion that someone else's hand was behind
the investigation was ``deeply insulting to Malaysia,'' he said in a
statement issued by his office.

``In all civilized nations, it is the norm for cases such as these to be
comprehensively investigated,'' Mr. Anifah said. ``It is the
responsibility of the government to do so.''

Mr. Kim was apparently poisoned by a woman who grabbed him from behind
at the airport and wiped his face with a cloth. He died on the way to a
hospital.

The Malaysian police have arrested four people and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2017/02/19/world/asia/malaysia-killing-of-kim-jong-nam.html}{are
seeking seven others}, most of them North Korean.

Image

The Malaysian police have arrested four people in connection with the
killing of Kim Jong-nam. Clockwise from top left: Muhammad Farid Bin
Jalaluddin, Doan Thi Huong, Siti Aishah and Ri Jong Chol.Credit...Royal
Malaysian Police, via Agence France-Presse --- Getty Images

In its meeting with Mr. Kang, the Malaysian government called his
accusations ``baseless'' and said the police were following normal
procedures in the case of a death ``under mysterious circumstances.''

Malaysia has told North Korea that it will give the body to Mr. Kim's
next of kin once the investigation is complete.

``The Malaysian government has been transparent,'' the statement said.
``The Malaysian government takes very seriously any unfounded attempt to
tarnish its reputation.''

The South Korean unification minister, Hong Yong-pyo, said on Monday
that eight North Koreans were involved in the case, including one who
was arrested, four who were believed to have returned home and three
others who were still being sought by the Malaysian authorities.

Speaking to reporters in Seoul, Mr. Hong declined to reveal the
additional information his government had that helped it determine North
Korean involvement. But he said the fact that several suspects were from
North Korea was significant evidence itself. He also noted that North
Korea had a history of committing terrorist attacks abroad and executing
its own officials deemed a threat to the country's leader.

``The North Korean regime depends on a reign of terror and fears to help
maintain its grip on power,'' Mr. Hong said about the possible motive
behind the killing.

In Indonesia, Agung Sampurno, an Immigration Department spokesman, said
that at least three North Korean suspects who left Malaysia in the hours
after the killing on Feb. 13 arrived in Jakarta later that day. They
left Jakarta at 10:20 p.m. on a flight to Dubai, in the United Arab
Emirates, before they were believed to have returned to North Korea.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{Â©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
