Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/world/middleeast}{Middle East}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/world/middleeast}{Middle East}\textbar{}Jared Kushner,
Cast as Potential Player on Israel, Is Little Known There

\url{https://nyti.ms/2ghC9Zf}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{jared-kushner-cast-as-potential-player-on-israel-is-little-known-there}{%
\section{Jared Kushner, Cast as Potential Player on Israel, Is Little
Known
There}\label{jared-kushner-cast-as-potential-player-on-israel-is-little-known-there}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2016/11/24/us/24kushner1/24kushner1-articleInline-v2.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By \href{http://www.nytimes.com/by/peter-baker}{Peter Baker} and
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/isabel-kershner}{Isabel Kershner}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Nov. 23, 2016
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

JERUSALEM --- He is friends with the mayor and once tried to buy an
Israeli insurance company. His parents' names are emblazoned across a
hospital campus, a tribute to generous donors. But to many Israelis and
Palestinians, Jared Kushner is a mystery.

Suddenly, Mr. Kushner, 35, the son-in-law of President-elect Donald J.
Trump and a business mogul in his own right, has emerged as a
potentially important figure in the future of this troubled region. Mr.
Trump said this week that Mr. Kushner could play a key, if undefined,
role in efforts to bring peace to the Middle East.

Few of the Israelis and Palestinians who have been immersed for years in
the fitful and frustrating peace process, such as it is, could recall
ever meeting Mr. Kushner, and many were hurrying to learn more. But then
again, time spent at the peace table has not exactly yielded peace, and
some of those who do know Mr. Kushner said his freshness and close ties
to the incoming president could make him a valuable new player.

Israeli officials, especially those close to Prime Minister Benjamin
Netanyahu, were most optimistic, seeing Mr. Kushner as an ally.
``There's no question that he feels a strong commitment to Israel's
security and Israel's future,'' said Ron Dermer, the
\href{http://www.nytimes.com/2014/07/26/world/middleeast/israels-outspoken-envoy-is-wise-to-us-ways.html}{Israeli
ambassador to the United States}, who has forged a close relationship
with Mr. Kushner.

Palestinian leaders were more wary. ``I don't personally know Jared
Kushner and have never met him, but welcome the idea of having him
assist in breaking the deadlock in the negotiations of the conflict,''
said Amin Maqboul, secretary general of the revolutionary council of
Fatah, the party that controls the Palestinian Authority.

The extent of Mr. Kushner's relationship with Israel is unclear. He is
not a frequent visitor in the corridors of Jerusalem's fancy hotels or
the trendy restaurants of Tel Aviv, nor has he established deep ties
with Israel's booming business sector.

He has known Mr. Netanyahu casually since childhood through his father,
Charles Kushner, a real estate tycoon who has been active in business
and philanthropy in Israel. And he is friends with Nir Barkat, the mayor
of Jerusalem. But they get together mainly in New York, not here.

In
\href{http://www.nytimes.com/2016/11/23/us/politics/trump-new-york-times-interview-transcript.html}{an
interview with The New York Times} this week, Mr. Trump pointed to Mr.
Kushner as an influential player in future Middle East peace efforts.
``I mean, he knows it so well,'' Mr. Trump said. ``He knows the region,
knows the people, knows the players.''

But that seems to be a bit of fatherly exaggeration. Certainly, Mr.
Kushner knows the region and players better than Mr. Trump, who has
little experience here. But phone calls and emails to dozens of
politicians, diplomats and journalists in Israel and the Palestinian
territories yielded few who had actually encountered him.

``I've never met Jared Kushner,'' said Dore Gold, a longtime adviser to
Mr. Netanyahu who recently stepped down as director general of the
Foreign Ministry. Neither had Sallai Meridor, a former ambassador to the
United States; Yaakov Amidror, a former national security adviser to Mr.
Netanyahu; or Avinoam Bar-Yosef, president of the Jewish People Policy
Institute, a Jerusalem-based group that researches Israeli-American
relations. Nor had the main opposition leaders Isaac Herzog and Yair
Lapid.

Still, Mr. Kushner has been Mr. Trump's intermediary with a variety of
important Israeli and Jewish American players, including Mr. Netanyahu,
Mr. Dermer and wealthy donors like Sheldon Adelson, the Nevada casino
magnate. He brokered a meeting between Mr. Trump and Mr. Netanyahu in
September and sat in on it.

``He follows the issue. He's a strategic thinker,'' said Martin Peretz,
the former owner and editor in chief of The New Republic, who met Mr.
Kushner at Harvard University and now splits his time between Israel and
the United States.

``Does he know enough? Does he know more than Aaron David Miller?
Probably not. Does he know more than Dennis Ross? Probably not,'' Mr.
Peretz said, naming two longtime American negotiators. But ``he
certainly knows more about the area than Barack Obama, and more than
John Kerry.''

The grandson of Holocaust survivors, Mr. Kushner was raised in an
Orthodox Jewish household in New Jersey and graduated from a Jewish day
school before attending Harvard. He observes the Sabbath, and his wife
--- Mr. Trump's daughter Ivanka --- converted to Judaism before their
marriage. Mr. Trump's transition team would not say how often Mr.
Kushner visited Israel or whether he had any Palestinian connections.
But an aide to the president-elect emphasized that Mr. Kushner would be
just one of many advisers on the Middle East.

Mr. Kushner, who took over his family's real estate empire in his 20s
and bought The New York Observer, visited Israel in 2014 when he was
trying to acquire a controlling stake in Phoenix Holdings, an insurer.
He signed a nonbinding memorandum of understanding to buy 47 percent of
the firm from the Delek Group, an Israeli conglomerate, for about \$434
million. But the deal fell apart, partly because of regulatory
requirements.

Mr. Kushner was in Israel during the war with Gaza that summer, which
seemed to unnerve his wife. ``We have small children, and Ivanka didn't
like the idea of me being here,'' he told the Israeli newspaper Yedioth
Ahronoth. ``As an American who listens to the news every hour, and
hearing about 90 missiles hitting Israel on a daily basis, she asked me,
`What the hell are you doing?'''

Later that year, as the Phoenix deal was unraveling, his parents
traveled to Jerusalem to dedicate a new 11.5-acre campus for the Shaare
Zedek Medical Center opposite Mount Herzl, named the Seryl and Charles
Kushner Campus. The Kushners committed \$20 million to the hospital and
Seryl Kushner served on the national board of an American committee
supporting Shaare Zedek.

Charles Kushner has been a participant in the Faire Fund, an
Israeli-American real estate investment fund, for more than a decade.
``The family has been involved very much in all sorts of activities with
regard to Israel,'' said Zalman Shoval, a former ambassador to the
United States and one of the founders of the fund.

His partner, Shlomo Grofman, a real estate developer and friend of the
elder Mr. Kushner's, said he had tried to involve Jared in Israel as
well. ``I brought Jared and Ivanka to Israel,'' he said. ``I invited
them and they came.''

Now, it seems possible that Mr. Kushner will be a more regular visitor,
gathering information and perhaps more for his father-in-law. To those
who have talked with Mr. Trump, there is little doubt that Mr. Kushner
is a powerful voice on issues involving Israel.

Boaz Bismuth, the foreign editor for Israel Hayom, a newspaper owned by
Mr. Adelson, recalled interviewing Mr. Trump in December. ``The first
thing he mentioned was Jared --- he spoke of him as someone he counts
on,'' Mr. Bismuth said. ``He told me then that Jared knows Israel,
follows what's going on here.''

Now, instead of just following it, Mr. Kushner may have a chance to
lead.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{Â©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
