Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/world/asia}{Asia
Pacific}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/world/asia}{Asia Pacific}\textbar{}U.S. Orders China to
Close Houston Consulate, Citing Efforts to Steal Trade Secrets

\url{https://nyti.ms/3hsmG8q}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{the-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=aa165ca0-efb6-11ea-ba7d-2b22bdc536a2\&variant=undefined}{The
Coronavirus
Outbreak}}{The Coronavirus Outbreak}}\label{the-coronavirus-outbreak}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  live\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/05/world/coronavirus-covid.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=aa1683b0-efb6-11ea-ba7d-2b22bdc536a2\&variant=undefined}{Latest
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=aa1683b1-efb6-11ea-ba7d-2b22bdc536a2\&variant=undefined}{Maps
  and Cases}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=aa1683b2-efb6-11ea-ba7d-2b22bdc536a2\&variant=undefined}{Vaccine
  Tracker}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/02/your-money/eviction-moratorium-covid.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=aa1683b3-efb6-11ea-ba7d-2b22bdc536a2\&variant=undefined}{Eviction
  Moratorium}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/09/02/magazine/food-insecurity-hunger-us.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=aa1683b4-efb6-11ea-ba7d-2b22bdc536a2\&variant=undefined}{American
  Hunger}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{us-orders-china-to-close-houston-consulate-citing-efforts-to-steal-trade-secrets}{%
\section{U.S. Orders China to Close Houston Consulate, Citing Efforts to
Steal Trade
Secrets}\label{us-orders-china-to-close-houston-consulate-citing-efforts-to-steal-trade-secrets}}

The Trump administration accused Chinese citizens of stealing scientific
research and told the country's diplomats in Texas to leave. Beijing
warned it would retaliate.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/07/22/world/22china-diplo/22china-diplo-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/edward-wong}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/09/24/multimedia/author-edward-wong/author-edward-wong-thumbLarge-v5.png}}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/lara-jakes}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2019/07/25/reader-center/author-lara-jakes/author-lara-jakes-thumbLarge.png}}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/steven-lee-myers}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/10/15/multimedia/author-steven-lee-myers/author-steven-lee-myers-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/edward-wong}{Edward
Wong}, \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/lara-jakes}{Lara
Jakes} and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/steven-lee-myers}{Steven Lee
Myers}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Published July 22, 2020Updated July 23, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://cn.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/usa/20200722/us-china-houston-consulate/}{阅读简体中文版}\href{https://cn.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/usa/20200722/us-china-houston-consulate/zh-hant/}{閱讀繁體中文版}

WASHINGTON --- The United States has abruptly ordered China to close its
consulate in Houston, accusing diplomats of aiding economic espionage
and the attempted theft of scientific research as the Trump
administration
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/22/us/politics/coronavirus-us-china.html}{sharply
escalates} its
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/23/world/asia/us-china-consulate.html}{moves
against China}.

China vowed to retaliate, calling the action illegal. Hours after the
administration issued its order on Tuesday, consulate employees
\href{https://www.khou.com/article/news/local/hfd-responds-reports-burning-classified-documents-chinese-consulate/285-33117055-f7c1-4626-b4b5-ae8c252401d5}{burned
papers in open metal barrels} in a courtyard of the Houston building,
prompting police officers and firefighters to rush to the area.

The move comes as President Trump's campaign strategists, anxious about
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/18/us/politics/trump-coronavirus-response-failure-leadership.html}{his
failures on the pandemic}, are pushing a comprehensive anti-China
message in an appeal to Mr. Trump's supporters.

It was unclear what had immediately prompted the crackdown on the
consulate, which must close by Friday, although the State Department
said China was directing ``massive illegal spying and influence
operations.''

David R. Stilwell, who oversees policy for East Asia and the Pacific at
the State Department, said in an interview that the Houston consulate
had a history of engaging in ``subversive behavior'' and was the
epicenter of research theft in the United States. He gave few details to
support that assertion, though other American officials released a
document with more information on Wednesday night.

He cited one example: He said the consul general, Cai Wei, the top
Chinese official there, and two other diplomats were caught using false
identification to escort Chinese travelers on May 31 to the gate area of
a charter flight from George Bush Intercontinental Airport.

Mr. Stilwell said that some of China's
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/11/04/health/china-nih-scientists.html}{attempted
scientific thefts} in the United States had accelerated over the last
six months, and could be related to efforts to develop a
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html}{vaccine}
for the coronavirus, although he presented no evidence.

A seven-page document compiled by American law enforcement officials and
obtained by The New York Times broadly outlined several F.B.I.
investigations linked to the Houston consulate. Those included attempts
to illegally transfer medical research and other sensitive information
from institutions in the area; talent recruitment plans to persuade more
than 50 researchers, professors and academics in the area to turn over
tightly held research or information to Chinese institutions; and the
coercion of Chinese citizens in the United States whom the Chinese
government has deemed as wanted fugitives to return to their homeland.

Secretary of State Mike Pompeo, who has been a leader in aggressively
pushing hard-line policies on China, said Wednesday at a news conference
in Copenhagen that the Trump administration was ``setting out clear
expectations as to how the Chinese Communist Party is going to behave.''
He warned that the United States would ``take actions'' to protect its
interests.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-the-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/04/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: The Coronavirus
Outbreak}}{Latest Updates: The Coronavirus Outbreak}}\label{latest-updates-the-coronavirus-outbreak}}

Updated 2020-09-05T12:05:40.998Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/04/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-1654f6ad}{Research
  connects vaping to a higher chance of catching the virus --- and
  suffering its worst effects.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/04/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-52e4198a}{Another
  college football game won't be played as planned.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/04/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-181cef0}{Pharmaceutical
  companies plan a joint pledge on safety standards as they move
  vaccines to the marketplace.}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/04/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

More live coverage:
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/04/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Markets}

Mr. Trump said during a news conference on Wednesday evening that ``it's
always possible'' his administration would close more Chinese missions.

The Chinese Embassy in Washington said in a statement, ``The U.S.
accusations are groundless fabrications.'' In Beijing, a spokesman for
China's Ministry of Foreign Affairs urged the United States to
immediately reverse the decision.

``Otherwise China will certainly make legitimate and necessary
reactions,'' said the spokesman, Wang Wenbin. His remarks suggested that
China would, at a minimum, close an American consulate in China.

The consulate in Houston has about 60 employees. There are six other
Chinese diplomatic missions in the United States: the embassy in
Washington, an office at the United Nations and consulates in New York,
Los Angeles, San Francisco and Chicago.

The F.B.I. has issued an arrest warrant for a Chinese student or
researcher, Tang Juan, who sought refuge in the San Francisco consulate
after American investigators discovered she had not disclosed her
affiliation with the Chinese military and executed a search warrant to
seize her electronic devices, according to the seven-page document.
Chinese diplomats across the United States have helped military officers
hide their identities, said John C. Demers, the assistant attorney
general for national security. (Axios
\href{https://www.axios.com/san-francisco-consulate-harboring-chinese-military-researcher-fbi-17325706-7983-4b17-aa6f-f19a450b646b.html}{first
reported} on Ms. Tang on Wednesday.)

The closing of the consulate in Houston may be less detrimental to the
United States' relations with Beijing than shutting down a different one
would be. It is the ``sister'' diplomatic mission to the American
consulate in the Chinese city of Wuhan, where the coronavirus outbreak
first emerged. The State Department evacuated its consulate in Wuhan
after the initial outbreak; it is not clear when it might fully reopen.

Mr. Wang called the move illegal under international law, and described
it as the latest in a series of aggressions.

``For some time, the United States government has been shifting the
blame to China with stigmatization and unwarranted attacks against
China's social system, harassing Chinese diplomatic and consular staff
in America, intimidating and interrogating Chinese students and
confiscating their personal electrical devices, even detaining them
without cause,'' he said.

\href{https://carnegietsinghua.org/experts/1536}{Cheng Xiaohe}, an
associate professor at the School of International Studies at Renmin
University in Beijing, said the United States had never taken such a
step against China since the two countries established diplomatic
relations on Jan. 1, 1979.

``If the relationship between China and the United States continues to
deteriorate unchecked,'' he said in a telephone interview in Beijing,
``the next result will be the severing of diplomatic relations.''

The Trump administration's decision was a significant escalation of its
effort to tighten the reins on Chinese diplomats, researchers, scholars,
journalists and others in the United States.

It comes during rising tensions that have been inflamed by the pandemic
and Beijing's repressive moves in Hong Kong, and that now touch on
virtually all aspects of the relationship, even though Mr. Trump himself
has
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/18/us/politics/trump-china-bolton.html}{vacillated
wildly} on China. He has regularly praised Xi Jinping, the Chinese
leader, and pleaded with Mr. Xi for help with re-election, while failing
to denounce, and at some points explicitly endorsing, China's repression
in Hong Kong and the Xinjiang region.

The administration's restrictions have included issuing
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/10/16/world/asia/china-state-department-diplomats.html}{travel
rules} for diplomats and requiring several Chinese state news
organizations to register as diplomatic entities while limiting their
visas. The administration is also considering
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/15/us/politics/china-travel-ban.html}{a
travel ban} on members of the Communist Party and their families. Such a
move, if enacted, could affect an estimated 270 million people, and it
has been widely criticized as too sweeping to be practical.

In May, the Trump administration
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/28/us/politics/china-hong-kong-trump-student-visas.html}{announced
a travel ban} on students and researchers of graduate-level and higher
who have ties to Chinese military institutions. Some officials estimated
that would result in the expulsion of thousands of Chinese citizens from
the United States.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/07/22/world/22China-Diplo02/merlin_158742531_3253c25e-cefb-419f-b3c3-f2f334b366f6-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

The Trump administration has repeatedly accused China of attempts to
steal commercial and military secrets, allegations that Beijing has
rejected. Some critics say the administration's approach
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/23/us/chinese-coronavirus-racist-attacks.html}{could
encourage prejudice} against Chinese and Chinese-American researchers.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{}

\hypertarget{the-coronavirus-outbreak-}{%
\subsubsection{The Coronavirus Outbreak
›}\label{the-coronavirus-outbreak-}}

\hypertarget{frequently-asked-questions}{%
\paragraph{Frequently Asked
Questions}\label{frequently-asked-questions}}

Updated September 4, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{what-are-the-symptoms-of-coronavirus}{%
  \paragraph{What are the symptoms of
  coronavirus?}\label{what-are-the-symptoms-of-coronavirus}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    In the beginning, the coronavirus
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/coronavirus-facts-history.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq\#link-6817bab5}{seemed
    like it was primarily a respiratory illness}~--- many patients had
    fever and chills, were weak and tired, and coughed a lot, though
    some people don't show many symptoms at all. Those who seemed
    sickest had pneumonia or acute respiratory distress syndrome and
    received supplemental oxygen. By now, doctors have identified many
    more symptoms and syndromes. In April,
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/27/health/coronavirus-symptoms-cdc.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{the
    C.D.C. added to the list of early signs}~sore throat, fever, chills
    and muscle aches. Gastrointestinal upset, such as diarrhea and
    nausea, has also been observed. Another telltale sign of infection
    may be a sudden, profound diminution of one's
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/22/health/coronavirus-symptoms-smell-taste.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{sense
    of smell and taste.}~Teenagers and young adults in some cases have
    developed painful red and purple lesions on their fingers and toes
    --- nicknamed ``Covid toe'' --- but few other serious symptoms.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{why-is-it-safer-to-spend-time-together-outside}{%
  \paragraph{Why is it safer to spend time together
  outside?}\label{why-is-it-safer-to-spend-time-together-outside}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/15/us/coronavirus-what-to-do-outside.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{Outdoor
    gatherings}~lower risk because wind disperses viral droplets, and
    sunlight can kill some of the virus. Open spaces prevent the virus
    from building up in concentrated amounts and being inhaled, which
    can happen when infected people exhale in a confined space for long
    stretches of time, said Dr. Julian W. Tang, a virologist at the
    University of Leicester.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{why-does-standing-six-feet-away-from-others-help}{%
  \paragraph{Why does standing six feet away from others
  help?}\label{why-does-standing-six-feet-away-from-others-help}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    The coronavirus spreads primarily through droplets from your mouth
    and nose, especially when you cough or sneeze. The C.D.C., one of
    the organizations using that measure,
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/14/health/coronavirus-six-feet.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{bases
    its recommendation of six feet}~on the idea that most large droplets
    that people expel when they cough or sneeze will fall to the ground
    within six feet. But six feet has never been a magic number that
    guarantees complete protection. Sneezes, for instance, can launch
    droplets a lot farther than six feet,
    \href{https://jamanetwork.com/journals/jama/fullarticle/2763852}{according
    to a recent study}. It's a rule of thumb: You should be safest
    standing six feet apart outside, especially when it's windy. But
    keep a mask on at all times, even when you think you're far enough
    apart.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{i-have-antibodies-am-i-now-immune}{%
  \paragraph{I have antibodies. Am I now
  immune?}\label{i-have-antibodies-am-i-now-immune}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    As of right
    now,\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/22/health/covid-antibodies-herd-immunity.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{~that
    seems likely, for at least several months.}~There have been
    frightening accounts of people suffering what seems to be a second
    bout of Covid-19. But experts say these patients may have a
    drawn-out course of infection, with the virus taking a slow toll
    weeks to months after initial exposure.~People infected with the
    coronavirus typically
    \href{https://www.nature.com/articles/s41586-020-2456-9}{produce}~immune
    molecules called antibodies, which are
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/07/health/coronavirus-antibody-prevalence.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{protective
    proteins made in response to an
    infection}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/07/health/coronavirus-antibody-prevalence.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{.
    These antibodies may}~last in the body
    \href{https://www.nature.com/articles/s41591-020-0965-6}{only two to
    three months}, which may seem worrisome, but that's~perfectly normal
    after an acute infection subsides, said Dr. Michael Mina, an
    immunologist at Harvard University. It may be possible to get the
    coronavirus again, but it's highly unlikely that it would be
    possible in a short window of time from initial infection or make
    people sicker the second time.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{what-are-my-rights-if-i-am-worried-about-going-back-to-work}{%
  \paragraph{What are my rights if I am worried about going back to
  work?}\label{what-are-my-rights-if-i-am-worried-about-going-back-to-work}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Employers have to provide
    \href{https://www.osha.gov/SLTC/covid-19/standards.html}{a safe
    workplace}~with policies that protect everyone equally.
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/coronavirus-money-unemployment.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{And
    if one of your co-workers tests positive for the coronavirus, the
    C.D.C.}~has said that
    \href{https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/community/guidance-business-response.html}{employers
    should tell their employees}~-\/- without giving you the sick
    employee's name -\/- that they may have been exposed to the virus.
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Christopher A. Wray, the F.B.I. director, said
\href{https://www.fbi.gov/news/speeches/the-threat-posed-by-the-chinese-government-and-the-chinese-communist-party-to-the-economic-and-national-security-of-the-united-states}{in
a speech this month} that the agency was opening a new China-related
counterintelligence investigation every 10 hours. Of the examples he
cited, four involved researchers in states under the jurisdiction of the
Houston consulate.

On Monday, the Justice Department announced visa fraud charges against
Song Chen, a visiting Stanford University researcher accused of
concealing her active membership in the Chinese military. In January,
\href{https://www.fbi.gov/wanted/counterintelligence/yanqing-ye}{the
F.B.I. announced it was seeking} a Boston University student, Yanqing
Ye, who had hidden her affiliation with the People's Liberation Army
when applying for a visa. American officials believe Ms. Ye is in China.

In December, the U.S. authorities arrested a Chinese cancer-cell
researcher, Zaosong Zheng, at Boston Logan International Airport and
\href{https://www.justice.gov/usao-ma/pr/harvard-university-professor-and-two-chinese-nationals-charged-three-separate-china}{charged
him with trying to smuggle} 21 vials of stolen biological research back
to China.

In April 2019, officials at the University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer
Center in Houston
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/04/22/health/md-anderson-chinese-scientists.html}{said
they were investigating several scientists} for improper disclosures.
The officials did not identify the scientists, two of whom had resigned.
But redacted investigative reports referred to ties to China or Chinese
residents or institutions.

And on Tuesday, the Justice Department said it had
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/21/us/politics/china-hacking-coronavirus-vaccine.html}{indicted
two Chinese hackers} accused of trying to steal information about
coronavirus vaccine research.

There have been other clashes over suspected espionage by employees at
Chinese missions. In September, the State Department
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/12/15/world/asia/us-china-spies.html}{secretly
expelled} two employees of the Chinese Embassy in Washington who were
accused of driving with their wives onto a sensitive military base in
Virginia. That was believed to be the first such expulsions in more than
three decades. Beijing
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/12/16/world/asia/china-spies-explusion-military-base.html}{demanded
a reversal} of the action.

Some former officials voiced skepticism over the Trump administration's
latest move.

Daniel Russel, who served in Mr. Stilwell's job during the Obama
administration, said closing the Houston consulate ``further reduces the
few remaining diplomatic channels between the two sides and is a step
that will prove difficult to reverse.''

``The China accusation that this move has more to do with presidential
politics than with intellectual property is hard to argue with,'' said
Mr. Russel, now a vice president at the Asia Society Policy Institute.

In 2017, the Trump administration ordered Russia to close its consulate
in San Francisco, along with two annexes near New York and Washington,
in retaliation for Russian restrictions on the number of American
diplomats in Moscow. Those moves stemmed from the furor over Russia's
interference in the 2016 presidential election, the fallout from which
is still felt, despite Mr. Trump's outreach to the Russian president,
Vladimir V. Putin.

The effect of the Houston closure on relations --- and travel --- would
in the short term be minimal compared with the diplomatic furor it has
already incited. Consulates mainly process visas for travelers visiting
China; the one in Houston handled those for southern American states,
like Texas and Florida. Travel between the two countries has been
severely limited in any case because of the pandemic.

``The consulate was not chosen at random, once the decision was made to
try to take action to disrupt more strongly both political influence
activities by the government of China and theft of intellectual
property,'' Mr. Demers said.

Image

A State Department flight transported Americans from Wuhan, China, in
February. Beijing criticized the move as stoking panic about the
coronavirus outbreak.Credit...Lance King/Getty Images

The State Department
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/02/05/us/coronavirus-flights-wuhan.html}{began
evacuating its American staff} from the Wuhan consulate in late January
during the coronavirus outbreak there --- a move that China at the time
criticized as stoking panic. It has also significantly reduced
operations at the embassy in Beijing and its other consulates, with many
diplomats returning to the United States.

In recent weeks, the department has begun to slowly return diplomats and
their families --- only to face rigorous health screening and quarantine
rules that the Americans had complained were onerous and even in
violation of the Vienna Conventions on diplomatic and consular
relations. The Houston consulate closure could add another obstacle to
efforts by the American diplomats to return.

Keith Bradsher contributed reporting from Beijing, and Megan Specia from
London. Claire Fu contributed research from Beijing.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
