Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/world/asia}{Asia
Pacific}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/world/asia}{Asia Pacific}\textbar{}How the Cold War
Between China and U.S. Is Intensifying

\href{https://nyti.ms/3jv6jts}{https://nyti.ms/3jv6jts}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{how-the-cold-war-between-china-and-us-is-intensifying}{%
\section{How the Cold War Between China and U.S. Is
Intensifying}\label{how-the-cold-war-between-china-and-us-is-intensifying}}

In defense, trade, technology, media and diplomacy, among other areas,
the rancor between the Trump administration and China's ruling Communist
Party is worsening.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/07/22/world/22china-us-flashpoints/22china-us-flashpoints-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/rick-gladstone}{Rick
Gladstone}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Published July 22, 2020Updated July 24, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://cn.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/usa/20200723/us-china-cold-war/}{阅读简体中文版}\href{https://cn.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/usa/20200723/us-china-cold-war/zh-hant/}{閱讀繁體中文版}

Tensions between
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/23/world/asia/us-china-consulate.html}{China
and the United States} have reached the most acute levels since the
countries normalized diplomatic relations more than four decades ago,
with the American government's ordering that China
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/22/world/asia/us-china-houston-consulate.html?action=click\&module=Top\%20Stories\&pgtype=Homepage}{close
its Houston consulate} being just the latest example.

In defense, trade, technology, human rights and other categories,
actions and reprisals by one side or the other have escalated sharply
under President Trump's administration, despite his repeated expressions
of admiration for President Xi Jinping of China.

The administration is even weighing a
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/15/us/politics/china-travel-ban.html?searchResultPosition=3}{blanket
ban} on travel to the United States by the 92 million members of China's
ruling Communist Party and the possible expulsion of any members
currently in the country, an action that would likely invite retaliation
against American travel and residency in China.

``I think we're in a dangerous and precipitous spiral downward, not
without cause, but without the proper diplomatic skills to arrest it,''
said \href{https://asiasociety.org/orville-schell}{Orville Schell},
director of the Center on U.S.-China Relations at the Asia Society. The
severity of the confrontation, he said, ``has jumped the wall from
specific and solvable challenges to a clash of systems and values.''

\href{https://www.uschina.org/craig-allen}{Craig Allen}, president of
the U.S.-China Business Council, said he was alarmed by the increasing
invective from two superpowers that together represent 40 percent of
global economic output. ``If we are yelling at each other and slamming
doors, then the world is a very unstable place, and businesses are not
able to plan,'' he said.

Here is a look at what has happened in the past few years to exacerbate
the tensions:

\hypertarget{the-coronavirus-and-anti-chinese-racism}{%
\subsection{The Coronavirus and anti-Chinese
Racism}\label{the-coronavirus-and-anti-chinese-racism}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/07/22/world/22china-us-flashpoints2/merlin_167695143_63cd557f-9f86-4927-8af3-ac9594558427-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Mr. Trump and his subordinates have blamed China for spreading the
coronavirus, which first emerged in the central Chinese city of Wuhan
late last year. They have repeatedly described the virus in racist and
stigmatizing terms, calling it the Wuhan virus, China virus and Kung
Flu.

On July 4, Mr. Trump said China
``\href{https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FDZtbUpK6zM}{must be held fully
accountable}.'' The administration also has defunded and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/07/us/politics/coronavirus-trump-who.html?searchResultPosition=2}{ordered
a severing of ties} with the World Health Organization, accusing it of
having abetted shortcomings in China's initial response to the outbreak.
On Tuesday, the Justice Department
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/21/us/politics/china-hacking-coronavirus-vaccine.html}{accused
Chinese hackers} of attempting to steal information about American
research on a virus vaccine.

For its part, China has rejected the administration's attacks over the
virus and has criticized the poor American government response to the
outbreak. Chinese propagandists also have promoted the countertheory,
with no evidence,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/13/world/asia/coronavirus-china-conspiracy-theory.html}{that
American soldiers may have been the original source of the virus} during
a visit to Wuhan last October.

\hypertarget{a-severe-test-on-trade-ties}{%
\subsection{A severe test on trade
ties}\label{a-severe-test-on-trade-ties}}

Mr. Trump won office in 2016 partly on his accusations that China was
exploiting the country's trade relationship with the United States by
selling the country far more than it purchased. In office, he decreed a
series of punitive tariffs on Chinese goods, and China retaliated, in a
trade war that has now lasted more than two years. While a truce was
effectively declared in January with the
\href{https://ustr.gov/sites/default/files/files/agreements/phase\%20one\%20agreement/Economic_And_Trade_Agreement_Between_The_United_States_And_China_Text.pdf}{signing
of what the administration called a `Phase 1' trade deal}, most tariffs
were not eased.

\hypertarget{showdown-in-the-south-china-sea}{%
\subsection{Showdown in the South China
Sea}\label{showdown-in-the-south-china-sea}}

Image

American ships and aircrafts in the South China Sea in July, in a photo
released by the U.S. Navy.

The Trump administration has increasingly challenged China's assertions
of sovereignty and control over much of the South China Sea, including
vital maritime shipping lanes. Just last week, Secretary of State Mike
Pompeo, who has described China as a major security threat, decreed that
most of China's claims in the South China Sea are
``\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/13/world/asia/south-china-sea-pompeo.html?searchResultPosition=2}{completely
unlawful},'' setting up potential military confrontations between
Chinese and U.S. naval forces in the Pacific.

\hypertarget{a-widening-battle-over-technology}{%
\subsection{A widening battle over
technology}\label{a-widening-battle-over-technology}}

China has long been accused by successive U.S. administrations of
stealing American technology. The Trump White House has escalated the
accusations further by seeking an international blacklisting of Huawei,
China's largest technology company, calling it a front for China's
efforts to infiltrate the telecommunications infrastructure of other
nations for strategic advantage.

The company's chief financial officer,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/27/world/canada/huawei-extradition-meng-wanzhou.html?searchResultPosition=2}{Meng
Wanzhou}, has been detained in Canada since December 2018 on an
extradition warrant to the United States on fraud charges. Last week
Britain declared it was siding with the United States
in\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/14/business/huawei-uk-5g.html?searchResultPosition=1}{barring
Huawei products from its high-speed wireless network.}

\hypertarget{expulsions-of-journalists-and-other-media-workers}{%
\subsection{Expulsions of journalists and other media
workers}\label{expulsions-of-journalists-and-other-media-workers}}

Image

A newsstand in Beijing in March.Credit...Gilles Sabrié for The New York
Times

Accusing China's state-run media outlets of fomenting propaganda, the
Trump administration
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/02/world/asia/china-journalists-diplomats-expulsion.html}{sharply
limited} the number of Chinese citizens who could work for Chinese news
organizations in the United States. China
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/17/business/media/china-expels-american-journalists.html?searchResultPosition=2}{retaliated}
by ordering the expulsions of journalists from The New York Times, The
Washington Post and The Wall Street Journal, and took other steps that
suggested further impediments to American press access in China were
looming. The New York Times, concerned about the possibility of further
limitations on journalists working in China,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/14/business/media/new-york-times-hong-kong.html?searchResultPosition=1}{announced
last week} that it was relocating much of its major news hub in Hong
Kong to Seoul, South Korea.

\hypertarget{expulsions-of-students}{%
\subsection{Expulsions of students}\label{expulsions-of-students}}

The Trump administration has taken steps to cancel the visas of
thousands of
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2017/12/12/opinion/chinese-students-mental-health.html}{Chinese
graduate students} and researchers in the United States who have direct
ties to universities affiliated with the People's Liberation Army,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/28/us/politics/china-hong-kong-trump-student-visas.html}{according
to American officials knowledgeable about the planning}. Such expulsions
portend possible further educational restrictions, and the Chinese
government could retaliate by imposing its own visa bans on Americans.

\hypertarget{suppression-of-democratic-freedoms-in-hong-kong}{%
\subsection{Suppression of democratic freedoms in Hong
Kong}\label{suppression-of-democratic-freedoms-in-hong-kong}}

Image

Protesters in Hong Kong on July 1.Credit...Lam Yik Fei for The New York
Times

Last November, Mr. Trump, with bipartisan support,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/11/27/us/politics/trump-hong-kong.html?searchResultPosition=1}{signed
legislation} that could penalize Chinese and Hong Kong officials who
suppress dissent by democracy advocates in Hong Kong, the former British
colony and Asian financial center that was guaranteed some measure of
autonomy by China.

In May Mr. Trump said he was
\href{https://www.cnbc.com/2020/05/29/trump-taking-action-to-eliminate-special-treatment-for-hong-kong.html}{taking
steps to end Hong Kong's preferential trading status} with the United
States after China passed
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/05/world/asia/hong-kong-security-law.html}{a
sweeping new security law} that could be used to stifle any form of
expression deemed seditious by China. The Chinese authorities have
denounced the measures and vowed to retaliate.

\hypertarget{repression-of-uighur-muslims-in-xinjiang}{%
\subsection{Repression of Uighur Muslims in
Xinjiang}\label{repression-of-uighur-muslims-in-xinjiang}}

This month the Trump administration
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/09/world/asia/trump-china-sanctions-uighurs.html?searchResultPosition=1}{imposed
sanctions} on a number of Chinese officials, including a senior member
of the Communist Party, over
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/07/10/world/asia/china-xinjiang-rights.html?action=click\&module=RelatedCoverage\&pgtype=Article\&region=Footer}{human
rights abuses} by China in the Xinjiang region against the country's
largely Muslim Uighur minority.

Beijing promised retaliation against American institutions and
individuals it deemed guilty of ``egregious'' conduct in issues
concerning Xinjiang, a vast Western expanse in China where the
authorities have placed a million people in
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/12/16/world/asia/xinjiang-china-forced-labor-camps-uighurs.html}{labor
camps} and imposed
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/04/04/world/asia/xinjiang-china-surveillance-prison.html}{intrusive
surveillance} on others.

\hypertarget{other-longstanding-grievances-taiwan-and-tibet}{%
\subsection{Other longstanding grievances: Taiwan and
Tibet}\label{other-longstanding-grievances-taiwan-and-tibet}}

Image

The Dalai Lama in India, in January.Credit...Agence France-Presse ---
Getty Images

For the Chinese government, American actions taken in the name of
defending people living anywhere in China constitute blatant
interference in its internal politics --- a grievance with deep-seated
roots going back to its struggles with imperialist powers in the 19th
century.

In May the Trump administration
\href{https://www.cnn.com/2020/05/21/politics/us-taiwan-arms-sale/index.html}{approved
a \$180 million arms sale} to Taiwan, part of a
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/06/06/us/politics/trump-taiwan-arms-sale.html?searchResultPosition=1}{far
bigger arms deal} that has angered the Chinese authorities, who regard
the self-governing island as part of China. Another longstanding source
of Chinese anger is the American deference to the Dalai Lama, the
spiritual leader-in-exile of Tibet, the former Himalayan kingdom in
China's far west.

In 2018 Mr. Trump
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/12/21/world/asia/trump-china-tibet.html?searchResultPosition=4}{signed
a bill} that penalizes Chinese officials who restrict American
officials, journalists and other citizens from going freely to Tibetan
areas. Last November the State Department's ambassador at large for
international religious freedom, Samuel D. Brownback,
\href{https://www.state.gov/ambassador-at-large-for-international-religious-freedom-samuel-brownback/}{warned
that only Tibetans could choose the successor to the Dalai Lama}, who
turned 85 this month, setting up a new clash with Beijing, which
contends it will choose his successor.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
