Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}Why a `Do No Harm' General
Election Strategy Could Work for Joe Biden

\url{https://nyti.ms/32zDfL5}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Election
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/biden-vice-president-2020.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Biden's
  V.P. Search}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/07/24/us/politics/trump-biden-campaign-donors.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Map
  of Donations}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/elections/delegate-count-primary-results.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Delegate
  Count}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2019/us/politics/2020-presidential-candidates.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{The
  Candidates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Politics
  Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{why-a-do-no-harm-general-election-strategy-could-work-for-joe-biden}{%
\section{Why a `Do No Harm' General Election Strategy Could Work for Joe
Biden}\label{why-a-do-no-harm-general-election-strategy-could-work-for-joe-biden}}

Mr. Biden is running a risk-averse campaign in states like Wisconsin,
where a broad coalition of supporters is emerging. Even Republicans are
noticing.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/07/17/us/politics/00wisconsin1/merlin_174353838_afbca6ab-4cfa-4da0-b767-3106d374a861-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/astead-w-herndon}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/09/14/us/author-head-astead/author-head-astead-thumbLarge-v2.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/astead-w-herndon}{Astead W. Herndon}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Published July 19, 2020Updated July 30, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

\emph{Follow our latest coverage of}
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html}{\emph{the
Biden vs. Trump 2020 election here}}\emph{.}

ADAMS, Wis. --- Nate Zimdars, a Democratic candidate for the Wisconsin
State Assembly, arrived at the V.F.W. lodge here after marching in the
local Independence Day parade, ready to meet voters at an annual outdoor
chicken cookout called the ``Chic Nic.'' Although the event was hosted
by the local Republican Party, Mr. Zimdars was far from nervous being
behind enemy lines. He was eager.

The county flipped from blue to red in 2016, Mr. Zimdars noted, which
meant it could flip again. Plus, national Democrats had done him a favor
--- they chose former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. for the top of
their ticket.

``Biden comes across as someone who's moderate and has experience on
both sides of the aisle,'' Mr. Zimdars said. ``My close family and
friends, who are a little more on the Republican side of the fence, said
if Biden became the nominee they would vote for him.''

Such persuasion is at the core of Mr. Biden's campaign strategy,
designed to bring together moderates, seniors, working-class voters
across races and former supporters of President Trump. The approach has
helped him jump out to an early lead in polling, both in national
surveys and in swing states like Wisconsin, where Mr. Trump won by less
than 23,000 votes in 2016. It has also helped him fend off attacks from
Mr. Trump, who has sought to cast Mr. Biden as a radical progressive
despite his lengthy career as a moderate lawmaker.

But if Mr. Biden hopes to maintain his advantage as November draws near,
Wisconsin Democrats like Mr. Zimdars have some advice, akin to the
famous medical principle of ``do no harm,'' or the cautionary words of
the hit HBO series ``The Wire'': ``Keep it boring.''

Being politically milquetoast is Mr. Biden's appeal, they said, driving
his ability to attract progressives in Milwaukee, moderates in suburbs
like Waukesha and more rural voters in places like Adams County, one of
the 22 counties in the state that voted for Mr. Trump after backing
President Barack Obama in 2012.

They don't lament that Mr. Biden is not a historic candidate like Mr.
Obama or Hillary Clinton, or that he lacks bumper-sticker progressive
policies like Senators Elizabeth Warren and Bernie Sanders --- they're
grateful for it.

Image

Nate Zimdars, a Democrat running for State Assembly in
Wisconsin.Credit...Lauren Justice for The New York Times

Image

Sue Schaetzka voted for Mr. Trump in 2016 and plans to do so again this
year.Credit...Lauren Justice for The New York Times

After the 2016 election, Mrs. Clinton was lambasted for running a
risk-averse campaign that seemed to rely on voters finding Mr. Trump's
conduct inherently repugnant. Four years later, facing a changed
electoral landscape, many Wisconsin Democrats think Mr. Biden can win
the state with that exact playbook.

Mr. Biden is ``the perfect candidate for this area at this time,'' said
Matt Mareno, the chairman of the Waukesha Democratic Party.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-2020-election}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: 2020
Election}}{Latest Updates: 2020 Election}}\label{latest-updates-2020-election}}

Updated 2020-08-01T01:26:45.732Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-29fdff45}{Kamala
  Harris, a top vice-presidential contender, confronts double
  standards.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-13ec3d9c}{Karen
  Bass and Susan Rice are rising on Biden's vice-presidential
  shortlist.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-49e9a016}{Trump
  says Russian bounties to kill U.S. troops `never took place.'}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

``Trump's whole rallying cry was that he was an outsider coming to fix
the establishment, and now he is the establishment,'' Mr. Mareno said.
``We're seeing more and more college-educated white voters leaving him
and we're seeing more seniors leave him. We're seeing that coalition
just completely dissolved down to the very core base of his support.''

Several characteristics inform Mr. Biden's strategy, including his
lengthy career as a bipartisan legislator, Mr. Trump's panned response
to the pandemic, and Mr. Biden's identity as an older white man, the
type of politician easily categorized as ``presidential.''

There are a range of ways Mr. Biden can build a general election
coalition in a battleground state like Wisconsin.

He could focus on winning back voters in low-population areas, where
Mrs. Clinton suffered big losses in 2016.

He could build on recent Democratic efforts to target the
college-educated white voters that Mr. Trump has, at times, repelled,
particularly in suburban counties like Waukesha, Ozaukee and Washington,
where Mrs. Clinton outperformed Mr. Obama but also lost some votes to
third-party candidates.

Or he could seek to motivate reliable Democratic voters like young
people, Black voters and Latino voters in Milwaukee, the Democratic
stronghold where voter turnout was down significantly in 2016.

Mr. Biden's advisers say he will seek to both appeal to persuadable
voters and motivate the party's base, mimicking the successful campaign
of Senator Tammy Baldwin of Wisconsin, a progressive who won re-election
in 2018 by an eye-popping 10 points. Mr. Biden led Mr. Trump by 11
points in Wisconsin
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/25/upshot/poll-2020-biden-battlegrounds.html}{in
a poll by The New York Times and Siena College} last month, and
\href{https://www.monmouth.edu/polling-institute/reports/monmouthpoll_pa_071520/}{more
recent polling} from other battleground states like Pennsylvania has
been even better for him.

Representative Mark Pocan, a Democrat who represents Madison, said Mr.
Biden's campaign had already outpaced Mrs. Clinton's in terms of
investment in and attention to Wisconsin. Mr. Pocan said the Clinton
campaign ``took the purple state for granted,'' citing both a lack of
visits and financial support for down-ballot candidates.

``Donald Trump came and lied to us, but at least he showed up,'' he
said, calling the Democrats' losses in 2016 a ``duh moment'' for the
party. It was Democratic voter drop-off across Wisconsin --- not big
Republican turnout --- that most helped Mr. Trump win there, he said.

``When one candidate doesn't campaign and the other one does, you would
expect that you might get the results that we got,'' Mr. Pocan said.
``But no one will ever make that mistake again.''

This does not mean that Mr. Biden has avoided skepticism from core
Democratic constituencies like young people and progressive minority
voters --- the same groups that frequently needled Mrs. Clinton and
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/09/20/us/politics/joe-biden-black-voters.html}{backed
Mr. Biden's rivals in the primary}.

In fact, the same polls that show Mr. Biden securely ahead of Mr. Trump
also find Mr. Biden with tepid numbers among young people and minority
voters. His favorability rating decreased in
\href{https://www.nbcnews.com/politics/meet-the-press/trump-has-50-percent-problem-new-nbc-news-wsj-poll-n1234020}{a
recent survey by NBC and The Wall Street Journal}, driven by shifts
among younger Democrats.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/07/17/us/politics/00wisconsin4/merlin_174354135_454d8fa5-5b33-4b82-8ab3-9028caf981e9-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

At a protest in Milwaukee in support of Black Lives Matter this month,
Larissa Gladding, 23, said she viewed voting for Biden as the
unfortunate cost of beating Mr. Trump. ``It doesn't even feel like it's
an election about young people or he wants the young vote anymore,'' she
said, adding that she planned to vote for Mr. Biden anyway.

Dominique Tonneas, 24, who was interviewed at a fireworks show in
Muskego and who plans to vote for Mr. Trump in November, said Mr.
Biden's age and long career meant he wouldn't bring a new perspective to
the table. She said she planned to vote for Mr. Trump, who is only a few
years younger, because she preferred his economic policies.

What is already clear: The last several months, which have featured
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/07/03/us/george-floyd-protests-crowd-size.html}{the
largest protest movement} in American history and a pandemic that
continues to kill thousands and upend the country's social and economic
fabric, has forced Mr. Biden and Mr. Trump to adjust the structure, and
the message, of their campaigns.

Sue Schaetzka, who attended the Chic Nic in Adams, said she voted for
Mr. Trump in 2016 and planned to do so again in November. But she said
the events of the past few months, and particularly the nation's
response to the coronavirus, had changed the way people in her social
circles felt about the president.

Ms. Schaetzka was unsure Mr. Trump could win the state again this year,
particularly against a Democrat like Mr. Biden.

``With everything that's going on with Covid, I know some people are
rethinking,'' Ms. Schaetzka said.

``People just like Biden more than they like Hillary,'' she added. ``I
don't know if it's her past and all that, but they didn't trust her.''

At the protest in Milwaukee, young liberals said they planned to vote
for Mr. Biden, but the exact things that help him appeal to people like
Ms. Schaetzka are what makes them begrudging, even resentful,
supporters.

They portrayed Mr. Biden as too moderate ideologically and as a
doddering elder personally, a critique that mimics the ``Sleepy Joe''
moniker Mr. Trump has sought to popularize.

Image

Larissa Gladding plans to vote for Mr. Biden, though she is not
enthusiastic about it.Credit...Lauren Justice for The New York Times

Image

Diarelis Rodriguez wished Mr. Biden embraced more activist
rhetoric.Credit...Lauren Justice for The New York Times

Diarelis Rodriguez, who marched in the protest, said she understood the
young people who saw Mr. Biden and Mr. Trump as two sides of the same
coin.

``Biden is part of the problem. He helped with the War on Drugs and
doesn't really understand the issues we need him to,'' said Ms.
Rodriguez, 18. ``The people I talk to don't want to vote because they
don't want to participate in a corrupt system.''

But Ms. Rodriguez still said she planned to vote for Mr. Biden in
November, though both she and Ms. Gladding wished he embraced more
activist rhetoric on matters of racial equality and defunding the
police.

There's a reason he has not. Twenty miles away, leaders of the Waukesha
Democratic Party said they recently fielded a phone call from a
skeptical voter who said she wanted to vote for Mr. Biden, but she was
worried Democrats were becoming hostile to police officers.

A volunteer named Scott Prindl called the woman back. Mr. Prindl, 65,
said the woman had family in law enforcement and he does also. During
the phone call, he explained the Black Lives Matter movement and its
goals, as he saw them.

``The real Black Lives Matter protests are the ones who are peaceful,''
Mr. Prindl, who is white, assured the woman over the phone. ``It's
outsiders who are coming in and wreaking havoc,'' he said, alluding to
the destructive political groups
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/05/31/us/george-floyd-protests-white-supremacists-antifa.html}{that
protesters say} turned some of the demonstrations violent.

The woman was comforted. She will be voting for Democrats in November,
she said, and for Mr. Biden over Mr. Trump.

\hypertarget{our-2020-election-guide}{%
\section{Our 2020 Election Guide}\label{our-2020-election-guide}}

Updated July 31, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{the-latest}{%
  \subsection{The Latest}\label{the-latest}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    President Trump's assault on the Postal Service is intersecting with
    his attacks on mail-in voting.
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/politics/trump-usps-mail-delays.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Voting
    rights groups say it is a recipe for disaster.}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{bidens-vp-search}{%
  \subsection{Biden's V.P. Search}\label{bidens-vp-search}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/biden-vice-president-2020.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Here
    are 13 women} who have been under consideration to be Joe Biden's
    running mate, and why each might be chosen --- and might not be.
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{keep-up-with-our-coverage}{%
  \subsection{Keep Up With Our
  Coverage}\label{keep-up-with-our-coverage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Get an
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{email}
    recapping the day's news
  \end{itemize}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Download our mobile app on
    \href{https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nytimes/id284862083?ls=1\&mat_click_id=5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\&referrer=mat_click_id\%3D5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\%26link_click_id\%3D722930677036718082}{iOS}
    and
    \href{http://a.localytics.com/android?id=com.nytimes.android\&referrer=utm_source\%3Dother_nyt_mobile_web\%26utm_medium\%3DWeb\%2520page\%26utm_term\%3DGeneral\%2520Mobile\%2520Page\%26utm_campaign\%3DNYT\%2520Mobile\%2520General\%2520Page}{Android}
    and turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
