Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}Trump Campaign Has Spent
\$325,000 on Facebook Ads Featuring Brad Parscale's Page

\url{https://nyti.ms/2YR3ASZ}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/09/us/trump-vs-biden?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Election
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/09/08/us/elections/results-new-hampshire-primary-elections.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{New
  Hampshire Results}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/election-states-biden-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Paths
  to 270}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/31/us/politics/vote-by-mail-deadlines.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Voting
  by Mail}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/us/elections/2020-presidential-election-calendar.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Key
  Dates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Politics
  Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{trump-campaign-has-spent-325000-on-facebook-ads-featuring-brad-parscales-page}{%
\section{Trump Campaign Has Spent \$325,000 on Facebook Ads Featuring
Brad Parscale's
Page}\label{trump-campaign-has-spent-325000-on-facebook-ads-featuring-brad-parscales-page}}

Until this week, Mr. Parscale, the president's campaign manager, was one
of only three people whose Facebook and Instagram pages had been used by
the campaign to display ads. The others were Donald Trump and Mike
Pence.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/06/30/us/politics/30parscale-ads1/merlin_162892491_ebbda6b8-2e3a-479c-b69d-687945e54ad4-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/shane-goldmacher}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/07/27/multimedia/author-shane-goldmacher/author-shane-goldmacher-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/shane-goldmacher}{Shane
Goldmacher}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  June 30, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/donald-trump.html}{President
Trump}'s re-election campaign has begun spending heavily on Facebook ads
that also promote the social media pages of his campaign manager,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/15/us/politics/trump-campaign-brad-parscale.html}{Brad
Parscale}, running more than \$325,000 in such ads, mostly in recent
weeks.

Until this week, Mr. Parscale was one of only three people whose
Facebook and Instagram pages the campaign had used to display ads. The
other two were Donald J. Trump and Mike Pence.

Digital strategists said it was highly unusual to use a campaign staff
member's page to run ads. But the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/01/us/politics/trump-fundraising-2020.html}{Trump
campaign} said that it was testing the use of Mr. Parscale's page to run
ads from different accounts, with more to follow, including Donald Trump
Jr., and that Mr. Parscale had received no financial gain.

Here is how it works: The Trump campaign buys ads and uses Mr.
Parscale's Facebook and Instagram accounts as the vehicles to display
those messages to social media users scrolling through their timelines,
showing Mr. Parscale's accounts, even to those who do not follow his
pages. The Parscale ads have shown campaign videos, asked supporters to
take online surveys and urged people to donate before this week's
end-of-quarter deadline.

``I'm relying on grass-roots donations from hard-working Patriots, like
YOU, to lead us to victory,'' says one ad that has run this week using
Mr. Parscale's page. On Monday, the Trump campaign began running ads
using the Facebook page of a second strategist, Katrina Pierson; those
ads are so new that her page does not yet appear in Facebook's archive
of advertisers.

Mr. Parscale's follower counts have risen as the advertisements have
been running. His number of Instagram followers has risen by 10 percent
in the past two weeks, to nearly 50,000; his Facebook followers now top
90,000.

Digital strategists said that one reason to use something other than a
candidate's main Facebook page to run ads is that the platform does
throttle how repetitive an ad can become. Using different pages can help
get around that limit. Mr. Parscale, who served as digital director on
the 2016 campaign and is an outspoken personality on the 2020 race, has
also become something of a celebrity in Trump political circles.

Still, Democratic strategists said they had never heard of using a
campaign's limited resources to promote the social media accounts of a
campaign strategist.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/06/30/us/politics/30parscale-ads/30parscale-ads-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

``The ads may well be raising money for the Trump campaign,'' said
Andrew Bleeker, the president of the Democratic firm Bully Pulpit
Interactive, ``but certainly in the Democratic Party this would feel
more like personal profiteering than in the interest of the campaign
when you're building up the audience of someone who is also the
principal of a private marketing firm and wants to sell himself as an
influence.''

Of Mr. Parscale, he added, ``He's becoming a brand in his own right on
Trump's dime, and if there is ever a candidate who understands the value
of personal branding and what that's worth, it's Donald Trump.''

The spending represents a small fraction of the millions that Mr. Trump
has been spending on Facebook, but it is still a significant sum of
money in politics. The total the Trump campaign has spent on ads via Mr.
Parscale's Facebook and Instagram pages in the past month, for instance,
is more than many of the Senate Republicans facing re-election fights
this fall have spent on the platform in the same time period, including
Senators Joni Ernst, Susan Collins, Cory Gardner, Martha McSally and
more.

Facebook data does not make immediately clear what date the Trump
campaign began spending to run ads via Mr. Parscale's Facebook page, but
only about \$37,000 of the more than \$326,000 in ads ran before May 30,
records show. The ads are paid for both by the Trump re-election
committee itself and a shared account with the Republican National
Committee, called the Trump Make America Great Again Committee.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/2020-election}{Election
2020 â€º}

\hypertarget{live-updates}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/09/us/trump-vs-biden}{Live
Updates}}{Live Updates}}\label{live-updates}}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/09/us/trump-vs-biden\#most-voters-say-trump-did-a-bad-job-on-coronavirus-and-doubt-he-can-help-the-country-recover-poll-finds}{}

Sept. 9, 2020, 1:15 p.m. ET

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/09/us/trump-vs-biden\#most-voters-say-trump-did-a-bad-job-on-coronavirus-and-doubt-he-can-help-the-country-recover-poll-finds}{Most
voters say Trump did a bad job on coronavirus and doubt he can help the
country recover, poll
finds.}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/09/us/trump-vs-biden\#the-nih-director-knocks-down-trumps-prediction-that-a-virus-vaccine-will-be-approved-by-election-day}{}

Sept. 9, 2020, 1:12 p.m. ET

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/09/us/trump-vs-biden\#the-nih-director-knocks-down-trumps-prediction-that-a-virus-vaccine-will-be-approved-by-election-day}{The
N.I.H. director knocks down Trump's prediction that a virus vaccine will
be approved by Election
Day.}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/09/us/trump-vs-biden\#biden-ad-looks-to-keep-focus-on-trumps-reported-remarks-disparaging-american-soldiers}{}

Sept. 9, 2020, 12:49 p.m. ET

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/09/us/trump-vs-biden\#biden-ad-looks-to-keep-focus-on-trumps-reported-remarks-disparaging-american-soldiers}{Biden
ad looks to keep focus on Trump's reported remarks disparaging American
soldiers.}

Mr. Parscale's Facebook page had linked to his private consulting firm,
Parscale Strategy, until recently; that link appears to have been
removed after
\href{https://www.motherjones.com/politics/2020/06/why-do-these-trump-campaign-ads-link-to-brad-parscales-facebook-page/}{Mother
Jones} first pointed it out last week.

It is not uncommon for a campaign to use multiple Facebook accounts to
run ads. For instance, Senator Mitch McConnell, the majority leader,
spent about \$61,000 on ads in recent months through an account called
``Wrong Path McGrath,'' attacking the Democrat who on Tuesday
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/30/us/politics/kentucky-senate-mcgrath-booker.html}{became
his general election opponent}, Amy McGrath.

The Trump campaign has run ads through four other Facebook group pages:
Team Trump, which has seen the most spending, Latinos for Trump, Black
Voices for Trump and Women for Trump.

In the past 30 days, the Trump campaign has run more ads using Mr.
Parscale's page than the Black Voices for Trump and Latinos for Trump
pages combined.

Taryn Rosenkranz, a Democratic digital strategist, said she had not seen
a campaign use a staff member's page to run ads before. But she said
that using multiple pages to serve ads on Facebook was one way around
the site's algorithm limiting how many ads can be delivered.

``It gets more bites at the apple,'' she explained.

So far, former Vice President
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/joe-biden.html}{Joseph
R. Biden Jr.}'s campaign has not run any Facebook ads beyond those
promoting Mr. Biden's main page.

Mr. Parscale, who has been Mr. Trump's campaign manager since 2018, has
come under some criticism recently, particularly for hyping the
president's recent rally in Tulsa that
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/20/us/politics/tulsa-trump-rally.html}{failed
to fill an arena} during the coronavirus pandemic.

Mr. Trump has recently added some political reinforcements to the
campaign,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/26/us/politics/trump-campaign-bill-stepien.html}{promoting
Bill Stepien} to deputy campaign manager, and making Stephanie Alexander
the campaign chief of staff in March. Jason Miller, a veteran of the
2016 campaign,
\href{https://www.politico.com/news/2020/06/05/trump-campaign-hires-jason-miller-303582}{has
returned in a senior role}.

Whatever Mr. Parscale's future, an expanded social media footprint may
be beneficial.

``He will be able to take his very valuable list of followers and
monetize that in the future,'' said Mark Jablonowski, the chief
technology officer at the Democratic digital advertising firm
DSPolitical.

\hypertarget{our-2020-election-guide}{%
\section{Our 2020 Election Guide}\label{our-2020-election-guide}}

Updated ~Sept. 9, 2020

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

\begin{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{the-latest}{%
  \subsection{The Latest}\label{the-latest}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Joe Biden heads today to Michigan, a battleground state where
    President Trump has resumed advertising ahead of a visit there on
    Thursday.
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/09/us/trump-vs-biden?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Read
    live updates}.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{how-to-win-270}{%
  \subsection{How to Win 270}\label{how-to-win-270}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Joe Biden and Donald Trump need 270 electoral votes to reach the
    White House. Try building
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/election-states-biden-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{your
    own coalition of battleground states}~to see potential outcomes.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{voting-by-mail}{%
  \subsection{Voting by Mail}\label{voting-by-mail}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Will you have enough time to vote by mail in your state? Yes, but
    it's risky to procrastinate.
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/31/us/politics/vote-by-mail-deadlines.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Check
    your state's deadline.}
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/joe-biden.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{}

    \hypertarget{joe-biden}{%
    \section{Joe Biden}\label{joe-biden}}

    \hypertarget{democrat}{%
    \subsection{Democrat}\label{democrat}}

    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/donald-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{}

    \hypertarget{donald-trump}{%
    \section{Donald Trump}\label{donald-trump}}

    \hypertarget{republican}{%
    \subsection{Republican}\label{republican}}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \hypertarget{keep-up-with-our-coverage}{%
  \subsection{Keep Up With Our
  Coverage}\label{keep-up-with-our-coverage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Get an
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{email}~recapping
    the day's news
  \item
    Download our mobile app on
    \href{https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nytimes/id284862083?ls=1\&mat_click_id=5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\&referrer=mat_click_id\%3D5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\%26link_click_id\%3D722930677036718082}{iOS}~and
    \href{http://a.localytics.com/android?id=com.nytimes.android\&referrer=utm_source\%3Dother_nyt_mobile_web\%26utm_medium\%3DWeb\%2520page\%26utm_term\%3DGeneral\%2520Mobile\%2520Page\%26utm_campaign\%3DNYT\%2520Mobile\%2520General\%2520Page}{Android}~and
    turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{Â©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
