Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/style/self-care/}{Self-Care}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/style/self-care/}{Self-Care}\textbar{}Are There Benefits
to Collagen Supplements?

\href{https://nyti.ms/2rsZ6DF}{https://nyti.ms/2rsZ6DF}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

SCAM OR NOT

\hypertarget{are-there-benefits-to-collagen-supplements}{%
\section{Are There Benefits to Collagen
Supplements?}\label{are-there-benefits-to-collagen-supplements}}

Maybe! But get ready for a long-term relationship.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2019/11/06/fashion/06scams-collagen2/06scams-collagen2-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By Gabriela Ulloa

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Published Nov. 9, 2019Updated Nov. 11, 2019
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

It will make your skin look dewy and fresh, your bones and nails strong,
and your joints pain-free. These are the claims made by the countless
manufacturers of collagen supplements that come in the form of powders,
pills and creams. For that reason, it's no surprise that collagen has
become a widely sought-after ingredient in the wellness and beauty
communities. But collagen's efficacy is still pretty up in the air.
Frustrated? Here's what we know.

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

\hypertarget{what-is-collagen}{%
\subsection{What is collagen?}\label{what-is-collagen}}

Collagen is one of the
most\href{https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC2846778/}{abundant
proteins} in the body. In fact, collagen is
``\href{https://pdfs.semanticscholar.org/6667/18c2d1ec539560350877bfe8212ba37ee2ae.pdf?_ga=2.110665990.264799597.1571862250-1979460952.1571862250}{the
main structural protein}that forms the
\href{https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/books/NBK21582/}{connective tissue}
throughout our body, from skin to bones, muscles, tendons and
ligaments,'' said Dr. \href{https://drsharimarchbein.com/}{Shari
Marchbein,} a board-certified dermatologist based in New York. It's no
wonder that the bottled up version of this protein (usually made of
animal collagen) is in high demand.

Collagen makes up a whopping 80 percent of our skin, and works with
another protein called elastin that --- yes, you guessed it --- keeps
our skin elastic. But as we age, our bodies naturally start reducing
collagen
\href{https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC1606623/}{production}.
The board-certified dermatologist Dr.
\href{https://drwhitneybowe.com/}{Whitney Bowe}described our body's
collagen as ``ropes of protein in the skin.'' When we're young, the rope
remains tight, but as we age, the ends begin to fray. Essentially, our
bodies are not able to replace the collagen we are losing as quickly as
it is breaking down. Starting in our 20s, we begin losing about
\href{https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3583892/}{1
percent}of our collagen each year, said Dr. Bowe. This, unfortunately,
means drier skin.
\href{https://core.ac.uk/download/pdf/81940824.pdf}{Sun exposure,}
cigarette smoke and pollution can also accelerate collagen breakdown.
``The concept of supplementing our collagen, especially
\href{https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC1606623/}{as we age
and as our body's natural collagen production declines}, is incredibly
appealing from a dermatologic standpoint,'' she said.

Collagen peptides (also referred to as hydrolyzed collagen) which are in
supplements, are different. They're made of the same amino acids as
collagen but are more easily absorbed by our bodies. That's because
\href{https://www.furtherfood.com/difference-between-collagen-gelatin-collagen-peptides-hydrolyzed-collagen-explained-by-nutritionist/}{they
are much shorter chains of amino acids than collagen}, making them more
easily absorbed into our
\href{https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16076145}{bloodstream} (i.e.
more digestible). That said, Dr. Marchbein reminds us that, ``how much
of the supplement is absorbed and whether those amino acids make it to
their target organs to act as the building blocks to make more collagen
is still up for debate.'' Be sure to look at the label as companies
often, or at least \emph{should}, disclose what their product contains.

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

\hypertarget{does-collagen-work}{%
\subsection{Does collagen work?}\label{does-collagen-work}}

Some studies show that taking collagen supplements for several months
can improve skin
\href{https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26840887}{elasticity}, (i.e.,
wrinkles and roughness) as well as
\href{https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26362110}{signs of aging}.
Others have shown that consuming collagen can increase density in bones
weakened with age and can improve
\href{https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26267777}{joint}, back and
\href{https://nutritionj.biomedcentral.com/articles/10.1186/s12937-016-0130-8?utm_campaign=B2B+Website\&utm_medium=email\&_hsenc=p2ANqtz-8boAuPkblnh0HOMhfQk99V4tjBBfFKPMleWTkA7yq7T8edePwyz0iYKfdhzXSbTKHekqMS0lblBSQD0JK3Q3F_VwOChg\&_hsmi=25837964\&utm_conten}{knee}
pain. But many of these studies are small and funded by companies that
make the product, increasing the opportunity for bias in the results.

It is possible that some of these benefits are attainable, according to
a 2019 literature review in the
\href{https://jddonline.com/articles/dermatology/S1545961619P0009X/}{Journal
of Drugs in Dermatology}. The review found some data from double-blind
placebo controlled studies to support that collagen could increase skin
elasticity, collagen density and overall hydration.

But a lot more evidence is needed. Dr. Bowe believes that the studies,
``though small and preliminary,'' show promise. She said she has begun
recommending ingestible collagen to her patients and has witnessed
noticeable benefits in terms of skin elasticity, firmness and hydration.
(She often recommends
\href{https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/full/10.1111/jocd.12174}{powder
based} supplements.)

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

\hypertarget{whats-the-best-way-to-absorb-collagen}{%
\subsection{What's the best way to absorb
collagen?}\label{whats-the-best-way-to-absorb-collagen}}

Absorption can be a tricky game, especially when it comes to a huge
molecule like natural collagen. Smaller peptides can more easily pass
through our intestinal barrier and into our bloodstream. (In theory,
this is what all good supplements should be able to do.) The body can,
in theory, utilize absorbed collagen peptides in areas that need repair
the most.

Like with any fad, beauty and wellness see an opening and many companies
have jumped on the collagen bandwagon fairly quickly.
\href{https://pubs.acs.org/doi/abs/10.1021/acs.jafc.6b05679}{Pills,
powders}, topical creams and
\href{http://www.jmnn.org/article.asp?issn=2278-1870;year=2015;volume=4;issue=1;spage=47;epage=53;aulast=Borumand}{liquids}
are all out there, promising to beautify your skin and strengthen your
bones.

Powders are the most popular because they're easy to add to smoothies,
coffee or even water. In terms of dosage, Dr. Debra Jaliman, another
board-certified dermatologist, recommends always following the
directions on the bottle because no two supplements are made equally.

As for topical creams, Dr. Bowe explained that because collagen is
produced in the deeper level of the skin, called the dermis (which is
lower than the epidermis), it is very hard for topical collagen to
actually make it there.

(Watch out for products marketed as ``plant-based collagen.'' They don't
actually contain collagen, and though they say they support collagen
production, the science is not there to back it up.)

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

\hypertarget{is-this-a-scam}{%
\subsection{Is This A Scam?}\label{is-this-a-scam}}

\hypertarget{is-}{%
\subsubsection{Is ...}\label{is-}}

Celery Juice

,

Kombucha

,

Activated Charcoal

,

CBD

,

Turmeric

,

Fish Oil

,

Chlorophyll

,

Intermittent Fasting

,

The Keto Diet

,

Probiotics

,

Collagen

,

Coffee

,

\hypertarget{a-scam}{%
\subsubsection{A Scam?}\label{a-scam}}

Facts about wellness.

Will these trends change your life --- or

take your money?

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

\hypertarget{so-should-you-try-collagen}{%
\subsection{So, should you try
collagen?}\label{so-should-you-try-collagen}}

Maybe! But get ready for a very committed relationship. If collagen does
work, and you're looking for long-lasting effects, you'll have to take
supplements for the rest of your life. Why? The answer is collagenase.
According to Dr. Jaliman, our bodies are constantly producing this
enzyme and it eats away at our natural collagen. So if collagen
supplements improve your skin, bones and joints, you'll need to keep
taking them.

One of the biggest downsides of consuming collagen, said
\href{https://www.charlottesbook.com/bookentries/robert-anolik-md/}{Dr.
Robert Anolik}, a clinical assistant professor of dermatology at the
N.Y.U. School of Medicine, is that just because you're taking collagen
that doesn't mean it's all going directly to your skin.

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

\hypertarget{how-do-i-take-collagen}{%
\subsection{How do I take collagen?}\label{how-do-i-take-collagen}}

Collagen supplements --- like most supplements --- are not closely
regulated by the F.D.A. Some supplements carry a
\href{https://well.blogs.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2015/02/12/107141/}{USP}\href{https://well.blogs.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2015/02/12/107141/}{Verified
label}, which is better than nothing. But it is very hard to
\href{https://www.consumerreports.org/supplements/how-to-choose-supplements-wisely/}{police
what ingredients are in a product.}

You should also take into consideration the foods you already consume.
Dr. Bowe said when it comes to bovine, marine, or porcine collagen in
food, the bones and skin are the richest sources, but most people aren't
eating those parts. She recommended bone broth as an easy collagen-rich
option. Dr. Jaliman also pointed out that bone broth is rich in amino
acids, ``so it may help with collagen production'' but there is very
little research or evidence to support that it has benefits for the
skin.

The good news is: if you're ingesting the recommended dose, there are no
documented downsides of taking collagen peptides, aside from the
not-so-frugal cost --- products range anywhere from
\href{https://www.sephora.com/product/collagen-peptides-P433638?gclsrc=aw.ds\&gclid=EAIaIQobChMI15qh8rqu3gIVkI7ICh1ibg3JEAYYAiABEgK_OvD_BwE\&skuId=2131589}{\$20}
to
upward\href{https://store.draxe.com/products/bone-broth-collagen-vanilla?variant=23863390341\&gclid=EAIaIQobChMIqPeMpqGu3gIVUVmGCh0jKw-kEAQYBCABEgLb8vD_BwE}{of
\$200} for a limited supply. So, it's your choice. We just report the
facts.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
