Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/11/us/trump-vs-biden?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Election
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/election-states-biden-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Paths
  to 270}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/us/elections/2020-presidential-election-calendar.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Key
  Dates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/31/us/politics/vote-by-mail-deadlines.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Voting
  by Mail}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Politics
  Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{fact-checking-day-1-of-the-republican-national-convention}{%
\section{Fact-Checking Day 1 of the Republican National
Convention}\label{fact-checking-day-1-of-the-republican-national-convention}}

Last Updated

Aug. 28, 2020, 8:23 a.m. ET

Aug. 28, 2020, 8:23 a.m. ET

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/24/us/politics/24dc-rncfactcheck/merlin_176119734_e24a4273-5832-464f-b7ff-0d2b4bed7793-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  The speakers on the first night of the Republican convention lashed
  out at Democrats and former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr.,
  repeatedly offering false or misleading characterizations about the
  president's rival as a ``socialist'' and a ``radical'' who would
  coddle criminals, embrace illegal immigrants, raise taxes and destroy
  America's economy. But the speakers also tried to portray President
  Trump in a positive light, offering testimonials about his efforts on
  behalf of forgotten Americans, minorities and women --- but often
  exaggerating his successes and glossing over the shortcomings in his
  handling of the pandemic. 
\item
  Monday night's lineup featured an array of speakers including Senator
  \textbf{Tim Scott} of South Carolina, the lone Black Republican in the
  Senate, \textbf{Nikki Haley}, the former ambassador to the United
  Nations, \textbf{Donald Trump Jr.}, the president's oldest son, and
  Representatives \textbf{Matt Gaetz} of Florida, \textbf{Jim Jordan} of
  Ohio and \textbf{Steve Scalise} of Louisiana. \textbf{Mark and
  Patricia McCloskey}, also made an appearance in the program. They are
  the St. Louis couple who gained overnight notoriety after waving a
  pistol and a military-style rifle at Black Lives Matters protesters
  who were marching peacefully on their street.
\item
  The litany of speeches --- mostly delivered live during a
  two-and-a-half hour program --- came only hours after Mr. Trump was
  renominated for his office by winning enough votes from a roll call of
  delegates gathered in North Carolina. Both Mr. Trump and Vice
  President Mike Pence addressed the crowd there, breaking the usual
  tradition, as he did in 2016, that keeps the nominees out of the
  limelight until their prime-time acceptance speeches later in the
  week.
\item
  A team of New York Times reporters followed the developments and
  fact-checked the speakers, providing context and explanation.
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/linda-qiu}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/06/12/multimedia/author-linda-qiu/author-linda-qiu-thumbLarge.png}}

Aug. 24, 2020, 11:03 p.m. ET

Aug. 24, 2020, 11:03 p.m. ET

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/linda-qiu}{Linda Qiu}

\hypertarget{once-again-to-clean-up-joe-bidens-mess-president-trump-signed-into-law-historically-high-funding-for-hbcus-as-well-as-a-bill-to-give-them-permanent-funding-for-the-first-time-ever}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{once-again-to-clean-up-joe-bidens-mess-president-trump-signed-into-law-historically-high-funding-for-hbcus-as-well-as-a-bill-to-}{``Once
again, to clean up Joe Biden's mess, President Trump signed into law
historically high funding for HBCUs, as well as a bill to give them
permanent funding for the first time
ever.''}}{``Once again, to clean up Joe Biden's mess, President Trump signed into law historically high funding for HBCUs, as well as a bill to give them permanent funding for the first time ever.''}}\label{once-again-to-clean-up-joe-bidens-mess-president-trump-signed-into-law-historically-high-funding-for-hbcus-as-well-as-a-bill-to-give-them-permanent-funding-for-the-first-time-ever}}

--- Senator Tim Scott of South Carolina

\hypertarget{this-is-exaggerated}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\textbf{This is
exaggerated.}}{This is exaggerated.}}\label{this-is-exaggerated}}

Like previous presidents, Mr. Trump has been generally supportive of
historically Black colleges and universities, but Mr. Scott is giving
him outsized credit and is wrongly suggesting Mr. Trump reversed the
funding policies of the Obama-Biden administration.

Federal funding for those institutions has increased under Mr. Trump,
but the program predates his presidency by decades, and funding is
appropriated by Congress. Historically black colleges and universities
also received hundreds of millions of dollars in
\href{https://slack-redir.net/link?url=https\%3A\%2F\%2Ffas.org\%2Fsgp\%2Fcrs\%2Fmisc\%2FR43351.pdf\%23page\%3D31}{funding
annually} under the Obama administration. Funding
\href{https://slack-redir.net/link?url=https\%3A\%2F\%2Fwww.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion\%2F2019\%2F11\%2F08\%2Fus\%2Fpolitics\%2Fstem-funding-hbcus.html}{ran
out} last September, a casualty of a broader fight in the Senate about
education policy. In December, Mr. Scott and Senator Richard Burr,
Republican of North Carolina, reached a
\href{https://slack-redir.net/link?url=https\%3A\%2F\%2Fwww.usnews.com\%2Fnews\%2Feducation-news\%2Farticles\%2F2019-12-04\%2Fsenate-reaches-bipartisan-agreement-to-fund-hbcus}{compromise}
with Senators Doug Jones of Alabama and Chris Coons of Delaware, both
Democrats, to restore that funding and make it permanent for a decade.

Mr. Trump signed the bipartisan legislation into law. It's also worth
noting that the ``historic'' funding that the schools have received
recently were not exactly because of Mr. Trump. The president requested
\$643.9 million in funding for H.B.C.U.'s in the 2019 fiscal year and
\$626.3 million in 2020 --- which is less than the \$683 million the
schools received in 2010 --- but appropriations by Congress topped \$700
million in both years.

Read more

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/stephanie-saul}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/02/06/reader-center/author-stephanie-saul/author-stephanie-saul-thumbLarge.png}}

Aug. 24, 2020, 10:58 p.m. ET

Aug. 24, 2020, 10:58 p.m. ET

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/stephanie-saul}{Stephanie
Saul}

\hypertarget{in-1994-biden-led-the-charge-on-a-crime-bill-that-put-millions-of-black-americans-behind-bars}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{in-1994-biden-led-the-charge-on-a-crime-bill-that-put-millions-of-black-americans-behind-bars}{``In
1994, Biden led the charge on a crime bill that put millions of Black
Americans behind
bars.''}}{``In 1994, Biden led the charge on a crime bill that put millions of Black Americans behind bars.''}}\label{in-1994-biden-led-the-charge-on-a-crime-bill-that-put-millions-of-black-americans-behind-bars}}

--- Senator Tim Scott, Republican of South Carolina

\hypertarget{this-is-mostly-true}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\textbf{This is mostly
true.}}{This is mostly true.}}\label{this-is-mostly-true}}

Criminal justice experts and critics say Mr. Biden's work on crime
legislation helped lay the groundwork for mass incarceration that has
devastated America's Black communities. In 1993, Mr. Biden boasted on
the Senate floor, ``The truth is every major crime bill since 1976
that's come out of this Congress, every minor crime bill, has had the
name of the Democratic Senator from the state of Delaware, Joe Biden.''

Mr. Biden's actions took place at a time when violent crime was surging
in many cities. His work culminated in 1994, when as chairman of the
Senate Judiciary Committee, he helped pass a vast crime bill known as
the Violent Crime Control and Law Enforcement Act that included strong
punitive measures desired by law enforcement, creating 60 new death
penalty offenses, giving states incentives to build prisons, set aside
money for 100,000 new police and codified a ``three strikes'' rule.

While some studies show that the bill lowered the crime rate, which had
exploded in the United States during the 1980s and 1990s, there is
evidence that it contributed to the explosion of the prison population.
Mr. Biden has apologized for portions of his anti-crime legislation.
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/06/25/us/joe-biden-crime-laws.html}{The
New York Times examined Mr. Biden's record} on criminal justice in 2019.

Read more

\hypertarget{advertisement}{%
\subsubsection{Advertisement}\label{advertisement}}

\protect\hyperlink{after-dfp-ad-mid1}{Continue reading the main story}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/jeanna-smialek}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/07/03/reader-center/author-jeanna-smialek/author-jeanna-smialek-thumbLarge.png}}

Aug. 24, 2020, 10:53 p.m. ET

Aug. 24, 2020, 10:53 p.m. ET

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/jeanna-smialek}{Jeanna
Smialek}

\hypertarget{we-actually-saw-revenues-to-the-treasury-increase-after-we-lowered-taxes-in-2017-rest-assured-the-democrats-do-not-want-you-to-know-that}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{we-actually-saw-revenues-to-the-treasury-increase-after-we-lowered-taxes-in-2017-rest-assured-the-democrats-do-not-want-you-to-k}{``We
actually saw revenues to the Treasury increase after we lowered taxes in
2017. Rest assured, the Democrats do not want you to know
that!''}}{``We actually saw revenues to the Treasury increase after we lowered taxes in 2017. Rest assured, the Democrats do not want you to know that!''}}\label{we-actually-saw-revenues-to-the-treasury-increase-after-we-lowered-taxes-in-2017-rest-assured-the-democrats-do-not-want-you-to-know-that}}

--- Senator Tim Scott, Republican of South Carolina

\hypertarget{this-is-misleading}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\textbf{This is
misleading.}}{This is misleading.}}\label{this-is-misleading}}

While it is true that
\href{https://slack-redir.net/link?url=https\%3A\%2F\%2Fwww.fiscal.treasury.gov\%2Ffiles\%2Freports-statements\%2Ffinancial-report\%2F2018\%2FExecutivesummary-2018.pdf}{nominal
revenues} were higher in fiscal year 2018 than in fiscal 2017, inflation
and economic growth boost those numbers. Adjusting for price increases,
revenues actually fell. Factor in economic growth, and they fell even
farther, as
\href{https://slack-redir.net/link?url=https\%3A\%2F\%2Fwww.brookings.edu\%2Fpolicy2020\%2Fvotervital\%2Fdid-the-2017-tax-cut-the-tax-cuts-and-jobs-act-pay-for-itself\%2F}{one
Brookings Institution} analysis notes. In fact, revenues came in short
of government projections made before the tax package's passage. ``The
TCJA did not pay for itself, nor is it likely to do so in the future,''
based on the Brookings analysis.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/katherine-j--wu}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/11/reader-center/author-katherine-j-wu/author-katherine-j-wu-thumbLarge.png}}

Aug. 24, 2020, 10:51 p.m. ET

Aug. 24, 2020, 10:51 p.m. ET

By
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/katherine-j--wu}{Katherine
J. Wu}

\hypertarget{courtesy-of-the-chinese-communist-party-the-virus-struck-the-president-quickly-took-action-and-shut-down-travel-from-china}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{courtesy-of-the-chinese-communist-party-the-virus-struck-the-president-quickly-took-action-and-shut-down-travel-from-china}{``Courtesy
of the Chinese Communist Party, the virus struck. The president quickly
took action and shut down travel from
China.''}}{``Courtesy of the Chinese Communist Party, the virus struck. The president quickly took action and shut down travel from China.''}}\label{courtesy-of-the-chinese-communist-party-the-virus-struck-the-president-quickly-took-action-and-shut-down-travel-from-china}}

--- Donald Trump Jr., the president's oldest son

\hypertarget{this-is-misleading-1}{%
\subsubsection{This is misleading.}\label{this-is-misleading-1}}

While it's true that the coronavirus was first detected in Wuhan, China,
a wealth of evidence indicates that it arrived in the United States
through several routes. Many people in New York, for example, were
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/08/science/new-york-coronavirus-cases-europe-genomes.html}{infected
by travelers returning from countries in Europe}. President Trump did
not block travelers from most European countries until March --- long
after New Yorkers had already begun traveling home with the virus in
tow.

These comments, coupled with earlier references in the evening to the
coronavirus as ``China virus'' --- a term that Mr. Trump has deployed
frequently since the start of the pandemic --- are widely considered
offensive. They also paint an incomplete picture of the nature of the
coronavirus's arrival and spread in the United States.

When viruses travel between countries, they typically do so chauffeured
by infected people --- including residents of both nations, as was the
case with the coronavirus.

Read more

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/mike-baker}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/05/19/reader-center/author-mike-baker/author-mike-baker-thumbLarge.png}}

Aug. 24, 2020, 10:49 p.m. ET

Aug. 24, 2020, 10:49 p.m. ET

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/mike-baker}{Mike Baker}

\hypertarget{anarchists-have-been-flooding-our-streets-and-democrat-mayors-are-ordering-the-police-to-stand-down}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{anarchists-have-been-flooding-our-streets-and-democrat-mayors-are-ordering-the-police-to-stand-down}{``Anarchists
have been flooding our streets and Democrat mayors are ordering the
police to stand
down.''}}{``Anarchists have been flooding our streets and Democrat mayors are ordering the police to stand down.''}}\label{anarchists-have-been-flooding-our-streets-and-democrat-mayors-are-ordering-the-police-to-stand-down}}

--- Donald Trump Jr.

\hypertarget{this-is-exaggerated-}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\textbf{This is exaggerated.}
}{This is exaggerated. }}\label{this-is-exaggerated-}}

Police in Democratic cities have frequently clashed with protesters,
flooding streets with tear gas, hitting demonstrators with batons and
tackling them to the ground. In Seattle, in an effort to de-escalate
tensions, police did retreat from the department's East Precinct in
June, and the city tacitly allowed demonstrators to control several
blocks around the building over the course of several weeks. But the
city later
\href{https://slack-redir.net/link?url=https\%3A\%2F\%2Fwww.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion\%2F2020\%2F07\%2F01\%2Fus\%2Fseattle-protest-zone-CHOP-CHAZ-unrest.html}{cleared
that so-called ``autonomous zone'' after a series of shootings there}.
In Portland, which has seen nearly three months of nightly protests,
police have continued to clash with demonstrators and have made dozens
of arrests in recent days.

\hypertarget{advertisement-1}{%
\subsubsection{Advertisement}\label{advertisement-1}}

\protect\hyperlink{after-dfp-ad-mid2}{Continue reading the main story}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/katie-benner}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/02/16/multimedia/author-katie-benner/author-katie-benner-thumbLarge-v2.png}}

Aug. 24, 2020, 10:46 p.m. ET

Aug. 24, 2020, 10:46 p.m. ET

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/katie-benner}{Katie
Benner}

\hypertarget{as-a-first-generation-american-i-know-how-dangerous-their-socialist-agenda-is-my-mother-mercedes-was-a-special-education-teacher-from-aguadilla-puerto-rico-my-father-also-an-immigrant-came-to-this-nation-in-pursuit-of-the-american-dream}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{as-a-first-generation-american-i-know-how-dangerous-their-socialist-agenda-is-my-mother-mercedes-was-a-special-education-teacher}{``As
a first generation American, I know how dangerous their socialist agenda
is. My mother Mercedes was a special-education teacher from Aguadilla,
Puerto Rico. My father, also an immigrant, came to this nation in
pursuit of the American
dream.''}}{``As a first generation American, I know how dangerous their socialist agenda is. My mother Mercedes was a special-education teacher from Aguadilla, Puerto Rico. My father, also an immigrant, came to this nation in pursuit of the American dream.''}}\label{as-a-first-generation-american-i-know-how-dangerous-their-socialist-agenda-is-my-mother-mercedes-was-a-special-education-teacher-from-aguadilla-puerto-rico-my-father-also-an-immigrant-came-to-this-nation-in-pursuit-of-the-american-dream}}

--- Kimberly Guilfoyle, a top fund-raiser for President Trump and the
girlfriend of Donald Trump Jr.

\hypertarget{false-}{%
\subsubsection{False. }\label{false-}}

Ms. Guilfoyle called herself a ``first generation American,'' a
designation that the Census Bureau uses to designate people who are born
in a foreign country and immigrate to the United States. She also said
that her mother and father are both immigrants, but her mother was born
in Puerto Rico, which is a U.S. territory. People born in Puerto Rico
have been U.S. citizens since 1917.

Her father, Anthony Guilfoyle, a close adviser to his daughter's
ex-husband, California governor Gavin Newsom, was a first generation
American. He was born in Ireland and immigrated to the United States
when he was an adult.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/jeanna-smialek}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/07/03/reader-center/author-jeanna-smialek/author-jeanna-smialek-thumbLarge.png}}

Aug. 24, 2020, 10:45 p.m. ET

Aug. 24, 2020, 10:45 p.m. ET

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/jeanna-smialek}{Jeanna
Smialek}

\hypertarget{just-a-few-short-months-ago-we-were-seeing-the-american-dream-become-a-reality-for-more-of-our-citizens-than-ever-before-the-greatest-prolonged-economic-expansion-in-american-history-the-lowest-unemployment-rate-in-nearly-50-years-the-lowest-unemployment-rates-ever-for-black-americans-hispanic-americans-women-and-pretty-much-every-other-demographic-group}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{just-a-few-short-months-ago-we-were-seeing-the-american-dream-become-a-reality-for-more-of-our-citizens-than-ever-before-the-gre}{``Just
a few short months ago, we were seeing the American dream become a
reality for more of our citizens than ever before. The greatest
prolonged economic expansion in American history. The lowest
unemployment rate in nearly 50 years. The lowest unemployment rates ever
for Black Americans, Hispanic Americans, women, and pretty much every
other demographic
group.''}}{``Just a few short months ago, we were seeing the American dream become a reality for more of our citizens than ever before. The greatest prolonged economic expansion in American history. The lowest unemployment rate in nearly 50 years. The lowest unemployment rates ever for Black Americans, Hispanic Americans, women, and pretty much every other demographic group.''}}\label{just-a-few-short-months-ago-we-were-seeing-the-american-dream-become-a-reality-for-more-of-our-citizens-than-ever-before-the-greatest-prolonged-economic-expansion-in-american-history-the-lowest-unemployment-rate-in-nearly-50-years-the-lowest-unemployment-rates-ever-for-black-americans-hispanic-americans-women-and-pretty-much-every-other-demographic-group}}

--- Donald Trump Jr.

\hypertarget{this-is-exaggerated-1}{%
\subsubsection{This is exaggerated.}\label{this-is-exaggerated-1}}

Most of Mr. Trump's data points hold up: The expansion that ended
shortly after the start of the coronavirus pandemic was in fact the
longest on record in America, although most of it took place before he
was elected. The unemployment rate, at
\href{https://slack-redir.net/link?url=https\%3A\%2F\%2Ffred.stlouisfed.org\%2Fseries\%2FUNRATE}{3.5
percent} in February, had not fallen that far since 1969 --- making it
actually slightly more than a 50-year low. Unemployment did hit record
lows for
\href{https://slack-redir.net/link?url=https\%3A\%2F\%2Ffred.stlouisfed.org\%2Fseries\%2FLNS14000006}{Black
people} and
\href{https://slack-redir.net/link?url=https\%3A\%2F\%2Ffred.stlouisfed.org\%2Fseries\%2FLNS14000009}{Hispanic
people}. But it did not quite reach
\href{https://slack-redir.net/link?url=https\%3A\%2F\%2Ffred.stlouisfed.org\%2Fseries\%2FLNS14000002}{record
lows for women} --- their joblessness was lower in the 1950s. And other
demographic groups were a mixed bag. Men's unemployment, for instance,
\href{https://slack-redir.net/link?url=https\%3A\%2F\%2Ffred.stlouisfed.org\%2Fseries\%2FLNS14000001}{got
nowhere close} to its historical record.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/lara-jakes}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2019/07/25/reader-center/author-lara-jakes/author-lara-jakes-thumbLarge.png}}

Aug. 24, 2020, 10:38 p.m. ET

Aug. 24, 2020, 10:38 p.m. ET

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/lara-jakes}{Lara Jakes}

\hypertarget{obama-and-biden-let-iran-get-away-with-murder-and-literally-sent-them-a-plane-full-of-cash}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{obama-and-biden-let-iran-get-away-with-murder-and-literally-sent-them-a-plane-full-of-cash}{``Obama
and Biden let Iran get away with murder and literally sent them a plane
full of
cash.''}}{``Obama and Biden let Iran get away with murder and literally sent them a plane full of cash.''}}\label{obama-and-biden-let-iran-get-away-with-murder-and-literally-sent-them-a-plane-full-of-cash}}

--- Nikki R. Haley, the former United States ambassador to the United
Nations.

\hypertarget{partly-true}{%
\subsubsection{Partly true.}\label{partly-true}}

The day that an accord went into effect in 2016 to limit Iran's nuclear
program, as brokered by the United States and other world powers, the
Obama administration loaded a plane with
\href{https://slack-redir.net/link?url=https\%3A\%2F\%2Fwww.cnn.com\%2F2016\%2F08\%2F03\%2Fpolitics\%2Fus-sends-plane-iran-400-million-cash\%2Findex.html}{\$400
million} in several currencies as a first installment of money long owed
to Tehran. The money was part of \$1.7 billion in assets, including
interest, that the
\href{https://slack-redir.net/link?url=https\%3A\%2F\%2Fwww.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion\%2F2016\%2F08\%2F23\%2Fopinion\%2Fthe-fake-400-million-iran-ransom-story.html}{United
States froze after Iran's revolution in 1979} and that had been intended
to pay for military hardware that the former shah in Tehran had
purchased but that was never delivered.

Ms. Haley's comment about Iran getting away with murder may have been a
reference to the deaths of protesters against the Iranian government. It
is doubtful that the Obama administration could have stopped Iranian
forces from killing at least dozens of people during ``Green movement''
protests against then-President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad's
\href{https://slack-redir.net/link?url=https\%3A\%2F\%2Firanprimer.usip.org\%2Fresource\%2Fgreen-movement}{disputed
re-election} in 2009. But it is true that the Obama administration
\href{https://slack-redir.net/link?url=https\%3A\%2F\%2Fwww.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion\%2F2009\%2F06\%2F18\%2Fus\%2Fpolitics\%2F18prexy.html}{wrestled
with how tough a line} to take against Iran's government as it also
\href{https://slack-redir.net/link?url=https\%3A\%2F\%2Fwww.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion\%2F2009\%2F06\%2F14\%2Fus\%2Fpolitics\%2F14diplo.html}{sought
to engage with Tehran}. Even after the election of the current
president, Hassan Rouhani,
\href{https://slack-redir.net/link?url=https\%3A\%2F\%2Fforeignpolicy.com\%2F2015\%2F03\%2F17\%2Firan-human-rights-nuclear-rouhani\%2F}{Iran
executed at least 753 people in 2014 alone}, according a
\href{https://slack-redir.net/link?url=http\%3A\%2F\%2Fwww.shaheedoniran.org\%2Fwp-content\%2Fuploads\%2F2015\%2F03\%2FA_HRC_28_70_en-PDF.pdf}{report
by the United Nation's Human Rights Council}.

\hypertarget{advertisement-2}{%
\subsubsection{Advertisement}\label{advertisement-2}}

\protect\hyperlink{after-dfp-ad-mid3}{Continue reading the main story}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/coral-davenport}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/10/03/multimedia/author-coral-davenport/author-coral-davenport-thumbLarge-v2.png}}

Aug. 24, 2020, 10:36 p.m. ET

Aug. 24, 2020, 10:36 p.m. ET

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/coral-davenport}{Coral
Davenport}

\hypertarget{they-want-to-ban-fracking}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{they-want-to-ban-fracking}{``They
want to ban
fracking''}}{``They want to ban fracking''}}\label{they-want-to-ban-fracking}}

--- Nikki R. Haley, former ambassador to the U.N.

\hypertarget{false}{%
\subsubsection{False.}\label{false}}

Mr. Biden's climate change plan would end new leases for hydraulic
fracturing or fracking, for oil and gas on federal lands, but does not
ban existing fracking on public lands or new or existing fracking on
private lands.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/sheryl-gay-stolberg}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/11/26/multimedia/author-sheryl-gay-stolberg/author-sheryl-gay-stolberg-thumbLarge.png}}

Aug. 24, 2020, 10:36 p.m. ET

Aug. 24, 2020, 10:36 p.m. ET

By
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/sheryl-gay-stolberg}{Sheryl
Gay Stolberg}

\hypertarget{policies-that-force-jobs-to-flee-our-country-or-allow-abortion-up-until-the-point-of-birth-are-not-nice}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{policies-that-force-jobs-to-flee-our-country-or-allow-abortion-up-until-the-point-of-birth-are-not-nice}{``Policies
that force jobs to flee our country or allow abortion up until the point
of birth are not
nice.''}}{``Policies that force jobs to flee our country or allow abortion up until the point of birth are not nice.''}}\label{policies-that-force-jobs-to-flee-our-country-or-allow-abortion-up-until-the-point-of-birth-are-not-nice}}

--- Ronna McDaniel, chairwoman of the Republican National Committee

\hypertarget{this-is-exaggerated--1}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\textbf{This is exaggerated.}
}{This is exaggerated. }}\label{this-is-exaggerated--1}}

Democrats support abortion rights, but that does not mean they call for
women to have an unfettered right to terminate pregnancies up until the
point of birth. Ms. McDaniel was likely referring to a debate over a
bill proposed last year by Democrats in the Virginia legislature, would
have made it easier for women to obtain abortions late in pregnancy if
the mother's physical health or safety were at risk.

The proposed legislation prompted Senator Ted Cruz, Republican of Texas,
to falsely claim that Democrats support ``abortion up until the moment
of birth and even, horrifically, after that.'' Other Republicans have
echoed the claim.

Democrats support codifying Roe v. Wade, the landmark 1973 decision that
held states could prohibit abortion after fetal viability ---- the point
at which fetuses can sustain life outside the womb. The current Supreme
Court standard holds that states may prohibit abortion after fetal
viability so long as there are exceptions for the life and health of the
mother.

``Like the majority of Americans, Democrats believe that every woman
should be able to access high-quality reproductive health care services,
including safe and legal abortion,''
\href{https://slack-redir.net/link?url=https\%3A\%2F\%2Fwww.demconvention.com\%2Fwp-content\%2Fuploads\%2F2020\%2F07\%2F2020-07-21-DRAFT-Democratic-Party-Platform.pdf}{the
party's draft 2020 platform} states, adding, ``Democrats oppose and will
fight to overturn federal and state laws that create barriers to women's
reproductive health and rights.''

Read more

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/michael-d-shear}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/06/13/multimedia/author-michael-d-shear/author-michael-d-shear-thumbLarge-v2.png}}

Aug. 24, 2020, 10:35 p.m. ET

Aug. 24, 2020, 10:35 p.m. ET

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/michael-d-shear}{Michael
D. Shear}

\hypertarget{biden-also-wants-to-bring-in-more-illegal-immigrants-to-take-jobs-from-american-citizens-his-open-border-policies-would-drive-wages-down-for-americans-at-a-time-when-low-income-workers-were-getting-real-wage-increases-for-the-first-time-in-modern-history}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{biden-also-wants-to-bring-in-more-illegal-immigrants-to-take-jobs-from-american-citizens-his-open-border-policies-would-drive-wa}{``Biden
also wants to bring in more illegal immigrants to take jobs from
American citizens. His open border policies would drive wages down for
Americans at a time when low-income workers were getting real wage
increases for the first time in modern
history.''}}{``Biden also wants to bring in more illegal immigrants to take jobs from American citizens. His open border policies would drive wages down for Americans at a time when low-income workers were getting real wage increases for the first time in modern history.''}}\label{biden-also-wants-to-bring-in-more-illegal-immigrants-to-take-jobs-from-american-citizens-his-open-border-policies-would-drive-wages-down-for-americans-at-a-time-when-low-income-workers-were-getting-real-wage-increases-for-the-first-time-in-modern-history}}

--- Donald Trump Jr., the president's oldest son

\hypertarget{this-is-misleading-}{%
\subsubsection{This is misleading. }\label{this-is-misleading-}}

There are some liberal Democrats who support decriminalizing illegal
border crossings or abolishing the Immigration and Customs Enforcement
agency, but former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. is not one of
them.

He has said he would ``increase resources for training and demand
transparency'' from ICE and Customs and Border Protection agents. Most
Democrats, including Mr. Biden, support an overhaul of the nation's laws
that would include billions of dollars for immigration enforcement. But
Mr. Biden has said he would seek to reverse many, if not most, of Mr.
Trump's immigration policies, including restrictions on asylum-seekers
and refugees; a ban on travelers from mostly-Muslim countries; efforts
to separate migrant children from their families; reductions in legal
immigration for businesses; rules that block poor foreigners from
immigrating to the United States, and others.

Mr. Biden has also pledged to protect young immigrants from deportation
who were brought to the United States as children. Mr. Trump's claim
that immigration would ``drive wages down'' is also challenged by many
experts who say that immigration overall does not automatically lead to
lower wages, though it can in some distinct categories of employment.

Read more

\hypertarget{advertisement-3}{%
\subsubsection{Advertisement}\label{advertisement-3}}

\protect\hyperlink{after-dfp-ad-mid4}{Continue reading the main story}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/eric-schmitt}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/06/12/multimedia/author-eric-schmitt/author-eric-schmitt-thumbLarge-v2.png}}

Aug. 24, 2020, 10:33 p.m. ET

Aug. 24, 2020, 10:33 p.m. ET

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/eric-schmitt}{Eric
Schmitt}

\hypertarget{he-took-on-isis-and-won}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{he-took-on-isis-and-won}{``He
took on ISIS and
won.''}}{``He took on ISIS and won.''}}\label{he-took-on-isis-and-won}}

--- Nikki Haley, former ambassador to the United Nations

\hypertarget{this-is-exaggerated--2}{%
\subsubsection{This is exaggerated. }\label{this-is-exaggerated--2}}

While the Islamic State has been pushed out of its so-called caliphate,
the extremist group continues to carry out attacks in Iraq and Syria.
And some of the territorial gains made by American troops and their
allies predate the Trump administration.

The
\href{https://news.ihsmarkit.com/prviewer/release_only/slug/aerospace-defense-security-islamic-state-territory-down-60-percent-and-revenue-down-80}{research
firm IHS Markit estimated} that the Islamic State lost about a third of
its territory from January 2015 to January 2017, while Brett McGurk, the
former special presidential envoy to the coalition fighting the group,
has said 50 percent of those losses occurred before 2017. Officials and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2017/10/17/us/politics/trump-islamic-state-raqqa-fact-check.html}{experts
had always anticipated} that the campaign, which started in 2014 during
the Obama administration, would result in pushing the extremist group
out of its self-declared caliphate.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/edward-wong}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/09/24/multimedia/author-edward-wong/author-edward-wong-thumbLarge-v5.png}}

Aug. 24, 2020, 10:27 p.m. ET

Aug. 24, 2020, 10:27 p.m. ET

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/edward-wong}{Edward Wong}

\hypertarget{obama-and-biden-let-north-korea-threaten-america-president-trump-rejected-that-weakness-and-we-passed-the-toughest-sanctions-on-north-korea-in-history}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{obama-and-biden-let-north-korea-threaten-america-president-trump-rejected-that-weakness-and-we-passed-the-toughest-sanctions-on-}{``Obama
and Biden let North Korea threaten America. President Trump rejected
that weakness, and we passed the toughest sanctions on North Korea in
history.''}}{``Obama and Biden let North Korea threaten America. President Trump rejected that weakness, and we passed the toughest sanctions on North Korea in history.''}}\label{obama-and-biden-let-north-korea-threaten-america-president-trump-rejected-that-weakness-and-we-passed-the-toughest-sanctions-on-north-korea-in-history}}

--- Nikki Haley, former ambassador to the United Nations and former
governor of South Carolina

\hypertarget{this-is-misleading-2}{%
\subsubsection{This is misleading.}\label{this-is-misleading-2}}

In the final year of his administration, after Pyongyang stepped up
testing in its nuclear weapons program, President Barack Obama
considered North Korea to be the most urgent national security issue
facing the United States. He persuaded the United Nations to impose a
harsh set of sanctions on North Korea and, as he was leaving office,
urged Mr. Trump to address the issue as soon as possible.

The Trump administration did get the United Nations to impose additional
sanctions, but Mr. Trump also began
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/06/12/world/asia/north-korea-summit.html}{high-level
diplomatic talks} with North Korea and halted large-scale military
exercises with South Korea to accede to the wishes of Kim Jong-un, the
leader of North Korea. National security hawks on North Korea say Mr.
Trump's concessions weakened Washington's leverage over Pyongyang.

Mr. Trump has met with Mr. Kim three times --- the only times that an
American president has done so with a leader of North Korea since the
Korean War --- but those talks have
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/03/02/world/asia/trump-kim-jong-un-summit.html}{done
nothing to diminish North Korea's nuclear weapons program}. Experts say
North Korea can produce enough fissile material for a nuclear warhead
every six months.

Read more

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/katherine-j--wu}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/11/reader-center/author-katherine-j-wu/author-katherine-j-wu-thumbLarge.png}}

Aug. 24, 2020, 10:17 p.m. ET

Aug. 24, 2020, 10:17 p.m. ET

By
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/katherine-j--wu}{Katherine
J. Wu}

\hypertarget{that-means-we-dont-have-to-be-afraid-of-you-at-all-right}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{that-means-we-dont-have-to-be-afraid-of-you-at-all-right}{``That
means we don't have to be afraid of you at all,
right?''}}{``That means we don't have to be afraid of you at all, right?''}}\label{that-means-we-dont-have-to-be-afraid-of-you-at-all-right}}

--- President Trump

\hypertarget{this-is-exaggerated-2}{%
\subsubsection{This is exaggerated.}\label{this-is-exaggerated-2}}

President Trump's comment, directed at a police officer from Colorado
who said he had contracted the coronavirus in late March and recovered,
hinted at the prospect of immunity to the virus.

Scientific evidence so far does appear to indicate that people who
recover from Covid-19 do mount a strong immune response against the
virus --- but just months into a pandemic driven by a new and poorly
understood virus, it's too early to say anything definitive about how
protective that immune response is, or how long it lasts. In fact,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/24/health/coronavirus-reinfection.html}{the
first case of a coronavirus survivor reinfected by the viru}s was just
confirmed in Hong Kong.

Immunity also isn't binary; in some cases, people who have recovered
from the virus may only be partially protected from it, perhaps
remaining susceptible to infection, but experience milder symptoms, or
no symptoms at all, upon being exposed to the virus again. If these
people are still able to carry the virus, they could still be contagious
to those around them.

President Trump also commented that the officer's blood might be
valuable for a plasma donation. This, too, is exaggerated. Not everyone
who recovers from a coronavirus infection will carry enough
virus-fighting antibodies to donate plasma to someone who's still
fighting off the pathogen. Levels of antibodies also naturally decline
in the blood within a couple months after recovery; this is a normal
part of the immune response, and these people are expected to still
carry many immune cells that can make a fresh batch of antibodies if
they're infected again.

Read more

\hypertarget{advertisement-4}{%
\subsubsection{Advertisement}\label{advertisement-4}}

\protect\hyperlink{after-dfp-ad-mid5}{Continue reading the main story}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/linda-qiu}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/06/12/multimedia/author-linda-qiu/author-linda-qiu-thumbLarge.png}}

Aug. 24, 2020, 10:07 p.m. ET

Aug. 24, 2020, 10:07 p.m. ET

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/linda-qiu}{Linda Qiu}

\hypertarget{he-ended--once-and-for-all--the-policy-of-incarceration-of-black-people-which-has-decimated-our-communities-caused-by-no-other-than-joe-biden-democrats-wouldnt-do-it}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{he-ended-once-and-for-all-the-policy-of-incarceration-of-black-people-which-has-decimated-our-communities-caused-by-no-other-tha}{``He
ended --- once and for all --- the policy of incarceration of Black
people, which has decimated our communities caused by no other than Joe
Biden. Democrats wouldn't do
it.''}}{``He ended --- once and for all --- the policy of incarceration of Black people, which has decimated our communities caused by no other than Joe Biden. Democrats wouldn't do it.''}}\label{he-ended--once-and-for-all--the-policy-of-incarceration-of-black-people-which-has-decimated-our-communities-caused-by-no-other-than-joe-biden-democrats-wouldnt-do-it}}

--- State Representative Vernon Jones of Georgia

\hypertarget{this-is-exaggerated--3}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\textbf{This is exaggerated.}
}{This is exaggerated. }}\label{this-is-exaggerated--3}}

Mr. Vernon was likely referring to the
\href{https://www.brennancenter.org/our-work/research-reports/what-first-step-act-and-whats-happening-it}{First
Step Act}, a bipartisan bill signed into law by Mr. Trump in 2018. It
was a highly significant piece of legislation that made reforms to
sentences in federal prisons but as its title indicates, activists see
it as just a start on criminal justice reform. Moreover, it made
retroactive reforms enacted in 2010.

The Sentencing Project, a group that advocates for reducing
incarceration, on the law's one-year anniversary
\href{https://www.sentencingproject.org/publications/one-year-after-the-first-step-act/}{said}
it ``applauds the bill's achievements but cautions that additional
reforms are necessary if we are to see a substantial long-term
population reduction.''

It is also wrong to blame Mr. Biden, who sponsored the Senate version of
the Violent Crime Control and Law Enforcement Act of 1994, for mass
incarceration. States began passing harsher sentencing laws in the 1970s
and 1980s. Though the federal crime bill encouraged the trend, it was
not the genesis or principal factor.

Read more

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/icons/t_logo_291_black.png}

Aug. 24, 2020, 10:07 p.m. ET

Aug. 24, 2020, 10:07 p.m. ET

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/luke-broadwater}{Luke
Broadwater}

\hypertarget{were-not-getting-rid-of-our-postal-workers-you-know-theyd-like-to-sort-of-put-that-out-there-if-anyone-does-its-the-democrats-not-the-republicans}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{were-not-getting-rid-of-our-postal-workers-you-know-theyd-like-to-sort-of-put-that-out-there-if-anyone-does-its-the-democrats-no}{``We're
not getting rid of our postal workers. You know, they'd like to sort of
put that out there. If anyone does it's the Democrats, not the
Republicans.''}}{``We're not getting rid of our postal workers. You know, they'd like to sort of put that out there. If anyone does it's the Democrats, not the Republicans.''}}\label{were-not-getting-rid-of-our-postal-workers-you-know-theyd-like-to-sort-of-put-that-out-there-if-anyone-does-its-the-democrats-not-the-republicans}}

--- President Trump

\hypertarget{false-1}{%
\subsubsection{False}\label{false-1}}

Leading Democrats have not proposed laying off postal workers. In fact,
Democrats in the House have passed \$25 billion in funding for the
Postal Service.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/ana-swanson}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/12/10/multimedia/author-ana-swanson/author-ana-swanson-thumbLarge.png}}

Aug. 24, 2020, 10:02 p.m. ET

Aug. 24, 2020, 10:02 p.m. ET

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/ana-swanson}{Ana Swanson}

\hypertarget{joe-biden-claims-to-care-about-the-working-man-but-millions-of-good-manufacturing-jobs-were-shipped-overseas-during-the-obama-biden-years-to-countries-like-china-donald-trump-brought-those-jobs-back}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{joe-biden-claims-to-care-about-the-working-man-but-millions-of-good-manufacturing-jobs-were-shipped-overseas-during-the-obama-bi}{``Joe
Biden claims to care about the working man, but millions of good
manufacturing jobs were shipped overseas during the Obama-Biden years,
to countries like China. Donald Trump brought those jobs
back.''}}{``Joe Biden claims to care about the working man, but millions of good manufacturing jobs were shipped overseas during the Obama-Biden years, to countries like China. Donald Trump brought those jobs back.''}}\label{joe-biden-claims-to-care-about-the-working-man-but-millions-of-good-manufacturing-jobs-were-shipped-overseas-during-the-obama-biden-years-to-countries-like-china-donald-trump-brought-those-jobs-back}}

--- Representative Steve Scalise, Republican of Louisiana.

\hypertarget{this-is-false-}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\textbf{This is false.}
}{This is false. }}\label{this-is-false-}}

Data from
\href{https://slack-redir.net/link?url=https\%3A\%2F\%2Fwww.bls.gov\%2Fiag\%2Ftgs\%2Fiag31-33.htm}{the
Bureau of Labor Statistics} shows that the United States has shed
257,000 manufacturing jobs while Mr. Trump has been in office, slightly
more than the 205,000 manufacturing jobs lost over the course of the
Obama administration. But the accurate picture is that manufacturing job
growth is more linked to cycles in the economy than the political party
that holds the presidency.

The number of manufacturing jobs in the United States sharply contracted
during 2008 and 2009, the years of the Great Recession, before beginning
a long and gradual recovery for the rest of Mr. Obama's presidency and
the first several years of Mr. Trump's. Manufacturing employment began
to level off in 2019 because of a global economic slowdown and the trade
war, then dove with the onset of the pandemic.

\hypertarget{advertisement-5}{%
\subsubsection{Advertisement}\label{advertisement-5}}

\protect\hyperlink{after-dfp-ad-mid6}{Continue reading the main story}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/sheryl-gay-stolberg}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/11/26/multimedia/author-sheryl-gay-stolberg/author-sheryl-gay-stolberg-thumbLarge.png}}

Aug. 24, 2020, 10:00 p.m. ET

Aug. 24, 2020, 10:00 p.m. ET

By
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/sheryl-gay-stolberg}{Sheryl
Gay Stolberg}

\hypertarget{we-just-have-to-make-this-china-virus-go-away-and-its-happening}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{we-just-have-to-make-this-china-virus-go-away-and-its-happening}{``We
just have to make this China virus go away, and it's
happening.''}}{``We just have to make this China virus go away, and it's happening.''}}\label{we-just-have-to-make-this-china-virus-go-away-and-its-happening}}

--- President Trump

\hypertarget{this-is-false--1}{%
\subsubsection{This is false. }\label{this-is-false--1}}

While reports of new cases have dropped considerably since late July,
when the country averaged well over new 60,000 per
day\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html}{,
case numbers remain persistently high, according to a New York Times
database}, and there is no evidence that the virus is going away anytime
soon. On Sunday, at least 446 new coronavirus-related deaths and 32,340
new coronavirus cases were reported in the United States.

With more than
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/world/coronavirus-maps.html}{5.7
million people infected}, the United States leads the world in
coronavirus cases --- roughly 2 million more than the country with the
second highest count, Brazil. The United States also ranks second in the
number of new cases over the last seven days. Only India has reported
more during that same time.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/thomas-kaplan}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2019/08/28/reader-center/author-thomas-kaplan/author-thomas-kaplan-thumbLarge-v2.png}}

Aug. 24, 2020, 9:56 p.m. ET

Aug. 24, 2020, 9:56 p.m. ET

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/thomas-kaplan}{Thomas
Kaplan}

\hypertarget{joe-biden-has-embraced-the-lefts-insane-mission-to-defund-the-police}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{joe-biden-has-embraced-the-lefts-insane-mission-to-defund-the-police}{``Joe
Biden has embraced the left's insane mission to defund'' the
police.}}{``Joe Biden has embraced the left's insane mission to defund'' the police.}}\label{joe-biden-has-embraced-the-lefts-insane-mission-to-defund-the-police}}

--- Representative Steve Scalise of Louisiana, the minority whip

\hypertarget{false--1}{%
\subsubsection{False. }\label{false--1}}

Mr. Biden has not embraced the ``defund the police'' movement. On the
contrary, he has repeatedly said that he
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/15/us/politics/trump-campaign-ads-biden.html}{does
not support} defunding the police. Mr. Biden has said that federal
grants to police departments should incentivize reform efforts. In June,
he
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/08/us/politics/biden-defund-the-police.html}{told
CBS} that he supported ``conditioning federal aid to police based on
whether or not they meet certain basic standards of decency and
honorableness.''

Mr. Biden reiterated his position in
\href{https://abcnews.go.com/Politics/transcript-joe-biden-kamala-harris-joint-interview-abcs/story?id=72542387}{an
interview} that aired on ABC on Sunday. ``I don't want to defund police
departments,'' he said. ``I think they need more help. They need more
assistance.''

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/linda-qiu}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/06/12/multimedia/author-linda-qiu/author-linda-qiu-thumbLarge.png}}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/rebecca-r-ruiz}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/06/12/multimedia/author-rebecca-r-ruiz/author-rebecca-r-ruiz-thumbLarge.png}}

Aug. 24, 2020, 9:56 p.m. ET

Aug. 24, 2020, 9:56 p.m. ET

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/linda-qiu}{Linda Qiu} and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/rebecca-r-ruiz}{Rebecca R.
Ruiz}

\hypertarget{theyll-disarm-you-empty-the-prisons-lock-you-in-your-home-and-invite-ms-13-to-live-next-door-and-the-police-arent-coming-when-you-call}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{theyll-disarm-you-empty-the-prisons-lock-you-in-your-home-and-invite-ms-13-to-live-next-door-and-the-police-arent-coming-when-yo}{``They'll
disarm you, empty the prisons, lock you in your home and invite MS-13 to
live next door and the police aren't coming when you
call.''}}{``They'll disarm you, empty the prisons, lock you in your home and invite MS-13 to live next door and the police aren't coming when you call.''}}\label{theyll-disarm-you-empty-the-prisons-lock-you-in-your-home-and-invite-ms-13-to-live-next-door-and-the-police-arent-coming-when-you-call}}

--- Representative Matt Gaetz, Republican of Florida

\hypertarget{false-2}{%
\subsubsection{False.}\label{false-2}}

The Democrats propose none of these things. The party,
\href{https://slack-redir.net/link?url=https\%3A\%2F\%2Fwww.demconvention.com\%2Fwp-content\%2Fuploads\%2F2020\%2F08\%2F2020-07-31-Democratic-Party-Platform-For-Distribution.pdf}{in
its 2020 platform}, proposes stronger background checks and not allowing
individuals who have been convicted of assault or battery to buy guns.
Mr. Biden has said he supports the Second Amendment, but he would not
``disarm'' law-abiding gun owners. Similarly, the party in its platform
and Mr. Biden have said they support ending the use of private prisons,
but not prisons entirely. (Another speaker also falsely blamed Mr. Biden
for mass incarceration.)

As for MS-13, the street gang, many prosecutions of MS-13 gang members
took place within the Justice Department under President Barack Obama,
and the first MS-13 gang member to be extradited from El Salvador to the
United States --- a man who had attempted murder in Loudoun County, Va.
--- was
\href{https://slack-redir.net/link?url=https\%3A\%2F\%2Fwww.justice.gov\%2Fusao-edva\%2Fpr\%2Ffirst-ms-13-member-extradited-el-salvador-united-states-convicted-role-attempted-murder}{charged
and convicted} during the Obama administration. Mr. Biden has repeatedly
said he does not support defunding the police.

\hypertarget{our-2020-election-guide}{%
\section{Our 2020 Election Guide}\label{our-2020-election-guide}}

Updated ~Sept. 11, 2020

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

\begin{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{the-latest}{%
  \subsection{The Latest}\label{the-latest}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Joe Biden and President Trump put
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/11/us/politics/shanksville-trump-biden.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{hostilities
    on hold today to travel to ground zero and then to Shanksville, Pa.,
    where they separately honored 9/11 victims}.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{how-to-win-270}{%
  \subsection{How to Win 270}\label{how-to-win-270}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Joe Biden and Donald Trump need 270 electoral votes to reach the
    White House. Try building
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/election-states-biden-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{your
    own coalition of battleground states}~to see potential outcomes.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{voting-by-mail}{%
  \subsection{Voting by Mail}\label{voting-by-mail}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Will you have enough time to vote by mail in your state? Yes, but
    it's risky to procrastinate.
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/31/us/politics/vote-by-mail-deadlines.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Check
    your state's deadline.}
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/joe-biden.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{}

    \hypertarget{joe-biden}{%
    \section{Joe Biden}\label{joe-biden}}

    \hypertarget{democrat}{%
    \subsection{Democrat}\label{democrat}}

    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/donald-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{}

    \hypertarget{donald-trump}{%
    \section{Donald Trump}\label{donald-trump}}

    \hypertarget{republican}{%
    \subsection{Republican}\label{republican}}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \hypertarget{keep-up-with-our-coverage}{%
  \subsection{Keep Up With Our
  Coverage}\label{keep-up-with-our-coverage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Get an
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{email}~recapping
    the day's news
  \item
    Download our mobile app on
    \href{https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nytimes/id284862083?ls=1\&mat_click_id=5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\&referrer=mat_click_id\%3D5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\%26link_click_id\%3D722930677036718082}{iOS}~and
    \href{http://a.localytics.com/android?id=com.nytimes.android\&referrer=utm_source\%3Dother_nyt_mobile_web\%26utm_medium\%3DWeb\%2520page\%26utm_term\%3DGeneral\%2520Mobile\%2520Page\%26utm_campaign\%3DNYT\%2520Mobile\%2520General\%2520Page}{Android}~and
    turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
