Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/business}{Business}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/business}{Business}\textbar{}Airline Job Cuts Could
Pressure Congress and Trump on Stimulus

\url{https://nyti.ms/32iS6ry}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{the-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus?name=styln-coronavirus-markets\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=beea3560-f4cb-11ea-8c3b-3fc590030245\&variant=undefined}{The
Coronavirus
Outbreak}}{The Coronavirus Outbreak}}\label{the-coronavirus-outbreak}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  live\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/11/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?name=styln-coronavirus-markets\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=beea3561-f4cb-11ea-8c3b-3fc590030245\&variant=undefined}{Latest
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html?name=styln-coronavirus-markets\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=beea5c70-f4cb-11ea-8c3b-3fc590030245\&variant=undefined}{Maps
  and Cases}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html?name=styln-coronavirus-markets\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=beea5c71-f4cb-11ea-8c3b-3fc590030245\&variant=undefined}{Vaccine
  Tracker}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/10/us/politics/fda-coronavirus-vaccine.html?name=styln-coronavirus-markets\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=beea5c72-f4cb-11ea-8c3b-3fc590030245\&variant=undefined}{F.D.A.
  Regulators' Self-Defense}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/09/upshot/coronavirus-surprise-test-fees.html?name=styln-coronavirus-markets\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=beea5c73-f4cb-11ea-8c3b-3fc590030245\&variant=undefined}{Surprise
  Test Fees}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{airline-job-cuts-could-pressure-congress-and-trump-on-stimulus}{%
\section{Airline Job Cuts Could Pressure Congress and Trump on
Stimulus}\label{airline-job-cuts-could-pressure-congress-and-trump-on-stimulus}}

American Airlines said it would furlough 19,000 workers if lawmakers do
not extend aid to the industry, which has been hammered by the pandemic.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/25/business/25airline/merlin_173333913_3083b147-be2c-4cee-b161-1600131dd462-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/niraj-chokshi}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/02/20/multimedia/author-niraj-chokshi/author-niraj-chokshi-thumbLarge.jpg}}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/ben-casselman}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/11/09/multimedia/author-ben-casselman/author-ben-casselman-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/niraj-chokshi}{Niraj
Chokshi} and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/ben-casselman}{Ben
Casselman}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Aug. 25, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

American Airlines warned employees on Tuesday that it would cut up to
19,000 workers on Oct. 1, saying that there was little sign that the
pandemic-induced reluctance to travel was diminishing.

The airline is looking to cut thousands of flight attendants, pilots,
technicians, gate agents and other staff, it said. Including buyouts,
retirements and leaves of absence, the company expects to have about
40,000 fewer employees on Oct. 1 than it did before the pandemic, a 30
percent decline in its work force.

American is just the latest airline to predict bad news. Earlier this
summer, United Airlines said that it could furlough
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/09/business/united-airlines-says-it-could-furlough-up-to-36000-workers.html}{as
many as 36,000 employees} in the fall. And, on Monday, Delta Air Lines
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/24/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus/delta-says-it-will-need-to-furlough-2000-pilots-in-october}{warned}
that it might have to furlough as many as 1,941 pilots in October, even
after nearly as many had accepted buyouts.

While weak demand is spurring these announcements, the airlines are also
seeking to put pressure on Congress and the Trump administration to
strike a deal on another coronavirus stimulus package. Passenger
airlines received \$25 billion to help pay workers under a March
legislative package, with American alone receiving \$5.8 billion.

Evidence is mounting that the once-strong economic recovery is
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/21/business/economy/coronavirus-economic-recovery.html}{losing
steam}. Hiring
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/07/business/economy/july-jobs-report.html}{slowed
in July}, and various indicators suggest it has slumped further in
August. Weekly claims for unemployment benefits have
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/20/business/economy/unemployment-claims.html}{jumped
back above one million}, reversing a gradual decline. And new data on
Tuesday showed that
\href{https://conference-board.org/data/consumerconfidence.cfm}{consumer
confidence fell} in August to its lowest level since the pandemic took
hold.

Economists attribute the slowdown, at least in part, to the waning
federal support for families and businesses. The \$600 a week in extra
unemployment benefits that Congress approved in March expired at the end
of July. The
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/06/business/small-businesses-relief-program-ending.html}{Paycheck
Protection Program}, which provided grants and low-interest loans to
small businesses, ended this month. And the \$1,200 tax rebates that
appeared in bank accounts and mailboxes starting in mid-April have not
been repeated.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-the-coronavirus-outbreak-and-the-economy}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/11/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: The Coronavirus Outbreak and the
Economy}}{Latest Updates: The Coronavirus Outbreak and the Economy}}\label{latest-updates-the-coronavirus-outbreak-and-the-economy}}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/11/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#the-nyse-may-move-its-data-center-out-of-new-jersey-in-response-to-a-proposed-tax}{11h
ago}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/11/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#the-nyse-may-move-its-data-center-out-of-new-jersey-in-response-to-a-proposed-tax}{The
N.Y.S.E. may move its data center out of New Jersey in response to a
proposed tax.}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/11/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#the-federal-budget-deficit-hit-3-trillion-as-of-august}{14h
ago}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/11/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#the-federal-budget-deficit-hit-3-trillion-as-of-august}{The
federal budget deficit hit \$3 trillion as of August.}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/11/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#warner-bros-pushes-the-release-of-wonder-woman-1984-to-christmas}{14h
ago}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/11/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#warner-bros-pushes-the-release-of-wonder-woman-1984-to-christmas}{Warner
Bros. pushes the release of `Wonder Woman 1984' to Christmas.}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/11/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

More live coverage:
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/11/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Global}

House Democrats passed a bill months ago that would extend or replace
many of those programs, while Senate Republicans have struggled to
coalesce around generally smaller measures. Efforts to find a compromise
between Democrats and the administration collapsed, and Congress left
town for its summer recess without reaching a deal. President Trump this
month announced a series of executive actions to help unemployed workers
and others, but those programs have been slow to roll out and diverted
existing funds instead of doling out new aid. Only Congress can allocate
new funds.

For many businesses, time is running out. Cases of the virus are falling
but remain high in much of the country, making a full reopening of the
economy impossible. Entire sectors, such as live entertainment,
hospitality and travel, remain either shut down or severely restricted.
And experts warn that the longer the crisis persists, the more lasting
the damage will be: Furloughs will turn into permanent job losses,
short-term business closures will lead to bankruptcies, and sectors that
were relatively insulated from the pandemic will suffer as the public
health crisis morphs into a more traditional recession.

``This is not a stopgap crisis,'' said John Lettieri, president of the
Economic Innovation Group, a Washington research organization. ``It is a
prolonged, deep, far-reaching crisis that is going to challenge the
ability of businesses to survive.''

Things could get worse in the coming months. Restaurants and other
businesses that have been able to shift some operations outdoors will
struggle when the weather turns colder. And health experts warn that
infections are likely to rise again in the fall and winter. That means
businesses have to prepare for the crisis to last well into 2021 ---
which in many cases will mean further layoffs and cost-cutting.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/25/business/25-markets-brf-american/merlin_176113992_5f709cdf-5b12-4591-902c-3e085ff255e6-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

``It's one thing to make do for a month or two months, it's another
thing to make do for six, nine, 12 months,'' Mr. Lettieri said.

Airlines are preparing for a long slog. They and their employees were
hopeful this month about the prospects for a union-led effort to renew
the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/05/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus/republican-senators-back-an-extension-of-support-for-airlines}{\$25
billion program} included in the CARES Act in March. A bipartisan
majority in the House of Representatives,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/05/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus\#republican-senators-back-an-extension-of-support-for-airlines}{more
than a dozen Senate Republicans} and Mr. Trump expressed support for the
extension. But the failure of the stimulus talks has forced airlines
like American to prepare deep job cuts.

The furloughs there will disproportionately affect flight attendants,
who are expected to account for more than 40 percent of the cuts. In
addition to the 19,000 workers it is cutting, American said thousands of
other employees had agreed to take buyouts, early retirement or
temporary leaves of absence.

``We must prepare for the possibility that our nation's leadership will
not be able to find a way to further support aviation professionals and
the service we provide, especially to smaller communities,'' American's
chief executive, Doug Parker, and president, Robert Isom, said in a
letter to workers announcing the cuts. They encouraged employees to
contact lawmakers to ask for stimulus funding for the industry.

Some airline workers have been able to mitigate or avoid cuts by
agreeing to concessions. On Tuesday, for example, the pilots' union for
Spirit Airlines said that nearly half of its members had agreed to work
fewer hours to prevent 600 cuts. Still, nationally, more than 11,000
airline pilots have received furlough warnings, according to the Air
Line Pilots Association.

Image

Efforts to reassure travelers that airlines are taking safety
precautions have not worked to bring back customers in
force.Credit...Andrew Caballero-Reynolds/Agence France-Presse --- Getty
Images

Based on current demand, American expects to fly less than half as many
flights in the final three months of 2020 as it did a year earlier. The
airline had taken an aggressive approach to restoring flights early in
the summer, but
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/20/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus/american-airlines-to-stop-flights-to-15-cities-after-government-aid-ends}{pulled
back} as the recovery stalled in July when virus cases surged.

Last month, United said it expected travel would remain below 50 percent
of previous levels until a vaccine is widely distributed, which it
doesn't expect until late 2021. Southwest Airlines, which has said it
has no plans for substantial job cuts this year, said last week that it
expected October capacity to be down about 40 to 50 percent.

Over all, domestic travel is down 44 percent while international flights
are down 75 percent, according to Airlines for America, an industry
association. The flights that are running are just over half as full as
they were last year and most industry executives and analysts expect it
will be three to four years before travel recovers to 2019 levels.

Even good news is relative for airlines. Sunday was the second-best
travel day of the pandemic, with more than 840,000 people screened by
the Transportation Security Administration at airport checkpoints. That
amounted to about 34 percent of the people screened a year earlier.

Airlines may also cut back on flights in October. The CARES Act had
allowed the Transportation Department to require companies that receive
aid to continue to serve destinations they had before the pandemic. But
those requirements expire on Sept. 30 after the department declined to
extend them this month.

As a result, many small airports could lose service. Already,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/20/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus\#american-airlines-to-stop-flights-to-15-cities-after-government-aid-ends}{American
has said} it will stop flying to cities like New Haven, Conn.; Dubuque,
Iowa; Joplin, Mo.; and Kalamazoo, Mich.

Airlines have gone to great lengths to try to comfort a hesitant public,
including by imposing mask requirements, cleaning planes frequently and
limiting seating capacity.

But those changes have not brought passengers back in force, especially
lucrative business travelers. Airline revenues fell more than 86 percent
in the second quarter of the year, according to Airlines for America,
and the industry is expected to lose billions of dollars each month
through the end of the year.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
