Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/news-event/2020-election}{Elections}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/news-event/2020-election}{Elections}\textbar{}Some Republicans
Say Florida Convention Is `a Risk You Have to Take'

\url{https://nyti.ms/3gWUOZQ}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Election
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/biden-vice-president-2020.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Biden's
  V.P. Search}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/07/24/us/politics/trump-biden-campaign-donors.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Map
  of Donations}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/elections/delegate-count-primary-results.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Delegate
  Count}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2019/us/politics/2020-presidential-candidates.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{The
  Candidates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Politics
  Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{some-republicans-say-florida-convention-is-a-risk-you-have-to-take}{%
\section{Some Republicans Say Florida Convention Is `a Risk You Have to
Take'}\label{some-republicans-say-florida-convention-is-a-risk-you-have-to-take}}

But the Texas Supreme Court said the state Republican Party could not
force a Houston venue to host its convention. A new poll in Texas,
meanwhile, showed Joe Biden leading President Trump.

Published July 13, 2020Updated July 15, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\emph{Follow our}
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/15/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html}{\emph{live
coverage of Trump vs Biden}}\emph{.}

\hypertarget{heres-what-you-need-to-know}{%
\subsubsection{Here's what you need to
know:}\label{heres-what-you-need-to-know}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-31e917b9}{Trump faces a tough landscape as
  coronavirus cases continue to surge.}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-58c788d}{Republican Party officials still plan
  to attend their convention in Florida, an epicenter of the virus.}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-38bdfe3}{Jeff Sessions, trailing in the
  Alabama polls, says his campaign is `electrified.'}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-3872767b}{Trump embraces law enforcement,
  seeking a contrast with Biden.}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-1faec578}{R.N.C. official tweets, and then
  deletes, a photo of Biden and his young son at a Redskins game.}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-35e41aa8}{The D.N.C.'s `war room' is the tip
  of the spear to attack Trump.}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-2becdc34}{Texas Supreme Court rules against
  the state G.O.P. holding an in-person convention.}
\end{itemize}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/07/13/us/politics/13election-briefing-promo1/13election-briefing-promo1-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\hypertarget{trump-faces-a-tough-landscape-as-coronavirus-cases-continue-to-surge}{%
\subsection{Trump faces a tough landscape as coronavirus cases continue
to
surge.}\label{trump-faces-a-tough-landscape-as-coronavirus-cases-continue-to-surge}}

A Senate runoff election in \textbf{Alabama} that is
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/12/us/politics/alabama-senate-jeff-sessions-tommy-tuberville.html}{unusually
personal} for President Trump.

Republican National Convention planning in \textbf{Florida} that is
overshadowed by the coronavirus outbreak.

Primary runoffs in \textbf{Texas} --- as well as a new poll showing
former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. ahead of Mr. Trump in the
state.

And spikes in Covid-19 cases in G.O.P.-led states from
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html}{southeast
to southwest}.

Republicans are facing major decisions this week across the Sun Belt as
the party tries to chart a course through a political moment defined not
just by health and economic crises but also the unsteady and
increasingly unpopular leadership of Mr. Trump.

The landscape for the president is so tough right now that Democrats are
even encouraging Mr. Biden, Mr. Trump's opponent, to press his advantage
and
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/11/us/politics/trump-biden-2020-election.html}{compete
aggressively} in traditionally Republican states like Georgia and
\href{https://www.dallasnews.com/news/public-health/2020/07/12/joe-biden-builds-lead-over-donald-trump-in-reliably-red-texas-as-voters-sour-on-handling-of-virus/}{Texas}.

With 16 weeks to go until the general election on Nov. 3, The Times is
expanding its live coverage of the campaigns for president, House and
Senate, and governor, as well as coverage of voters, politics and policy
across the nation.

Our reporters will be delivering daily updates, news and analysis on all
the major races and political dimensions, including voting rights and
mail-in voting, the protests against systemic racism and social
injustice, and the repercussions of the virus and the devastated economy
on the nation's politics.

The Sun Belt is drawing particular attention this week, with
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/12/us/politics/alabama-senate-jeff-sessions-tommy-tuberville.html}{Alabama
Republicans deciding a Senate runoff} on Tuesday between Jeff Sessions,
Mr. Trump's former attorney general, and Tommy Tuberville, a former
Auburn University football coach.

Mr. Trump has endorsed Mr. Tuberville against his onetime ally, Mr.
Sessions, whom the president came to despise for recusing himself from
the investigation into Russian interference in the 2016 election. Most
polls in Alabama close at 8 p.m. Eastern on Tuesday.

Texas also has primary runoffs on Tuesday for several key House seats,
as well as a Democratic Senate primary runoff between M.J. Hegar and
State Senator Royce West; the winner will face Senator John Cornyn in
November. In Maine, Democrats will choose a nominee on Tuesday
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/07/us/politics/susan-collins-maine-sara-gideon.html}{to
face Senator Susan Collins}, with Sara Gideon, the speaker of the Maine
House, widely seen as the likely winner.

In Florida, state officials on Sunday reported
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/12/us/florida-coronavirus-covid-cases.html}{the
highest single-day total} of new coronavirus cases by any state since
the start of the pandemic, with more than 15,000 new infections. (New
York had recorded the previous high of 12,274 on April 4.) New cases are
increasing across the Sun Belt,
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html}{as
this map shows}, and Republican governors like Ron DeSantis of Florida
and Greg Abbott of Texas face criticism for their decisions to begin
reopening their states weeks ago.

\hypertarget{republican-party-officials-still-plan-to-attend-their-convention-in-florida-an-epicenter-of-the-virus}{%
\subsection{Republican Party officials still plan to attend their
convention in Florida, an epicenter of the
virus.}\label{republican-party-officials-still-plan-to-attend-their-convention-in-florida-an-epicenter-of-the-virus}}

Image

People lined up in their cars on Wednesday as they waited to be tested
for the coronavirus outside Hard Rock Stadium in Miami.Credit...Saul
Martinez for The New York Times

More than a dozen Republican National Committee members from across the
country told The Times in interviews that they were still planning to
attend the party's convention next month in Florida, despite the surge
in cases.

President Trump last month moved the convention from Charlotte, N.C., to
Jacksonville, Florida's largest city, because Gov. Roy Cooper of North
Carolina refused to guarantee a late-August arena party free of social
distancing. Several of the R.N.C. members interviewed are planning to
first go to Charlotte, where the party's delegates will conduct much of
their official business, before relocating to Jacksonville for the big
party so desired by Mr. Trump.

``It's a risk you have to take,'' said Morton Blackwell, 80, an R.N.C.
member from Virginia who has attended every party convention since he
was the youngest elected delegate backing Barry Goldwater in 1964. ``You
take risks every day. You drive down the street and a cement truck could
crash into you. You can't not do what you have to do because of some
possibility of a bad result.''

Art Wittich, 62, an R.N.C. member from Montana, said he had a ``duty''
to travel to Charlotte and Jacksonville to nominate and support Mr.
Trump.

``It is not only my duty, but also my honor go to Charlotte and
Jacksonville to re-elect President Trump,'' he said. ``As such, I am
willing to assume any risk to do so.''

While a handful of Republican senators who are occasionally skeptical of
Mr. Trump --- Mitt Romney of Utah, Lisa Murkowski of Alaska and Susan
Collins of Maine, to name three --- have announced they won't go to
Jacksonville, there is very little appetite among party regulars to slim
the festivities to less than the planned three nights or switch to a
virtual convention,
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/24/us/politics/democratic-convention-milwaukee-coronavirus.html}{as
Democrats have for their event in Milwaukee}, which was originally
slated to start this week. It is now scheduled to take place in
mid-August without delegates present.

The conditions that led Mr. Trump
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/11/us/politics/trump-jacksonville-rnc-speech.html}{to
move the convention out of North Carolina} now apply equally to Florida.
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/29/us/politics/rnc-masks-convention.html}{Jacksonville
officials late last month} said they would require convention attendees
to wear face masks, though there has been no word yet on restricting how
many people can fit inside the city's VyStar Veterans Memorial Arena.
Republican officials are also considering hosting some of the convention
outdoors at the city's football or minor-league baseball stadiums.

Of course, it does tend to get hot and humid in Florida in late August.

R.N.C. members interviewed said they had little hesitancy about joining
what, as of now, is still planned as an arena full of Trump supporters
cheering his nomination.

``If I can safely go to Walmart or a restaurant, I am confident we can
safely gather to conduct the important business of the Republican Party
renominating the president and vice president,'' said Henry Barbour, an
R.N.C. member from Mississippi. ``We were prepared to work with folks in
North Carolina to make it safe, and that is exactly what the R.N.C. is
doing in Jacksonville.''

\hypertarget{jeff-sessions-trailing-in-the-alabama-polls-says-his-campaign-is-electrified}{%
\subsection{Jeff Sessions, trailing in the Alabama polls, says his
campaign is
`electrified.'}\label{jeff-sessions-trailing-in-the-alabama-polls-says-his-campaign-is-electrified}}

Image

Jeff Sessions spoke with voters at a Cracker Barrel restaurant in
Mobile, Ala., on Monday.Credit...September Dawn Bottoms/The New York
Times

MOBILE, Ala. --- Jeff Sessions, the Alabama Republican and former
attorney general who is trying to reclaim his old Senate seat, was
making his final appeal to voters on Monday before Tuesday's runoff
election against Tommy Tuberville, the former Auburn football coach.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-2020-election}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: 2020
Election}}{Latest Updates: 2020 Election}}\label{latest-updates-2020-election}}

Updated 2020-08-01T01:26:45.732Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-29fdff45}{Kamala
  Harris, a top vice-presidential contender, confronts double
  standards.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-13ec3d9c}{Karen
  Bass and Susan Rice are rising on Biden's vice-presidential
  shortlist.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-49e9a016}{Trump
  says Russian bounties to kill U.S. troops `never took place.'}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

There has been little public polling in the race, but by several
indications, Mr. Sessions faces an uphill battle. He finished behind Mr.
Tuberville by about 12,000 votes in March, when voters first went to the
polls.

In both public and private polling conducted for the Sessions campaign
since, Mr. Sessions has been consistently down, apparently unable to
repair the damage that President Trump has inflicted on his reputation
with repeated attacks over how Mr. Sessions recused himself from the
Justice Department investigation into Russia's election interference.

The latest public poll in the race, conducted during the first and
second week of July by Auburn University at Montgomery, showed Mr.
Sessions trailing by double digits, even as Mr. Tuberville faced new
questions about
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/05/us/politics/tommy-tuberville-senate-hedge-fund.html}{his
involvement} in a hedge fund that turned out to be a fraud.

The
\href{http://aum.edu/new-aum-poll-shows-tuberville-leading-sessions-senate-runoff-election}{poll}
found Mr. Tuberville ahead 47 percent to 31 percent. Still, a
considerable portion of the people surveyed --- 22 percent --- said they
had not made up their minds.

Mr. Sessions said in a brief interview on Monday afternoon that his
recent appearance on ``Tucker Carlson Tonight'' had ``electrified'' his
campaign. He appeared last Tuesday
\href{https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ORR2obSy_yM}{on Mr. Carlson's Fox
News show,} where the host praised the Republican as ``one of the very
few politicians I do respect.''

``We had \$30,000 --- small-dollar contributions --- come in right after
that,'' Mr. Sessions said in between conversations with voters at a
Cracker Barrel in Mobile.

.

Mr. Sessions declined to answer directly whether he would support Mr.
Tuberville in the general election in the event that he does not win the
runoff race against him. But he criticized his opponent for his regular
refusal to engage with the news media.

``I'd like for y'all to ask Tommy Tuberville of that,'' Mr. Sessions
told reporters. ``What's he going to --- who's he going to support after
the runoff if he loses? Where is he? He's not available. He's been
hiding out now for two weeks.''

``Look, I'm a strong Republican,'' Mr. Sessions added. ``We need to win
this seat.''

\hypertarget{trump-embraces-law-enforcement-seeking-a-contrast-with-biden}{%
\subsection{Trump embraces law enforcement, seeking a contrast with
Biden.}\label{trump-embraces-law-enforcement-seeking-a-contrast-with-biden}}

President Trump on Monday assailed a broad movement to defund police
departments, invoking the kind of pro-police language that won him
support with the law enforcement community in 2016 and ignoring the
calls for reform that have helped shape this election.

Democrats ``want to defund, and they want to abolish,'' Mr. Trump told a
panel at the White House composed of people who have had positive
interactions with the police.

With Mr. Trump facing an outcry over the threats he has made to
protesters calling for racial equality and police reform efforts, his
remarks on Monday were part of an effort to embrace law enforcement ---
and to move away from more explicitly racist language --- as polls show
him lagging behind Joseph R. Biden Jr., his presumptive Democratic
challenger.

That has meant targeting police reform efforts supported by Democrats,
such as
\href{https://www.cnn.com/2020/06/25/politics/house-police-reform-legislation-vote/index.html}{shifting
funding} from police departments to social services like mental health
and substance abuse counseling. Mr. Trump has called the defunding
efforts
\href{https://www.politico.com/news/2020/07/10/trump-defund-the-police-fad-356442}{a
fad}, but last month,
\href{https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential-actions/executive-order-safe-policing-safe-communities/}{he
issued}\textbf{\href{https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential-actions/executive-order-safe-policing-safe-communities/}{}}\href{https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential-actions/executive-order-safe-policing-safe-communities/}{an
executive order} outlining a series of overarching principles meant to
encourage --- but not mandate --- departments to alter their behavior.

The president also painted a dark picture of the United States should
Mr. Biden win.

``The radical politicians are waging war on innocent Americans,'' Mr.
Trump said. ``If that's what you want for a country, you probably have
to vote for Sleepy Joe Biden because he doesn't know what's happening,
but you are not going to have that with me.''

While recent
\href{https://www.reuters.com/article/us-minneapolis-police-poll-exclusive/exclusive-most-americans-including-republicans-support-sweeping-democratic-police-reform-proposals-reuters-ipsos-poll-idUSKBN23I380}{polls}
have shown growing support among Republicans and Democrats for
instituting police reform efforts --- including banning chokeholds ---
after George Floyd, a Black man in Minneapolis,
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/05/31/us/george-floyd-investigation.html}{was
killed in police custody}, most
\href{https://fivethirtyeight.com/features/americans-like-the-ideas-behind-defunding-the-police-more-than-the-slogan-itself/}{Americans
reject the idea} of defunding police departments.

\href{https://apnews.com/afs:Content:9083703494}{Mr. Trump and his
campaign} have tried to accuse Mr. Biden of supporting efforts to defund
the police, but Mr. Biden has actually opposed them. The former vice
president's spokesman has said he supported the need for an ``urgent''
overhaul after several police killings of Black men and women.

\hypertarget{rnc-official-tweets-and-then-deletes-a-photo-of-biden-and-his-young-son-at-a-redskins-game}{%
\subsection{R.N.C. official tweets, and then deletes, a photo of Biden
and his young son at a Redskins
game.}\label{rnc-official-tweets-and-then-deletes-a-photo-of-biden-and-his-young-son-at-a-redskins-game}}

A spokesman for the Republican National Committee on Monday tweeted and
then deleted a photograph showing one of Joseph R. Biden Jr.'s sons,
then a young child, wearing a Washington Redskins hat, in the latest
example of
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/10/us/biden-trump.html}{disjointed
Republican efforts to define} the presumptive Democratic nominee.

``Hey Joe Biden, are you still a Redskins fan?'' wrote Steve Guest, the
R.N.C. official, before deleting the tweet amid online backlash.

His remark came on the same day that the football team announced it
would retire its name, which is
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/13/sports/football/washington-redskins-new-name.html}{considered
a racial slur}. President Trump has expressed support for the moniker
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/06/sports/football/washington-team-name-change.html}{and
complained} that the name change was being considered ``in order to be
politically correct.''

The moment highlighted how Republicans have careened between seeking to
tie Mr. Biden, 77, to the most progressive elements of his party, and
seizing on his age and lengthy political record to cast him as
out-of-touch with his party's zeitgeist.

Mr. Guest did not immediately respond to an email seeking comment.
Several Twitter users posted screenshots of his tweet after he had
deleted it.

Whatever Mr. Guest's strategic intention, the effect online was to
remind many of Mr. Biden's
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/11/us/politics/joe-biden-funeral-speech.html}{history
of family tragedy}, a subject that Mr. Biden has often used to
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/05/30/us/politics/joe-biden-beau-biden-death.html}{connect
with grieving voters.}

In the photograph, Mr. Biden holds one young son, who wears the
team-logo hat, with his head turned toward another son. A Biden campaign
official estimated that the photograph was taken around 1974, and did
not say which son was wearing the hat.

In 1972, Mr. Biden lost his first wife and a baby daughter in a car
crash, while his two sons, Beau and Hunter, suffered injuries. Mr. Biden
was sworn in to the Senate a few months after the accident at the
hospital as they recovered.

Decades later, Beau Biden died of brain cancer.

\hypertarget{the-dncs-war-room-is-the-tip-of-the-spear-to-attack-trump}{%
\subsection{The D.N.C.'s `war room' is the tip of the spear to attack
Trump.}\label{the-dncs-war-room-is-the-tip-of-the-spear-to-attack-trump}}

Democrats are expanding their attacks against President Trump, adding
new firepower to their offensive operation as the campaign barrels into
the final fall stretch.

At the direction of the Biden campaign, the party is expanding the
Democratic National Committee ``war room,'' a 35-person operation that
was started in 2017. The group will become the central Democratic
clearinghouse for attacking the incumbent president, a challenge
Democrats last faced in 2004.

Led by Adrienne Watson and Nick Bauer, two operatives who've been
focused on attacking Mr. Trump since the fall of 2015, the war room is
planning to expand its advertising effort and bring in aides who worked
for some of this year's Democratic presidential candidates.

Biden staffers say the decision to run a key campaign operation out of
the party committee reflects the remote nature of campaigning during a
pandemic, a desire to conserve campaign dollars and the expertise built
up at the committee over the past four years.

The D.N.C.'s ads and messaging portray Mr. Trump as undone by his own
narcissism, prioritizing his political interests and ego over the kind
of expertise needed to battle a deadly pandemic.

In recent weeks, Mr. Trump seems to be sustaining the most
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/02/us/politics/trump-2020-campaign-problems.html}{damage
from self-inflicted wounds}. But Ms. Watson said Democrats could not
count on Mr. Trump defeating himself, pointing to plenty of other
examples --- like the
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/12/us/politics/donald-trump-access-hollywood.html}{release
of the ``Access Hollywood'' tape} in 2016 --- when Democrats began
writing his political obituary.

``The truth is that Trump has never imploded on his own,'' she said.

\hypertarget{texas-supreme-court-rules-against-the-state-gop-holding-an-in-person-convention}{%
\subsection{Texas Supreme Court rules against the state G.O.P. holding
an in-person
convention.}\label{texas-supreme-court-rules-against-the-state-gop-holding-an-in-person-convention}}

Image

Delegates at the 2018 Texas Republican Convention in San
Antonio.Credit...Tamir Kalifa for The New York Times

In Texas, where the number of
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/texas-coronavirus-cases.html}{infections
and deaths have spiked} in recent weeks, the State Supreme Court
dismissed a lawsuit on Monday that had been filed by Republicans over
the cancellation of their state party convention.

The court, an elected body made up entirely of Republicans,
\href{https://www.txcourts.gov/media/1448816/200525.pdf}{ruled 7 to 1}
that while the Republican Party of Texas had a constitutional right to
hold a convention in person, it did not extend to forcing a convention
center to host the gathering during a pandemic.

``The Party argues it has constitutional rights to hold a convention and
engage in electoral activities, and that is unquestionably true,'' the
court's majority wrote. ``But those rights do not allow it to simply
commandeer use of the Center.''

The convention had been scheduled to start on Monday at the George R.
Brown Convention Center in Houston and run until Saturday.

But the Houston First Corporation, directed by the city's mayor,
Sylvester Turner, a Democrat,
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/08/us/coronavirus-texas-republican-convention-gop.html}{terminated
a licensing agreement last week for the use of the convention center by
the state Republican Party}. The corporation, a government entity that
manages several city-owned buildings, cited ``the unprecedented scope
and severity of the Covid-19 epidemic in Houston.''

Harris County, which includes Houston, is
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/13/upshot/coronavirus-response-fax-machines.html}{one
of the areas in the country hit hardest by the resurgent virus.} On
Monday, Mr. Turner
\href{https://twitter.com/SylvesterTurner/status/1282774971916464129}{proposed
a two-week shutdown} to blunt the progress of the pandemic.

The state Republican Party sued the Houston First Corporation,
contending that the city-run convention center had breached the terms of
its agreement. Later on Monday, the state Republican Party announced
that it would vote on whether to
\href{https://www.texasgop.org/republican-party-of-texas-holds-state-republican-executive-committee-to-convene-tonight-to-move-to-online-convention/}{hold
its convention online}.

The state G.O.P. chairman, James Dickey, said in a
\href{https://www.texasgop.org/republican-party-of-texas-chairman-james-dickey-on-supreme-court-of-texas-ruling-in-rpt-lawsuit-against-city-of-houston-mayor-sylvester-turner-and-houston-first/}{statement
on Monday} that the cancellation was politically motivated.

``We believe that Mayor Turner used his control of city-owned property
to disenfranchise Republicans and attempt to deny them the opportunity
to cast their votes for national delegates and electors in-person in
Houston,'' he said.

\hypertarget{a-new-poll-shows-biden-leading-in-texas}{%
\subsection{A new poll shows Biden leading in
Texas.}\label{a-new-poll-shows-biden-leading-in-texas}}

Image

A Biden rally in Dallas in March.Credit...Todd Heisler/The New York
Times

Could Texas really be in play for Joseph R. Biden Jr.? It's a question
political observers --- and even the Biden campaign --- are intensely
debating.

On Sunday, a
\href{https://www.dallasnews.com/news/public-health/2020/07/12/joe-biden-builds-lead-over-donald-trump-in-reliably-red-texas-as-voters-sour-on-handling-of-virus/}{Dallas
Morning News poll} showed Mr. Biden had the support of 46 percent of the
state's registered voters, compared with 41 percent for President Trump.

Other recent polls have suggested a close race in Texas, but this was
the first public survey to show Mr. Biden leading outside the margin of
error.

As Mr. Trump's poll numbers sag,
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/11/us/politics/trump-biden-2020-election.html}{Mr.
Biden's campaign is seriously considering investments} in states that
just months ago Democrats considered out of reach --- the biggest prize
being Texas, with its 38 electoral votes.

The state has voted Republican in every presidential election since
Jimmy Carter won it in 1976, but Democrats see an opportunity to turn
that around, driven by Texas' growing Hispanic population and increasing
frustration with Mr. Trump among independent voters.

The Morning News poll also found that M.J. Hegar, the Democratic
establishment's choice to challenge Senator John Cornyn in November, was
on track to win Tuesday's primary runoff.

In addition to the presidential and Senate races, Texas presents
Democrats with numerous realistic opportunities to pick up House seats
this year. A strong showing in November could also help Democrats
capture a majority in the Texas State House and on the State Supreme
Court. Both bodies could play a crucial role in the redistricting
battles that are sure to follow the 2020 census.

\hypertarget{california-rejected-more-than-100000-mail-in-primary-ballots-many-of-which-election-officials-said-arrived-late}{%
\subsection{California rejected more than 100,000 mail-in primary
ballots, many of which election officials said arrived
late.}\label{california-rejected-more-than-100000-mail-in-primary-ballots-many-of-which-election-officials-said-arrived-late}}

Image

A voter dropped ballots for the March 3 primary into a mobile voting
mailbox in Laguna Woods, Calif.Credit...Mike Blake/Reuters

Even in California, where an already robust mail-in voting program will
be expanded to the entire electorate this fall, the obstacles of
conducting elections through the postal system during a pandemic are now
quantifiable.

More than 100,000 ballots cast by mail for the March 3 primary elections
were voided by election officials, who determined in most cases that
voters had missed a deadline for sending them in, data released by the
California Secretary of State's office showed on Monday.

According to the office, 70,330 of the 102,428 rejected mail-in ballots
did not arrive within a three-day grace period after the primary. The
ballots had to be postmarked on or before March 3.

The accounting of rejected ballots followed Gov. Gavin Newsom's signing
of a bill last month that will
\href{https://www.sacbee.com/news/politics-government/capitol-alert/article243636972.html}{require
mail-in ballots to be sent to all of the nearly 21 million registered
voters in the state} for the November election.

The second leading cause for the ballots to be rejected was that they
were unsigned or the voter's signature did not match the name on the
election rolls, according to the data, which was
\href{https://apnews.com/a45421048cd89938df7c882891a97db5}{first
reported by The Associated Press}.

In Los Angeles County, the state's most populous county, 17,743 mail-in
ballots were rejected.

Nearly seven million mail-in ballots were accepted for the primary,
which was headlined by the Democratic presidential nominating contest.
Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/03/03/us/elections/results-california-president-democrat-primary-election.html}{won
the state}, though Joseph R. Biden Jr.'s dominance in other Super
Tuesday races helped him establish a lead in the delegate count.

In November, election officials must accept mail-in ballots for up to 17
days after Election Day under the bill signed by Mr. Newsom. The ballots
must be postmarked by Nov. 3.

A ``Where's My Ballot?'' vote-by-mail tracking tool that uses text
message notifications will also be expanded statewide, Sam Mahood, a
spokesman for the secretary of state's office, wrote in an email.

\hypertarget{george-soross-foundation-is-making-a-major-donation-toward-racial-justice-efforts}{%
\subsection{George Soros's foundation is making a major donation toward
racial justice
efforts.}\label{george-soross-foundation-is-making-a-major-donation-toward-racial-justice-efforts}}

The Open Society Foundations, the philanthropic group founded by the
billionaire George Soros, will announce on Monday that it is investing
\$220 million in efforts to achieve racial equality in the United
States.

The investment, a huge financial undertaking that comes during an
extraordinary protest movement, will immediately reshape the landscape
of Black political and civil rights organizations and support several of
them for years to come.

``There is this call for justice in Black and brown communities, an
explosion of not just sympathy but solidarity across the board,'' said
Patrick Gaspard, the president of Open Society. ``So it's time to double
down.''

Of the \$220 million, the foundation will invest \$150 million in
five-year grants for selected groups, including progressive and emerging
organizations like the Black Voters Matter Fund and Repairers of the
Breach, a group founded by the Rev. Dr. William J. Barber II of the Poor
People's Campaign.

The money will also support more established Black political
organizations like the Equal Justice Initiative, which was founded by
the civil rights lawyer Bryan Stevenson and depicted in the 2019 movie
``Just Mercy.''

The Open Society Foundations will invest an additional \$70 million in
local grants supporting changes to policing and criminal justice. This
money will also be used for civic engagement opportunities.

Even before Monday's announcement, progressive groups, Democratic
candidates and racial justice organizations had been flooded with
small-dollar donations, breaking giving records and allowing
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/elections/joe-biden.html}{Joseph
R. Biden Jr.} as well as House and Senate candidates to post
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/01/us/politics/trump-fundraising-2020.html}{eye-popping
fund-raising numbers}.

\hypertarget{it-didnt-rain-after-all-in-new-hampshire-where-republicans-await-trumps-return}{%
\subsection{It didn't rain after all in New Hampshire, where Republicans
await Trump's
return.}\label{it-didnt-rain-after-all-in-new-hampshire-where-republicans-await-trumps-return}}

Image

Mr. Trump at his rally in Tulsa in June.Credit...Doug Mills/The New York
Times

After President Trump
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/10/us/politics/trump-nh-rally-postponed.html}{canceled
his planned outdoor rally Saturday} because his campaign said there were
concerns about a looming tropical storm, the rain never came, leaving
Portsmouth, N.H., with a lovely New England summer day (and reporters
with
\href{https://twitter.com/DJJudd/status/1281660158951788545?s=20}{no
news to cover}).

The schedule change --- technically a postponement --- left local Trump
supporters eager for the president to appear.

``The worst job in the world could be the weatherman because they're
always wrong,'' said Chris Ager, a Republican national committeeman from
New Hampshire. ``There was initial disappointment that it was postponed
because there was so much excitement and enthusiasm. Then with the
weather, Monday morning quarterbacking is always great.''

Mr. Trump's planned Portsmouth rally was to be his return to the
campaign trail after he filled just one-third of an arena in Tulsa last
month, a major embarrassment after his campaign manager bragged that
more than one million supporters had requested tickets. The event was to
take place outside and under a hangar at the Portsmouth International
Airport.

Mr. Ager and Juliana Bergeron, New Hampshire's other R.N.C. member, both
said they believed the president would have drawn a large enough crowd
to fill the airport space had the event taken place.

``I'm over in the southwest corner of the state and I received tons of
calls'' for tickets, Ms. Bergeron said. ``If it had been a terrible
storm everybody would have said he should have canceled it.''

Mr. Ager said he expects the Trump campaign to reschedule the Portsmouth
event ``within a couple of weeks.''

\hypertarget{howie-hawkins-defends-jill-steins-role-in-2016-as-he-accepts-the-green-partys-nomination}{%
\subsection{Howie Hawkins defends Jill Stein's role in 2016 as he
accepts the Green Party's
nomination.}\label{howie-hawkins-defends-jill-steins-role-in-2016-as-he-accepts-the-green-partys-nomination}}

Image

Howie Hawkins is a Syracuse-based political activist and frequent
candidate.Credit...Nathaniel Brooks for The New York Times

Howie Hawkins, the Syracuse activist who is a perpetual candidate for
state and local office in New York and who won the Green Party's 2020
presidential nomination, said his party owed a debt of gratitude to Jill
Stein, who remains widely blamed by Democrats for siphoning votes away
from Hillary Clinton in her narrow loss to President Trump.

``The Green Party moves forward, standing on the shoulders of Jill
Stein, and her running mates, Cheri Honkala and Ajamu Baraka,'' Mr.
Hawkins
\href{https://howiehawkins.us/hawkins-nomination-speech/?utm_source=Press+and+Media\&utm_campaign=2dae87db3a-EMAIL_CAMPAIGN_2020_07_11_09_39\&utm_medium=email\&utm_term=0_79662d9b1d-2dae87db3a-25987978\&mc_cid=2dae87db3a\&mc_eid=ff2e4bed0d}{said
in his nomination acceptance speech Saturday}. ``They brought the Green
Party to another level in 2012 and again in 2016.''

Ms. Stein, who was the party's presidential nominee in both of those
elections and
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/08/01/us/politics/green-party-midterm-elections.html}{who
has declined to seek the nomination this year}, argued during her
campaigns that there was little difference between the major-party
candidates. The Senate Intelligence Committee in 2017
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2017/12/19/us/politics/jill-stein-russian-election-interference-senate-intelligence.html}{said
it was investigating links between Ms. Stein's campaign} and Russia's
efforts to interfere in the 2016 presidential election.

Mr. Hawkins credited Ms. Stein for the Green New Deal, which the Green
Party touted for years but didn't become a Democratic Party staple until
after the 2018 midterm elections, when Representative Alexandria
Ocasio-Cortez arrived in Congress.

``Jill Stein put the Green New Deal, the signature issue of the Green
Party in the 2010s, onto the national agenda,'' Mr. Hawkins said. ``But
the Democrats have taken the slogan and watered down the content.''

Mr. Hawkins also joined many Democrats in criticizing former Vice
President Joseph R. Biden Jr. for conducting his campaign largely from
his Delaware home because of coronavirus concerns.

``Where the hell is Joe Biden?'' Mr. Hawkins said. ``He lives within
commuter distance of the White House press corps. He can command their
attention. He should be holding news conferences and pounding away at
what we need now --- a test, trace, and isolate program to suppress the
virus, like most other organized countries around the world.''

Reporting was contributed by Reid J. Epstein, Katie Glueck, Patrick
Healy, Astead W. Herndon, Lisa Lerer, Jeremy W. Peters, Elaina Plott,
Katie Rogers, Giovanni Russonello and Neil Vigdor.

\hypertarget{our-2020-election-guide}{%
\section{Our 2020 Election Guide}\label{our-2020-election-guide}}

Updated July 31, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{the-latest}{%
  \subsection{The Latest}\label{the-latest}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    President Trump's assault on the Postal Service is intersecting with
    his attacks on mail-in voting.
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/politics/trump-usps-mail-delays.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Voting
    rights groups say it is a recipe for disaster.}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{bidens-vp-search}{%
  \subsection{Biden's V.P. Search}\label{bidens-vp-search}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/biden-vice-president-2020.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Here
    are 13 women} who have been under consideration to be Joe Biden's
    running mate, and why each might be chosen --- and might not be.
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{keep-up-with-our-coverage}{%
  \subsection{Keep Up With Our
  Coverage}\label{keep-up-with-our-coverage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Get an
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{email}
    recapping the day's news
  \end{itemize}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Download our mobile app on
    \href{https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nytimes/id284862083?ls=1\&mat_click_id=5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\&referrer=mat_click_id\%3D5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\%26link_click_id\%3D722930677036718082}{iOS}
    and
    \href{http://a.localytics.com/android?id=com.nytimes.android\&referrer=utm_source\%3Dother_nyt_mobile_web\%26utm_medium\%3DWeb\%2520page\%26utm_term\%3DGeneral\%2520Mobile\%2520Page\%26utm_campaign\%3DNYT\%2520Mobile\%2520General\%2520Page}{Android}
    and turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
