Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/arts/design}{Art \&
Design}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/arts/design}{Art \& Design}\textbar{}MoMA PS1 Looks to
Moscow to Hire New Director

\url{https://nyti.ms/2YdjWSU}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{moma-ps1-looks-to-moscow-to-hire-new-director}{%
\section{MoMA PS1 Looks to Moscow to Hire New
Director}\label{moma-ps1-looks-to-moscow-to-hire-new-director}}

Kate Fowle brings her cultural expertise to Queens from the Garage
Museum of Contemporary Art in Russia. She succeeds Klaus Biesenbach, who
departed in October.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2019/06/26/arts/26moma1/26moma1-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/robin-pogrebin}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2019/09/15/arts/pogrebin-robin/pogrebin-robin-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/robin-pogrebin}{Robin
Pogrebin}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  June 26, 2019
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

For the last six years, Kate Fowle has divided her time between Moscow,
where she was until recently the chief curator at the
\href{https://garagemca.org/en}{Garage Museum of Contemporary Art}, and
New York City, where she has been director-at-large at
\href{http://curatorsintl.org/}{Independent Curators International}
(ICI).

Now Ms. Fowle will be planted here full-time as the new director of
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/topic/organization/moma-ps1}{MoMA
PS1}, the museum in Long Island City, Queens, known for its inventive
contemporary arts programming. The British-born Ms. Fowle will be only
the third leader in the institution's 43-year history. The museum
announced her appointment on Wednesday.

``It's an institution that I've known for years and years and years,''
said Ms. Fowle in a telephone interview. The curator, who was born in
Kent, England, added that she first visited the museum's former studio
program when she was living in London in the '90s.

``I love the second skin,'' she added, saying that she was referring to
the museum's lingering aura of past exhibitions, ``the legacy artists
that have left.''

Ms. Fowle, who starts Sept. 3, succeeds Klaus Biesenbach, who departed
in October to
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/07/31/arts/moca-turns-to-new-york-again-to-direct-its-next-chapter.html}{lead}
\href{https://www.moca.org/}{the Museum of Contemporary Art} in Los
Angeles. Mr. Biesenbach in 2010
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2009/10/22/arts/design/22museum.html}{took
over} from Alanna Heiss, who in 1976 founded the P. S. 1 Contemporary
Art Center, which in 2000 merged with the Museum of Modern Art.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/11/16/arts/design/moma-glenn-lowry.html}{Glenn
D. Lowry}, MoMA's director, said Ms. Fowle was a natural choice. ``She's
an accomplished scholar, a deft curator and an outstanding leader,'' he
said, noting that she will be arriving from outside the organization,
where Mr. Biesenbach had been nurtured by Ms. Heiss.

``She is the first director that comes at it with fresh eyes,'' he said.

As to Ms. Fowle's mandate at the museum, Mr. Lowry said it would be ``to
build on the substantial platform we have created together over the last
20 years, but to stay very much true to PS1's artist-centric roots.''

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2019/06/26/arts/26moma2/merlin_156996267_0f0fb669-9fe0-4171-b11d-3a78614edaff-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

For her part, Ms. Fowle said she had ``lots of ideas'' but that she
would first aim to get to know the staff and the neighborhood. ``I don't
want to rush into it,'' she said. ``What's most important and the way
that I've always worked is through collaboration.''

``It's an institution that isn't broken, it doesn't need fixing,'' she
continued, adding that given the museum's experimental environment there
is ``so much that can be pushed and developed.''

The museum, housed in a 100-year-old Romanesque Revival school building,
has over the years established an international reputation for mounting
adventuresome exhibitions and championing local artists through its
every-five-years roundup,
\href{https://momaps1.org/exhibitions/view/403}{``Greater New York.''}

PS1 has also been acclaimed for shows like
its\href{https://www.moma.org/calendar/exhibitions/3744}{landmark 2013
survey of Mike Kelley} --- at the time the largest exhibition of the
artist's work --- and the recent Bruce Nauman retrospective, which
Holland Cotter, The New York Times's co-chief critic, called
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/10/19/arts/design/bruce-nauman-review-museum-of-modern-art-moma-ps-1.html?rref=collection\%2Ftimestopic\%2FPS\%201\%20Contemporary\%20Art\%20Center\&action=click\&contentCollection=timestopics\&region=stream\&module=stream_unit\&version=latest\&contentPlacement=2\&pgtype=collection}{``a
transfixing trip.''}

The museum has also had its bumps along the way. Last year, Nikki
Columbus, a curator,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/07/06/arts/design/moma-ps1-discrimination-suit-baby.html?module=inline}{accused}
MoMA PS 1 of gender, pregnancy and caregiver discrimination, a claim she
brought against the museum saying it had rescinded a job offer upon
learning she had recently given birth. The lawsuit was
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/03/26/arts/design/moma-ps1-settles-with-curator-who-said-giving-birth-cost-her-job-offer.html}{settled}
in March.

Asked whether that case had given her pause, Ms. Fowle said, ``I think
it was important to listen to what was being said and try to understand
things, but it has been settled now.''

``It's really important to nurture women and especially young women in
the workplace and to encourage them to believe they can have it all,''
she added. ``I'm somebody who really stands up for that.''

Ms. Fowle said she also believes strongly in the current trend among
museums to make room on their walls --- and on their staffs and boards
of trustees --- for people of color.

``Understanding the world from that perspective is long overdue,'' she
said. ``It's not the West and the rest. Those days are over.''

Image

Ms. Fowle was chief curator of the Garage Museum of Contemporary Art, a
vintage building redesigned by Rem Koolhaas.Credit...Maxim
Shemetov/Reuters

Although her responsibilities will mainly be administrative, Ms. Fowle
said she is glad they also include curatorial possibilities. ``In the
job description, it still says that you can curate,'' she said. ``It's
something I've done from the very beginning.''

``I love working directly with artists,'' she continued.

In an interview with ARTnews in 2015, Rashid Johnson, who was
commissioned by Ms. Fowle to
\href{https://news.artnet.com/exhibitions/garage-museum-spring-exhibitions-454715}{create
a living, green sculpture for the Garage Museum}, said she was ``an
artist's curator. She's open to dialogue and really wants to participate
in the vision, rather than try to mold that vision.''

Ms. Fowle said she initially wanted to be an artist, but quickly
realized she was better at organizing exhibitions, which led to a
traineeship in curating and exhibitions through the Arts Council of
England. ``I decided the world was not going to be that sad if I stopped
being an artist,'' she said.

Ms. Fowle went on to serve as the inaugural international curator at the
\href{http://ucca.org.cn/en/}{Ullens Center for Contemporary Art} in
Beijing from 2007 to 2008 and as chairwoman of the Master's Program in
Curatorial Practice at California College of the Arts in San Francisco,
which she co-founded in 2002.

As the executive director of ICI from 2009 to 2013, Ms. Fowle
transformed the organization from a deficit-ridden operation into a
global network for curators with a professional training program.

Having joined the Garage in 2013 as its first chief curator, Ms. Fowle
played a key role in the institution's transformation from art center to
internationally-recognized museum. She worked closely with Rem Koolhaas
and OMA to oversee its first building in 2015, the same year she became
an American citizen. In 2017, Ms. Fowle established the Garage Triennial
of Russian Contemporary Art.

She has written three books --- ``Proof: Francisco Goya, Sergei
Eisenstein, Robert Longo'' (2016); ``Exhibit Russia: The New
International Decade 1986--1996'' (2016); and ``Rashid Johnson: Within
Our Gates'' (2016), which she co-authored.

On Wednesday, when Ms. Fowle's appointment is announced, she will also
turn 48. ``It's going,'' she said, ``to be quite a birthday.''

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{Â©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
