Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/sports}{Sports}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/sports}{Sports}\textbar{}N.F.L. and Jay-Z Team Up on
Music and Social Justice Campaign

\url{https://nyti.ms/2Mf7Czm}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{nfl-and-jay-z-team-up-on-music-and-social-justice-campaign}{%
\section{N.F.L. and Jay-Z Team Up on Music and Social Justice
Campaign}\label{nfl-and-jay-z-team-up-on-music-and-social-justice-campaign}}

The partnership brings together two of the country's biggest brands, as
well as the league and a vocal critic.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2019/08/13/sports/13nfl2/13nfl2-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/ken-belson}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/02/16/multimedia/author-ken-belson/author-ken-belson-thumbLarge.jpg}}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/ben-sisario}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/02/20/multimedia/author-ben-sisario/author-ben-sisario-thumbLarge.jpg}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/ken-belson}{Ken Belson}
and \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/ben-sisario}{Ben
Sisario}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Aug. 13, 2019
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Looking to move past an uproar over player protests, the N.F.L. has
signed a deal with the rap star and impresario Jay-Z to gain a foothold
in the music business and a seal of approval from one of the country's
biggest African-American celebrities for its social justice efforts.

The deal, with Roc Nation, the rapper's entertainment and sports
company, calls for the firm to be the N.F.L.'s ``live music
entertainment strategist.'' In that role, Roc Nation and Jay-Z will
consult on entertainment, including the Super Bowl halftime show, and
contribute to the league's activism campaign, Inspire Change.

The N.F.L. is keen to portray the deal as a way to bring more
high-profile entertainers to its events. It also represents an effort to
quiet the long-running controversy over its handling of players kneeling
or sitting during the national anthem --- most notably involving Colin
Kaepernick, the former San Francisco 49ers quarterback --- and to form a
bond with one of its most influential critics.

``The N.F.L. has a great big platform, and it has to be all-inclusive,''
Jay-Z said in an interview this week at Roc Nation's headquarters in
Manhattan. ``They were willing to do some things, to make some changes,
that we can do some good.''

Roc Nation and the N.F.L. are expected to announce the deal on
Wednesday. Financial terms were not available.

While the pairing may seem odd at first glance, Roger Goodell, the
commissioner of the N.F.L., said the league wants partners that will
hold it to account.

``We don't want people to come in and necessarily agree with us; we want
people to come in and tell us what we can do better,'' Goodell said in
an interview Monday at his Midtown office. ``I think that's a core
element of our relationship between the two organizations, and with Jay
and I personally.''

Kaepernick's protests --- which he said were against racial injustice
and police brutality --- prompted dozens of other players to kneel.
Their actions intensified a national debate over race and free speech,
drawing pointed opinions not only from fans and sports commentators, but
also former President Barack Obama and even
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2016/10/15/us/ruth-bader-ginsburg-colin-kaepernick-national-anthem.html}{Supreme
Court Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg}. Since then, athletes in other sports
have followed Kaepernick's lead in protesting during the anthem,
including a fencer and a hammer thrower at the recently completed Pan
American Games.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2019/08/13/sports/13nfl3/merlin_143243712_0c274dba-ee17-49a7-a0ae-0064ec3d8be3-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

The N.F.L. protests sparked
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2017/09/23/sports/football/trump-nfl-kaepernick.html}{harsh
comments from President Trump}, beginning in 2017, when he urged team
owners to fire Kaepernick and other protesters. The rebuke
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/04/25/sports/nfl-owners-kaepernick.html}{shook
players and owners}, but received support from Trump enthusiasts.
Kaepernick was not on an N.F.L. roster at the time, but others had taken
up his cause.

The issue has divided owners, league executives and locker rooms across
the N.F.L., where roughly three-quarters of players are
African-American. Some television executives blamed the protests for a
drop in ratings in 2017. Near the end of that season, the league
negotiated a deal with a coalition of players that included
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2017/11/29/sports/football/nfl-players-coalition.html}{contributing
as much as \$89 million over six years to social justice causes} of the
players' choosing. That effort, which was rebranded Inspire Change in
January, donates money to groups fighting for criminal justice reform,
employment and educational opportunities in economically challenged
areas and better relations between the police and local communities.

The partnership gives Jay-Z a role in selecting and producing the
country's most-watched musical performance. The 12-minute Super Bowl
halftime show is seen by more than 100 million people each year. The
deal also risks Jay-Z appearing as being co-opted and neutralized by an
organization he once criticized.

One of the most prominent champions of Kaepernick's cause, Jay-Z once
called Kaepernick
``\href{https://www.cnn.com/2018/01/27/us/jay-z-colin-kaepernick-cnntv/index.html}{an
iconic figure}'' akin to Muhammad Ali. Jay-Z wore a custom version of
Kaepernick's jersey
\href{https://www.cbssports.com/nfl/news/look-jay-z-rocks-custom-colin-kaepernick-jersey-during-snl-performance/amp/}{when
he performed on ``Saturday Night Live''} in 2017.

He also rebuffed overtures to perform at the Super Bowl --- a move that
other black stars followed, including Rihanna. In a recent song, he told
the league, ``You need me, I don't need you.''

Now that he is working with the N.F.L., Jay-Z has either betrayed the
cause to hold the organization accountable or is working to change it
from the inside, depending on one's perspective.

The N.F.L. has a track record of addressing thorny internal problems by
bringing in outsiders. When the league was condemned for not doing
enough to protect players from concussions and potential long-term brain
damage, it pledged to
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2013/02/03/sports/football/nfl-and-ge-team-up-in-effort-to-detect-concussions.html}{spend
tens of millions of dollars on research and engineering solutions}, like
better helmets.

It hired Ted Wells, one of the country's most prominent lawyers, to
investigate whether the New England Patriots conspired to deflate
footballs.

In 2014, after
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2014/09/09/sports/football/ray-rice-video-shows-punch-and-raises-new-questions-for-nfl.html}{video
was published showing the former Ravens running back Ray Rice} knocking
out his then-fianc√©e, the league convened experts on domestic violence
to help it create programs to address the issue, and hired a team of
experts,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2016/02/05/sports/football/lisa-friel-ex-prosecutor-finds-plenty-to-do-as-the-nfls-top-investigator.html}{including
Lisa Friel}, the former chief of the Manhattan district attorney's sex
crimes unit, to investigate cases involving players accused of harming
partners.

Some critics have accused the league of using outsiders to quiet
criticism, then failing to do the hard work over the long term to
address often intractable problems.

``It's a constant crisis response mode: We deal with it when we have to,
and then we go into a public relations mode to clean it up,'' said Rene
Redwood, who has advised the league on issues of race and abuse. ``In my
assessment, they have not visibly addressed the domestic violence
problem because they haven't addressed the root cause.''

The deal with Jay-Z, too, may be viewed as a way to quell criticism that
the league is insensitive to significant social issues important to many
players.

Sitting before wall-size video screens in a dark meeting room called the
Blueprint at Roc Nation's headquarters, where the company has music,
sports and streaming media divisions on four floors, Jay-Z dismissed the
idea that working with the N.F.L. changed anything about his
perspective. He said that whatever the N.F.L.'s intentions, he was
determined to make the most of the opportunity.

Image

Jay-Z showed solidarity with Kaepernick by wearing a No. 7 jersey on
``Saturday Night Live'' in 2017.Credit...Will Heath/NBC/NBCU Photo Bank,
via Getty Images

``I have to believe that even if it's not sincere, we're going to get
things done,'' said Jay-Z, who wore a pink designer T-shirt and a black
trucker cap with the
\href{https://www.highsnobiety.com/p/jay-z-ballroom-marfa/}{logo of a
nonprofit arts organization in Texas}. He said he grew up a Cowboys fan,
and now roots for the Giants.

Jay-Z said Roc Nation's deal with the league allowed him to
significantly expand the league's Inspire Change initiative through a
series of programs that will run throughout the year.

The programs include: ``Songs of the Season,'' inspirational songs from
five artists that will serve as unofficial anthems to be played during
N.F.L. broadcasts; a ``visual album'' of Super Bowl halftime shows; and
``Beyond the Field,'' a platform for players that may include podcasts
or playlists.

These efforts may prove ancillary to the league's goal of ensuring
top-shelf entertainers for the Super Bowl, which became more difficult
after Kaepernick accused the league of blackballing him.

Image

Robert K. Kraft, right, the owner of the Patriots, brokered a meeting in
January between Jay-Z, left, and Roger Goodell, the N.F.L.
commissioner.Credit...Mike Segar/Reuters

Suddenly, the league's marquee event had turned into a political hot
potato, scaring some team owners who wanted to return the focus to the
game and the spectacle it creates.

Despite the high-profile artists coming out against the league, Goodell
pushed back at the notion that the N.F.L. was unable to find top acts to
perform.

``You can go back a number of years and see artists who were not going
to perform for any number of a variety of reasons,'' Goodell said. ``We
don't have any problem getting great entertainers to perform in an
opportunity like this.''

To move past the crisis, earlier this year, the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/02/15/sports/nfl-colin-kaepernick.html}{N.F.L.
reached a multimillion-dollar settlement with Kaepernick} and Eric Reid,
another 49ers player, who filed grievances accusing the league of
colluding to keep them off the field because of their decision to kneel
during the anthem.

Robert K. Kraft, the owner of the New England Patriots, who has deep
connections in the music industry and Hollywood, also pushed for the
N.F.L. to align with groups working to combat social injustice,
including those endorsed by celebrities. He and Goodell flew to Los
Angeles in January to meet Jay-Z and ask him to help recruit
entertainers for N.F.L. events and find ways to reach younger fans.

At that meeting, Goodell said, their conversation expanded to include
ways to bolster social justice initiatives, some of which Jay-Z was
addressing \href{https://reformalliance.com/}{through the Reform
Alliance}, which is dedicated to criminal justice reform. Kraft, the
rapper Meek Mill and Michael Rubin, who runs Fanatics, the sport's
merchandise retailer, are also involved in the organization.

The details of the partnership between the league and Roc Nation picked
up speed after the N.F.L. draft in April. Only a small circle of
executives at both organizations were privy to the discussions.

Jay-Z said he would gauge its success by criteria such as whether
players' voices are heard and whether the Super Bowl halftime show
becomes ``more inclusive of all types of music.''

``If we can't get this done in, like, five years,'' he said, ``then we
need to sit down and evaluate where we are.''

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{¬©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
