Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/nyregion}{New York}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/nyregion}{New York}\textbar{}Sheldon Silver, Former N.Y.
Assembly Speaker, Will Finally Go to Prison

\url{https://nyti.ms/3eLa3Dz}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{The
Coronavirus Outbreak}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  live\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/04/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Latest
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Maps
  and Cases}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Vaccine
  Tracker}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/02/us/covid-college-reopening.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{College
  Reopening}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/03/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Economy}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{sheldon-silver-former-ny-assembly-speaker-will-finally-go-to-prison}{%
\section{Sheldon Silver, Former N.Y. Assembly Speaker, Will Finally Go
to
Prison}\label{sheldon-silver-former-ny-assembly-speaker-will-finally-go-to-prison}}

Mr. Silver receives a sentence of 78 months after two trials. He had
asked for home confinement, arguing that he was vulnerable to the
coronavirus.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/07/20/nyregion/20silver01/merlin_167524716_56e03059-13c7-4126-a82f-b1d36de4f132-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/benjamin-weiser}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/07/16/multimedia/author-benjamin-weiser/author-benjamin-weiser-thumbLarge.png}}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/jesse-mckinley}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/02/20/multimedia/author-jesse-mckinley/author-jesse-mckinley-thumbLarge.jpg}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/benjamin-weiser}{Benjamin
Weiser} and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/jesse-mckinley}{Jesse
McKinley}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  July 20, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Sheldon Silver, the once dominant New York State Assembly speaker who
for nearly five years fended off prison after being convicted twice on
corruption charges, lost a final bid for freedom on Monday when he was
sentenced to 78 months in prison.

His lawyers had asked that Mr. Silver be allowed to serve a term of home
confinement, arguing that sending him to prison would increase his
chances of becoming ill or even dying from the coronavirus. They cited
Mr. Silver's history of cancer and chronic kidney disease.

``Your honor, I do not want to die in prison,'' Mr. Silver, 76, wrote to
the judge before the sentencing.

But the judge, Valerie E. Caproni of Federal District Court in
Manhattan, said that Mr. Silver had acted out of a sense of greed, and
that he was guilty of ``corruption, pure and simple.'' She added that
issuing a sentence that did not include prison time was not appropriate.

``Mr. Silver, his time has come,'' the judge said, brushing away a final
effort to delay Mr. Silver's surrender date to prison. ``He needs to go
to jail.''

She also fined Mr. Silver \$1 million.

Mr. Silver's lawyers had noted that other notable white-collar criminals
who had raised concerns about the spread of the virus had been released
from prison to lesser forms of confinement in recent months, including
Dean G. Skelos, the former Republican State Senate majority leader,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/13/us/politics/paul-manafort-released-coronavirus.html}{and
Paul Manafort}, the president's former campaign chairman.

The hearing marked the third time Judge Caproni had sentenced Mr.
Silver, who twice had convictions
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/01/21/nyregion/sheldon-silver-appeal.html}{overturned
in whole or part, invalidating earlier sentences she had imposed}.

Mr. Silver, a Democrat from Manhattan's Lower East Side, served more
than two decades as speaker, wielding extraordinary influence in state
politics and developing a reputation for rebuffing threats and
challenges, whether from political rivals or prosecutors.

Even in recent years, while his convictions were under appeal,
occasional sightings of Mr. Silver around his Lower Manhattan
neighborhood seemed to symbolize, in the view of his critics, a kind of
imperviousness to accountability.

He was first
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2015/12/01/nyregion/sheldon-silver-guilty-corruption-trial.html}{convicted
in 2015 of accepting nearly \$4 million in illicit payments} in exchange
for taking official actions in separate schemes on behalf of Dr. Robert
N. Taub, a cancer researcher at Columbia University, and two real estate
developers. He was
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2016/05/04/nyregion/sheldon-silver-ex-new-york-assembly-speaker-gets-12-year-prison-sentence.html}{sentenced
to 12 years in prison} but he was allowed to remain free on bond, and in
2017,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2017/07/13/nyregion/sheldon-silvers-conviction-is-overturned.html}{the
conviction was overturned on appeal}.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-global-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/04/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: Global Coronavirus
Outbreak}}{Latest Updates: Global Coronavirus Outbreak}}\label{latest-updates-global-coronavirus-outbreak}}

Updated 2020-08-04T10:03:05.885Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/04/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-6b644638}{`Long
  days, long nights': Washington prepares for a prolonged fight over
  virus relief.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/04/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-7af9fca0}{Israel's
  rocky reopening of its schools may be a lesson for the U.S.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/04/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-33bf9168}{Hurricane
  Isaias arrives in North Carolina as officials along the East Coast
  scramble.}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/04/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

More live coverage:
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/04/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Markets}

Mr. Silver was retried and convicted the following year,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/07/27/nyregion/sheldon-silver-sentencing-prison-corruption.html}{this
time receiving a seven-year sentence}. Last January, the appeals court
again overturned his conviction in the scheme related to Dr. Taub.

But the appeals court upheld his conviction on charges stemming from the
real estate scheme and a separate money laundering count, the
convictions for which he was sentenced on Monday.

Mr. Silver cut a diminished figure in court, staggering in a few minutes
before his sentencing wearing a dark, loosely fitted suit, a blue
surgical mask and a pair of clear, disposable vinyl gloves.

He remained slumped in a black leather chair, mostly motionless and
listening to the proceedings through earphones.

Writing to the judge in advance of his sentencing, Mr. Silver's lawyers
cited the pandemic and said their client's ``multiple health
conditions'' would ``significantly predispose him to the worst outcomes
if infected with Covid-19, including death.'' They asked that he be
allowed to serve a substantial term of home confinement, along with a
rigorous community service requirement and fines and forfeitures.

``The risk here is very real,'' Mr. Silver's lawyer, James P. Loonam,
said at the hearing on Monday.

Mr. Silver, addressing the judge, said that his actions were ``improper,
selfish and ethically indefensible,'' and emanated from a misplaced
sense of entitlement.

``I want to be clear: What I did was wrong,'' he said to the judge.

He said his actions had undermined the public trust. ``I know that a lot
of people have lost faith in their government,'' Mr. Silver said,
adding: ``And I know that my actions contributed to that loss of
faith.''

Audrey Strauss, the acting U.S. attorney in Manhattan, said Mr. Silver
``will now finally report to prison to begin serving a sentence that can
begin to repair the harm his conduct caused.''

Federal prosecutors had told the judge that a sentence of more than 10
years would be appropriate but asked that she at least reimpose the
seven-year sentence Mr. Silver received after his second trial.

``He abused his office,'' a prosecutor, Daniel C. Richenthal, said on
Monday. ``He did it for profit, he did it for at least 15 years, he did
it in multiple ways and he lied about it for years.''

For decades, Mr. Silver was a powerful and sphinx-like figure in Albany,
where his tenure as Assembly speaker was marked by his steely command of
both policy issues and his Democratic colleagues, who hold an
overwhelming numeric advantage over Republicans in the Legislature's
lower chamber.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{}

\hypertarget{the-coronavirus-outbreak-}{%
\subsubsection{The Coronavirus Outbreak
›}\label{the-coronavirus-outbreak-}}

\hypertarget{frequently-asked-questions}{%
\paragraph{Frequently Asked
Questions}\label{frequently-asked-questions}}

Updated August 3, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{im-a-small-business-owner-can-i-get-relief}{%
  \paragraph{I'm a small-business owner. Can I get
  relief?}\label{im-a-small-business-owner-can-i-get-relief}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    The
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/small-business-loans-stimulus-grants-freelancers-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{stimulus
    bills enacted in March} offer help for the millions of American
    small businesses. Those eligible for aid are businesses and
    nonprofit organizations with fewer than 500 workers, including sole
    proprietorships, independent contractors and freelancers. Some
    larger companies in some industries are also eligible. The help
    being offered, which is being managed by the Small Business
    Administration, includes the Paycheck Protection Program and the
    Economic Injury Disaster Loan program. But lots of folks have
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/05/07/business/small-business-loans-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{not
    yet seen payouts.} Even those who have received help are confused:
    The rules are draconian, and some are stuck sitting on
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/02/business/economy/loans-coronavirus-small-business.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{money
    they don't know how to use.} Many small-business owners are getting
    less than they expected or
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/10/business/Small-business-loans-ppp.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{not
    hearing anything at all.}
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{what-are-my-rights-if-i-am-worried-about-going-back-to-work}{%
  \paragraph{What are my rights if I am worried about going back to
  work?}\label{what-are-my-rights-if-i-am-worried-about-going-back-to-work}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Employers have to provide
    \href{https://www.osha.gov/SLTC/covid-19/standards.html}{a safe
    workplace} with policies that protect everyone equally.
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/coronavirus-money-unemployment.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{And
    if one of your co-workers tests positive for the coronavirus, the
    C.D.C.} has said that
    \href{https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/community/guidance-business-response.html}{employers
    should tell their employees} -\/- without giving you the sick
    employee's name -\/- that they may have been exposed to the virus.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{should-i-refinance-my-mortgage}{%
  \paragraph{Should I refinance my
  mortgage?}\label{should-i-refinance-my-mortgage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/coronavirus-money-unemployment.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{It
    could be a good idea,} because mortgage rates have
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/16/business/mortgage-rates-below-3-percent.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{never
    been lower.} Refinancing requests have pushed mortgage applications
    to some of the highest levels since 2008, so be prepared to get in
    line. But defaults are also up, so if you're thinking about buying a
    home, be aware that some lenders have tightened their standards.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{what-is-school-going-to-look-like-in-september}{%
  \paragraph{What is school going to look like in
  September?}\label{what-is-school-going-to-look-like-in-september}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    It is unlikely that many schools will return to a normal schedule
    this fall, requiring the grind of
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/05/us/coronavirus-education-lost-learning.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{online
    learning},
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/29/us/coronavirus-child-care-centers.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{makeshift
    child care} and
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/03/business/economy/coronavirus-working-women.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{stunted
    workdays} to continue. California's two largest public school
    districts --- Los Angeles and San Diego --- said on July 13, that
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/13/us/lausd-san-diego-school-reopening.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{instruction
    will be remote-only in the fall}, citing concerns that surging
    coronavirus infections in their areas pose too dire a risk for
    students and teachers. Together, the two districts enroll some
    825,000 students. They are the largest in the country so far to
    abandon plans for even a partial physical return to classrooms when
    they reopen in August. For other districts, the solution won't be an
    all-or-nothing approach.
    \href{https://bioethics.jhu.edu/research-and-outreach/projects/eschool-initiative/school-policy-tracker/}{Many
    systems}, including the nation's largest, New York City, are
    devising
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/26/us/coronavirus-schools-reopen-fall.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{hybrid
    plans} that involve spending some days in classrooms and other days
    online. There's no national policy on this yet, so check with your
    municipal school system regularly to see what is happening in your
    community.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{is-the-coronavirus-airborne}{%
  \paragraph{Is the coronavirus
  airborne?}\label{is-the-coronavirus-airborne}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    The coronavirus
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/04/health/239-experts-with-one-big-claim-the-coronavirus-is-airborne.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{can
    stay aloft for hours in tiny droplets in stagnant air}, infecting
    people as they inhale, mounting scientific evidence suggests. This
    risk is highest in crowded indoor spaces with poor ventilation, and
    may help explain super-spreading events reported in meatpacking
    plants, churches and restaurants.
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/06/health/coronavirus-airborne-aerosols.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{It's
    unclear how often the virus is spread} via these tiny droplets, or
    aerosols, compared with larger droplets that are expelled when a
    sick person coughs or sneezes, or transmitted through contact with
    contaminated surfaces, said Linsey Marr, an aerosol expert at
    Virginia Tech. Aerosols are released even when a person without
    symptoms exhales, talks or sings, according to Dr. Marr and more
    than 200 other experts, who
    \href{https://academic.oup.com/cid/article/doi/10.1093/cid/ciaa939/5867798}{have
    outlined the evidence in an open letter to the World Health
    Organization}.
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Along with Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo and Mr. Skelos, Mr. Silver became known
as one of the ``three men in a room'' who controlled decision-making in
Albany, until both Mr. Silver and Mr. Skelos were arrested in 2015 in
separate corruption cases.

Mr. Silver's arrest led to
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2015/01/29/nyregion/6-days-that-felled-sheldon-silver-the-speaker-who-ruled-albany-for-decades.html}{his
ouster} as speaker and to a new chapter in the Assembly: His successor
was Assemblyman Carl E. Heastie, the Bronx Democrat who became the first
African-American to serve as speaker.

Mr. Silver's first trial ran almost concurrent to the trial of Mr.
Skelos, who was in the same court before a different judge.
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2015/11/02/nyregion/in-two-corruption-cases-the-culture-of-albany-will-go-on-trial.html?searchResultPosition=15}{The
trials received widespread news coverage and shed a spotlight on
Albany's culture of influence peddling and secrecy}. Their initial
convictions in late 2015 led both Mr. Silver and Mr. Skelos to forfeit
their legislative seats.

Mr. Silver must surrender to federal authorities on Aug. 26; his lawyer
asked that his client serve his sentence at
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/01/22/nyregion/michael-cohen-otisville-prison.html}{the
minimum-security camp} at the Federal Correctional Institution in
Otisville, N.Y., which is known for housing prisoners who, like Mr.
Silver, are Orthodox Jews.

In expressing contrition, Mr. Silver said that he believed he had done
good deeds while serving as a lawmaker for more than three decades.

``I thought I was pretty good at it, and I think we helped a lot of
people,'' he said. ``But I destroyed that legacy.''

During the sentencing, Judge Caproni said she recognized the risk of
Covid-19 in prison --- ``I do not want Mr. Silver to die in prison,
either,'' she said --- but she noted a variety of safeguards that could
be taken to protect him.

``I cannot guarantee that Mr. Silver will not contract Covid in
prison,'' the judge said. ``But I also can't guarantee that he won't
contract Covid if he stays out of prison.''

Following his sentencing, a frail-looking Mr. Silver emerged from the
courthouse accompanied by his lawyers.

He wore a mask and a brimmed straw hat under a scorching sun as he
wobbled slowly toward a black SUV that whisked him away. He did not
answer questions from reporters.

Luis Ferré-Sadurní contributed reporting.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
