Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}Barack Obama and Joe Biden
Join Forces in Video Targeting Trump

\url{https://nyti.ms/2WPzXjd}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Election
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/biden-vice-president-2020.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Biden's
  V.P. Search}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/07/24/us/politics/trump-biden-campaign-donors.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Map
  of Donations}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/elections/delegate-count-primary-results.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Delegate
  Count}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2019/us/politics/2020-presidential-candidates.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{The
  Candidates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Politics
  Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{barack-obama-and-joe-biden-join-forces-in-video-targeting-trump}{%
\section{Barack Obama and Joe Biden Join Forces in Video Targeting
Trump}\label{barack-obama-and-joe-biden-join-forces-in-video-targeting-trump}}

The former president and vice president released a new video Thursday
meant to cast President Trump as unbefitting of the office, while
trumpeting the credentials of Mr. Biden.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/07/23/us/23vid-obama-biden-vid/23obama-biden-videoSixteenByNineJumbo1600.jpg}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/astead-w-herndon}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/09/14/us/author-head-astead/author-head-astead-thumbLarge-v2.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/astead-w-herndon}{Astead W. Herndon}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Published July 23, 2020Updated July 30, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

\emph{Follow our latest coverage of}
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html}{\emph{the
Biden vs. Trump 2020 election here}}\emph{.}

Former Vice President
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/elections/joe-biden.html}{Joseph
R. Biden Jr.} joined forces with his top surrogate Thursday morning,
releasing a video of a conversation with former
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/30/us/politics/obama-trump-biden.html}{President
Barack Obama} that cast the current occupant of the White House as
unworthy and Mr. Biden as the perfect leader to replace him.

Mr. Biden and Mr. Obama covered several topics in the wide-ranging,
15-minute conversation, including President Trump's
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/18/us/politics/trump-coronavirus-response-failure-leadership.html}{faltering
response to the coronavirus pandemic}, health care, the economic
recovery, police brutality and presidential leadership.

The conversation, recorded at Mr. Obama's Washington office, was
``socially distanced,'' as Mr. Biden continues to contrast himself with
Mr. Trump, who has only
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/21/us/politics/trump-coronavirus-masks.html}{halfheartedly
embraced} virus mitigation tactics like wearing face masks and staying
six feet away from another person. Mr. Biden and his former boss entered
the office wearing masks before sitting in chairs across the room from
each other, unmasked, as they discussed how Mr. Biden would govern as
president.

The video, coming at a time when Mr. Biden is leading Mr. Trump in the
polls, was part interview and part political layup, with Mr. Obama
prompting Mr. Biden to talk about current events in the lens through
which he was most comfortable. The two men repeatedly circled back to
Mr. Trump, drawing a contrast with how Mr. Obama's administration ---
and Mr. Biden's potential White House --- would handle situations
differently than the incumbent.

Mr. Trump has been ``deliberately dividing people from the moment he
came down that escalator,'' Mr. Biden said. ``And I think people are now
going, `I don't want my kid growing up that way.'''

Mr. Obama responded by saying, in part, ``The thing I've got confidence
in, Joe, is your heart and your character, and the fact that you are
going to be able to reassemble the kind of government that cares about
people and brings people together.''

The video was released Thursday at 10 a.m. and represents another
careful step into the political arena by Mr. Obama, who is desperate to
see Mr. Trump defeated but for months
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/11/20/us/politics/obama-2020-candidates.html}{remained
behind the scenes} as he sought to let the Democratic Party chart its
own course. Leading up to the video's release, Mr. Biden's campaign
circulated several clips online, helping to build anticipation and
underscoring Mr. Obama's wide reach as a campaign surrogate and highly
respected party leader.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-2020-election}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: 2020
Election}}{Latest Updates: 2020 Election}}\label{latest-updates-2020-election}}

Updated 2020-08-01T01:26:45.732Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-29fdff45}{Kamala
  Harris, a top vice-presidential contender, confronts double
  standards.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-13ec3d9c}{Karen
  Bass and Susan Rice are rising on Biden's vice-presidential
  shortlist.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-49e9a016}{Trump
  says Russian bounties to kill U.S. troops `never took place.'}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

At one point the two men discussed the importance of health care and
talked about the Affordable Care Act, which the Obama administration
passed early in its first term. Mr. Biden talked about it in personal
terms, reflecting on
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2015/05/31/us/politics/joseph-r-biden-iii-vice-presidents-son-beau-dies-at-46.html}{the
death of his son Beau from brain cancer}.

That experience, Mr. Biden told Mr. Obama, underscored the significance
of the health care legislation.

``I used to sit there and watch him in the bed and in pain and dying of
glioblastoma,'' Mr. Biden said of his older son, who died in 2015. ``And
I thought to myself, what would happen if his insurance company was able
to come in, which they could have done before we passed Obamacare, and
said: `You've outrun your insurance. You've outlived it. Suffer the last
five months of your life in peace. You're on your own.'''

Health care was a central issue for Democrats in the 2018 midterm
elections, and they are
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/26/us/politics/coronavirus-health-care.html}{emphasizing
it again this election cycle}, especially with the pandemic underscoring
the importance of insurance coverage and care for the sick.

Mr. Trump came into office on a promise to repeal the Affordable Care
Act, but he and Republicans in Congress
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2017/07/27/us/politics/obamacare-partial-repeal-senate-republicans-revolt.html}{failed
in their efforts to undo the health law} in 2017. Still, the Trump
administration has repeatedly sought to undermine the law, and it is now
asking the Supreme Court
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/26/us/politics/obamacare-trump-administration-supreme-court.html}{to
overturn it}.

``You and I both know what it's like to have somebody you love get
really sick, and in some cases to lose somebody,'' Mr. Obama told Mr.
Biden in their conversation. He called the Affordable Care Act a piece
of ``starter house'' legislation, giving Mr. Biden room to highlight his
proposed public health insurance option, which would build on Mr.
Obama's efforts.

``But that loss is compounded when you see the stress on their faces,
because they're worried that they're being a burden on their families,''
Mr. Obama said. ``They're worried about whether the insurance is going
to cover the treatments that they need.''

In
\href{https://twitter.com/JoeBiden/status/1286003073786281985}{another
portion of the conversation}, which was released on Wednesday, the two
talked about their response to the Black Lives Matter movement and the
current protests for racial equality. During Mr. Obama's administration,
some activists criticized the president for blocking efforts at systemic
reform, but there is widespread agreement he was more receptive than Mr.
Trump has been.

Mr. Obama, the country's first Black president, noted the police
accountability measures that his administration put in place, including
a greater role for the Justice Department in police oversight. He cited
some instances of overt racism that still persist, including job
discrimination.

``This is a process we're all going through, and we're all learning,''
Mr. Obama said. ``And something I've always admired about you, Joe, is
your willingness to listen and to learn. It is a sign of leadership when
you're willing to hear other people's experiences.''

The two are planning another online fund-raiser next week, with tickets
ranging from \$250 to \$250,000. The Obamas, both the former president
and his wife, Michelle, are probably the highest-profile figures to have
endorsed Mr. Biden, with the ability to drive attention and fund-raising
unlike any other Democrats.

That Democrats have nominated his former vice president gives Mr. Obama
a special entrance point to this election cycle, but he was rarely far
away. During the primary, several candidates branded themselves as the
heir to the ``Obama coalition,'' which could help Democrats achieve in
2020 what they failed to achieve in 2016.

The topics discussed in the video also function as a cheat sheet to the
Biden campaign's political message ahead of the general election. Mr.
Obama ended the video talking about how Mr. Biden's ``basic decency''
was just as important as any political message.

The two men also spent time focusing on the failures of Mr. Trump in
responding to the pandemic and the financial devastation it has caused.

``You can't separate out the public health crisis from the economy,''
Mr. Obama said. ``If you want the economy growing, people have to feel
safe.''

Mr. Biden responded, ``What you did, and what all great presidents do,
is persuade.''

A few hours after the video was posted, Trump campaign's national press
secretary, Hogan Gidley, issued a response.

``Even the former president's half-hearted, scripted praise can't
cover-up Joe Biden's nearly 50-year long legacy of failure,'' he said.
``Biden's half-century in Washington has been mired in controversy and
failed socialist policies that don't reflect our values, while in just
three years, President Trump has provided every day, hard-working
Americans with real success and more opportunities to reach their
American Dream.''

Thomas Kaplan contributed reporting.

\hypertarget{our-2020-election-guide}{%
\section{Our 2020 Election Guide}\label{our-2020-election-guide}}

Updated July 31, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{the-latest}{%
  \subsection{The Latest}\label{the-latest}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    President Trump's assault on the Postal Service is intersecting with
    his attacks on mail-in voting.
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/politics/trump-usps-mail-delays.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Voting
    rights groups say it is a recipe for disaster.}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{bidens-vp-search}{%
  \subsection{Biden's V.P. Search}\label{bidens-vp-search}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/biden-vice-president-2020.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Here
    are 13 women} who have been under consideration to be Joe Biden's
    running mate, and why each might be chosen --- and might not be.
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{keep-up-with-our-coverage}{%
  \subsection{Keep Up With Our
  Coverage}\label{keep-up-with-our-coverage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Get an
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{email}
    recapping the day's news
  \end{itemize}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Download our mobile app on
    \href{https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nytimes/id284862083?ls=1\&mat_click_id=5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\&referrer=mat_click_id\%3D5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\%26link_click_id\%3D722930677036718082}{iOS}
    and
    \href{http://a.localytics.com/android?id=com.nytimes.android\&referrer=utm_source\%3Dother_nyt_mobile_web\%26utm_medium\%3DWeb\%2520page\%26utm_term\%3DGeneral\%2520Mobile\%2520Page\%26utm_campaign\%3DNYT\%2520Mobile\%2520General\%2520Page}{Android}
    and turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
