Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/opinion}{Opinion}\textbar{}America's Aspiring Autocrat Is
in the Home Stretch. How Worried Should We Be?

\href{https://nyti.ms/37N9JlM}{https://nyti.ms/37N9JlM}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

\href{/section/opinion}{Opinion}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{americas-aspiring-autocrat-is-in-the-home-stretch-how-worried-should-we-be}{%
\section{America's Aspiring Autocrat Is in the Home Stretch. How Worried
Should We
Be?}\label{americas-aspiring-autocrat-is-in-the-home-stretch-how-worried-should-we-be}}

Beware a despot when he's cornered.

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/jennifer-senior}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/10/26/opinion/jennifer-senior/jennifer-senior-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/jennifer-senior}{Jennifer Senior}

Opinion columnist

\begin{itemize}
\item
  June 21, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/06/21/opinion/21senior/merlin_173677998_32c1219c-836e-42c6-a2b0-4316b649ca86-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Two weeks ago, I
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/07/opinion/trump-mattis-polls.html}{wrote}
that perhaps, at long last, we had reached a tipping point in Trump's
popularity, and I stand by it. On Thursday, a poll conducted by Fox News
(Fox!) showed
\href{https://www.politico.com/news/2020/06/18/fox-news-poll-trump-biden-329153}{him
trailing Biden by 12 percentage points}; the Tulsa arena hosting his
comeback rally on Saturday was
\href{https://www.vox.com/2020/6/21/21298177/trump-tulsa-rally-low-turnout}{two-thirds
empty}. The man is ripe for the ultimate
\href{https://knowyourmeme.com/memes/hitlers-downfall-parodies}{``Downfall''
video}. Especially given his recent sojourn in an actual bunker.

Yet it's precisely because Trump feels overwhelmed and outmatched that I
fear we've reached a far scarier juncture: he seems to be attempting,
however clumsily, to transition from president to autocrat, using any
means necessary to mow down those who threaten his re-election.

Whether he has the competence to pull this off is anyone's guess. As we
know, Trump is surpassingly incapable of governing. But he has also
shown authoritarian tendencies from the very beginning. For over three
years, he's been dismembering the body politic, institution by
institution, norm by norm. What has largely spared us from total
evisceration were honorable civil servants and appointees.

Trump has torn through almost all of them and replaced them with
loyalists. He now has a clear runway. What we have left is an army of
pliant flunkies and toadies at the agencies, combined with the
always-enabling Mitch McConnell and an increasingly emboldened attorney
general, William Barr.

Will Barr's depredation ever approach some kind of asymptote? Doubtful.
Last week, his Justice Department
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/19/us/politics/john-bolton-book-hearing.html}{argued
in court} for John Bolton to heed its
\href{https://www.documentcloud.org/documents/6951053-Bolton-TRO.html}{temporary
emergency restraining order} and pull all copies of his memoir from the
shelves ahead of its publication this week. (It was
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/20/us/politics/john-bolton-book-ruling.html}{denied}.)

Barr then tried to replace Geoffrey S. Berman, the U.S. attorney for the
Southern District of New York, with a Trump loyalist who had zero
prosecutorial experience --- at a time when Berman was actively
investigating Trump's personal lawyer, Rudolph Giuliani, and a Turkish
bank that
\href{https://abcnews.go.com/Politics/bolton-suggests-obstruction-trump-sdny-turkey-investigation/story?id=71362785}{Trump
suggested to Turkey's president, Recep Tayyip Erdogan}, he'd try to
protect. (Berman stepped down, but Trump
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/20/nyregion/trump-geoffrey-berman-fired-sdny.html?action=click\&module=Top\%20Stories\&pgtype=Homepage}{did
not get the appointee he desired}.)

That was all on Friday and Saturday. \emph{Just} Friday and Saturday*.*

What else this past week? Trump's handpicked head of the U.S. Agency for
Global Media --- an ally of Steve Bannon, by the way ---
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/17/us/politics/michael-pack-media-agency.htm}{purged
the heads} of Radio Free Europe and its three siblings, in what seemed
like an unnerving bid to make his own version of state-run TV. Then
Trump tweeted out a video he knew had been doctored by a meme-generating
supporter, a supposed scare segment from CNN about a racist baby.
(Twitter first stamped a ``manipulated media'' warning on it, then
\href{https://www.npr.org/sections/live-updates-protests-for-racial-justice/2020/06/19/880805065/twitter-flags-video-shared-by-trump-as-manipulated-media}{disappeared
it entirely}.)

That was all on Wednesday and Thursday. \emph{Just} Wednesday and
Thursday.

In recent months, Trump has escalated his war on both the safeguards of
American government and his own citizenry. In April and May, he got rid
of
\href{https://www.vox.com/2020/5/28/21265799/inspectors-general-trump-linick-atkinson}{five
inspectors general}. He has replaced intelligence community veterans
with partisan loyalists who've
\href{https://www.voanews.com/usa/trump-loyalist-confirmed-director-national-intelligence}{raised
questions about the validity of the Russia probe}. He's
\href{https://www.washingtonpost.com/national-security/can-trump-use-military-to-stop-protests-insurrection-act/2020/06/01/c3724380-a46b-11ea-b473-04905b1af82b_story.html}{threatened
to use the military} to quell civic unrest. He used pepper balls and
smoke canisters on protesters
\href{https://www.vox.com/2020/6/5/21281604/lafayette-square-white-house-tear-gas-protest}{for
a campaign photo op.}

In
``\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/03/books/review-surviving-autocracy-masha-gessen.html}{Surviving
Autocracy},'' Masha Gessen points out that our system of government is
more prone to an ``autocratic attempt'' than one might assume. Our other
two branches of government should theoretically check executive power.
But that executive power sometimes spills into their turf. The president
appoints federal judges, for instance, stocking the bench with his
favorites like so many farm-raised trout, and the Justice Department is
part of the executive branch, not the judiciary, meaning there's nothing
stopping a capo like Barr from behaving as Trump's personal advocate
rather than a custodian of the public trust. ``Its independent
functioning is determined by tradition,'' Gessen writes. Not design.

The cabinet departments and agencies recently denuded of their
inspectors general are likewise part of the executive branch. How can
they oversee presidential excesses if the president isn't acting in good
faith? The system is predicated on good faith.

We may yet find it. Of all people, Lindsey Graham, the chairman of the
Senate Judiciary Committee, stood between Trump and his mad lunge for
power in the Southern District, saying he'd allow New York's Democratic
senators
\href{https://www.axios.com/geoffrey-berman-lindsey-graham-new-york-attorney-a388fc90-69a9-42f5-933d-3f0fe558f9d2.html}{to
veto Trump's pick}. (Let's see how long that holds.) Joe Biden could of
course win, and he could spend his first year in office not just
restoring norms but codifying them.

But the true stuff of my nightmares --- and the ultimate authoritarian
ambush --- would be a move by Trump to suppress the vote by a means I
haven't yet imagined. (Voting is left up to the states.) He's already
thrown his weight behind fund-raising efforts to
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/05/18/us/Voting-republicans-trump.html}{aggressively
``monitor'' polling places}, supposedly to weed out fraud, an almost
nonexistent threat.

Three years ago, a friend of mine shrewdly pointed out that Trump's
election would be like one long national
\href{https://www.simplypsychology.org/milgram.html}{Milgram
experiment}, the famous psychological study from the 1960s that revealed
just how susceptible people are to authority, how depressingly willing
they are to obey even the most horrifying commands.

Participants were told by a researcher to administer shocks of
increasing intensity to test subjects every time they answered a
question incorrectly. Two-thirds of those participants allowed
themselves to deliver the maximum punishment, 450 volts, though the test
subjects were screaming in pain.

Luckily, the test subjects were actors and the electric shocks were
fake. But Trump's enforcers are real. And so are the shocks to our
system.

\emph{The Times is committed to publishing}
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/01/31/opinion/letters/letters-to-editor-new-york-times-women.html}{\emph{a
diversity of letters}} \emph{to the editor. We'd like to hear what you
think about this or any of our articles. Here are some}
\href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014925288-How-to-submit-a-letter-to-the-editor}{\emph{tips}}\emph{.
And here's our email:}
\href{mailto:letters@nytimes.com}{\emph{letters@nytimes.com}}\emph{.}

\emph{Follow The New York Times Opinion section on}
\href{https://www.facebook.com/nytopinion}{\emph{Facebook}}\emph{,}
\href{http://twitter.com/NYTOpinion}{\emph{Twitter (@NYTopinion)}}
\emph{and}
\href{https://www.instagram.com/nytopinion/}{\emph{Instagram}}\emph{.}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
