Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/topic/subject/retirement}{Retirement}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/topic/subject/retirement}{Retirement}\textbar{}Coronavirus Is
Closing Social Security Offices. Here's How to Get Benefit Help.

\url{https://nyti.ms/2Wm1byI}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{the-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus?name=styln-coronavirus-markets\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=c4c84340-e3a1-11ea-b662-63e62169161f}{The
Coronavirus
Outbreak}}{The Coronavirus Outbreak}}\label{the-coronavirus-outbreak}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  live\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/21/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?name=styln-coronavirus-markets\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=c4c84341-e3a1-11ea-b662-63e62169161f}{Latest
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html?name=styln-coronavirus-markets\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=c4c86a50-e3a1-11ea-b662-63e62169161f}{Maps
  and Cases}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html?name=styln-coronavirus-markets\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=c4c86a51-e3a1-11ea-b662-63e62169161f}{Vaccine
  Tracker}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/19/us/colleges-closing-covid.html?name=styln-coronavirus-markets\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=c4c86a52-e3a1-11ea-b662-63e62169161f}{Colleges
  Closing}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/20/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?name=styln-coronavirus-markets\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=c4c86a53-e3a1-11ea-b662-63e62169161f}{Economy}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

retiring

\hypertarget{coronavirus-is-closing-social-security-offices-heres-how-to-get-benefit-help}{%
\section{Coronavirus Is Closing Social Security Offices. Here's How to
Get Benefit
Help.}\label{coronavirus-is-closing-social-security-offices-heres-how-to-get-benefit-help}}

The Social Security Administration has more than 1,200 offices that
serve thousands of beneficiaries every day.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/03/17/business/17RETIRE-01/merlin_170580171_c8ffb508-07b5-4f24-94ac-f23a85a7a1e3-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By Mark Miller

\begin{itemize}
\item
  March 17, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

The Social Security Administration operates a vast network of more than
1,200 offices around the country that help thousands of Americans every
day with applications for retirement, disability and Medicare benefits.

No more.

Starting Tuesday, Social Security's field office network will be closed
to the public in most situations until further notice because of the
coronavirus public health crisis,
\href{https://www.ssa.gov/news/press/releases/2020/\#3-2020-2}{administration
officials said}. Offices that hear disability insurance appeals also are
closed.

Service will continue to be available via the agency's toll-free line,
(800) 772-1213, and its
\href{https://www.ssa.gov/onlineservices/}{website}. Payments to more
than 69 million Social Security beneficiaries are not affected.

Social Security announced late on Monday afternoon that field offices
would be closed, with most employees working from home. That means most
routine services --- helping with benefit claims, checking the status of
an application or appeal or requesting a replacement Social Security
card --- will be handled only through the agency's toll-free line and
website.

Field offices will only offer in-person assistance on a very short list
of crucial services. These include reinstatement of benefits in dire
circumstances; assistance to people with severe disabilities, blindness
or terminal illnesses; and people in dire need of eligibility decisions
for Supplemental Security Income or Medicaid eligibility related to work
status. Those seeking these services must call in advance.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-the-coronavirus-outbreak-and-the-economy}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/20/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: The Coronavirus Outbreak and the
Economy}}{Latest Updates: The Coronavirus Outbreak and the Economy}}\label{latest-updates-the-coronavirus-outbreak-and-the-economy}}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/20/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#american-airlines-to-stop-flights-to-15-cities-after-government-aid-ends}{21h
ago}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/20/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#american-airlines-to-stop-flights-to-15-cities-after-government-aid-ends}{American
Airlines to stop flights to 15 cities after government aid ends.}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/20/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#without-school-plays-and-assemblies-a-technicians-livelihood-withers}{22h
ago}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/20/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#without-school-plays-and-assemblies-a-technicians-livelihood-withers}{Without
school plays and assemblies, a technician's livelihood withers.}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/20/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#finding-a-job-after-a-long-search-but-settling-for-less-pay}{22h
ago}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/20/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#finding-a-job-after-a-long-search-but-settling-for-less-pay}{Finding
a job after a long search, but settling for less pay.}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/20/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

More live coverage:
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/21/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Global}

The decision to close offices came after several days of withering
criticism from the unions that represent Social Security employees. The
unions argued that keeping the offices open was a threat to the public's
health and that of the agency's work force of 61,000.

Years of
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/11/21/business/social-security-service-backlog-delays.html}{budget
cuts} have led to long wait times in Social Security field offices, many
of which see several hundred people daily. Visitors often experience
long waits in rooms filled with dozens of people --- most often, seniors
and disabled people, who are among those most at risk from the virus.

Cleaning of the offices is minimal, said Richard Couture, spokesman for
the American Federation of Government Employees councils, which
represent Social Security employees. The offices have computer keyboards
in self-help kiosks, which are infrequently sanitized, he said, that the
agency has encouraged people to use for faster service.

``The offices are petri dishes,'' Mr. Couture said. ``People are sitting
there for a long time, magnifying and multiplying the risk of infection
for everyone there, and to people on the outside.'' The Social Security
Administration could not be immediately reached for comment on
sanitation in its field offices.

Current Social Security leadership has been skeptical of remote work
arrangements.

In November, it terminated a work-from-home pilot program that allowed
12,500 employees to work remotely one day per week. As the coronavirus
crisis has unfolded, a small number of offices were closed in areas
experiencing a high number of infections, and a limited amount of remote
work was permitted. Employees at some Social Security sites, including
back office operations, were
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/16/us/politics/coronavirus-government-work.html}{still
reporting for work} Tuesday.

But the agency had not announced plans to shutter its field office
network until midafternoon Monday, when it held a conference call with
union leadership.

\hypertarget{how-to-get-social-security-help}{%
\subsection{How to get Social Security
help}\label{how-to-get-social-security-help}}

\textbf{If you need to visit} a local Social Security office for
in-person services, call the office to request an appointment. You can
find the closest office using an
\href{https://secure.ssa.gov/ICON/main.jsp}{office locator tool} on the
Social Security \href{https://www.ssa.gov/coronavirus/}{website}, where
the agency is also providing updates and information on services.

\textbf{If you already have an office appointment} or disability appeal
scheduled, Social Security will contact you by phone to reschedule or to
handle the matter by phone. The agency cautions that this call may come
from a private phone number, not a government phone. That's because not
all employees have government-issued phones that can be used for
business from remote locations, Mr. Couture said.

Social Security generally only contacts people who have recently applied
for benefits, or to update the records of those who are receiving
benefits, a spokeswoman says. The agency also calls people who have
requested a callback, including those with scheduled appointments. The
agency will never call to tell you that your Social Security number has
been suspended or to demand payments or ask for credit card information.

The number of Social Security identity theft phone scams has been
rising, with robocalls and live callers posing as government employees.
The agency generally
\href{https://faq.ssa.gov/en-US/Topic/article/KA-10018}{reaches out by
mail} and will call only if you've just recently applied for benefits or
have requested a callback.

Social Security fields 75 million calls annually, and long wait times
are typical. Getting through can be difficult --- in 2018, 15 percent of
callers heard a busy signal, according to the National Council of Social
Security Management Associations, an organization of field office and
telecommunications service center managers.

\textbf{Social Security is asking callers} to the toll-free line to
``please be patient,'' and cautions that phone representatives will be
focusing on urgent requests, such as missed benefit payments, address
and direct-deposit changes, and scheduling phone appointments.

\textbf{The agency is urging the public} to conduct business whenever
possible online, and many people do just that: more than half of
retirement and disability benefit claims are filed online. You will need
to \href{https://www.ssa.gov/onlineservices/}{set up an account} on the
site, which allows you to apply for benefits, check the status of
applications and appeals, request replacement Social Security cards and
download your current statement of benefits. The website also has a
section with \href{https://faq.ssa.gov/en-US/}{frequently asked
questions}.

\textbf{If you need to enroll in Medicare,} free counseling is available
from the national network of State Health Insurance Assistance Programs,
known as SHIP. Availability of services ``will vary by state and
potentially even county,'' according to Alicia Jones, who runs SHIP in
Nebraska and is chairwoman of a national committee of SHIP managers. She
suggests calling your local SHIP office to check on availability. Find
your \href{https://www.shiptacenter.org/}{state SHIP here}.

The nonprofit Medicare Rights Center runs a free national Medicare help
line, which can be reached at (800) 333-4114.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
