Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/nyregion}{New York}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/nyregion}{New York}\textbar{}Dismemberment of Tech C.E.O.
Fahim Saleh Looks Like `Professional Job'

\url{https://nyti.ms/2B36n25}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{dismemberment-of-tech-ceo-fahim-saleh-looks-like-professional-job}{%
\section{Dismemberment of Tech C.E.O. Fahim Saleh Looks Like
`Professional
Job'}\label{dismemberment-of-tech-ceo-fahim-saleh-looks-like-professional-job}}

Mr. Saleh, 33, was followed into his luxury Manhattan condo by a man
dressed all in black, an official said.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/07/15/nyregion/15nycmurder/15nycmurder-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/michael-gold}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/06/12/multimedia/author-michael-gold/author-michael-gold-thumbLarge.png}}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/william-k-rashbaum}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/06/13/multimedia/author-william-k-rashbaum/author-william-k-rashbaum-thumbLarge.jpg}}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/daniel-e-slotnik}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/07/12/multimedia/author-daniel-e-slotnik/author-daniel-e-slotnik-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/michael-gold}{Michael Gold},
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/william-k-rashbaum}{William K.
Rashbaum} and \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/daniel-e-slotnik}{Daniel
E. Slotnik}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Published July 15, 2020Updated July 17, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

{[}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/17/nyregion/fahim-saleh-murder-arrest-tyrese-devon-haspil.html}{\emph{Update:
A suspect is arrested in the murder of Fahim Saleh}}.{]}

The killer, dressed entirely in black and wearing a black mask, followed
the young technology entrepreneur from the elevator of his luxury condo
building into his apartment.

Then he used an electrical stun gun to immobilize the entrepreneur,
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/17/nyregion/fahim-saleh-killing-murder.html}{Fahim
Saleh}, detectives believe.

Some time after, the assailant killed Mr. Saleh, decapitated him and
dismembered his body with an electric saw.

The investigation was in its early stages, but that was the chilling
account that a law enforcement official briefed on the inquiry gave on
Wednesday as detectives continued scrutinizing evidence in the
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/14/nyregion/dismembered-body-houston-street-manhattan.html?module=inline}{shocking
killing of Mr. Saleh}, 33. His body parts were found Tuesday in plastic
garbage bags in his apartment on Manhattan's Lower East Side.

On Wednesday, the police continued their investigation at the building
and inside Mr. Saleh's apartment, a seventh-story unit that he bought
last year for \$2.25 million, public records show, and for which he
expressed his affection
\href{https://www.instagram.com/p/B6KF3XglNbg/}{on Instagram}.

\emph{{[}Read more on What We Know about the killing of}
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/17/nyregion/fahim-saleh-killing-murder.html}{\emph{Fahim
Saleh}}\emph{.{]}}

The investigation included a review of surveillance video from Mr.
Saleh's apartment building and an interview with his sister.

Investigators believe the killer's work dismembering the body was
interrupted when the victim's sister entered the apartment to check on
him after not hearing from him for a day, another law enforcement
official said.

Detectives think that the assailant fled through the apartment's back
door and into the building's stairwell when she arrived, the official
said.

A Police Department spokesman said he could not comment on how the
killer entered the building. The property's management company said that
the building did not have a doorman but had extensive security in place.

The management company, in a statement, said Mr. Saleh was an active
member of the condominium board.

``The unit owners, residents, board and management are all quite
upset,'' the statement said.

On Tuesday, a law enforcement official said that the electric saw was
still plugged into an electrical outlet when the police arrived, and the
killer had left some cleaning supplies behind. It appeared that some
effort had been made to clean up the evidence.

The official who spoke on Wednesday said that the killing ``looks like a
professional job,'' referring to it as a ``hit.'' A Police Department
spokesman said he could not comment on a possible motive or whether any
suspects had been identified.

On Tuesday night and Wednesday morning, detectives were scouring the
neighborhood for surveillance video from outside local stores,
residential and commercial buildings and area traffic cameras to see if
cameras had captured the killer coming or going or waiting for his prey,
several law enforcement officials said.

The grisly death has attracted international attention given Mr. Saleh's
global connections. The son of Bangladeshi immigrants, Mr. Saleh founded
ride-hailing companies in Bangladesh and Nigeria as well as a
venture-capital fund based in Manhattan that invested largely in
companies in the developing world.

On Wednesday, Bangladesh's minister for information and communication
technology, Zunaid Ahmed Palak, expressed his condolences and
\href{https://twitter.com/zapalak/status/1283340969111203842}{said on
Twitter} that Mr. Saleh's death was a great loss for the country.

``Fahim found success at an early age and built on it year after year,
while remaining grounded and committed to helping others,'' Mr. Saleh's
family said in a statement. ``No matter what he did, he did it while
thinking of the greater good and his family. His parents and his sisters
were his light and he was theirs. There are no words or actions to
provide any of us comfort except the capture of the person who exhibited
nothing short of evil upon our loved one.''

Sumeet Rametra, who met Mr. Saleh in college and has been in close
communication with his family since his death, described his friend as
someone who indulged in kind gestures, like buying his parents a home
and a Tesla.

On one recent occasion, Mr. Saleh asked Mr. Rametra to join him for a
game of tennis, but Mr. Rametra said he didn't have a racket, he
recalled.

``He was like, `I already got you one, let's go,''' Mr. Rametra said,
crying. ``I never got to play with him.''

Mr. Rametra, 31, also lauded Mr. Saleh's business acumen, saying that
his friend was a visionary who was always looking to his next idea.

``He was a machine, dude, he never stopped,'' Mr. Rametra said. ``He was
always trying to make money.''

Mr. Saleh grew up near Poughkeepsie, N.Y., according to public records.
As a teenager, he learned to code and began to develop websites, his
friends said. He graduated from Bentley University, a small college in
Waltham, Mass., in 2009 with a degree in computer information systems,
according to his LinkedIn profile.

On social media, in interviews and blog posts, Mr. Saleh depicted
himself as an entrepreneur driven by passion.

``Entrepreneurs are the ones that really change countries, that really
change cities,'' Mr. Saleh said in a YouTube video in February.
``They're the ones that bring the vision.''

After college, Mr. Saleh turned his love for practical jokes into a
prank-calling app named PrankDial, which allowed users to buy
prerecorded calls to send to friends.

Writing years later about the business, Mr. Saleh said that it
eventually generated millions and led him to realize that he could keep
turning his passions --- in this case, for practical jokes --- into big
bucks.

``If you go into a project entirely focused on making money, you're
going to be disappointed,'' he wrote
\href{https://medium.com/datadriveninvestor/what-i-learned-from-turning-a-prank-calling-passion-project-into-a-multi-million-dollar-product-1486b4cda535}{in
a post on Medium}.

Still, PrankDial had its stumbles. On his LinkedIn profile, Mr. Saleh
boasted that while his company had millions of downloads, it also drew
more than 100 subpoenas.

At the time of Mr. Saleh's death, PrankDial and its owners faced an
active civil suit from a New Jersey jail worker who was convicted in
2015 of
\href{https://www.nj.com/hudson/2015/09/ex-deputy_director_of_hudson_county_jail_sentenced.html}{using
the site to illegally wiretap his co-workers}.

After PrankDial, Mr. Saleh turned his attention to Bangladesh, where he
co-founded the ride-sharing company Pathao in 2015. The business, which
Mr. Saleh left in 2018, started as a bike-sharing company but now offers
transportation, delivery and business logistics.

``Fahim believed in the potential for technology to transform lives in
Bangladesh and beyond,'' Pathao
\href{https://www.instagram.com/p/CCqBMNcDFIT/}{said in a statement}.

Fueled by his success in Bangladesh, Mr. Saleh tried to launch a similar
venture in Nigeria. That company, Gokada, began operating as a
motorcycle ride-hailing company in Lagos, Nigeria's most populous city,
in 2018.

Motorcycle taxis, called okada in Nigeria, have long been popular in
Lagos and many other African cities as a way to circumvent traffic jams.
Gokada raised \$5.3 million in venture capital in June 2019, according
to the website TechCrunch.

But Mr. Saleh's business hit a major stumbling block in February, when
state officials banned motorcycle taxis from operating in major
commercial and residential parts of Lagos.

Gokada was forced to halt its ride-hailing business. In a video
discussing the ban, Mr. Saleh, the company's chief executive, appeared
crestfallen.

``This has definitely been a blow,'' Mr. Saleh said in the video, which
he posted to YouTube and social media platforms on Feb. 2 and titled
``Gokada is not okada.''

Mr. Saleh was forced to lay off workers, friends said. But he tried to
rebound, saying he still believed that Nigeria had enormous economic
potential and that he could provide jobs to young Nigerians.

In February, Gokada pivoted quickly to a food and package delivery
service. After the change, Mr. Saleh sounded an optimistic note.

In April, as the pandemic upended New York and Nigeria alike, he noted
on Twitter that his company was well positioned to adapt to the economic
shift.

``Now it seems like we had a two-month head start in one of the few
thriving business sectors,'' he said.

The law enforcement official said that investigators were exploring on
Wednesday whether Mr. Saleh's killing might be related to his business,
noting the indications that his company had been hurting.

Even as his start-up encountered setbacks, Mr. Saleh had remained both
hopeful and persistent.

``Have a very good feeling about 2020,'' he said on Twitter on June 2.

Juliana Kim contributed reporting. Sheelagh McNeill and Kitty Bennett
contributed research.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
