Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/opinion}{Opinion}\textbar{}Mike Pompeo Dishonors the
State Department

\href{https://nyti.ms/2Ng3mxQ}{https://nyti.ms/2Ng3mxQ}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

\href{/section/opinion}{Opinion}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{mike-pompeo-dishonors-the-state-department}{%
\section{Mike Pompeo Dishonors the State
Department}\label{mike-pompeo-dishonors-the-state-department}}

John Bolton's book won't move the needle on Trump's future.

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/roger-cohen}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2014/11/01/opinion/cohen-circular/cohen-circular-thumbLarge-v6.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/roger-cohen}{Roger Cohen}

Opinion Columnist

\begin{itemize}
\item
  June 19, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/06/22/opinion/19cohen1/merlin_169706952_34139844-9d64-4cc7-b67b-69a842a05fb4-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

McRAE, Ga. --- It's appalling to see the seal of the U.S. State
Department desecrated.
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/07/world/asia/pompeo-russia-afghanistan-bounties.html}{Mike
Pompeo}, the secretary of state, has no conscience, so I assume it did
not occur to him that settling scores with John Bolton, the former
national security adviser, beneath that seal was wrong, an affront to
the honor of every Foreign Service officer.

Pompeo called Bolton a ``traitor'' in an official written statement. He
accused Bolton of ``spreading a number of lies, fully spun half-truths
and outright falsehoods'' in his new book,
``\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/18/us/politics/john-bolton-memoir-takeaways.html}{The
Room Where It Happened.}'' Pompeo gave his statement a headline worthy
of the great schoolyard tradition of the Trump administration:
``\href{https://www.google.com/url?q=https://www.state.gov/i-was-in-the-room-too/\&sa=D\&ust=1592671298995000\&usg=AFQjCNF78FCDO-PQIapEmpDnV3UM3pH0kg}{I
Was in the Room Too.}''

It is not a fully spun half-truth that Pompeo has sullied the State
Department with his disgraceful treatment of the former ambassador to
Ukraine, Marie Yovanovitch, whom he sacrificed to sate President Trump's
quest for dirt on Joe Biden, the presumptive Democratic presidential
nominee. It's the truth.

Nor is it a fully spun half-truth that, in his toadying to Trump, Pompeo
has guided the United States, for the first time since 1945, into utter
irrelevance in dealing with a major global crisis, insisting that the
pandemic be called the ``Wuhan virus'' rather than seeking unity with
allies. It's the truth.

Pompeo, obsessed with the chimera of regime change in Iran to the point
of blindness to the pandemic's impact there, fixated on coddling Crown
Prince Mohammed bin Salman of Saudi Arabia to the point of excusing
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/12/26/opinion/jamal-khashoggi-saudi-arabia.html}{the
murder of a Washington Post journalist,} is a man who should look long
and hard at himself in the mirror before calling anyone a traitor. An
abdication of the values his department stands for has been the mark of
his tenure.

It is both sad and dangerous, to use Pompeo's words, that he has so
damaged the State Department's reputation, built over centuries of
service and sacrifice.

A lie is an outright falsehood, by the way, and I have no idea how a
half-truth is fully spun. It does not matter. Pompeo knows that he
serves a president whose currency is untruth. Anything he says on the
subject of veracity is by definition meaningless. The secretary of state
sold out long ago.

I have no truck with Bolton. His long-held desire to bomb Iran
(frustrated most recently by Trump), his contempt for the European
Union, his loathing of the United Nations, and his dismissal of
diplomacy have been the hallmarks of a ferocious hawk with a quixotic
belief in himself. Bolton is a byword for macho baloney. That any
liberal, fixated on terminating Trump, is prepared to give him the time
of day is a comment on the delirium of our times.

Nothing I have seen quoted from Bolton's book surprises me --- not the
administrative chaos, not the president's coddling of dictators, not
even Trump asking China to buy farm goods to boost his re-election
prospects (we learned with Ukraine that entire nations exist only
insofar as they serve Trump's personal ambition). With respect to one
million Uighurs in Chinese concentration camps, Bolton says that Trump
backed President Xi Jinping. ``According to our interpreter,'' he
writes. ``Trump said Xi should go ahead with building the camps, which
Trump thought was exactly the right thing to do.''

We know Trump likes dictators from Hungary to Saudi Arabia. We know that
Trump dislikes Muslims. We know he envies Xi his autocratic powers, just
as he envies Vladimir Putin's. We know
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/07/12/opinion/trump-pompeo-human-rights.html}{Trump
does not care about human rights}. We know that Pompeo has been the
enabler of Trump's worst instincts on the international stage.

There is nothing revelatory in the Bolton book, if revelation is taken
to mean something more than adding sordid detail to a well-established
narrative.

The book is a nonevent. It is the ultimate inside-the-Beltway media
circus. It will not move the needle one millimeter with respect to
Trump's future or his prospects in the Nov. 3 election.

Perhaps that view is influenced by viewing the goings-on from
conservative rural Georgia, where I've been doing some reporting and
where support for Trump remains strong. The things Bolton says seem
fantastically remote, cloyingly familiar and strikingly irrelevant.

It's safe to say that a week from now nobody will care.

Bolton knew what he was getting into, just like Pompeo.
\href{https://www.wsj.com/articles/trump-talks-juneteenth-john-bolton-economy-in-wsj-interview-11592493771}{Trump
had an interesting interview} with The Wall Street Journal the other
day. In it he said, ``I did something good. \ldots{} I made Juneteenth
very famous.'' He continued, ``Nobody had ever heard of it.''

Trump thinks he made Juneteenth famous by initially scheduling a rally
in Tulsa on that date, before being told this was offensive to
African-Americans and rescheduling for June 20. During the interview he
asks an aide if she has ever heard of Juneteenth. The aide replies that
the White House issued a statement last year commemorating the day.
``Oh, really?'' Trump says.

Yes, really. America is flying blind.

Bolton has done plenty of harm, but it is not he ``who damaged America
by violating his sacred trust with its people,'' in Pompeo's words. It
is the president Pompeo continues to serve with such assiduous
sycophancy.

\emph{The Times is committed to publishing}
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/01/31/opinion/letters/letters-to-editor-new-york-times-women.html}{\emph{a
diversity of letters}} \emph{to the editor. We'd like to hear what you
think about this or any of our articles. Here are some}
\href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014925288-How-to-submit-a-letter-to-the-editor}{\emph{tips}}\emph{.
And here's our email:}
\href{mailto:letters@nytimes.com}{\emph{letters@nytimes.com}}\emph{.}

\emph{Follow The New York Times Opinion section on}
\href{https://www.facebook.com/nytopinion}{\emph{Facebook}}\emph{,}
\href{http://twitter.com/NYTOpinion}{\emph{Twitter (@NYTopinion)}}
\emph{and}
\href{https://www.instagram.com/nytopinion/}{\emph{Instagram}}\emph{.}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{Â©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
