Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/world/asia}{Asia
Pacific}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/world/asia}{Asia Pacific}\textbar{}Rex Tillerson, in
Japan, Says U.S. Needs `Different Approach' to North Korea

\url{https://nyti.ms/2m3dgry}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{rex-tillerson-in-japan-says-us-needs-different-approach-to-north-korea}{%
\section{Rex Tillerson, in Japan, Says U.S. Needs `Different Approach'
to North
Korea}\label{rex-tillerson-in-japan-says-us-needs-different-approach-to-north-korea}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2017/03/17/world/17tillerson-4/17tillerson-4-videoSixteenByNineJumbo1600.jpg}

By \href{http://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/motoko-rich}{Motoko Rich}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  March 16, 2017
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

TOKYO --- At a time of multiplying tensions in Asia, Rex W. Tillerson,
the American secretary of state, began his first major foreign trip in
Japan and said on Thursday that the United States needed a ``different
approach'' to North Korea's escalating nuclear threat, though he
declined to give specifics.

Speaking to reporters in Tokyo after talks with Japan's foreign
minister, Fumio Kishida, Mr. Tillerson said, ``The diplomatic and other
efforts of the past 20 years to bring North Korea to a point of
denuclearization have failed,'' noting that during those 20 years, the
United States had provided \$1.35 billion in assistance to North Korea
to encourage it to abandon its nuclear program.

``Part of the purpose of my visit to the region is to exchange views on
a new approach,'' Mr. Tillerson added, saying he would highlight the
issue in Seoul, the South Korean capital, and Beijing, the next stops on
his trip.

On the eve of President Trump's sending a federal budget to Congress
that proposes
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2017/03/15/us/politics/trump-budget-proposal.html}{a
29 percent cut} in the State Department's budget, Mr. Tillerson, who
took questions only from reporters who had been preselected by one of
his press advisers, said he would take on the challenge of the cutbacks
``willingly.''

``The level of spending that the State Department has been undertaking,
particularly in the past year, is simply not sustainable,'' Mr.
Tillerson said, explaining that current spending reflected the ``level
of conflicts that the U.S. has been engaged in around the world as well
as disaster assistance.''

He said the department would undergo a review of programs and would ``be
much more effective, much more efficient, and be able to do a lot with
fewer dollars.''

The most pressing issue for the United States and its allies in Asia is
the advancing threat from North Korea, which has launched ballistic
missiles twice in three weeks and has said that it is close to testing a
missile that could reach the United States.

In prepared remarks, Mr. Tillerson said he hoped to deepen cooperation
among the United States, Japan and South Korea ``in the face of North
Korea's dangerous and unlawful nuclear and ballistic missile programs.''

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2017/03/09/world/asia/09maylaysia-video/09maylaysia-video-videoSixteenByNine3000.jpg}

Policy makers and American reporters were eager to hear Mr. Tillerson
speak, given that in his more than 50 days in office he had
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2017/03/11/us/politics/rex-tillerson-trump-white-house.html?_r=0}{not
expanded on the Trump administration's foreign policy}. Critics have
questioned how much influence he has with the president, as he has been
absent from meetings with world leaders at the White House.

The secretary's trip, which will also include stops in Seoul and
Beijing, comes as the region is grappling not only with the North Korean
threat, but also with increased tensions between China and South Korea,
where the United States is
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2017/03/06/world/asia/north-korea-thaad-missile-defense-us-china.html}{deploying
a missile defense system} that China vigorously opposes.

China is also pushing its territorial claims in the South China Sea and
East China Sea, rattling other countries across the region. South Korea
is without a president after the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2017/03/09/world/asia/park-geun-hye-impeached-south-korea.html}{removal
of Park Geun-hye} last week, and Japan and South Korea have yet to
repair a diplomatic rift after Tokyo
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2017/01/06/world/asia/japan-south-korea-ambassador-comfort-woman-statue.html}{recalled
its envoy to Seoul} more than two months ago to protest a statue
commemorating Korean women who were forced into sexual slavery for
Japanese soldiers in
\href{http://topics.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/top/reference/timestopics/subjects/w/world_war_ii_/index.html?inline=nyt-classifier}{World
War II}.

``It's pretty clear that there's a perfect storm brewing for mischief in
East Asia right now,'' said
\href{http://web.mit.edu/polisci/people/faculty/richard-samuels.html}{Richard
Samuels}, a Japan specialist and the director of the Center for
International Studies at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.

Analysts were hoping to use Mr. Tillerson's remarks as guidance on the
options that the United States might consider in responding to the
nuclear threat from North Korea. American officials are reviewing
options that could include a pre-emptive military strike and renewed
talks with North Korea.

But when asked for details of a new approach, he did not answer.

In his prepared remarks, Mr. Tillerson took a markedly different tone
than the secretary of defense, Jim Mattis, who said on a visit to Seoul
in February that the use of
\href{http://topics.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/top/news/science/topics/atomic_weapons/index.html?inline=nyt-classifier}{nuclear
weapons} by North Korea would be met with an
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2017/02/05/us/politics/jim-mattis-south-korea-japan.html}{``overwhelming''
response}.

Mr. Tillerson said ``North Korea and its people need not fear the United
States or their neighbors in the region who seek only to live in peace
with North Korea.'' He added, ``With this in mind the United States
calls on North Korea to abandon its nuclear and ballistic missile
program and refrain from any further provocations.''

Experts in the region said that while the United States had so far
emphasized expanded missile defense with the deployment of the
\href{http://www.lockheedmartin.com/us/products/thaad.html}{Terminal
High Altitude Area Defense system}, or Thaad, they wanted to hear what
Mr. Tillerson had to say about diplomatic options, as well as
cooperation within the region.

``It was very important to show the deterrence capability,'' said Tsuneo
Watanabe, a senior research fellow at the Sasakawa Peace Foundation in
Tokyo. ``But at the same time we need to create a carrot-and-stick type
signal to North Korea.''

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2017/03/17/world/17tillerson-2/17tillerson-2-articleInline.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Mr. Watanabe said that in addition to coordination among the United
States, Japan and South Korea, ``we also need coordination with China.''

In Japan, government officials are eager to build a relationship with
Mr. Tillerson, who is relatively inexperienced in matters pertaining to
Asia and who currently has a depleted staff at the State Department to
advise him on the region.

Japan has been somewhat reassured after
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2017/02/04/world/asia/jim-mattis-defense-iran-persian-gulf.html}{Mr.
Mattis} visited Tokyo and Prime Minister Shinzo Abe visited
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2017/02/13/world/asia/trump-japan-shinzo-abe.html}{President
Trump} in Washington and Mar-a-Lago in Florida, with each American
official stating that the United States would support its allies. Mr.
Tillerson again reaffirmed the United States' commitment to the defense
of Japan.

Still, given that President Trump suggested during the campaign that he
might pull back from American security commitments to allies in Asia,
both Japan and South Korea are likely to remain anxious about American
resolve.

``There's that sense that they are assured for the moment,'' said
\href{http://www.heritage.org/staff/bruce-klingner}{Bruce Klingner}, a
senior research fellow for Northeast Asia at the Heritage Foundation in
Washington, ``but Japan and South Korea are like skittish small dogs
that need constant reassurance and are constantly nervous.''

Japan has been especially wary after North Korea
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2017/03/06/world/asia/north-korea-missiles-japan.html}{launched
four missiles simultaneously} earlier this month that landed within 125
miles of the western coast of Akita Prefecture. North Korea said at the
time that the tests were designed ``to strike the bases of the U.S.
imperialist aggressor forces in Japan in contingency.''

The Japanese government is currently discussing upgrades to its missile
defense, including acquiring its own Thaad system. And some lawmakers
have suggested that Japan needs to consider obtaining the ability to
make pre-emptive strikes against missile launches. Mr. Kishida said that
``Japan will assume larger roles and responsibilities,'' but when asked
by Adriana Diaz, Asia correspondent for CBS News, about pre-emptive
capabilities, he said he did not understand the question and declined to
allow her to clarify.

Mr. Tillerson continued the cloistered style of his previous brief
foreign trips, to
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2017/02/15/world/europe/germany-rex-tillerson.html}{Bonn},
Germany, and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2017/02/22/world/americas/rex-tillerson-mexico-border-relations.html}{Mexico
City}. He did not visit the American Embassy to meet State Department
staff, choosing instead to rest and take briefings at his hotel in the
morning before his meeting with Mr. Kishida.

While Mr. Tillerson is the highest-ranking member of the Trump
administration to visit Japan, the Japanese news media on Thursday
initially seemed more interested in the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2017/03/15/business/economy/fed-interest-rates-yellen.html?hp\&action=click\&pgtype=Homepage\&clickSource=story-heading\&module=first-column-region\&region=top-news\&WT.nav=top-news}{interest
rate increase} by the United States Federal Reserve and the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2017/03/15/world/europe/geert-wilders-netherlands-far-right-vote.html?hp\&action=click\&pgtype=Homepage\&clickSource=story-heading\&module=second-column-region\&region=top-news\&WT.nav=top-news}{Dutch
election} results.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
