Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/world}{World}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/world}{World}\textbar{}Covid-19 Live Updates: Political
Appointees Meddled in C.D.C.'s `Holiest of the Holy' Health Reports

\url{https://nyti.ms/3bZ2zNy}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{the-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus?name=styln-coronavirus\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=22545620-f52c-11ea-a21f-29f6111ec990\&variant=undefined}{The
Coronavirus
Outbreak}}{The Coronavirus Outbreak}}\label{the-coronavirus-outbreak}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/12/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?name=styln-coronavirus\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=22547d30-f52c-11ea-a21f-29f6111ec990\&variant=undefined}{Latest
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html?name=styln-coronavirus\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=2254a440-f52c-11ea-a21f-29f6111ec990\&variant=undefined}{Maps
  and Cases}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html?name=styln-coronavirus\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=2254cb50-f52c-11ea-a21f-29f6111ec990\&variant=undefined}{Vaccine
  Tracker}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/10/us/politics/fda-coronavirus-vaccine.html?name=styln-coronavirus\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=2254cb51-f52c-11ea-a21f-29f6111ec990\&variant=undefined}{F.D.A.
  Regulators' Self-Defense}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/09/upshot/coronavirus-surprise-test-fees.html?name=styln-coronavirus\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=2254cb52-f52c-11ea-a21f-29f6111ec990\&variant=undefined}{Surprise
  Test Fees}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

LIVE UPDATES

Updated~

Sept. 12, 2020, 2:53 p.m. ET

Sept. 12, 2020, 2:53 p.m. ET

\hypertarget{covid-19-live-updates-political-appointees-meddled-in-cdcs-holiest-of-the-holy-health-reports}{%
\section{Covid-19 Live Updates: Political Appointees Meddled in C.D.C.'s
`Holiest of the Holy' Health
Reports}\label{covid-19-live-updates-political-appointees-meddled-in-cdcs-holiest-of-the-holy-health-reports}}

AstraZeneca's vaccine trials resume in Britain after a safety review. A
new study showed that children infected in child-care, some
asymptomatic, spread the virus to their families.

Right Now

Officials in North Dakota reported more than 460 new cases, its
single-day record, and West Virginia, which has had one of the lowest
per capita rates of cases in the U.S., also hit a record, with more than
340 cases.

\hypertarget{heres-what-you-need-to-know}{%
\subsubsection{Here's what you need to
know:}\label{heres-what-you-need-to-know}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-472a891e}{Trump appointees at the Health and
  Human Services Department have meddled in the C.D.C.'s weekly disease
  reports.}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-42324357}{AstraZeneca's vaccine trials are
  resuming after a safety review, but only in Britain.}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-5e5e617e}{A Utah study reports that children
  infected in child-care spread the virus to their households.}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-4f963cde}{`A nightmare': Those who battled
  Covid-19's first wave at Brooklyn Hospital reflect as they brace for a
  second. }
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-5489dc38}{Protests grow over New Zealand's
  continued lockdown measures.}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-6ba08dd2}{How has the pandemic affected
  people's honesty?}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-2e6d7d13}{Canada reports zero Covid-19 deaths
  in a 24-hour period.}
\end{itemize}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/09/12/us/12virus-briefing-cdc-lede/12virus-briefing-cdc-lede-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\subsection{}

Trump appointees at the Health and Human Services Department have
meddled in the C.D.C.'s weekly disease reports.

Political appointees at the Department of Health and Human Services have
repeatedly asked the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention to
revise, delay and even scuttle reports on the coronavirus that they
believed were unflattering to President Trump.

Current and former senior health officials with direct knowledge of
phone calls, emails and other communication between the agencies
confirmed on Saturday
\href{https://www.politico.com/news/2020/09/11/exclusive-trump-officials-interfered-with-cdc-reports-on-covid-19-412809}{a
report in Politico} late Friday that the C.D.C.'s public Morbidity and
Mortality Weekly Reports have been targeted by senior officials in the
Health and Human Services' communications office.

The reports, which one former top health official called the ``holiest
of the holy'' in agency literature, are written largely for scientists
and public health experts, to update them on trends in infectious
diseases, not only the coronavirus but also other outbreaks around the
country. They are guarded so closely by agency staff that political
appointees only see them just before they are published.

The reports became the subject of intense scrutiny this summer by
Michael Caputo, a Republican political operative and former Trump
campaign official the White House
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/16/us/politics/michael-caputo-hhs.html}{installed
as the top spokesman} at the department in April, despite his having no
background in health.

Mr. Caputo himself said on Saturday the Politico's report was largely
accurate, but he denied that there was any overt pressure involved. He
said that the primary person involved in critiquing the reports, Paul
Alexander, an assistant professor of health research at McMaster
University in Canada whom he hired to advise him on the science of the
pandemic, simply offered direct reactions to the drafts of the C.D.C.'s
Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Reports.

``He digs into these M.M.W.R.s and makes his position known, and his
position isn't popular with the career scientists sometimes,'' Mr.
Caputo said of Mr. Alexander. ``That's called science. Disagreement is
science. Nobody has been ever ordered to do anything. Some changes have
been accepted, most have been rejected. It's my understanding that
that's how science is played.''

In emails obtained by Politico and confirmed to The Times by a health
official with direct knowledge of them, Mr. Alexander accused C.D.C.
scientists of attempting to ``hurt the president,'' referring to the
weekly reports as ``hit pieces on the administration.'' Mr. Alexander
asked Dr. Robert R. Redfield, the C.D.C. director, to edit reports that
had already been published that he believed overstated the risks of the
virus for children and undermined the administration's efforts to
encourage school reopenings.

The meddling from H.H.S. concerned Dr. Redfield, according to one former
senior health official, who often pushed back when Mr. Caputo called to
pester him about the reports.

Inside the C.D.C., employees expressed outrage and demoralization on
Saturday over the reports of interference.

\hypertarget{tracking-the-coronavirus-}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html}{Tracking
the Coronavirus
›}}{Tracking the Coronavirus ›}}\label{tracking-the-coronavirus-}}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html}{}

\hypertarget{where-cases-are-highest-per-capita}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{Where cases are \textbf{highest} per
capita}{Where cases are highest per capita}}\label{where-cases-are-highest-per-capita}}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/north-dakota-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

N.D.
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/south-dakota-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

S.D.
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/missouri-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

Mo.
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/iowa-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

Iowa
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/arkansas-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

Ark.
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/oklahoma-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

Okla.
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/tennessee-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

Tenn.
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/alabama-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

Ala.
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/wisconsin-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

Wis.
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/kansas-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

Kan.
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/nebraska-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

Neb.
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/south-carolina-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

S.C.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html}{}

\hypertarget{us-hot-spots-}{%
\subsubsection{U.S. hot spots ›}\label{us-hot-spots-}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2020/03/16/coronavirus-maps/dc9015512110e68e5a8253678d9addff3b2167f7/images/orphan_usa-threeByTwoSmallAt2X.png}
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/covid-college-cases-tracker.html}{}

\hypertarget{college-cases-}{%
\subsubsection{College cases ›}\label{college-cases-}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2020/03/16/coronavirus-maps/dc9015512110e68e5a8253678d9addff3b2167f7/images/orphan_colleges-threeByTwoSmallAt2X.png}

\hypertarget{-1}{%
\subsection{}\label{-1}}

AstraZeneca's vaccine trials are resuming after a safety review, but
only in Britain.

Image

A laboratory technician on Friday at an Italian vaccine manufacturing
facility near Rome on Friday. The manufacturer, Catalent Biologics, is
preparing for large-scale production and packaging in the event that the
vaccine being worked on by AstraZenaca and Oxford University is
approved.~Credit...Vincenzo Pinto/Agence France-Presse --- Getty Images

The University of Oxford said it was moving ahead in the United Kingdom
with trials of a coronavirus vaccine it developed in partnership with
the pharmaceutical company AstraZeneca, after passing a safety review
that was prompted when a participant in the United Kingdom appeared to
have developed a serious neurological condition.

The trials were placed on hold less than a week ago, as researchers
\href{Http://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/08/health/coronavirus-astrazeneca-vaccine-safety.html}{investigated}
whether the vaccine may have been the cause. A safety panel reviewed the
findings and notified the government's Medicines Health Regulatory
Authority, which then confirmed it was safe to restart the trials in
Britain.

A statement from the university on Saturday did not mention the
prospects for trials that have been suspended held in India, Brazil,
South Africa and the United States.

The statement also did not offer any clarity about the patient's
condition. ``We cannot disclose medical information about the illness
for reasons of participant confidentiality,'' the statement said.
\href{https://www.astrazeneca.com/media-centre/press-releases/2020/covid-19-vaccine-azd1222-clinical-trials-resumed-in-the-uk.html}{A
statement from AstraZeneca} added that the relevant information would be
shared with ``all trial investigators and participants'' and would also
``be disclosed on global clinical registries, according to the clinical
trial and regulatory standards.''

To date, roughly 18,000 individuals worldwide have already received this
particular vaccine. AstraZeneca is one of just three companies with
vaccines in late-stage clinical trials in the United States.

While late-stage trials are designed to test whether vaccines are indeed
safe across large populations, the university said it anticipated that
some participants would experience adverse effects.

``In large trials such as this, it is expected that some participants
will become unwell and every case must be carefully evaluated to ensure
careful assessment of safety,'' it
\href{https://covid19vaccinetrial.co.uk/trial-resumes}{said in a
statement}.

Scientists largely
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/10/health/covid-astrazeneca-vaccine-trans.html}{praised
AstraZeneca's decision} to pause trials and defer to a thorough review
by an independent board of experts. The suspension appeared to be the
second time that AstraZeneca has halted vaccine trials because of
questions surrounding severe neurological symptoms in recipients.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/09/10/us/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker-promo-1599751853248/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker-promo-1599751853248-articleLarge.png}

\hypertarget{coronavirus-vaccine-tracker}{%
\subsection{Coronavirus Vaccine
Tracker}\label{coronavirus-vaccine-tracker}}

A look at all the vaccines that have reached trials in humans.

\hypertarget{-2}{%
\subsection{}\label{-2}}

A Utah study reports that children infected in child-care spread the
virus to their households.

Image

A teacher directs students in the library at Freedom Preparatory Academy
on Thursday in Provo, Utah.Credit...George Frey/Agence France-Presse ---
Getty Images

A \href{https://www.cdc.gov/mmwr/volumes/69/wr/mm6937e3.htm}{report}
published Friday by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention found
that young children at three child-care facilities in Utah transmitted
the virus to staff members, family and the surrounding community, even
while some of the children were asymptomatic.

The findings undermine some previous assertions about the likelihood
that the very young could spread the virus.
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/18/health/coronavirus-children-schools.html\#:~:text=A\%20large\%20new\%20study\%20from,as\%20well\%20as\%20adults\%20do}{Studies}
from South Korea and other countries have suggested that children under
10 are less likely to spread the virus than adults.

The new research, published Friday, traced cases at three Salt Lake City
facilities, including one in which an 8-month-old contracted the virus
and transmitted it to both parents.

Researchers reviewed the contact-tracing data related to outbreaks at
the child-care facilities between April 1 and July 10. The study found
that during that time at least 184 people, 74 adults and 110 children,
had been exposed to someone with the virus in those facilities. At two
of the facilities, the children were all younger than 10; the third had
an age range up to 13.

Of the 184 people exposed, 31 later tested positive for the virus,
including 13 children. The study reported that 12 of those children had
passed the virus along to at least 12 of their 46 contacts outside the
centers. ``Six of these cases occurred in mothers and three in siblings
of the pediatric patients,'' the study said. At least one parent was
hospitalized.

The study had several critical limitations:

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  The source of an outbreak at one of the facilities was never found,
  making it impossible to determine if transmission can be attributed to
  the facility or to general community spread.
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  The testing strategy changed over time. For at least part of the study
  only symptomatic individuals were tested, which may have led to an
  undercount of cases.
\item
  Each of the three facilities was closed for some portion of the study
  period, during a statewide lockdown, limiting is use in suggesting
  patterns for child-care facilities at large.
\end{itemize}

Between April and July 10, when the study was conducted, guidance from
public health experts shifted drastically, most notably regarding face
coverings. In Utah, a mask mandate was not issued until July 23 and
\href{https://governor.utah.gov/wp-content/uploads/sites/40/2020/07/EO-2020-45-Extending-Face-Coverings-Requirement-in-State-Facilities.pdf}{never
applied to ``children in a child-care setting.''}

The study's authors recommended that workers at child-care facilities
wear masks at all times, especially when children are too young to wear
them, and emphasized the importance of regular testing with timely
results.

\hypertarget{-3}{%
\subsection{}\label{-3}}

`A nightmare': Those who battled Covid-19's first wave at Brooklyn
Hospital reflect as they brace for a second.

Image

Anna Markovinovic is a nurse in the Neonatal Intensive Care Unit at The
Brooklyn Hospital Center in New York.Credit...Victor J. Blue for The New
York Times

During the surge of Covid-19 cases this spring that filled the Brooklyn
Hospital Center's emergency room and intensive care unit with the
critically ill and the dying, the staff went in day after day, trying to
save as many lives as they could.

A photographer for The Times, Victor J. Blue, created a series of
portraits of these hospital workers during that grueling first wave. He
and Sheri Fink, the reporter who spent days inside the hospital then,
later interviewed them with a colleague, Catrin Einhorn, as they braced
for a second wave.

From the doctors and nurses to the workers serving behind the scenes,
all
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/11/nyregion/coronavirus-brooklyn-hospital-workers.html}{understood
their roles were both critical and potentially fatal}. Fighting the
pandemic required sacrifice and courage from workers of all stripes, in
the laundry room and the supply depot, the laboratory and the security
desk, all the way to the chief executive's office.

Many spoke in battle metaphors. The virus seemed to come from all sides,
they said, and threatened to spare no one. They talked about the front
line, and being called to duty, and ``training for war.''

``Even when I think about it right now,'' said Dr. Kiran Zaman, a
critical care fellow, ``it gives me goosebumps. It was a very scary,
very overwhelming experience. It was a nightmare.''

\hypertarget{-4}{%
\subsection{}\label{-4}}

Protests grow over New Zealand's continued lockdown measures.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/09/12/video/12vid-NZ-protest-still/12vid-NZ-protest-still-videoSixteenByNineJumbo1600.jpg}

More than 1,000 protesters gathered in Auckland, New Zealand, on
Saturday for a ``freedom rally'' aimed at opposing the country's
lingering lockdown ---~a demonstration that included a woman who, for
critics of the lockdown, has come to exemplify the harshness of the
nation's approach to the pandemic.

Known simply as LK, the woman was sentenced last month to 14 days in
jail for leading her three children out of a quarantine facility to
attend a funeral for the children's father after they had tested
negative for the virus. On Saturday, she appeared but did not speak.

``She is one New Zealander who has suffered a considerable loss because
of the government's responses to Covid-19,'' said one of the day's
speakers.

Auckland is still under Alert Level 2.5, meaning that social gatherings
of more than 10 people are not allowed.

But with only two new cases of community transmission reported on
Saturday --- and 108 active cases nationwide --- critics are questioning
whether the New Zealand government has been too slow to ease
restrictions. Weekly protests against the lockdown have been growing.

``We want our rights and freedom back,'' Jami-Lee Ross, a leader of
Advance NZ, a new fringe political party that says it stands for freedom
and sovereignty. He told the crowd that living in lockdown was ``wrong
and needed to stop.''

The authorities were mostly passive. As the crowd marched peacefully
through downtown Auckland, carrying signs and chanting ``we do not
consent,'' police officers wearing masks simply watched.

\hypertarget{-5}{%
\subsection{}\label{-5}}

How has the pandemic affected people's honesty?

Image

A recent study found that U.S. adults who believed they had contracted
the coronavirus couldn't always be counted on to be honest about their
symptoms.Credit...Jose Luis Magana/Associated Press

A recent Brock University study of 451 adults ages 20 to 82 in the
United States found that people who believed they had contracted the
coronavirus weren't always honest about it. Thirty-four percent of
participants who had tested positive said they had denied having
symptoms when asked by others, and 55 percent reported some level of
concealment of their symptoms.

Twenty-five percent of participants reported that they had in some way
concealed their physical distancing practices. That rate increased among
those with Covid-19, according to the study,
\href{https://journals.sagepub.com/doi/10.1177/1359105320951603}{published
last month in The Journal of Health Psychology}.

Women were more likely to disclose health symptoms than men were,
researchers said, and older adults were more honest about their virus
status and behaviors.

But the exact reasoning behind lying during the pandemic is complicated
and may be related to the environment, according to David M. Castro, a
psychotherapist and adjunct professor of psychology at Adelphi
University and the City College of New York.

``I think that so much is barred from someone right now,'' Dr. Castro
said. ``There's a lot of loneliness, a lot of depression stemming from
loneliness.''

Robert Feldman, a professor of psychological and brain sciences at the
University of Massachusetts Amherst and author of
``\href{https://www.hachettebookgroup.com/titles/robert-feldman/the-liar-in-your-life/9780446552196/}{The
Liar in Your Life: The Way to Truthful Relationships},'' said his
research showed that people typically tell three lies within the first
10 minutes of meeting someone else.

``It's part of what we do as members of society,'' he said. ``We tell
people that we're feeling well when we're not feeling so well.''

GLOBAL ROUNDUP

\hypertarget{-6}{%
\subsection{}\label{-6}}

Canada reports zero Covid-19 deaths in a 24-hour period.

Image

Waiting to enter a coronavirus testing clinic in Montreal on
Monday.Credit...Graham Hughes/The Canadian Press, via Associated Press

Canada reported zero deaths linked to Covid-19 in a 24-hour period on
Friday night, according to government data, even as the number of new
cases in the country has ticked slowly upward as
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/26/world/canada/canada-reopens-but-little-returns-to-the-old-ways.html}{restrictions
ease} and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/reuters/2020/09/03/us/03reuters-health-coronavirus-canada-education.html}{schools
reopen} for in-person classes.

There had been at least 135,600 confirmed coronavirus cases in Canada as
of Friday evening,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/world/canada/canada-coronavirus-cases.html}{according
to the government}. The number of new cases being reported daily has
fallen significantly from an early May peak of nearly 3,000 cases, and
now averages a few hundred a day. But as of Thursday, the average number
of new daily cases was up nearly 50 percent compared with a few weeks
earlier.

Four Canadian provinces --- Alberta, British Columbia, Ontario and
Quebec --- account for most of the cases that the country has reported
over the past week. Those provinces also accounted for all of the 23
virus-deaths reported over the same period. This week, Ontario, Canada's
most populous province, said it would take a four-week ``pause'' before
considering loosening restrictions or allowing further economic
reopening.

Canada has previously reported zero Covid-19 deaths in 24-hour periods,
although measuring that can be imprecise because of delays in reporting.
The average number of daily reported deaths over the past week is three.

In the United States, as of Thursday the average number of daily
reported deaths over the past week was 702.

Other pandemic developments around the world:

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \textbf{India} again broke a record for daily new cases, reporting
  97,750 on Saturday,
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/world/asia/india-coronavirus-cases.html}{according
  to a Times database}. The previous record, set Friday, was 96,551.
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{-7}{%
\subsection{}\label{-7}}

When film festivals require social distance, generating a buzz is tough
for smaller productions.

Image

``Concrete Cowboy'' had its debut this week in a Los Angeles parking
lot.~~Credit...Alex Welsh for The New York Times

About 70 cars crammed into a downtown Los Angeles parking lot surrounded
by high rises and a smattering of food trucks on Thursday night to watch
``Concrete Cowboy,'' a father-son film starring Idris Elba and set in
northern Philadelphia's Black cowboy community.

In terms of movie premieres, it was unorthodox.

``It is a dream come true,'' Ricky Staub, the 37-year-old white
filmmaker making his directorial debut, said while standing in front of
a huge screen. ``I don't know when you dream of releasing your movie
it's at a drive-in, but I never dreamed that my first movie would be an
all-Black western set in Philly.''

Mr. Staub had ambitious plans when ``Concrete Cowboy'' landed coveted
spots in the Telluride and Toronto film festivals. The plans all changed
when Telluride was canceled because of the pandemic and Toronto opted
for a hybrid model that features in-person screenings for Canadian
audiences and a virtual version for everyone else.

For small indie films like ``Concrete Cowboy,'' the loss of traditional
film festivals means not having a chance to build word-of-mouth momentum
that could be the difference between becoming an unlikely Oscar darling
or another also-ran in the video-on-demand market.

At the Venice Film Festival, held in person with certain safety
restrictions, ``One Night in Miami'' --- the directorial debut of the
Oscar-winning actress Regina King --- has already generated early awards
chatter. Amazon recently bought it in a bidding war.

\hypertarget{-8}{%
\subsection{}\label{-8}}

How China brought nearly 200 million students back to school.

Image

Students at Changchun Street Primary School in Wuhan, China, during a
media tour organized by the local authorities last week.Credit...Hector
Retamal/Agence France-Presse --- Getty Images

Under bright blue skies, nearly 2,000 students gathered this month for
the start of school at Hanyang No. 1 High School in Wuhan, the Chinese
city where the coronavirus first emerged.

Medical workers stood guard at school entrances, taking temperatures.
Administrative officials reviewed the students' travel histories and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/26/world/asia/coronavirus-wuhan-tests.html}{coronavirus
test results}. Local Communist Party cadres kept watch, making sure
teachers followed detailed instructions on hygiene and showed an
``anti-epidemic spirit.''

``I'm not worried,'' a music teacher at the school, Yang Meng, said in
an interview. ``Wuhan is now the safest place.''

As countries around the world
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/01/world/schools-reopen-globe-students.html}{struggle
to safely reopen schools}, China's Communist Party is harnessing the
power of its authoritarian system to offer in-person learning for about
195 million students in kindergarten through 12th grade at public
schools.

In many ways, China is applying the same heavy-handed model to reopen
schools that it has used to
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/07/world/asia/china-coronavirus-cost.html}{bring
the virus under control}. To stop the epidemic, the authorities imposed
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/02/06/world/asia/coronavirus-china-wuhan-quarantine.html}{harsh
lockdowns} and deployed
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/26/technology/china-coronavirus-surveillance.html}{invasive
technologies to track residents}, raising public anger in some places
and concerns about the erosion of privacy and civil liberties.

China's leader,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/07/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html\#link-adc17f7}{Xi
Jinping, said in a speech} on Tuesday that the country's progress in
fighting the virus, including the opening of schools, had ``fully
demonstrated the clear superiority of Communist Party leadership and our
socialist system.

``The Chinese system moves by itself,'' said Yong Zhao, a scholar at the
University of Kansas who has studied education in China. ``The system is
run like a military: It just goes for it, no matter what anyone
thinks.''

\hypertarget{-9}{%
\subsection{}\label{-9}}

A federal unemployment program provokes growing concern about fraudulent
claims.

Image

More than 30 envelopes from the California unemployment office arrived
at Barbara Lamb's vacant rental unit, all with unfamiliar
names.Credit...Jim Wilson/The New York Times

California is at the center of increasing concerns about extensive fraud
in a federal program that provides unemployment benefits to freelancers,
part-time workers and others lacking a safety net in the pandemic.

At the same time, there is growing evidence of problems keeping track of
how many people are being paid through the program. The Labor Department
has reported about 15 million claims for benefits nationwide. A
comparison of state and federal records by The New York Times suggests
that total may overstate the number of recipients by five million or
more.

The program, Pandemic Unemployment Assistance, is part of a \$2.2
trillion relief package enacted in March. In the latest Labor Department
tally, the program accounted for nearly half the total recipients
collecting jobless benefits of any kind.

It appears that nearly seven million people are collecting Pandemic
Unemployment Assistance benefits in California alone, far more than its
population would suggest. The state's own data suggests that the number
may be less than two million. Experts on the unemployment system say
such discrepancies seem to reflect multiple counting of individual
applications as states rushed out payments.

But a surge in new claims in California is attributed not to accounting,
but to fraud.

Fraud is not uncommon in hastily assembled disaster programs, but signs
of trouble with this program have been surfacing for months as people
who did not file claims found benefits issued in their names. A growing
number of states have signaled that the problems with the program go
beyond the routine.

Colorado said on Thursday that in a six-week stretch this summer, 77
percent of new claims under the program were not legitimate.

Reporting was contributed by Noah Weiland, Sheryl Gay Stolberg, Abby
Goodnough, Ben Casselman, Damien Cave, Patricia Cohen, Helene Cooper,
Conor Dougherty, Rebecca Halleck, Javier C. Hernández, Jonathan Huang,
Mike Ives, Apoorva Mandavilli, Zach Montague, Dan Powell, Nelson D.
Schwartz, Nicole Sperling, Jim Tankersley, Derrick Bryson Taylor and
Carl Zimmer.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
