Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}Donald Trump Fires Corey
Lewandowski, His Campaign Manager

\url{https://nyti.ms/28IrlQi}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{donald-trump-fires-corey-lewandowski-his-campaign-manager}{%
\section{Donald Trump Fires Corey Lewandowski, His Campaign
Manager}\label{donald-trump-fires-corey-lewandowski-his-campaign-manager}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2016/06/21/us/21trump-lewandowski/21trump-lewandowski-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/maggie-haberman}{Maggie Haberman},
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/alexander-burns}{Alexander Burns} and
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/ashley-parker}{Ashley Parker}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  June 20, 2016
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2016/06/21/us/politics/donald-trump-money-campaign.html}{Donald
J. Trump} fired his divisive campaign manager,
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/09/17/us/politics/corey-lewandowski-testimony-trump.html}{Corey
Lewandowski}, on Monday as he confronts urgent challenges heading into
the general election --- a strategic shift after months of concerns from
party officials and donors about Mr. Lewandowski's stewardship of the
campaign.

The exit occurred a month before Mr. Trump, the presumptive Republican
presidential nominee, is to secure the official nomination at the
party's convention in Cleveland. It reflected a broader adjustment by
the campaign as it grapples with a late start to fund-raising, anxiety
among party leaders and a skeletal staff --- all while Mr. Trump's
likely Democratic opponent, Hillary Clinton, swiftly builds out her
operations in swing states.

Mr. Trump had faced increasing concerns from allies and donors, as well
as his children, over whether
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/09/17/us/politics/corey-lewandowski-testimony-trump.html}{Mr.
Lewandowski}, who had never before worked on a national race, was able
to direct a battle against Mrs. Clinton. Among those who had voiced
concern was Reince Priebus, the chairman of the Republican National
Committee, who told Mr. Trump last week that relations between his
committee and Mr. Lewandowski had become increasingly strained, and that
a change would be welcome, according to three people briefed on the
discussion.

Republicans across the spectrum welcomed the firing as a positive step,
but they suggested that it needed to be followed by consistent changes
in performance from the candidate himself.

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/09/17/us/politics/corey-lewandowski-testimony-trump.html}{Mr.
Lewandowski was fired} at a Monday morning meeting with Mr. Trump and
Mr. Trump's two older sons, Eric and Donald Jr., said two others briefed
on the meeting,who were not authorized to speak publicly. Mr. Trump and
Mr. Lewandowski had what was described as a ``very open conversation.''

Mr. Lewandowski's time was primarily spent on the campaign trail with
the candidate, and day-to-day aspects of the operation were largely
handled by the chief strategist, Paul Manafort. For months, Mr.
Lewandowski had been a lightning rod for controversy, making headlines
about himself that overshadowed his boss. This included his being
charged with misdemeanor battery --- a
\href{http://www.nytimes.com/2016/04/15/us/politics/corey-lewandowski-trump-campaign-manager.html}{charge
later dropped} --- after he was accused of grabbing a reporter as she
approached Mr. Trump in Florida in March.

It was not immediately clear whether someone new would be named campaign
manager, but it was clear that the existing Trump team believed most of
the duties had already been assumed by other people, principally Mr.
Manafort.

``Ultimately, Paul is in charge,'' Barry Bennett, a senior adviser to
the Trump campaign, said. ``He's got the experience to help get Mr.
Trump across the finish line.''

As a young Republican operative, Mr. Manafort helped manage the 1976
convention floor for Gerald Ford in his showdown with Ronald Reagan, the
last time Republicans entered a convention with no candidate's having
clinched the nomination. He performed a similar function for Reagan in
1980, and played leading roles in the 1988 and 1996 conventions, for
George Bush and Bob Dole.

Trump allies and critics alike regarded Mr. Lewandowski as a fierce
defender of Mr. Trump's idiosyncratic approach to the presidential race.
At a moment when many in the party have pressed Mr. Trump to soften his
message and build a more conventional political operation, Mr.
Lewandowski hewed closely to the mantra he had developed during the
Republican primaries: ``Let Trump be Trump.''

The limitations of that approach have been on vivid display in recent
weeks. Mr. Trump has struggled to raise money from establishment donors,
and he has drawn fresh criticism from Republicans and Democrats for his
racial attacks on a federal judge and his revived proposal to bar
Muslims from entering the United States in the wake of the gay nightclub
massacre in Orlando, Fla.

With the Republican National Convention looming, he faces the task of
broadening his team to include people with previous presidential
campaign experience and uniting a party that is often not in lock step
behind him.

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2016/us/elections/polls.html}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2016/06/15/us/elections/polls-1466014214178/polls-1466014214178-articleLarge-v2.jpg}

\hypertarget{latest-election-polls-2016}{%
\subsection{Latest Election Polls
2016}\label{latest-election-polls-2016}}

Get the latest national and state polls on the presidential election
between Hillary Clinton and Donald J. Trump.

Mr. Trump has also been turning his attention to fund-raising for the
first time, a task over which Mr. Lewandowski had assumed oversight, and
one that has gone slowly for the campaign. The campaign has aired no ads
for the general election, and neither Mr. Trump or his advisers have yet
to publicly bless a
``\href{http://topics.nytimes.com/top/reference/timestopics/subjects/c/campaign_finance/index.html?inline=nyt-classifier}{super
PAC}'' that could raise significant amounts of money to support his
presidential bid.

``It would be welcome if new people come in who have more experience and
can move him to a more inclusive, more substance-oriented campaign,''
said Fred Malek, a fixture in Republican Party fund-raising.

But he added: ``How much the absence of a national kind of campaign is
due to Corey and how much is due to Donald is kind of hard to tell. It
looks to me like Trump drives his own train.''

In announcing Monday morning that Mr. Lewandowski ``will no longer be
working with the campaign,'' Hope Hicks, the campaign's spokeswoman,
said in a statement that ``the campaign is grateful to Corey for his
hard work and dedication, and we wish him the best in the future.''

The firing followed regular reports of turmoil in the campaign. Mr.
Lewandowski was often at odds with Mr. Manafort, who
\href{http://www.nytimes.com/politics/first-draft/2016/03/28/donald-trump-hires-paul-manafort-to-lead-delegate-effort/}{was
brought on in March} when the candidate seemed poised for a lengthy
fight over Republican delegates.

Mr. Lewandowski was said to have resisted certain moves that would have
increased the number of staff members, at times blocking Mr. Manafort
from making hires or later undoing them.

But the people briefed on Mr. Lewandowski's departure said the
circumstances went well beyond any one episode or relationship. One
stressed that the move had been in the works for many weeks,
particularly since it had become clear that Mr. Trump would be the
Republican nominee.

Mr. Trump's son Donald Jr. described the split as ``amicable'' in an
interview with NBC. And Mr. Lewandowski gave a series of interviews
Monday afternoon in which he tried to brush aside questions about the
internal particulars of his departure. He said he wished nothing but the
best for Mr. Trump, and suggested that Mr. Trump's doing well could only
be good for him.

``If Donald Trump wins, that's good for Corey Lewandowski,'' Mr.
Lewandowski said on CNN. He played down any suggestion of tension
between him and Mr. Trump's children, and said every campaign expanded
its operations for a general election.

Mr. Lewandowski, 42, a New Hampshire resident
\href{http://www.nytimes.com/2016/04/15/us/politics/corey-lewandowski-trump-history.html}{with
deep ties to the state},
\href{http://www.nytimes.com/politics/first-draft/2016/03/16/donald-trumps-campaign-manager-will-do-double-duty-as-a-delegate/}{had
made himself a delegate} to the convention months ago and is still the
chairman of that state's delegation.

Few inside the campaign were given any warning about the dismissal of
Mr. Lewandowski, who was on the campaign's daily 8:30 a.m. conference
call on Monday, according to a person briefed on the developments.

Mr. Bennett, the senior Trump campaign adviser, declined to predict
whether there would be other significant changes. But he said Mr.
Lewandowski deserved credit for helping Mr. Trump get where he is.

``There is no doubt what Corey did in the primary was amazing ---
helping him get more votes than anyone else has ever gotten, a record
turnout in 45 out of the 50 states, record low expenditures,'' Mr.
Bennett said. ``None of that's ever been done before.''

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
