Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/technology}{Technology}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/technology}{Technology}\textbar{}Debunking 3 Viral
Falsehoods About Kamala Harris

\url{https://nyti.ms/3iIN0eQ}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/20/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{D.N.C.
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/20/us/politics/biden-presidential-nomination-dnc.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Biden's
  Speech}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/us/elections/2020-presidential-election-calendar.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Election
  Calendar}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/11/us/politics/vote-by-mail-us-states.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Voting
  by Mail}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Politics
  Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{debunking-3-viral-falsehoods-about-kamala-harris}{%
\section{Debunking 3 Viral Falsehoods About Kamala
Harris}\label{debunking-3-viral-falsehoods-about-kamala-harris}}

False and misleading information about Ms. Harris has surged in the days
since she joined the Biden ticket.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/14/business/14harris-misinfo1/merlin_175261404_93fd0e4e-473d-4b0b-b302-60e35a7453e1-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/davey-alba}{Davey Alba}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Aug. 14, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

As
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/topic/person/joe-biden}{Joseph
R. Biden Jr.} announced that he had selected
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/kamala-harris.html}{Senator
Kamala Harris} of California as his vice-presidential running mate,
internet trolls got to work.

Since then, false and misleading information about Ms. Harris has spiked
online and on TV. The activity has jumped from two dozen mentions per
hour during a recent week to over 3,200 per hour in the last few days,
according to the media insights company Zignal Labs, which analyzed
global television broadcasts and social media.

Much of that rise is fueled by fervent supporters of President Trump and
adherents of the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/13/technology/qanon-tea-party.html}{extremist
conspiracy movement QAnon}, as well as by the far left, according to a
New York Times analysis of the most widespread falsehoods about Ms.
Harris. On Thursday, Mr. Trump himself
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/13/us/politics/trump-kamala-harris.html}{encouraged}
one of the most persistent falsehoods, a racist conspiracy theory that
Ms. Harris is not eligible for the vice presidency or presidency because
her parents were immigrants.

``Sadly, this wave of misinformation was predictable and inevitable,''
said Melissa Ryan, chief executive of Card Strategies, a consulting firm
that researches disinformation.

Many of the narratives are inaccurate accusations that first surged last
year during
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/12/03/us/politics/kamala-harris-campaign-drops-out.html}{Ms.
Harris's campaign} to become the Democratic presidential nominee. Here
are three false rumors about Ms. Harris that continue circulating widely
online.

\hypertarget{the-pizzagate-conspiracy-theory}{%
\subsection{The `PizzaGate' Conspiracy
Theory}\label{the-pizzagate-conspiracy-theory}}

On Wednesday, a day after Mr. Biden announced his selection, the
falsehood that Ms. Harris is connected to a child-trafficking conspiracy
known
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/search?query=Pizzagatehttps://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/27/technology/pizzagate-justin-bieber-qanon-tiktok.html}{as
PizzaGate} was published on the conspiracy-mongering website Infowars,
which set off a round of sharing on social media.

PizzaGate hinges on the baseless notion that Hillary Clinton and
Democratic elites ran a child sex-trafficking ring through a Washington
pizza restaurant. According to the rumors about Ms. Harris, she is tied
to the conspiracy because her sister was invited by John Podesta, Ms.
Clinton's presidential campaign manager, to a ``Hillary pizza party'' in
2016.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-2020-election}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/19/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: 2020
Election}}{Latest Updates: 2020 Election}}\label{latest-updates-2020-election}}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/19/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#night-3-featured-more-policy-a-focus-on-women-and-a-full-throated-rejection-of-trump-by-his-predecessor}{7h
ago}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/19/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#night-3-featured-more-policy-a-focus-on-women-and-a-full-throated-rejection-of-trump-by-his-predecessor}{Night
3 featured more policy, a focus on women and a full-throated rejection
of Trump by his predecessor.}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/19/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#trump-live-tweeted-obamas-speech-tonight-hell-appear-on-fox-news-right-before-bidens-tomorrow}{9h
ago}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/19/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#trump-live-tweeted-obamas-speech-tonight-hell-appear-on-fox-news-right-before-bidens-tomorrow}{Trump
live-tweeted Obama's speech tonight. He'll appear on Fox News right
before Biden's tomorrow.}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/19/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#advocates-for-domestic-violence-survivors-praised-biden-in-a-video}{9h
ago}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/19/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#advocates-for-domestic-violence-survivors-praised-biden-in-a-video}{Advocates
for domestic violence survivors praised Biden in a video.}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/19/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

By Friday morning, more than 4,200 tweets discussed the unfounded theory
about Ms. Harris's connection to PizzaGate, according to Dataminr, a
social media monitoring service.

On Facebook, users in dozens of QAnon groups and pages posted about the
rumor. The falsehood reached up to 624,000 people, according to The
Times's analysis. On Instagram, which Facebook owns, 77 more posts tried
to spread the lie further.

And on YouTube, a QAnon channel with over 100,000 followers pushed the
conspiracy, too. ``Remember, we know what pizza was code language for,''
Daniel Lee, a YouTube personality popular in conspiracy circles, told
his audience. The video was viewed 30,000 times.

A Facebook spokeswoman, Liz Bourgeois, said in an email on Friday that
``it's up to our fact-checking partners to determine which claims they
rate, and they take a number of factors into consideration.'' She
acknowledged that as of Friday afternoon, there were no fact-checks so
far on the widely shared posts falsely tying Ms. Harris to PizzaGate.

Twitter said on Friday that it permanently suspended people associated
with QAnon who used many different accounts or tried to evade a previous
suspension.

``We deploy a number of tools to add context to and address
misinformation,'' including applying labels, not recommending tweets and
limiting the reach of tweets, a Twitter spokesman, Trenton Kennedy,
said.

YouTube said Friday that it was reducing the spread of borderline
content on the video site, including QAnon content, but that the video
flagged by The Times did not violate its guidelines.

\hypertarget{harriss-heritage}{%
\subsection{Harris's Heritage}\label{harriss-heritage}}

Falsehoods about Ms. Harris's heritage --- in particular that she is
``not Black'' --- were among the most widely spread misinformation that
Zignal Labs tracked. Since Tuesday, the argument had been mentioned over
40,000 times, the company found.

``Kamala Harris is not an American Black,'' said one tweet that
collected 2,300 likes and shares after it was first posted on Wednesday.
``She is half Indian and half Jamaican. She is robbing American Blacks
of their history. Kamala is as Black American as Obama.''

In a Facebook post on Tuesday night, Candace Owens, a right-wing
commentator, posted a widely shared post questioning Ms. Harris's
heritage. ``I am SO EXCITED that we get to watch Kamala Harris, who
swore into congress as an `Indian-American,' now play the `I'm a black a
woman' card all the way until November,'' she wrote.

Facebook soon \href{https://apnews.com/afs:Content:9240201328}{added a
fact check} to Ms. Owens's post, requiring users to click past a label
noting that third-party fact checkers found ``this information has no
basis in fact.''

Ms. Harris, the daughter of Jamaican and Indian immigrants, was born in
1964 in Oakland, Calif., a few years after her parents arrived in the
United States.
\href{https://apnews.com/afs:Content:9240201328}{According to}The
Associated Press, Ms. Harris has long identified as Black; she was not
sworn into Congress identifying only as Indian-American. In interviews,
Ms. Harris has regularly spoken about how
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/16/world/asia/kamala-harris-india.html}{her
mother, who was from India}, raised her as Black.

Ms. Owens said in an email on Friday: ``It is absurd to censor a truth
followed by a future guess. This is why I am already in legal
proceedings with Facebook fact-checkers. They have now begun censoring
statements that were never said.''

Other memes on Facebook labeling Ms. Harris as ``Kamala Dolezal'' were
liked and shared thousands of times, according to the Times analysis.
The posts referred to Rachel Dolezal, a former official at the National
Association for the Advancement of Colored People who was later revealed
to be white and was
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/05/25/us/rachel-dolezal-welfare-fraud.html}{charged
in 2018 with welfare fraud.}

Whitney Phillips, an assistant professor at Syracuse University who
teaches digital ethics, said she was ``absolutely not surprised'' by the
viral misinformation questioning Ms. Harris's heritage.

``Regardless of political party, sexism and racism have long been
fixtures in American public life,'' Ms. Phillips said.

\hypertarget{jussie-smollett}{%
\subsection{Jussie Smollett}\label{jussie-smollett}}

One of the most convoluted lies that has spread on social media involves
the actor Jussie Smollett and the baseless allegation that Ms. Harris is
his aunt and knew in advance that Mr. Smollett was planning to stage an
assault against himself early last year.

According to the unsubstantiated narrative, when the Chicago Police
Department and the F.B.I. investigated the alleged assault, Ms. Harris
appeared in Mr. Smollett's phone records, so she must have been in on
the hoax.

The right-wing website True Pundit published an article pushing this
argument in November. The article gained new prominence on social media
this week, shared nearly 2,000 times on Twitter and reaching 180,000
people, according to CrowdTangle, a tool to analyze interactions across
social networks.

A
\href{https://www.factcheck.org/2019/02/no-evidence-sen-harris-smollett-are-related/}{February
2019 article on FactCheck.org} concluded that there was no relation
between Ms. Harris and Mr. Smollett, and that evidence of her role in
the hoax was nonexistent.

Ms. Harris did initially condemn the news of the apparent attack on Mr.
Smollett, but when the police said the assault had been staged, she
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/02/22/us/politics/jussie-smollett-kamala-harris.html}{put
out a new statement} saying she was ``sad, frustrated and disappointed''
by the development.

Sheera Frenkel contributed reporting. Ben Decker contributed research.

\hypertarget{our-2020-election-guide}{%
\section{Our 2020 Election Guide}\label{our-2020-election-guide}}

Updated Aug. 20, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{convention-recap}{%
  \subsection{Convention Recap}\label{convention-recap}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Joe Biden accepted the Democratic nomination, urging Americans to
    have faith that they could
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/20/us/politics/Joe-Biden-accepts-democratic-nomination.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{``overcome
    this season of darkness.''}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{news-analysis}{%
  \subsection{News Analysis}\label{news-analysis}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Looming over Mr. Biden's nomination was the ever-present shadow of
    another man who's poised to dominate the campaign:
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/20/us/politics/biden-dnc-speech-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Donald
    J. Trump}.
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{keep-up-with-our-coverage}{%
  \subsection{Keep Up With Our
  Coverage}\label{keep-up-with-our-coverage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Get an
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{email}
    recapping the day's news
  \end{itemize}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Download our mobile app on
    \href{https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nytimes/id284862083?ls=1\&mat_click_id=5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\&referrer=mat_click_id\%3D5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\%26link_click_id\%3D722930677036718082}{iOS}
    and
    \href{http://a.localytics.com/android?id=com.nytimes.android\&referrer=utm_source\%3Dother_nyt_mobile_web\%26utm_medium\%3DWeb\%2520page\%26utm_term\%3DGeneral\%2520Mobile\%2520Page\%26utm_campaign\%3DNYT\%2520Mobile\%2520General\%2520Page}{Android}
    and turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
