Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/business}{Business}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/business}{Business}\textbar{}Is There Really a Toilet
Paper Shortage?

\url{https://nyti.ms/38KY1al}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{the-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus?name=styln-coronavirus-markets\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=4575b940-e385-11ea-bdca-c743cc6a6463}{The
Coronavirus
Outbreak}}{The Coronavirus Outbreak}}\label{the-coronavirus-outbreak}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  live\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/20/world/coronavirus-covid.html?name=styln-coronavirus-markets\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=4575b941-e385-11ea-bdca-c743cc6a6463}{Latest
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html?name=styln-coronavirus-markets\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=4575e050-e385-11ea-bdca-c743cc6a6463}{Maps
  and Cases}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html?name=styln-coronavirus-markets\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=4575e051-e385-11ea-bdca-c743cc6a6463}{Vaccine
  Tracker}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/19/us/colleges-closing-covid.html?name=styln-coronavirus-markets\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=4575e052-e385-11ea-bdca-c743cc6a6463}{Colleges
  Closing}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/20/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?name=styln-coronavirus-markets\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=4575e053-e385-11ea-bdca-c743cc6a6463}{Economy}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{is-there-really-a-toilet-paper-shortage}{%
\section{Is There Really a Toilet Paper
Shortage?}\label{is-there-really-a-toilet-paper-shortage}}

The household staple has consistently been out of stock during the
coronavirus outbreak. Manufacturers may not be willing to increase
supplies.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/03/13/business/13toiletpaper-1/merlin_170112786_4a0c7b77-e1ea-445b-bbef-87debee1794b-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/michael-corkery}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/02/16/multimedia/author-michael-corkery/author-michael-corkery-thumbLarge.jpg}}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/sapna-maheshwari}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/02/20/multimedia/author-sapna-maheshwari/author-sapna-maheshwari-thumbLarge.jpg}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/michael-corkery}{Michael
Corkery} and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/sapna-maheshwari}{Sapna
Maheshwari}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  March 13, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

If there's one image that captures
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/13/nyregion/coronavirus-panic-buying.html?action=click\&module=Top\%20Stories\&pgtype=Homepage}{the
panic} seeping through the United States this week, it might be the
empty store shelves where toilet paper usually sits.

Shoppers, preparing for the possibility that the coronavirus could keep
them quarantined for weeks or months, have been snapping up every roll
they can find. The more images of stockpiling that emerged on social
media, the more panicky buying that ensued. The result: The
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/21/us/flushable-wipes-clog.html}{household
staple has been consistently out of stock}, whether at big box stores,
at bodegas or on Amazon.

In an age of instant shopping gratification and same-day delivery, the
idea that something so mundane could be unavailable seemed downright
scary, and an ominous sign that a basic supply chain is under stress
because of the pandemic.

But is there really a toilet paper shortage?

Major retailers say toilet paper hasn't been out of stock in stores for
more than a day or two, or even a few hours. Manufacturers, paper
industry executives say, are raising production to meet demand, but
there is only so much capacity that they can or are willing to add.

They want to satisfy panic buying without going overboard and creating a
glut on the market when the surge subsides.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/03/14/business/13JPtoiletpaper-print/merlin_170409084_49acad37-4ce1-4c23-aad3-aedb20a876d7-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Unlike some other products, toilet paper is not likely to be used more
by Americans who are stricken with respiratory symptoms, even as the
coronavirus spreads.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-the-coronavirus-outbreak-and-the-economy}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/20/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: The Coronavirus Outbreak and the
Economy}}{Latest Updates: The Coronavirus Outbreak and the Economy}}\label{latest-updates-the-coronavirus-outbreak-and-the-economy}}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/20/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#the-producer-of-unhinged-makes-a-big-bet-on-audiences-returning-to-theaters}{10h
ago}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/20/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#the-producer-of-unhinged-makes-a-big-bet-on-audiences-returning-to-theaters}{The
producer of `Unhinged' makes a big bet on audiences returning to
theaters.}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/20/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#american-airlines-to-stop-flights-to-15-cities-after-government-aid-ends}{18h
ago}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/20/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#american-airlines-to-stop-flights-to-15-cities-after-government-aid-ends}{American
Airlines to stop flights to 15 cities after government aid ends.}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/20/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#without-school-plays-and-assemblies-a-technicians-livelihood-withers}{19h
ago}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/20/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#without-school-plays-and-assemblies-a-technicians-livelihood-withers}{Without
school plays and assemblies, a technician's livelihood withers.}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/20/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

More live coverage:
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/20/world/coronavirus-covid.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Global}

``You are not using more of it. You are just filling up your closet with
it,'' said Jeff Anderson, president of Precision Paper Converters, a
paper product manufacturer with 65 employees outside Green Bay, Wis.
``What happens in the summer when demand dries up and people have all
this extra product in their homes?''

Mr. Anderson's business focuses on facial tissues, which are also in
high demand, and he is paying employees overtime to work longer shifts.
``We can't make as much as they want right now,'' he said.

Perhaps more than in its recent past, the paper industry seems well
positioned to meet the surging demand. After decades of declining sales,
as newspapers and printed documents lost out in the digital age, many
manufacturers converted to making tissue products, like toilet paper and
wipes. That means there is more manufacturing capacity that can be
brought online.

But toilet paper is typically made to order. Because it takes up so much
room, storing large quantities is not profitable, so the industry
typically has only a few months of inventory on hand.

``There is not some big underground warehouse like in `Raiders of the
Lost Ark,' where there is all this toilet paper sitting around in case
it is needed,'' said Dan Clarahan, president of United Converting, which
sells manufacturing equipment to tissue companies.

In more normal times, toilet paper demand grows by only a few percentage
points each year, mirroring population growth.

Image

Many stores sell out minutes after restocking.~Credit...Ted S.
Warren/Associated Press

Asked about the shortages, many retailers would not commit to a specific
timetable for when the shelves would be restocked, calling the situation
``fluid.'' A retail analyst, Burt Flickinger of Strategic Resource
Group, said big box retailers like Costco and BJ's Wholesale Club have
been able to restock most empty shelves within a few hours, or by the
next morning, according to his survey of hundreds of stores across the
country this week.

But it's clear that the retailers, even those with experience in dealing
with crisis-related demand before a hurricane or a blizzard, are being
tested as demand surges across the country all at once.

Walmart said it was adjusting its supply routes to keep up. The company
is picking up many high-demand products at factories and shipping them
in trucks directly to stores, bypassing regional distribution centers.

The frenzied buying was even acknowledged Friday in the Rose Garden,
where President Trump stood next to the executives of major retailers
including Walmart.

``Toilet paper is not an effective way to prevent getting the
coronavirus, but they're selling out,'' the health secretary, Alex M.
Azar II, said.

People have been sharing images of toilet paper shortages and other
empty shelves at Giant Eagle, a private grocery chain that has more than
400 locations and is based in Pittsburgh.

Image

For some products, stores are limiting the amount that people can
buy.~Credit...Brittainy Newman/The New York Times

The chain said it had been working to increase the frequency of
deliveries of ``essential items'' to stores and asked corporate
employees to assist in stores, where other employees are stocking
shelves and fulfilling curbside pickup and delivery orders.

All Giant Eagles have begun to temporarily limit toilet paper purchases
to three packages per customer, Dick Roberts, a company spokesman, said
in an email.

The vast majority of toilet paper consumed by Americans is made in North
America. But about 10 percent of the giant rolls of paper that are used
to make the rolls that end up in American bathrooms come from China and
India. Those imports have been delayed because of the broader bottleneck
of shipments from Asia, as the region begins to recover from the virus
outbreak and factories come back online.

Joe Raccuia, chief executive of Morcon Tissue, which makes toilet paper
in plants across the United States, said his supplier in Mexico had
warned him about delays.

``It's a matter of weeks, not months,'' said Mr. Raccuia, who sells his
toilet paper mostly to hotels and restaurants.

It's not just toilet paper that people are stockpiling, of course. Weeks
ago, there were shortages of hand sanitizer. By Friday, the panic buying
had extended to bottled water and thermometers.

Popular thermometers, like those sold under the Vicks brand, were listed
as out of stock on the websites of retailers like Target, Walmart, CVS,
Walgreens and Staples.

Even on Amazon, the options were grim. For example, a Vicks ComfortFlex
thermometer that was listed for about \$10 on Walmart's website was
being sold by two sellers on Amazon for at least \$40, and could not be
delivered for at least a week --- a far cry from Amazon's usual
advantages on price and speed.

Amazon did not respond to a request for comment on Friday.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
