Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/arts/television}{Television}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/arts/television}{Television}\textbar{}The Best Movies and
TV Shows Coming to Netflix, Amazon and More in August

\url{https://nyti.ms/39ILvKx}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{the-best-movies-and-tv-shows-coming-to-netflix-amazon-and-more-in-august}{%
\section{The Best Movies and TV Shows Coming to Netflix, Amazon and More
in
August}\label{the-best-movies-and-tv-shows-coming-to-netflix-amazon-and-more-in-august}}

Every month, subscription streaming services add a new batch of titles
to their libraries. Here are our picks for August.

By Noel Murray

\begin{itemize}
\item
  July 31, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

\emph{For more recommendations on what to stream, sign up for our}
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/watching}{\emph{twice-weekly
Watching newsletter here}}\emph{.}

In most years, August is kind of an afterthought on the entertainment
calendar. It arrives too early for the fall TV season, and too late for
the big summer blockbuster movies. But this year, the streaming services
are offering a fairly robust and eclectic August lineup, running the
gamut from acclaimed documentaries to long-awaited animated comedies to
the return of an influential reality competition series.

Here are our picks for the best new films and TV shows premiering this
month, plus a roundup of some of the other notable titles that will be
available to stream. (Note: Streaming services occasionally change
schedules without giving notice.)

\hypertarget{new-to-apple-tv}{%
\subsection{New to Apple TV+}\label{new-to-apple-tv}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/08/01/multimedia/01streamaugust1/merlin_175127256_c78e620b-ca85-4153-91c9-adee0a480817-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\textbf{`Boys State'}

\textbf{Starts streaming:} Aug. 14

While adults with diverging political views often separate themselves
into bubbles, their kids often go to school together, discussing the big
issues in class and in the cafeteria. The documentary ``Boys State''
suggests that the younger generation may be better off than their
bickering elders, because they actually talk to one another. The
directors Jesse Moss and Amanda McBaine cover an annual Texas tradition:
a gathering of whip-smart, opinionated teenage boys, who spend a few
days at the State Capitol acting as a kind of mock legislature,
practicing building coalitions and drafting their own pretend laws. The
filmmakers don't push any agenda here, aside from showing that young
people are often flexible and good-hearted enough to hear one another
out --- and to remain friends when they're done arguing.

\textbf{`Ted Lasso'}

\textbf{Starts streaming:} Aug. 14

A collaboration between the ``Scrubs'' creator Bill Lawrence and the
former ``Saturday Night Live'' comedian Jason Sudeikis, the
fish-out-of-water dramedy ``Ted Lasso'' is about a gung-ho American
college football coach who's been hired to manage an English Premier
League soccer team --- even though he knows nothing about the game. The
premise has a bit in common with the baseball movie ``Major League.''
Lasso (Sudeikis) has been brought overseas by a vengeful owner, who
wants to run her club into the ground. But Lawrence and Sudeikis invest
old underdog sports clich√©s with real soul, turning a broadly comic
character into a complex person, dealing with some deep regrets with the
help of a good heart and a stubborn will.

\hypertarget{new-to-netflix}{%
\subsection{New to Netflix}\label{new-to-netflix}}

Image

The waiting ends for ``Lucifer'' fans as the series, with Tom Ellis and
Lauren German, finally returns on Aug. 21.Credit...John P.
Fleenor/Netflix

\textbf{`Wizards: Tales of Arcadia'}

\textbf{Starts streaming:} Aug. 7

An epic animated fantasy trilogy --- which began with ``Trollhunters''
and continued with ``3Below'' --- now concludes with ``Wizards,'' a
fast-paced and lighthearted sword-and-sorcery saga that brings back the
major characters from the previous series. This time, the adventuring
teens from Arcadia Oaks find themselves skipping across time, facing off
against the heroes and villains of King Arthur's Camelot. The latest
episodes are action-packed and filled with tween-friendly humor. But the
core appeal of ``Tales of Arcadia'' remains similar to the movies of one
of the show's creators, Guillermo del Toro, in that the trilogy features
a dense and deeply imagined mythology, populated by humans and
supernatural creatures who sometimes make mistakes --- but who always
keep bravely trying to save their world.

\textbf{`Lucifer' Season 5, Part 1}

\textbf{Starts streaming:} Aug. 21

The cult series ``Lucifer'' seems to have built a larger and more
devoted audience ever since Netflix saved the show, following Fox's 2018
cancellation. Those fans --- old and new --- have been waiting patiently
for more than a year for the aftermath to season 4's dramatic ending.
When the supernatural procedural left off, the antihero Lucifer (yes,
the literal devil himself) made the decision to abandon his life of
partying and crime-solving on Earth to return to his throne in an
increasingly chaotic and dangerous Hell. Season 5 begins with an episode
titled ``Really Sad Devil Guy,'' which is a good indicator that this
series will be as wild and witty as ever.

\textbf{Also arriving:}

\textbf{Aug. 3}

``Immigration Nation''

\textbf{Aug. 4}

``Sam Jay: 3 in the Morning''

\textbf{Aug. 6}

``The Rain'' Season 3

\textbf{Aug. 7}

``Work It''

\textbf{Aug. 14}

``The Great Heist''

``Project Power''

\textbf{Aug. 20}

``John Was Trying to Contact Aliens''

\textbf{Aug. 21}

``Hoops''

``The Sleepover''

\textbf{Aug. 27}

``Aggretsuko'' Season 3

\hypertarget{new-to-disney}{%
\subsection{New to Disney+}\label{new-to-disney}}

Image

Phineas, Candace and Ferb in ``Phineas and Ferb the Movie: Candace
Against the Universe.''Credit...Disney+

\textbf{`Phineas and Ferb the Movie: Candace Against the Universe'}

\textbf{Starts streaming:} Aug. 28

It's hard to imagine a more welcome relief from this emotionally
draining quarantine summer than a new made-for-TV movie spinoff from the
Disney Channel animated series ``Phineas and Ferb.'' A godsend to
parents from its 2007 debut until its final episode in 2015, ``Phineas
and Ferb'' follows the way-out adventures of two preteen genius
stepbrothers who concoct amazing inventions and sing catchy songs ---
all while their pet platypus works undercover as a secret agent,
thwarting a painfully neurotic mad scientist. In ``Candace Against the
Universe,'' the boys and their friends travel into space to save their
perpetually irritable older sister, who's been abducted by aliens
\ldots{} but who actually may be happier on another planet.

\textbf{Also arriving:}

\textbf{Aug. 7}

``Howard''

\textbf{Aug. 14}

``The One and Only Ivan''

``Weird but True!'' Season 3

\hypertarget{new-to-hulu}{%
\subsection{New to Hulu}\label{new-to-hulu}}

Image

From left, Skyler Gisondo, Dexter Darden and Eduardo Franco in ``The
Binge.''Credit...Paul Viggiano/Hulu

\textbf{`The Binge'}

\textbf{Starts streaming:} Aug. 28

``The Purge'' meets ``Dazed and Confused'' in this raunchy high school
romantic comedy, set in a world where all intoxicants are illegal ---
even for adults --- except for one night a year. The talented young
actor Skyler Gisondo plays Griffin, a likable but overly anxious
18-year-old, who is not as eager as his classmates to enjoy his first
night of getting hammered (and, if all goes well, fooling around). Vince
Vaughn plays a stern, foul-mouthed principal who's also the father of
the girl Griffin likes. ``The Binge'' will seem very familiar to anyone
who's seen a lot of movies like ``Superbad'' and ``American Pie.'' But
while it's hardly a new classic in the teens-on-the-make genre, it's an
enjoyable throwback, aided greatly by Gisondo and Vaughn's spirited
performances.

\textbf{Also arriving:}

\textbf{Aug. 3}

``Ordinary Love''

\textbf{Aug. 6}

``The Peanut Butter Falcon''

``Slay the Dragon''

\textbf{Aug. 7}

``The New York Times Presents: This Is Dominic Fike: The Next Big
Thing?''

\textbf{Aug. 20}

``Daffodils''

\textbf{Aug. 21}

``Find Me in Paris'' Season 3

\hypertarget{new-to-amazon}{%
\subsection{New to Amazon}\label{new-to-amazon}}

Image

A scene from ``World's Toughest Race: Eco-Challenge Fiji.''Credit...Andy
Mann/Amazon

\textbf{`World's Toughest Race: Eco-Challenge Fiji'}

\textbf{Starts streaming:} Aug. 14

Before ``Survivor,'' ``The Amazing Race,'' ``Naked and Afraid'' and just
about every other extreme outdoor reality competition, the cable series
``Eco-Challenge'' introduced TV audiences in the late 1990s to the
phenomenon of athletes and ordinary folks enduring extended, intense
physical and mental contests in the wild. Now the producer Mark Burnett
is bringing the concept back with ``World's Toughest Race: Eco-Challenge
Fiji'' which, like the earlier versions of the series, is a multipart
documentary about an especially strenuous race. This time, more than 60
teams from around the world spend 11 consecutive days scrambling across
steep mountains, overgrown brush and multiple bodies of water. Hosted by
Bear Grylls, ``World's Toughest Race'' balances extreme sports drama
with intimate personal profiles. This new series emphasizes the wide
variety of people --- including an aging competitor with Alzheimer's
disease and racers of many different ethnicities and genders --- who are
driven to test themselves.

\textbf{Also arriving:}

\textbf{Aug. 5}

``Arkansas''

\textbf{Aug. 6}

``The Peanut Butter Falcon''

\textbf{Aug. 7}

``Jessy and Nessy''

``Pan y Circo''

\textbf{Aug. 10}

``Capone''

\textbf{Aug. 21}

``Chemical Hearts''

\textbf{Aug. 28}

``Prime Rewind: Inside `The Boys'''

\hypertarget{new-to-hbo}{%
\subsection{New to HBO}\label{new-to-hbo}}

Image

Seth Rogen as both Ben and Herschel Greenbaum in ``An American
Pickle.''Credit...Hopper Stone/HBO Max

\textbf{`An American Pickle'}

\textbf{Starts streaming:} Aug. 6

HBO Max's first feature film is this offbeat comedy, written by the
humorist Simon Rich and directed by Brandon Trost, an accomplished
cinematographer making his feature-directorial debut. Based on Rich's
gently absurdist short story ``Sell Out,'' the movie stars Seth Rogen in
two roles: as a lonely Brooklyn-based app designer named Ben, and as his
great-grandfather Herschel, a European Jewish immigrant who's been
perfectly preserved in a pickle vat for 100 years. Confused by the
modern world, Herschel moves in with Ben and soon grates on his roommate
with his constant griping about the current generation's lack of respect
for God's laws. Trost brings some visual flair to a surprisingly twisty
story, which is ultimately about how family legacies matter --- even if
family members themselves can be a pain in the neck.

\textbf{`Lovecraft Country'}

\textbf{Starts streaming:} Aug. 16

Based on a Matt Ruff novel, ``Lovecraft Country'' presents a vision of
1950s America where the horror novelist H.P. Lovecraft's
extra-dimensional monsters and secret cabals are indistinguishable from
the daily racism experienced by Black citizens. Jonathan Majors plays
Atticus, a pulp fiction-obsessed war veteran who joins his best friend,
Letitia (Jurnee Smollett-Bell), and his uncle George (Courtney B. Vance)
on a road trip across the south. Determined not to cower before the
white establishment, the three soon find themselves targeted by a
shadowy cult, in a gripping and eerie story that makes the recent past
look as sinister as any haunted house.

\textbf{Also arriving:}

\textbf{Aug. 1}

``Jojo Rabbit''

\textbf{Aug. 4}

``The Swamp''

\textbf{Aug. 8}

``Richard Jewell''

\textbf{Aug. 11}

``Hard Knocks: Los Angeles''

\textbf{Aug. 22}

``Queen \& Slim''

\textbf{Aug. 27}

``Ravi Patel's Pursuit of Happiness''

\hypertarget{new-to-cbs-all-access}{%
\subsection{New to CBS All Access}\label{new-to-cbs-all-access}}

Image

From left, Ensigns Rutherford, Mariner, Boimler and Tendi in ``Star
Trek: Lower Decks.''Credit...CBS All Access

\textbf{`Star Trek: Lower Decks'}

\textbf{Starts streaming:} Aug. 6

Fans of both ``Star Trek'' and ``Rick and Morty'' should enjoy the new
animated series ``Star Trek: Lower Decks,'' a comic take on the
Trek-verse created by Mike McMahan. As the title implies, the show
follows Starfleet's redshirt ensigns, who handle a starship's mop-up
duty and mundane day-to-day functions while their officers are off
having swashbuckling escapades on distant planets. McMahan has a wry,
dark sense of humor (seen recently on Hulu's adult cartoon ``Solar
Opposites,'' which he created with his longtime ``Rick and Morty''
collaborator Justin Roiland); but he also has a love for the conventions
of science fiction, which he spoofs knowingly and keenly.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{¬©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
