Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/world/americas}{Americas}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/world/americas}{Americas}\textbar{}Turmoil in Brazil:
Bolsonaro Fires Police Chief and Justice Minister Quits

\url{https://nyti.ms/2VwTpB4}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/news-event/coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{The
Coronavirus Outbreak}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  live\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/04/world/coronavirus-cases.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Latest
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Maps
  and Cases}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Vaccine
  Tracker}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/02/us/covid-college-reopening.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{College
  Reopening}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/live/2020/08/04/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Economy}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{turmoil-in-brazil-bolsonaro-fires-police-chief-and-justice-minister-quits}{%
\section{Turmoil in Brazil: Bolsonaro Fires Police Chief and Justice
Minister
Quits}\label{turmoil-in-brazil-bolsonaro-fires-police-chief-and-justice-minister-quits}}

Sergio Moro, the justice minister who became the face of a powerful
anti-corruption crackdown in Brazil, resigned in protest after President
Jair Bolsonaro fired the head of the national police.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/04/24/world/24brazil/merlin_171890199_dedaef97-e8b2-48a5-b692-394aaf825d6c-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/ernesto-londono}{Ernesto Londoño},
Letícia Casado and Manuela Andreoni

\begin{itemize}
\item
  April 24, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

RIO DE JANEIRO --- Brazil's justice minister, Sergio Moro, a former
federal judge who became the face of a powerful anti-corruption
crackdown that swept Latin America, resigned Friday after accusing
President Jair Bolsonaro of seeking to assert improper control of the
federal police for political gain.

The resignation of Mr. Moro, one of Brazil's most
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/11/01/world/americas/brazil-judge-lula-bolsonaro.html}{popular
politicians}, set off a political uproar in Brazil, as critics across
the political spectrum accused the president of having undermined a key
pillar of democracy.

In his resignation speech, Mr. Moro delivered an extraordinary parting
rebuke, recounting in great detail a conversation during which he failed
to persuade the president not to follow through on his plan to fire the
federal police chief, Maurício Valeixo, who was forced to step down
Friday morning.

Brazil's attorney general, Augusto Aras, later on Friday asked the
\href{https://slack-redir.net/link?url=http\%3A\%2F\%2Fwww.mpf.mp.br\%2Fpgr\%2Fnoticias-pgr\%2Faugusto-aras-solicita-inquerito-ao-stf-para-apurar-fatos-narrados-e-declaracoes-de-sergio-moro\%2F}{Supreme
Court to open an investigation} into the outgoing minister's account.

Mr. Moro's acrimonious departure was a volatile and unexpected
development in Brazil, where the rapid spread of the coronavirus has
overwhelmed hospitals and roiled the political establishment. Mr.
Bolsonaro, who has downplayed the gravity of the virus, last week
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/aponline/2020/04/16/world/americas/ap-lt-virus-outbreak-brazil-health-minister.html}{fired
his health minister} after the two clashed over strict quarantine
measures to slow the contagion.

\emph{{[}Read:}
\href{http://www.nytimes.com/2020/05/08/world/americas/mexico-coronavirus-count.html}{\emph{Hidden
toll: Mexico ignores wave of coronavirus deaths in capital}}\emph{.{]}}

Mr. Moro was
\href{https://g1.globo.com/politica/noticia/2020/04/24/veja-os-ministros-que-sairam-do-governo-bolsonaro.ghtml?utm_source=push\&utm_medium=app\&utm_campaign=pushg1}{the
eighth minister} to leave Mr. Bolsonaro's cabinet during the 15 months
he has been in office.

``Moro's resignation is a seismic event in Brazilian politics,'' said
Ilona Szabó, the executive director of Igarapé Institute, which studies
public safety in Brazil. ``His departure signals a dangerous new phase
for Brazil.''

Ms. Szabó called the president's move a ``coup against democracy because
the autonomy of the federal police is an essential foundation for
democratic governance.''

In his resignation speech, Mr. Moro said Mr. Bolsonaro had confided that
he wanted a police chief he could call directly and count on to obtain
sensitive investigative information and intelligence dossiers.

The request came as
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/01/24/world/americas/jair-bolsonaro-davos.html}{several
allies} of the president --- including two of his sons --- are under
criminal investigation by the federal police and the Supreme Court.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-global-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/04/world/coronavirus-cases.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: Global Coronavirus
Outbreak}}{Latest Updates: Global Coronavirus Outbreak}}\label{latest-updates-global-coronavirus-outbreak}}

Updated 2020-08-04T19:28:21.450Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/04/world/coronavirus-cases.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-4825b93}{Public
  and private schools in Maryland and elsewhere are divided over
  in-person instruction.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/04/world/coronavirus-cases.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-4d1eafa8}{N.Y.C.'s
  health commissioner resigns after clashing with the mayor over the
  virus.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/04/world/coronavirus-cases.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-6b644638}{`Long
  days, long nights': Washington prepares for a prolonged fight over
  virus relief.}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/04/world/coronavirus-cases.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

More live coverage:
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/live/2020/08/04/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Markets}

Speaking Friday at the Justice Ministry, Mr. Moro provided a politically
damaging account of his final substantive conversation with the
president, which took place on Thursday.

``The president said more than once, expressly, that he wanted a person
he could be in touch with personally, whom he could call directly, from
whom he could receive information, intelligence reports,'' Mr. Moro
said, describing the kind of relationship Mr. Bolsonaro wanted with a
new police chief.

Although Mr. Moro said he had urged Mr. Bolsonaro to reconsider the
implications of his plan, the president was determined, Mr. Moro added,
to have a federal police chief who would do his bidding.

Mr. Moro said that the president was ``worried about pending cases
before the Supreme Court,'' and that the change at the federal police
``would also be helpful in that sense.''

After Mr. Moro spoke, the attorney general, Mr. Aras,
\href{http://www.mpf.mp.br/pgr/noticias-pgr/augusto-aras-solicita-inquerito-ao-stf-para-apurar-fatos-narrados-e-declaracoes-de-sergio-moro/}{issued
a statement}that the conduct described, if true, suggested Mr. Bolsonaro
had broken numerous laws, including ones against corruption and
obstruction of justice. If Mr. Moro's account were to turn out false,
Mr. Aras added, the minister would have committed the crime of making a
``slanderous accusation.''

In Brazil, the attorney general is appointed by the president, and the
office is independent of the Justice Ministry.

Mr. Bolsonaro fired back at Mr. Moro in a lengthy, angry televised
address on Friday afternoon.

``I never asked to have any member of my family shielded,'' Mr.
Bolsonaro said, referring to Mr. Moro's clear implication that the
firing of the police chief was done in part to help protect his sons

Mr. Bolsonaro accused Mr. Moro of being vain, self-interested and
dishonest.

The president also asserted that he was empowered to hire and fire
department heads at will.

``I don't need to ask for permission from anyone to replace a director
or anyone else,'' Mr. Bolsonaro said in the rambling address, in which
he also spoke of the heating system of the presidential palace's pool,
corporate credit cards and plastic surgery, without explaining how they
were relevant to Mr. Moro's ouster.

Brazil's federal law-enforcement agencies were given a tremendous degree
of independence when the country's 21-year period of military rule ended
in the late 1980s.

Mr. Moro called the president's dismissal of Mr. Valeixo a clear breach
of a condition he set when he accepted the ministry. Mr. Moro said the
president had promised him ``carte blanche'' in making critical
law-enforcement appointments and safeguarding the political independence
of institutions under his command.

``I cannot stay on without being able to preserve the autonomy of the
federal police,'' Mr. Moro said. Failing to resign, he added, ``would
signal agreement with interference in the federal police that stands to
have unpredictable consequences.''

Mr. Valeixo is a veteran federal police official who worked closely with
Mr. Moro in corruption investigations.

In joining his cabinet, Mr. Moro took a widely criticized gamble by
leaving a 22-year judgeship to enter the political arena, which called
into question the integrity of his work on the bench.

Mr. Moro, 47, was the most visible leader of a sprawling corruption
investigation known as Car Wash that began in Brazil in 2014 and rippled
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2017/02/13/world/americas/peru-colombia-venezuela-brazil-odebrecht-scandal.html}{across
the region}, leading to the imprisonment of presidents and powerful
business moguls.

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/news-event/coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{}

\hypertarget{the-coronavirus-outbreak-}{%
\subsubsection{The Coronavirus Outbreak
›}\label{the-coronavirus-outbreak-}}

\hypertarget{frequently-asked-questions}{%
\paragraph{Frequently Asked
Questions}\label{frequently-asked-questions}}

Updated August 4, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{i-have-antibodies-am-i-now-immune}{%
  \paragraph{I have antibodies. Am I now
  immune?}\label{i-have-antibodies-am-i-now-immune}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    As of right
    now,\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/22/health/covid-antibodies-herd-immunity.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{that
    seems likely, for at least several months.} There have been
    frightening accounts of people suffering what seems to be a second
    bout of Covid-19. But experts say these patients may have a
    drawn-out course of infection, with the virus taking a slow toll
    weeks to months after initial exposure. People infected with the
    coronavirus typically
    \href{https://www.nature.com/articles/s41586-020-2456-9}{produce}
    immune molecules called antibodies, which are
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/05/07/health/coronavirus-antibody-prevalence.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{protective
    proteins made in response to an
    infection}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/05/07/health/coronavirus-antibody-prevalence.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{.
    These antibodies may} last in the body
    \href{https://www.nature.com/articles/s41591-020-0965-6}{only two to
    three months}, which may seem worrisome, but that's perfectly normal
    after an acute infection subsides, said Dr. Michael Mina, an
    immunologist at Harvard University. It may be possible to get the
    coronavirus again, but it's highly unlikely that it would be
    possible in a short window of time from initial infection or make
    people sicker the second time.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{im-a-small-business-owner-can-i-get-relief}{%
  \paragraph{I'm a small-business owner. Can I get
  relief?}\label{im-a-small-business-owner-can-i-get-relief}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    The
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/small-business-loans-stimulus-grants-freelancers-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{stimulus
    bills enacted in March} offer help for the millions of American
    small businesses. Those eligible for aid are businesses and
    nonprofit organizations with fewer than 500 workers, including sole
    proprietorships, independent contractors and freelancers. Some
    larger companies in some industries are also eligible. The help
    being offered, which is being managed by the Small Business
    Administration, includes the Paycheck Protection Program and the
    Economic Injury Disaster Loan program. But lots of folks have
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/05/07/business/small-business-loans-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{not
    yet seen payouts.} Even those who have received help are confused:
    The rules are draconian, and some are stuck sitting on
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/05/02/business/economy/loans-coronavirus-small-business.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{money
    they don't know how to use.} Many small-business owners are getting
    less than they expected or
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/10/business/Small-business-loans-ppp.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{not
    hearing anything at all.}
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{what-are-my-rights-if-i-am-worried-about-going-back-to-work}{%
  \paragraph{What are my rights if I am worried about going back to
  work?}\label{what-are-my-rights-if-i-am-worried-about-going-back-to-work}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Employers have to provide
    \href{https://www.osha.gov/SLTC/covid-19/standards.html}{a safe
    workplace} with policies that protect everyone equally.
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/coronavirus-money-unemployment.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{And
    if one of your co-workers tests positive for the coronavirus, the
    C.D.C.} has said that
    \href{https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/community/guidance-business-response.html}{employers
    should tell their employees} -\/- without giving you the sick
    employee's name -\/- that they may have been exposed to the virus.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{should-i-refinance-my-mortgage}{%
  \paragraph{Should I refinance my
  mortgage?}\label{should-i-refinance-my-mortgage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/coronavirus-money-unemployment.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{It
    could be a good idea,} because mortgage rates have
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/16/business/mortgage-rates-below-3-percent.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{never
    been lower.} Refinancing requests have pushed mortgage applications
    to some of the highest levels since 2008, so be prepared to get in
    line. But defaults are also up, so if you're thinking about buying a
    home, be aware that some lenders have tightened their standards.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{what-is-school-going-to-look-like-in-september}{%
  \paragraph{What is school going to look like in
  September?}\label{what-is-school-going-to-look-like-in-september}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    It is unlikely that many schools will return to a normal schedule
    this fall, requiring the grind of
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/05/us/coronavirus-education-lost-learning.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{online
    learning},
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/05/29/us/coronavirus-child-care-centers.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{makeshift
    child care} and
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/03/business/economy/coronavirus-working-women.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{stunted
    workdays} to continue. California's two largest public school
    districts --- Los Angeles and San Diego --- said on July 13, that
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/13/us/lausd-san-diego-school-reopening.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{instruction
    will be remote-only in the fall}, citing concerns that surging
    coronavirus infections in their areas pose too dire a risk for
    students and teachers. Together, the two districts enroll some
    825,000 students. They are the largest in the country so far to
    abandon plans for even a partial physical return to classrooms when
    they reopen in August. For other districts, the solution won't be an
    all-or-nothing approach.
    \href{https://bioethics.jhu.edu/research-and-outreach/projects/eschool-initiative/school-policy-tracker/}{Many
    systems}, including the nation's largest, New York City, are
    devising
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/26/us/coronavirus-schools-reopen-fall.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{hybrid
    plans} that involve spending some days in classrooms and other days
    online. There's no national policy on this yet, so check with your
    municipal school system regularly to see what is happening in your
    community.
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

The most high-profile defendant Mr. Moro convicted as part of that
operation was
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/04/07/world/americas/brazil-lula-surrenders-luiz-inacio-lula-da-silva-.html?action=click\&module=RelatedCoverage\&pgtype=Article\&region=Footer}{former
President} Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva, who was found guilty of money
laundering and corruption in July 2017. That outcome thwarted Mr. da
Silva's bid to seek a third presidential term at a time when he was the
front-runner.

Mr. Moro's conduct in that prosecution came under scrutiny after the
Intercept Brasil, an online news site, published articles last year
based on
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/06/10/world/americas/brazil-car-wash-lava-jato.html}{leaked
private messages} from the hacked phones of federal prosecutors. Those
messages made clear Mr. Moro broke ethical and legal rules by providing
strategic guidance to prosecutors.

Mr. Moro's resignation deepens Mr. Bolsonaro's political isolation as he
steers a
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/04/01/world/americas/brazil-bolsonaro-coronavirus.html}{public
health crisis} that has plunged Brazil into a new economic plight.

Mr. Bolsonaro has come under withering criticism for minimizing the
seriousness of the coronavirus, which is spreading at an accelerated
rate and overwhelming hospitals in several Brazilian states.

The president has called the virus a ``measly cold'' that doesn't
warrant quarantine measures detrimental to the labor market and economic
growth.

That view has sparked daily protests and a movement in Congress to
impeach him.

The Social Liberal Party, or P.S.L., a right-wing party Mr. Bolsonaro
joined to run for president, issued a statement calling the events that
led to Mr. Moro's departure deeply disturbing and likely criminal. Mr.
Bolsonaro left the party in November after fighting with former allies.

The P.S.L. called the ``unjustified dismissal'' of the police chief a
``clear form of political interference by President Jair Bolsonaro in
the fight against organized crime that not only breaks with his campaign
promises, but amounts to a series of crimes of responsibility, including
obstruction of justice.''

Joice Hasselmann, a lawmaker from São Paulo who led the push on Mr.
Bolsonaro's agenda in Congress until October, accused the president on
Friday of seeking to shield his sons from criminal investigations.

``The president is trying to meddle with the leadership of the federal
police to prevent it from doing the work they need to do,'' she said.
``So that they don't get to his sons.''

Mr. Bolsonaro's son Flávio Bolsonaro, a senator, is under investigation
for allegedly skimming off the salaries of some public employees in his
former office as a state lawmaker in Rio de Janeiro. Flávio Bolsonaro
has denied wrongdoing.

According to news reports, another son, Carlos Bolsonaro, a state
lawmaker,\href{https://istoe.com.br/pf-teria-identificado-carlos-bolsonaro-como-mentor-de-fake-news-contra-stf/}{is
among the targets of an investigation} by the Supreme Court into
defamatory misinformation campaigns conducted online.

During his resignation speech, Mr. Moro recounted his legacy as a judge
and presented himself as a law-abiding public servant who would find
other ways to serve Brazilians in the future.

``What he was trying to do was maintain some of the political capital he
has gained,'' said Malu Gatto, an assistant professor of Latin American
politics at University College London. ``And distance himself from a
president that seems to be increasingly toxic.''

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
