Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/world/europe}{Europe}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/world/europe}{Europe}\textbar{}Russia Approves
Coronavirus Vaccine Before Completing Tests

\url{https://nyti.ms/3amYz8D}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{the-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=aa23ca20-efb6-11ea-bbc0-9feac4622442\&variant=undefined}{The
Coronavirus
Outbreak}}{The Coronavirus Outbreak}}\label{the-coronavirus-outbreak}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  live\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/05/world/coronavirus-covid.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=aa23ca21-efb6-11ea-bbc0-9feac4622442\&variant=undefined}{Latest
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=aa23ca22-efb6-11ea-bbc0-9feac4622442\&variant=undefined}{Maps
  and Cases}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=aa23ca23-efb6-11ea-bbc0-9feac4622442\&variant=undefined}{Vaccine
  Tracker}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/02/your-money/eviction-moratorium-covid.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=aa23ca24-efb6-11ea-bbc0-9feac4622442\&variant=undefined}{Eviction
  Moratorium}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/09/02/magazine/food-insecurity-hunger-us.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=aa23ca25-efb6-11ea-bbc0-9feac4622442\&variant=undefined}{American
  Hunger}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{russia-approves-coronavirus-vaccine-before-completing-tests}{%
\section{Russia Approves Coronavirus Vaccine Before Completing
Tests}\label{russia-approves-coronavirus-vaccine-before-completing-tests}}

The country became the first in the world to approve a possible vaccine
against the virus, despite warnings from the global authorities against
cutting corners.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/11/world/11russia-vaccine/merlin_175198629_8745a4ac-6dac-4094-b258-a4131f2a8009-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/andrew-e-kramer}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/10/15/multimedia/author-andrew-e-kramer/author-andrew-e-kramer-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/andrew-e-kramer}{Andrew
E. Kramer}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Aug. 11, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

MOSCOW --- Russia has become the first country in the world to approve a
vaccine for the coronavirus, President Vladimir V. Putin announced on
Tuesday, though global health authorities say the vaccine has yet to
complete critical, late-stage clinical trials to determine its safety
and effectiveness.

Mr. Putin, who told \href{https://www.interfax.ru/russia/721241}{a
cabinet meeting on Tuesday} morning that the vaccine ``works effectively
enough,'' said that his own daughter had taken it. And in a
congratulatory note to the nation, he thanked the scientists who
developed the vaccine for ``this first, very important step for our
country, and generally for the whole world.''

The major powers are locked in a global race for a vaccine that
President Trump, Mr. Putin and China's president, Xi Jinping, are
treating as a proxy war for their personal leadership and competing
national systems. The United States, with an effort called Operation
Warp Speed, and China have poured billions into the pursuit, and health
officials worry that Russia is trying to snatch a victory by cutting
corners.

By skipping large-scale clinical trials,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/11/health/russia-covid-19-vaccine-safety.html}{the
Russian dash for a vaccine has raised widespread concern} that it is
circumventing vital steps ---
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/11/health/russia-covid-19-vaccine-safety.html}{and
potentially endangering people} --- in order to score global propaganda
points.

Russia's vaccine sped through early monkey and human trials with
apparent success. But Moscow was cautioned just last week by the World
Health Organization not to stray from the usual methods of testing a
vaccine for safety and efficacy.

Beyond that, the United States, Canadian and British governments have
all accused Russian state hackers of trying to
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/16/us/politics/vaccine-hacking-russia.html}{steal
vaccine research}. Russian officials have denied the accusations, and
say their vaccine is based on a design developed years ago by Russian
scientists to counter the Ebola virus.

A vaccine is seen as the most likely avenue for defeating the novel
coronavirus and alleviating a worldwide health crisis that
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/world/coronavirus-maps.html}{has
killed} at least 734,900 people and decimated national economies.
Western regulators have said repeatedly that they do not expect a
vaccine to become widely available before the end of the year at the
earliest.

Around the world, more than 30 vaccines --- out of a total of
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html}{more
than 165 under development} --- are now in various stages of human
trials. Currently, eight vaccines have entered the final phase of mass
human testing, including ones produced by Moderna in the United States,
Oxford University and AstraZeneca in Britain and several Chinese
companies.

Some of those Chinese companies have been
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/16/business/china-vaccine-coronavirus.html}{accused
of cutting corners themselves}. One offered the vaccine to employees at
the national oil company, while another has teamed up with the People's
Liberation Army to conduct human trials.

In Russia, the minister of health, Mikhail Murashko,
\href{https://ria.ru/20200801/1575248763.html}{has said} the country
will begin a mass vaccination campaign in the fall, and said on Tuesday
that it would start with teachers and medical workers this month.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-the-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/04/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: The Coronavirus
Outbreak}}{Latest Updates: The Coronavirus Outbreak}}\label{latest-updates-the-coronavirus-outbreak}}

Updated 2020-09-05T12:05:40.998Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/04/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-1654f6ad}{Research
  connects vaping to a higher chance of catching the virus --- and
  suffering its worst effects.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/04/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-52e4198a}{Another
  college football game won't be played as planned.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/04/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-181cef0}{Pharmaceutical
  companies plan a joint pledge on safety standards as they move
  vaccines to the marketplace.}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/04/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

More live coverage:
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/04/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Markets}

In Moscow, the announcement was greeted with a mixture of national pride
and nagging doubts by Russians who have been schooled by experience to
treat such boasts with a healthy dose of skepticism.

Lidiya Ivleva, 70, a retired nurse out for a walk in a Moscow park
Tuesday afternoon, embodied both sentiments. While calling the vaccine
``a great achievement'' for Russian scientists, she said she would not
rush to get it herself because of the ``hasty'' testing.

``Those who fear the pandemic more will take it first, and good for
them,'' she said. If in a year or so it is clearly shown to be safe, she
said, then she will reconsider.

Vaccines generally go through three stages of human testing before being
approved for widespread use. The first two phases test the vaccine on
relatively small groups of people to see if it causes harm and
stimulates the immune system. The last phase, known as Phase 3, compares
the vaccine to a placebo in tens of thousands of people.

The Russian scientific body that developed the vaccine, the Gamaleya
Institute, has yet to conduct Phase 3 trials.

That final phase, however, is the only way to know with statistical
certainty whether a vaccine can prevent an infection, and how effective
it is. And because it tests a much larger group of people, a Phase 3
trial can also detect more subtle adverse effects of a vaccine that
earlier trials could not.

Experts warn that, among other things, a faulty vaccine could actually
render those inoculated
\href{https://www.the-scientist.com/news-opinion/covid-19-vaccine-researchers-mindful-of-immune-enhancement-67576}{more
vulnerable to severe forms of Covid-19}, the disease caused by the
virus, a potential disaster that can be ruled out only through extensive
testing on human volunteers.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/11/world/11virus-russia2sub/merlin_175570740_b02cbd82-8abd-41f9-a632-3354683735df-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

The Russian vaccine uses two strains of adenovirus that typically cause
mild colds in humans. Scientists genetically modified them to cause
infected cells to make proteins from the spike of the new coronavirus,
officials have said.

The approach is similar to the one used in a vaccine developed by Oxford
University and AstraZeneca that is
\href{https://www.healthline.com/health-news/heres-what-we-know-about-the-demographic-makeup-of-the-covid-19-vaccine-trials}{now
undergoing Phase III tests} in Britain, Brazil and South Africa.

The W.H.O. is in close contact with the Russian authorities and
discussing proper procedures, Tarik Jasarevic, a spokesman for the
organization, told reporters in Geneva on Tuesday. But he emphasized
that obtaining the organization's seal of approval would require
``rigorous review of safety and efficacy data'' derived from clinical
trials.

The Russian Ministry of Health did not respond to detailed written
questions sent last week about human trials and research into
potentially harmful side effects.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{}

\hypertarget{the-coronavirus-outbreak-}{%
\subsubsection{The Coronavirus Outbreak
›}\label{the-coronavirus-outbreak-}}

\hypertarget{frequently-asked-questions}{%
\paragraph{Frequently Asked
Questions}\label{frequently-asked-questions}}

Updated September 4, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{what-are-the-symptoms-of-coronavirus}{%
  \paragraph{What are the symptoms of
  coronavirus?}\label{what-are-the-symptoms-of-coronavirus}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    In the beginning, the coronavirus
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/coronavirus-facts-history.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq\#link-6817bab5}{seemed
    like it was primarily a respiratory illness}~--- many patients had
    fever and chills, were weak and tired, and coughed a lot, though
    some people don't show many symptoms at all. Those who seemed
    sickest had pneumonia or acute respiratory distress syndrome and
    received supplemental oxygen. By now, doctors have identified many
    more symptoms and syndromes. In April,
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/27/health/coronavirus-symptoms-cdc.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{the
    C.D.C. added to the list of early signs}~sore throat, fever, chills
    and muscle aches. Gastrointestinal upset, such as diarrhea and
    nausea, has also been observed. Another telltale sign of infection
    may be a sudden, profound diminution of one's
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/22/health/coronavirus-symptoms-smell-taste.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{sense
    of smell and taste.}~Teenagers and young adults in some cases have
    developed painful red and purple lesions on their fingers and toes
    --- nicknamed ``Covid toe'' --- but few other serious symptoms.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{why-is-it-safer-to-spend-time-together-outside}{%
  \paragraph{Why is it safer to spend time together
  outside?}\label{why-is-it-safer-to-spend-time-together-outside}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/15/us/coronavirus-what-to-do-outside.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{Outdoor
    gatherings}~lower risk because wind disperses viral droplets, and
    sunlight can kill some of the virus. Open spaces prevent the virus
    from building up in concentrated amounts and being inhaled, which
    can happen when infected people exhale in a confined space for long
    stretches of time, said Dr. Julian W. Tang, a virologist at the
    University of Leicester.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{why-does-standing-six-feet-away-from-others-help}{%
  \paragraph{Why does standing six feet away from others
  help?}\label{why-does-standing-six-feet-away-from-others-help}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    The coronavirus spreads primarily through droplets from your mouth
    and nose, especially when you cough or sneeze. The C.D.C., one of
    the organizations using that measure,
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/14/health/coronavirus-six-feet.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{bases
    its recommendation of six feet}~on the idea that most large droplets
    that people expel when they cough or sneeze will fall to the ground
    within six feet. But six feet has never been a magic number that
    guarantees complete protection. Sneezes, for instance, can launch
    droplets a lot farther than six feet,
    \href{https://jamanetwork.com/journals/jama/fullarticle/2763852}{according
    to a recent study}. It's a rule of thumb: You should be safest
    standing six feet apart outside, especially when it's windy. But
    keep a mask on at all times, even when you think you're far enough
    apart.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{i-have-antibodies-am-i-now-immune}{%
  \paragraph{I have antibodies. Am I now
  immune?}\label{i-have-antibodies-am-i-now-immune}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    As of right
    now,\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/22/health/covid-antibodies-herd-immunity.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{~that
    seems likely, for at least several months.}~There have been
    frightening accounts of people suffering what seems to be a second
    bout of Covid-19. But experts say these patients may have a
    drawn-out course of infection, with the virus taking a slow toll
    weeks to months after initial exposure.~People infected with the
    coronavirus typically
    \href{https://www.nature.com/articles/s41586-020-2456-9}{produce}~immune
    molecules called antibodies, which are
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/07/health/coronavirus-antibody-prevalence.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{protective
    proteins made in response to an
    infection}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/07/health/coronavirus-antibody-prevalence.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{.
    These antibodies may}~last in the body
    \href{https://www.nature.com/articles/s41591-020-0965-6}{only two to
    three months}, which may seem worrisome, but that's~perfectly normal
    after an acute infection subsides, said Dr. Michael Mina, an
    immunologist at Harvard University. It may be possible to get the
    coronavirus again, but it's highly unlikely that it would be
    possible in a short window of time from initial infection or make
    people sicker the second time.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{what-are-my-rights-if-i-am-worried-about-going-back-to-work}{%
  \paragraph{What are my rights if I am worried about going back to
  work?}\label{what-are-my-rights-if-i-am-worried-about-going-back-to-work}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Employers have to provide
    \href{https://www.osha.gov/SLTC/covid-19/standards.html}{a safe
    workplace}~with policies that protect everyone equally.
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/coronavirus-money-unemployment.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{And
    if one of your co-workers tests positive for the coronavirus, the
    C.D.C.}~has said that
    \href{https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/community/guidance-business-response.html}{employers
    should tell their employees}~-\/- without giving you the sick
    employee's name -\/- that they may have been exposed to the virus.
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

The Gamaleya Institute developed the Russian vaccine using a human cell
line first cultured in 1973 --- the same line used in the
Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine. Like a number of other cell lines used in
medical research and vaccine manufacturing, it began with cells taken
from an aborted fetus,
\href{https://www.sciencemag.org/sites/default/files/Canada-COVID-19\%20Vaccine\%20letter\%20May\%2021st\%202020_updated\%20\%28002\%29.pdf}{raising
objections}from abortion opponents that may come into sharper focus if
the vaccine is used widely.

Russia's announcement of a potential vaccine well ahead of the Western
timeline of the end of the year could provide a welcome respite for Mr.
Putin from a string of bad news.

Over the past year he has seen a steady decline in his approval ratings,
which had soared to more than 80 percent after the annexation of Crimea
in 2014. Now, with Russian troops bogged down in Syria and Libya,
foreign adventures have lost their appeal for most Russians.

Mr. Putin has also stumbled in domestic affairs. He was
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/30/world/europe/russia-putin-coronavirus.html}{uncharacteristically
passive} in the spring as Russia erupted into one of the world's hot
spots for the coronavirus pandemic. And he has had no answers for the
economic malaise enveloping the country, as the pandemic has flattened
prices for oil and other natural resources that are the main engine of
the Russian economy.

Russia has already used the vaccine race as a propaganda tool, even in
the absence of published scientific evidence to support its claims as
the front-runner. The vaccine, for example, was branded
\href{https://sputnikvaccine.com/}{Sputnik V}, recalling the Soviet
Union's launch of a first satellite, beating the United States.

For the last several months, state television has promoted the idea that
Russia is leading the competition. In May, it reported that the first
person in the world to be vaccinated against the virus was a Russian
researcher who had injected himself even before monkey trials had been
completed.

Russia also tested the vaccine on soldiers, raising concerns about
consent, though the Ministry of Defense said that all the soldiers had
volunteered.

Kirill Dmitriev, the head of a government-controlled fund that invested
in the vaccine, denied in a conference call with journalists on Tuesday
that Russia had cut corners on testing, or that it had stolen
intellectual property to get ahead.

Mr. Dmitriev said Russia relied on a formidable legacy of research into
viruses and vaccines in the Soviet Union, and had focused on established
technologies, like the approach already used for the Ebola vaccine.

He contrasted that history with the Trump administration's Operation
Warp Speed program, which is financing research by Pfizer and Moderna
for a genetic vaccine and supporting a variety of other
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/09/business/coronavirus-vaccine-inovio.html?action=click\&module=News\&pgtype=Homepage}{experimental
technologies}. The Russian vaccine, he said, is ``more proven, on a
larger number of people, than any of the new technologies that people
are trying.''

On Tuesday, the Trump administration announced a \$1.5 billion agreement
with Moderna to manufacture and deliver 100 million doses of its
coronavirus vaccine, which entered a late-stage, Phase 3 clinical trial
last month,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/27/health/moderna-vaccine-covid.html}{the
first to that mark} in the United States.

If successful, the vaccine could become a geopolitical boon for Russia,
recalling the Soviet Union's mass exports of cheap vaccines to the
developing world during the Cold War. Russia has already received orders
for 1 billion doses from 20 countries and plans to manufacture the
vaccine in Brazil, India, South Korea, Saudi Arabia and Cuba, according
to the Gamaleya Institute.

If Russian scientists have taken an unorthodox route to the coronavirus
vaccine, it would not be the first time. Back in the 1950s, a team of
researchers
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/24/world/europe/vaccine-repurposing-polio-coronavirus.html}{tested
a promising, and ultimately successful, polio vaccine on their own
children}.

Reporting contributed by Nick Cumming-Bruce in Geneva, Katie Thomas in
New York and Noah Weiland in Washington.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
