Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/sports/baseball}{Baseball}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/sports/baseball}{Baseball}\textbar{}St. Louis Cardinals
Postpone Game After Two Players Test Positive for Virus

\url{https://nyti.ms/3ghjvjB}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{st-louis-cardinals-postpone-game-after-two-players-test-positive-for-virus}{%
\section{St. Louis Cardinals Postpone Game After Two Players Test
Positive for
Virus}\label{st-louis-cardinals-postpone-game-after-two-players-test-positive-for-virus}}

Baseball's outbreak spreads to a third major league clubhouse, but Major
League Baseball said the Cardinals' game on Saturday will go ahead as
planned.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/01/sports/31virus-cardinals-print/merlin_175093647_f37c4703-1fdf-4469-aa74-3eefabee1c04-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/tyler-kepner}{Tyler
Kepner}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  July 31, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Major League Baseball's worrying coronavirus outbreak spread into
another clubhouse on Friday when the St. Louis Cardinals' game in
Milwaukee was postponed after two Cardinals players tested positive for
the virus.

The Cardinals did not name the players, but said that the positive
results came from testing performed before Wednesday's game against the
Minnesota Twins in Minneapolis. The Cardinals said the team was
self-isolating at its hotel in Milwaukee, where it was conducting rapid
testing and implementing contact tracing.

\begin{quote}
\href{https://t.co/j3zl42vhlL}{pic.twitter.com/j3zl42vhlL}

--- St. Louis Cardinals (@Cardinals)
\href{https://twitter.com/Cardinals/status/1289243222456201216?ref_src=twsrc\%5Etfw}{July
31, 2020}
\end{quote}

Friday's postponement is the 15th such virus-related action in a major
league schedule that only began on July 23. The matchup was rescheduled
as part of a doubleheader on Sunday, and despite the Cardinals' exposure
to the virus, the teams still plan to play as scheduled on Saturday
night.

M.L.B. created
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/22/sports/baseball/mlb-season-schedule-vote.html}{a
113-page set of protocols} for teams before it resumed play, and its
officials had been encouraged by the fact that, until Friday, only one
team --- the Miami Marlins ---
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/27/sports/baseball/marlins-game-canceled.html}{had
any players who tested positive}. But the Marlins' outbreak, which has
widened to include 18 players, has devastated its roster, and the
Cardinals' news sent a sobering signal of the complications in staging a
60-game season, with extensive travel, during a pandemic.

``We have a lot of really smart people working on this, a number of
committed players who want to play through this, but everybody wants to
play safely,'' Mark Attanasio, the Brewers' principal owner, said during
a news conference at Miller Park. ``If we're not smart and safe, we'll
fail. But we're going to do everything we can not to fail.''

The league's investigators have been probing the cause of the Marlins'
outbreak, and a person briefed on the findings said that players were
found to have gone out in Atlanta, where the Marlins played exhibition
games last Tuesday and Wednesday. The person was granted anonymity
because the league has not yet released its findings, the details of
which were first reported by Bleacher Report.

While the Marlins' behavior was not entirely surprising, their outbreak
was a clear warning to players, a point Commissioner Rob Manfred
reiterated Friday in a conversation with Tony Clark, the executive
director of the players' union, as reported by ESPN. Manfred emphasized
that players must stay vigilant about following safety protocols or risk
ending the season.

``It's definitely in a lot of guys' minds, that's for sure,'' said Cubs
first baseman Anthony Rizzo, adding that the Cardinals' news had been
discouraging. ``We all want to play,'' he said, ``and the guys here in
our clubhouse, as we get going, know the importance of sticking together
and being as prudent as possible away from the field and at the field.''

Rizzo added: ``It's a little nerve-racking. We say the most normal thing
about the day is when we actually play baseball.''

Rizzo's teammate, Steven Souza Jr.,
\href{https://twitter.com/SouzaJr/status/1289345224339152896}{echoed
those remarks on Twitter}: ``Every player in this league better take a
hard look at what you're doing off the field, because what you do
affects, more than just you and your team. Your decisions off the field
will put all of our seasons in jeopardy this year.''

The league said that postponing Friday's Cardinals game and deciding to
go ahead with Saturday night's game were ``consistent with protocols to
allow enough time for additional testing and contact tracing to be
conducted.'' Yet just last Sunday, the Marlins were allowed to play in
Philadelphia despite both teams learning before the game that four
Marlins players had tested positive.

Because the official safety protocols did not mandate that a game be
postponed when players tested positive, the Marlins' game in
Philadelphia was allowed to go forward. The quick postponement of the
Cardinals-Brewers game underscores just how much M.L.B. is adjusting its
plan as it goes.

\hypertarget{the-games-resume}{%
\subsubsection{The Games Resume}\label{the-games-resume}}

\hypertarget{sports-and-the-virus}{%
\paragraph{Sports and the Virus}\label{sports-and-the-virus}}

Updated July 31, 2020

Here's what's happening as the world of sports slowly comes back to
life:

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    The
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/30/sports/basketball/clippers-lakers.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_2\&context=storylines_keepup}{N.B.A.
    returned}, and the Lakers held on to beat the Clippers in a
    thriller. Zion Williamson played in the first game of the night for
    the Pelicans.
  \item
    Players, coaches and analysts are watching this season's baseball
    games
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/31/sports/baseball/baseball-empty-stadiums-effects.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_2\&context=storylines_keepup}{to
    see what effect} the absence of fans has.
  \item
    With no summer tournaments to play in, top high school basketball
    stars are
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/30/sports/ncaabasketball/college-basketball-recruiting.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_2\&context=storylines_keepup}{committing
    to colleges earlier}. Villanova is one of the beneficiaries.
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

``With new information, we'd be silly to continue the same protocols we
did a week ago when there's obviously a different situation,'' Gary
Green, the M.L.B.'s medical director, said in an interview this week.
``So we have to react to that and try and change within the course of
it, when we don't know all the facts because it's a new disease.''

The Cardinals-Brewers game is the third postponement on baseball's
Friday night schedule, following earlier ones involving the Marlins, who
were to play the Washington Nationals, and the Phillies, who were to
host Toronto. The Marlins have had 18 players and two staff members test
positive this week (the most recent case was revealed on Friday); those
cases have already
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/28/sports/baseball/marlins-outbreak-mlb-coronavirus.html}{upended
baseball's schedule}.

The three games postponed on Friday mean that eight of M.L.B.'s 30 teams
have been affected by cascading schedule changes caused by the virus.
Those teams include the Yankees and the Baltimore Orioles, who have had
games postponed or rescheduled as the sport strains to isolate the
affected teams.

In an interview with MLB Network on Monday, Manfred expressed confidence
that baseball would be able to manage the outbreaks and continue its
season.

``We knew that we were going to have positives at some point in time,''
he said. ``I remain optimistic that the protocols are strong enough that
it will allow us to continue to play, even through an outbreak like
this, and complete our season.''

The Phillies on Thursday became the second team, after the Marlins, to
miss a full week of play when the league
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/30/sports/baseball/phillies-blue-jays-postponed-coronavirus.html}{postponed
games scheduled for this weekend} after a Phillies coach and a clubhouse
attendant received positive test results for the coronavirus.

The Phillies had hoped to play a doubleheader with the Blue Jays on
Saturday in Philadelphia and another game on Sunday, but the positive
tests caused the team to shut down Citizens Bank Park for baseball
activity. It remained closed on Friday, even after the Phillies
announced that there had been no positives in their most recent round of
test results.

Those measures would seem to suggest that the Minnesota Twins will take
similar precautions at Target Field, where the Cardinals played two
games this week before traveling to Milwaukee. The Twins hosted
Cleveland on Thursday, meaning that the team used the same clubhouse and
dugout as the Cardinals.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/07/31/sports/31virus-cardinals2/merlin_175137510_3efcc1c0-35e9-4e56-a17c-e79446bbf898-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

But Cleveland and Minnesota went forward as planned on Friday night.
Derek Falvey, the Twins' chief baseball officer, said the visiting
clubhouse had been fully sanitized, and the clubhouse staffers were not
allowed at Target Field as the team conducted contact tracing. Falvey
said the Twins' players had undergone point-of-care testing on Friday.

``When you're trying to deal with whether or not you may have had some
transfer, at least day one, so far, we have good information,'' Falvey
said. ``That doesn't mean we're entirely in the clear. We have to make
sure that we test and monitor over the next few days as well.''

Baseball has made several revisions to its extensive virus protocols
since the Marlins' outbreak. The league has tightened rules on masks and
ordered every team to appoint an employee to monitor the traveling
party's compliance with health rules. The league also has implemented
seven-inning games for doubleheaders this season to minimize both time
spent at the ballpark and injury risks to players.

Several pitchers have dealt with injuries early this season, including
Houston's Justin Verlander, Washington's Stephen Strasburg, Texas' Corey
Kluber, St. Louis' Miles Mikolas and the Yankees' Tommy Kahnle, who was
placed on the injured list on Friday with an injury to his right ulnar
collateral ligament, in his pitching arm. Yankees Manager Aaron Boone
announced after the team's 5-1 win against the Red Sox that Kahnle would
need to have Tommy John surgery.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
