Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}Biden Said, `Most Cops Are
Good.' But Progressives Want Systemic Change.

\url{https://nyti.ms/3iUZoIN}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/09/08/us/elections/results-new-hampshire-primary-elections.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{New
  Hampshire Results}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/08/us/trump-vs-biden?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Election
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/election-states-biden-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Paths
  to 270}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/31/us/politics/vote-by-mail-deadlines.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Voting
  by Mail}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/us/elections/2020-presidential-election-calendar.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Key
  Dates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Politics
  Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{biden-said-most-cops-are-good-but-progressives-want-systemic-change}{%
\section{Biden Said, `Most Cops Are Good.' But Progressives Want
Systemic
Change.}\label{biden-said-most-cops-are-good-but-progressives-want-systemic-change}}

Joe Biden's comment at the convention that ``most cops are good'' and
that the bad ones need to be prosecuted struck an array of activists as
discordant at a moment when many are calling for transformational
change.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/19/us/politics/19-dems-police-02/merlin_173142906_36160e63-4946-42e2-914a-35db4839978f-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/reid-j-epstein}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2019/06/25/reader-center/author-reid-epstein/9e877853d8234217b58e5762253aa771-thumbLarge.png}}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/john-eligon}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/06/12/multimedia/author-john-eligon/author-john-eligon-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/reid-j-epstein}{Reid J.
Epstein} and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/john-eligon}{John Eligon}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Aug. 19, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

In a virtual convention this week that is heavy on personality and light
on policy, Democrats have presented a unified front on issues of racial
justice, declaring that the status quo is not acceptable.

Not far beneath the surface, however, lies broad disagreement over
policing, with the reform-oriented proposals of Joseph R. Biden Jr., the
party's nominee, falling well short of the demands of progressive
activists who believe that police departments need to be significantly
downsized or abolished.

The gap between Mr. Biden and his party's progressive flank was evident
in a line he delivered during a discussion on the Democratic National
Convention's opening night: ``Most cops are good, but the fact is, the
bad ones need to be identified and prosecuted.'' It struck an array of
activists as discordant at a moment when the police killing of George
Floyd has spurred nationwide calls for transformational change.

Progressives say they see an unprecedented will and momentum to
transform policing that they can't let slip away in an election year.
Having a standard-bearer who is not fully committed to the kind of
fundamental change they believe is necessary could be problematic, they
said.

``What I'm concerned about is the continued conversation about it being
a few bad apples as opposed to systemic racism in the system,'' said
Jamaal Bowman, the Bronx Democrat
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/17/nyregion/jamaal-bowman-eliot-engel.html}{who
ousted the longtime Representative Eliot Engel} in a June primary.
``Part of our issue is recognizing that racism is not an
individual-to-individual problem, it's our system. It's part of
America's DNA because we've never reckoned with our history of
slavery.''

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/19/us/politics/19dems-police-01/merlin_174955110_71c8acba-8106-4177-b807-a2472cc847c9-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Since Mr. Floyd's death on Memorial Day, Mr. Biden has made eloquent
calls for systemic changes to the country's criminal justice system and
proposed reforms in police tactics. But he has said he opposes cutting
resources for law enforcement --- rather, he has
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/26/us/politics/defund-police-protests-democrats.html}{proposed
new funding for community policing}, which a spokesman said would be
conditioned on departments implementing reforms.

As a longtime Democratic politician who has pitched himself as a
champion of the working class, Mr. Biden has courted support from law
enforcement unions --- groups that have resisted the sort of systemic
changes and accountability for individual officers that activists and
even Mr. Biden are now demanding. Mr. Biden also played an important
role in passing the tough-on-crime legislation of the 1990s that many
activists feel led to the abuses in the criminal justice system that
fueled this summer's protests.

He has long insisted that the American law enforcement can be improved
by weeding out bad personnel. He has also called for tactical reforms
like \href{https://go.joebiden.com/page/s/ban-chokeholds-now}{banning
chokeholds} and ending the transferring of
\href{https://www.newsweek.com/bidens-proposals-police-reform-include-banning-chokeholds-weapons-war-cops-1508158}{``weapons
of war'' to police forces, and he has pledged}to create a national
police oversight commission within the first hundred days of his
presidency.

``I don't think it's rotten in the core,'' Mr. Biden said of policing
during \href{https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tmUL1IYbH0U}{a June
interview on ``The Daily Show.''} ``I don't think all cops are bad
cops.''

But by cheering calls for reforms while also proposing increased funding
for law enforcement and attributing problems to a few bad apples, Mr.
Biden is trying to appeal to the widest possible expanse of general
election voters without alienating either end of the political spectrum.

``I've heard him speak really eloquently about systemic racism and
housing,'' said Vanita Gupta, who led the Justice Department's civil
rights division under former President Barack Obama. ``And he's had a
close relationship with law enforcement for many years, and I don't
think the two live as contradictory things in his mind.''

In trying to have things both ways Mr. Biden risks alienating both ends
of his coalition. Suburban voters --- particularly older white voters
--- are less enthralled with the idea of defunding the police. And
activists say a pledge to prosecute bad cops doesn't go nearly far
enough.

``We have to get away from this good cop, bad cop thing,'' said Cori
Bush, a Missouri Democrat who went from protesting police violence in
Ferguson to unseating a longtime House member this month. ``I agree with
Joe Biden that something needs to change, but we have to take it much
further than that. Because in the balance are dead people that look like
me.''

Progressive lawmakers and activists say they do not believe their
differences with Mr. Biden and his running mate, Senator Kamala Harris,
on policing will hurt him electorally. They say they can find common
ground with Mr. Biden, despite their reservations about his positions,
but not with President Trump, who they fear will make things only worse
for Black and Hispanic people with his aggressive vision of law
enforcement.

``I think the vast majority of us are saying, `I may do this with vomit
in my mouth, but I'm voting for Harris and Biden because Trump has to
get the hell out of office,''' said Cat Brooks, an activist based in
Oakland, Calif., who has long lobbied for abolishing the police.

Image

Demonstrators in Oakland, Calif., protested the killing of George Floyd
in Minneapolis police custody.Credit...Jim Wilson/The New York Times

Mr. Biden's ``most cops are good'' comment came
\href{https://youtu.be/hQq7ZSgvhtU?t=2144}{during a conversation about
racial justice he was having} with prominent Democrats, including Gwen
Carr, whose son, Eric Garner, was killed by the New York police in 2014.
Immediately after saying ``most cops are good,'' Mr. Biden turned to Ms.
Carr and asked, ``How are you doing?''

``We can't let things settle down,'' she said. ``We have to go to the
politicians and we have to hold their feet to the fire. Because
otherwise, the big uprising is not going to mean a lot.''

Mr. Biden pumped his fist in approval.

The Democratic divide over how to address policing is playing out in
battles over police budgets in cities nationwide.

In Minneapolis, Oakland and Seattle, city councils led by Democrats have
been at odds with their Democratic mayors over how much money to cut
from police coffers and invest in other services. Progressive council
members have pushed for slashing the budgets in half in Seattle and
Oakland. And in Minneapolis, a majority of the Council has pledged to
dismantle the Police Department and create a new system of public
safety.

Jeremiah Ellison, a Minneapolis councilman in favor of defunding, said
he had heard Democrats suggest reforms that he believed have already
been tried and failed.

``I think that there's a pretty large gap,'' he said of the diverging
views of policing.

Even seemingly small differences among Democrats can be significant, he
said. He recalled a recent conversation with a former police chief in
which they both agreed that public safety required more investment in
things like mental health services and violence prevention. But the
former chief said the police should provide those services, which Mr.
Ellison opposed.

``We have a fundamentally different opinion about what will work in
order to competently provide those services,'' he said.

Part of the difficulty for Democrats to build a unified approach to
policing is their diversity, Mr. Ellison said.

``The Democratic Party is really several different parties,'' he said.
``There are members of the Democratic Party that really have no business
being in the same party together. I think maybe the thing that would
tether us together is, loosely, a belief that people are more important
than property and individual wealth.''

While polls suggest there is broad public support for redirecting some
police funding toward social services,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/26/us/politics/defund-police-protests-democrats.html}{a
prospect favored even by Democratic National Committee members}, there
is less backing, including among Democrats, for drastically downsizing
or eliminating police departments.

Representative Bobby Scott of Virginia, who served as chairman of the
criminal justice task force arranged by the campaigns of Mr. Biden and
Senator Bernie Sanders, agreed with Mr. Biden's sentiment.

``Most cops are, in fact, good,'' Mr. Scott said. ``But there are just
too many that conduct themselves in such a way that violate
constitutional rights and violate the law.''

Like Mr. Biden, Mr. Scott opposes efforts to strip funding from law
enforcement agencies. The ``Defund the Police'' movement, he said, fails
the test of being easily understood by a large enough segment of the
electorate.

``The slogan, when you immediately have to start explaining what you
mean, it becomes problematic,'' Mr. Scott said.

But progressive lawmakers said it was important for the Democratic
establishment to ensure that people who believed in drastic overhauls
and even the abolishing of police departments had a seat at the table to
help shape the party's positions.

``If we don't agree to speak to each other and have the tough
conversations and wrestle with the solutions together,'' said M. Lorena
González, the president of the Seattle City Council, ``then there could
be the unintended consequence of people becoming disaffected with the
Democratic Party, particularly young activists of color.''

Democrats in Seattle have been unified around the belief that reforming
the police was not enough, Ms. González said. There is broad support for
investing in things like education and health care that Democrats
believe will stabilize communities and reduce crime. The tension comes
in that some people also want to reduce the size of the police force,
while others believe that those social investments can be made without
downsizing the department, she said.

Libby Schaaf, the Democratic mayor of Oakland, considers herself a
progressive who believes in transformational reform in policing. But
some of the city's lawmakers and activists see Ms. Schaaf as a barrier
to systemic change.
\href{https://www.eastbaytimes.com/2020/07/22/oakland-mayor-schaaf-casts-tie-breaking-vote-to-reject-opd-cuts/}{She
cast the deciding vote} last month that prevented the Police
Department's budget from being slashed beyond the roughly \$14.5 million
that the City Council had cut in June.

Ms. Schaaf said that while she agreed that the current system of
policing did not keep everyone safe, she urged a more cautious approach
to defunding because people needed someone to call when they were in
crisis. But she acknowledged that Democrats who are adamant about
defunding or abolishing police departments can move the needle toward
necessary changes, pointing to nationwide efforts to trim police budgets
that, not long ago, seemed unlikely.

``There is an appetite right now for transformative change,'' she said.
``And the more people get involved, the more appetite there is. People's
participation matters and has tremendous impact on policies that get put
forward.''

\hypertarget{our-2020-election-guide}{%
\section{Our 2020 Election Guide}\label{our-2020-election-guide}}

Updated ~Sept. 8, 2020

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

\begin{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{the-latest}{%
  \subsection{The Latest}\label{the-latest}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    President Trump and his party are using a playbook that aims to
    alarm people about crime in their backyards. It didn't work in 2018,
    but
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/08/us/politics/trump-republicans-fear-strategy.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{both
    parties think it could resonate more this year}.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{how-to-win-270}{%
  \subsection{How to Win 270}\label{how-to-win-270}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Joe Biden and Donald Trump need 270 electoral votes to reach the
    White House. Try building
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/election-states-biden-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{your
    own coalition of battleground states}~to see potential outcomes.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{voting-by-mail}{%
  \subsection{Voting by Mail}\label{voting-by-mail}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Will you have enough time to vote by mail in your state? Yes, but
    it's risky to procrastinate.
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/31/us/politics/vote-by-mail-deadlines.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Check
    your state's deadline.}
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/joe-biden.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{}

    \hypertarget{joe-biden}{%
    \section{Joe Biden}\label{joe-biden}}

    \hypertarget{democrat}{%
    \subsection{Democrat}\label{democrat}}

    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/donald-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{}

    \hypertarget{donald-trump}{%
    \section{Donald Trump}\label{donald-trump}}

    \hypertarget{republican}{%
    \subsection{Republican}\label{republican}}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \hypertarget{keep-up-with-our-coverage}{%
  \subsection{Keep Up With Our
  Coverage}\label{keep-up-with-our-coverage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Get an
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{email}~recapping
    the day's news
  \item
    Download our mobile app on
    \href{https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nytimes/id284862083?ls=1\&mat_click_id=5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\&referrer=mat_click_id\%3D5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\%26link_click_id\%3D722930677036718082}{iOS}~and
    \href{http://a.localytics.com/android?id=com.nytimes.android\&referrer=utm_source\%3Dother_nyt_mobile_web\%26utm_medium\%3DWeb\%2520page\%26utm_term\%3DGeneral\%2520Mobile\%2520Page\%26utm_campaign\%3DNYT\%2520Mobile\%2520General\%2520Page}{Android}~and
    turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
