Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/style}{Style}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/style}{Style}\textbar{}When Will a Reckoning on Racism
Catch Up With Reality TV?

\href{https://nyti.ms/2JwmdDt}{https://nyti.ms/2JwmdDt}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{when-will-a-reckoning-on-racism-catch-up-with-reality-tv}{%
\section{When Will a Reckoning on Racism Catch Up With Reality
TV?}\label{when-will-a-reckoning-on-racism-catch-up-with-reality-tv}}

From ``Real Housewives'' to ``Vanderpump Rules,'' Bravo shows offer a
complicated wealth of diversity.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2019/09/04/fashion/04bravorace-1/04bravo-race-1-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By Tracie Egan Morrissey

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Published Oct. 29, 2019Updated June 10, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

``The sun always shines on Beverly Hills, but not on everyone,'' Camille
Grammer says in the opening line of ``The Real Housewives of Beverly
Hills,'' which premiered on Bravo in 2010. For the majority of its first
nine seasons, the reality show shined its light on a certain type of
woman: rich, opinionated and white.

Outside of one Latina cast member --- Joyce Giraud, who appeared on one
season of the show, in 2013 --- the franchise has featured a racially
homogeneous cast throughout its run.

But ``The Real Housewives of Beverly Hills'' is about to look a little
different. Bravo announced in August that Garcelle Beauvais, an actress
and former model, will join the cast next season. She will be the first
black woman to be featured on the show.

``As the first African-American Housewife in the Beverly Hills
franchise, I am honored and humbled by this awesome opportunity to
exemplify the fact that Black Girl Magic lives and thrives in every ZIP
code,'' Ms. Beauvais said
\href{https://www.bravotv.com/the-daily-dish/the-real-housewives-of-beverly-hills-season-10-cast-garcelle-beauvais-sutton-stracke}{in
a statement} on Bravo's website.

One ZIP code down, many more to go. The ``Beverly Hills'' franchise is
not an outlier in the ``Real Housewives'' series, whose casts are often
divided on racial lines.

\hypertarget{six-degrees-of-separation}{%
\subsection{Six Degrees of Separation}\label{six-degrees-of-separation}}

Each iteration of ``The Real Housewives'' follows women in the
geographical location for which it's named as they navigate
relationships with each other, their families and often themselves.

The premise is that the ``housewives'' (a term that is interpreted
loosely on the series --- many of the women have jobs outside the home
and aren't married) are friends, but in reality, some of these
relationships begin when the women are cast for the shows.

Many of the ``Real Housewives'' iterations have remained segregated. On
``Atlanta'' and ``Potomac,'' you'll primarily see black women, but women
of color have largely been absent from ``Orange County,'' ``New
Jersey,'' ``New York City'' and, until recently, ``Beverly Hills,'' and
``Dallas.''

The current season of ``Dallas'' features a newcomer, Kary Brittingham,
who is originally from Guadalajara, Mexico, in its cast alongside five
white women, including LeeAnne Locken.

In
\href{https://www.bravotv.com/the-real-housewives-of-dallas/season-4/videos/still-to-come-on-the-real-housewives-of-dallas-season}{a
midseason trailer} released last week, Ms. Locken can be seen saying,
``But the little chirpy Mexican has to have her way,'' referring to an
altercation with Ms. Brittingham, and later, ``C'mon, Mexican. I thought
you were all Mexican and strong!''

The comments don't go unnoticed. The cast discusses her derogatory
language throughout scenes in the trailer.

When a producer asks another housewife, Brandi Redmond, ``Do you think
she's a racist?,'' referring to Ms. Locken, Ms. Redmond sighs before the
video cuts to black. Bravo did not respond to a request for comment, and
Ms. Locken has denied the characterization on Twitter.

Not so subtle references to race have cropped up time and again on the
``Housewives'' franchises. During the 10th season of ``New York City,''
Luann de Lesseps, a cast member, proudly sauntered into a costume party,
looking at other attendees with sultry, bedroom eyes. Her head was held
high and covered with a two-foot-tall Afro wig. Her skin was quite
noticeably several shades darker than it usually was.

When she approached her friends, however, she became visibly annoyed ---
offended, even --- that no one was able to correctly guess that she was
dressed as Diana Ross. Unfortunately, this was the closest that ``New
York City'' has ever come, in its 11-year history, to featuring an
African-American woman on its cast.

Because of the hyperbolic hairstyle and self-tanner that had developed
deeper than her own voice, Ms. de Lesseps was accused by fans on Twitter
of being in blackface. She later
\href{https://www.bravotv.com/watch-what-happens-live-with-andy-cohen/season-15/episode-61/videos/luann-de-lesseps-controversial}{appeared
on ``Watch What Happens Live,''} Bravo's late-night show, and denied
that she had done anything wrong. Still, she apologized, saying, ``I
love Diana Ross. I totally respect Diana Ross. It was really kind of a
tribute to her. It was Halloween!'' She added that she applied no
additional color to her skin, other than bronzer, and ``would never
dream of doing a blackface, ever.''

Only one ``New York City'' cast member, Carole Radziwill, acknowledged
the transgression on the show before it was mostly forgotten about for
the rest of the season.

But what if there had been an African-American woman on the cast? And,
of course, the bigger question: Why has there never been a black woman
on the cast of ``New York City''? According to the most recent United
States census, 24.3 percent of New York City's population is black, 29.1
percent is Hispanic, and 42.8 percent is white. If less than half of the
city is white, why is 100 percent of the cast of ``The Real Housewives
of New York City'' white?

And are the people making the show concerned about this?

``Absolutely, it bothered me,'' said Heather Thomson, who was a cast
member from 2012 to 2015. ``I advocated for more diversity while I was
on `The Real Housewives of New York City,' not only to showcase the
reality of NYC, but also my own true circle of friends.''

Her professional and social circles were notably more diverse than some
of her castmates. Before founding her shapewear company, Yummie, she was
the founding design director of Sean Combs's label Sean John and worked
closely with Jennifer Lopez and Beyonc√© to develop and introduce their
clothing lines. If ever there were a white bridge to an elite crowd of
affluent nonwhite women in Manhattan, Ms. Thomson was it.

Ms. Thomson said that after her first season on the show, she
recommended several women of color to producers. The producers ``were
wide open to it,'' she said, and they contacted the women she
recommended, but ultimately ``were not successful in finding the right
individual to fill the void.''

It's unclear why producers were unsuccessful in casting a woman of color
for ``New York City'' in those years or in the years since. When asked
about its casting process, a spokesman for Bravo said that its
``docuseries follow groups of friends who are organically connected,
often through long, pre-existing relationships but in some cases only
casually through a wider social circle or six degrees of separation.''

Although producers seek casting recommendations from current cast
members, they don't do so exclusively. Ms. Thomson herself was contacted
by a casting agent and she had not known any of the cast members before
filming.

Similarly, Ms. Giraud and Carlton Gebbia, another former ``Beverly
Hills'' Housewife, met their castmates for the first time on camera.
Heather Dubrow and Shannon Beador, of ``Orange County,'' were both
introduced to their castmates on camera.

Ms. Radziwill, who starred on ``New York City'' from Season 5 to Season
10, also did not know her castmates before filming. She was cast on the
show by the Bravo executive and television host Andy Cohen, of whom she
was an acquaintance. (Bravo declined to make Mr. Cohen, an executive
producer of the ``Real Housewives'' franchise, available for a comment
for this article.)

Michael Arceneaux, an author, culture critic and Bravo fan, said some of
the ``Real Housewives'' casts accurately reflect the demographic of
affluent women in their respective regions. ``Maryland has the highest
concentration of black wealth,'' Mr. Arceneaux said, which is reflected
in the racial makeup of ``Potomac.'' ``Atlanta,'' which has featured a
white cast member, Kim Zolciak-Biermann, is also in line with the
demographics of its namesake city.

Ms. Zolciak-Biermann was part of the original cast when ``Atlanta''
started in 2008 and stayed on the show until she left for her own
spinoff in 2012. (``D.C.,'' which featured a black cast member among a
group of white women, was canceled after one season. ``Miami,'' which
featured white and Latinx women, was canceled after three seasons.)

``Atlanta'' has had its own issues. In 2009, Nene Leakes orchestrated a
professional photo shoot for her fellow castmates. The concept was
supposed to be ``alter-egos'' in which the women were to model the two
sides of their personalities, and Ms. Leakes requested that Ms.
Zolciak-Biermann pose in blackface for one of hers. Unlike Ms. de
Lesseps, Ms. Zolciak-Biermann did not dress up as a black woman on
national television.

That doesn't mean there haven't been racial tensions between Ms.
Zolciak-Biermann and her castmates over the years. After returning to
the series in 2018, Ms. Zolciak-Biermann was accused by some of her
castmates of making racist remarks during that season's reunion episode.
She denied the accusation in an expletive-laden tirade to Mr. Cohen
backstage.

In another cringe-worthy episode, it was revealed during a historical
tour of Savannah, Ga., that Porsha Williams, a granddaughter of the
civil rights activist Hosea Williams,
\href{https://www.bravotv.com/the-real-housewives-of-atlanta/season-6/episode-8/videos/confused-by-the-underground-railroad}{believed
that the Underground Railroad had been a literal train}, on railroad
tracks.

\hypertarget{beyond-housewives}{%
\subsection{Beyond `Housewives'}\label{beyond-housewives}}

Overall, Bravo's shows offer a lot of diversity, arguably more than most
other television networks. There are shows featuring black people, white
people, Muslim, Asian, Latinx and L.G.B.T.Q. people.

Many of its series highlight specific ethnic pockets within our society.
For example, ``Shahs of Sunset'' focuses on a group of Persian-American
friends in Los Angeles who share a culture and a set of traditions that
bond them.

Similarly, ``Texicanas'' follows a group of Mexican-American women in
San Antonio, which has one of the largest Latinx populations in the
United States. ``Family Karma,'' announced earlier this year by Bravo,
will document the lives of ``several multigenerational families
originally from India who are now living in Miami.''

Then there's ``Southern Charm,'' which documents a group of modern-day
Southern gentility in Charleston, S.C., all of whom are white, most of
whom are the recipients of generational wealth and some of whom still
own their families' plantations, where they host parties, fox hunts and
oyster roasts.

And while there are some shows in the Bravo lineup that feature diverse
casts --- competition shows like ``Top Chef'' or ``Project Runway'' **
--- the issue of segregation is considerably noticeable among the
network's crown jewel, ``Real Housewives,'' and its spinoffs.

One such spinoff is ``Vanderpump Rules,'' which is set in a restaurant
owned by Lisa Vanderpump, formerly of ``Beverly Hills.'' In 2015, there
was an attempt at diversifying the cast with the hiring of Faith
Stowers, a black woman. According to Ms. Stowers, this can be traced
directly to Ms. Vanderpump, an executive producer of the show, who hired
her to work at the restaurant in 2015.

``When I first got there, Lisa did have a sit-down with me and her
publicist,'' Ms. Stowers said. ``They just told me straight-up, `We
don't have a lot of color on this show, and you would make a good asset
to that.'''

In Ms. Stowers's view, her casting was less about diversifying the show
and more about Ms. Vanderpump's public image as an equal opportunity
employer. ``I kind of knew going into it that I would be filling in for
the spot of, like, showing that she hired people of color.''

But things didn't work out all that well for Ms. Stowers, who appeared
on just one season of the show. Of her experience, Ms. Stowers said, ``I
definitely felt like I was being treated differently from everybody
else.''

Evolution Media, the production company that produces ``Vanderpump
Rules,'' ``Beverly Hills'' and ``Orange County,'' did not return a
request for comment.

It's unclear if any of the production companies involved in the ``Real
Housewives'' franchise have any intentions to diversify other casts. For
now, we'll have to watch what happens.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{¬©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
