Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/business/economy}{Economy}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/business/economy}{Economy}\textbar{}8 Ways Trump's Next
Round of China Tariffs Could Pinch Consumers

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{8-ways-trumps-next-round-of-china-tariffs-could-pinch-consumers}{%
\section{8 Ways Trump's Next Round of China Tariffs Could Pinch
Consumers}\label{8-ways-trumps-next-round-of-china-tariffs-could-pinch-consumers}}

From inflatable kayaks to fitness trackers, the Trump administration's
proposal to tax another \$200 billion worth of Chinese goods would
ultimately hit everyday consumer products.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/08/22/business/22dc-chinatrade4/merlin_142548960_fdbe8a0c-d292-4daf-8eb5-6903d9e8c0ac-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By Deborah B. Solomon and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/mikayla-bouchard}{Mikayla
Bouchard}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Aug. 21, 2018
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://cn.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/business/20180822/trump-china-tariffs-consumers/}{阅读简体中文版}\href{https://cn.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/business/20180822/trump-china-tariffs-consumers/zh-hant/}{閱讀繁體中文版}

\emph{Updated Aug. 23, 2018}

WASHINGTON --- President Trump's trade war with China is about to hit
home for many consumers. On Thursday, the administration imposed a 25
percent tariff on another \$16 billion worth of Chinese products,
bringing the total so far to \$50 billion. Officials are now weighing a
25 percent tariff on another \$200 billion worth of Chinese goods,
including materials used in many of the consumer products that were
spared in the first round.

Nearly 400 companies, trade groups and others descended on Washington
this week to testify at six days of hearings before the United States
trade representative. While some have spoken out in support of the
tariffs,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/08/20/us/politics/china-tariffs-businesses.html}{a
majority of those testifying} are opposed and trying to persuade
American officials not to tax the Chinese products or materials they
depend on. They warn the tariffs could force them to raise prices and
potentially destroy their businesses.

Whether you're a college student, a parent, an entrepreneur, an outdoor
enthusiast or a retiree, the tariffs could ultimately affect the
products you covet.

Here are some of the items that the tariffs could hit and that are being
discussed at the hearings, which wrap up on Aug. 27:

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/08/22/business/22dc-chinatrade5/merlin_142620549_42663dce-1bf6-4023-bf78-3d88883354fd-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\hypertarget{sporting-goods}{%
\subsubsection{Sporting Goods}\label{sporting-goods}}

\hypertarget{bicycles}{%
\subsection{Bicycles}\label{bicycles}}

\hypertarget{with-operations-at-this-scale-we-anticipate-that-the-proposed-tariffs-if-approved-at-a-rate-of-25-percent-would-result-in-trek-paying-an-additional-30-million-in-tariffs-each-year-trek-will-be-forced-to-pass-these-costs-on-to-the-consumer-raising-prices-on-adult-bicycles-kids-bicycles-components-and-key-bicycle-safety-equipment-like-helmets}{%
\subsubsection{``With operations at this scale we anticipate that the
proposed tariffs, if approved at a rate of 25 percent, would result in
Trek paying an additional \$30 million in tariffs each year. Trek will
be forced to pass these costs on to the consumer, raising prices on
adult bicycles, kids' bicycles, components and key bicycle safety
equipment like
helmets.''}\label{with-operations-at-this-scale-we-anticipate-that-the-proposed-tariffs-if-approved-at-a-rate-of-25-percent-would-result-in-trek-paying-an-additional-30-million-in-tariffs-each-year-trek-will-be-forced-to-pass-these-costs-on-to-the-consumer-raising-prices-on-adult-bicycles-kids-bicycles-components-and-key-bicycle-safety-equipment-like-helmets}}

--- Written testimony of Robert Burns, Trek

No matter your brand preference, the bike you buy in America is most
likely made in part or sourced entirely in China. More than 90 percent
of complete bikes are sourced from China, and at least 40 percent of
imported bike components come from that country.

\hypertarget{inflatable-kayaks}{%
\subsection{Inflatable Kayaks}\label{inflatable-kayaks}}

\hypertarget{implementing-a-tariff-on-our-products-will-not-bring-jobs-to-the-usa-it-will-be-an-added-cost-of-business-that-will-be-necessarily-passed-on-to-consumers-in-the-form-of-higher-prices-which-will-hurt-sales-fewer-orders-means-fewer-jobs-in-port-jefferson-from-customer-service-to-warehousing-and-product-development}{%
\subsubsection{``Implementing a tariff on our products will not bring
jobs to the U.S.A. It will be an added cost of business that will be
necessarily passed on to consumers in the form of higher prices, which
will hurt sales. Fewer orders means fewer jobs in Port Jefferson, from
customer service to warehousing and product
development.''}\label{implementing-a-tariff-on-our-products-will-not-bring-jobs-to-the-usa-it-will-be-an-added-cost-of-business-that-will-be-necessarily-passed-on-to-consumers-in-the-form-of-higher-prices-which-will-hurt-sales-fewer-orders-means-fewer-jobs-in-port-jefferson-from-customer-service-to-warehousing-and-product-development}}

--- Written testimony of John Hoge, Sea Eagle Boats

Many recreational vehicles like boats and trailers rely on Chinese
components that the administration has included on its tariff list.
Companies like Sea Eagle Boats and Magic Tilt Trailers plan to testify
about the levies, saying the extra costs will punish their customers and
the United States economy while doing little to hurt China.

\hypertarget{fitness-trackers}{%
\subsection{Fitness Trackers}\label{fitness-trackers}}

\hypertarget{chinese-wearables-brands-xiaomi-and-huawei-are-already-among-the-top-four-suppliers-of-wearables-in-the-world-and-are-aggressively-targeting-additional-us-market-share-unlike-us-companies-such-as-fitbit-that-maintain-major-us-based-research-efforts-chinese-companies-can-survive-on-razor-thin-margins-and-easily-absorb-this-tariff-potentially-with-state-backed-support}{%
\subsubsection{``Chinese wearables brands Xiaomi and Huawei are already
among the top four suppliers of wearables in the world, and are
aggressively targeting additional U.S. market share. Unlike U.S.
companies, such as Fitbit, that maintain major, U.S.-based research
efforts, Chinese companies can survive on razor-thin margins and easily
absorb this tariff, potentially with state-backed
support.''}\label{chinese-wearables-brands-xiaomi-and-huawei-are-already-among-the-top-four-suppliers-of-wearables-in-the-world-and-are-aggressively-targeting-additional-us-market-share-unlike-us-companies-such-as-fitbit-that-maintain-major-us-based-research-efforts-chinese-companies-can-survive-on-razor-thin-margins-and-easily-absorb-this-tariff-potentially-with-state-backed-support}}

--- Written testimony provided to the trade representative on behalf of
Andy Missan, Fitbit

Many of the wearable devices sold by American companies are either made
in China or sold to American consumers by Chinese suppliers. The Trump
administration has proposed imposing a tariff on wearable fitness
products imported from China, which companies like Fitbit say would
\href{http://d18rn0p25nwr6d.cloudfront.net/CIK-0001447599/6d91d32a-f428-4ba5-bac6-a837bfe13a95.pdf}{force
them to raise prices to compensate} or cut back on jobs and research and
development.

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

Image

Rebecca Minkoff handbags are among the products that could be affected
by the tariffs.Credit...Daniel Zuchnik/Getty Images

\hypertarget{fashion}{%
\subsubsection{Fashion}\label{fashion}}

\hypertarget{luxury-handbags}{%
\subsection{Luxury Handbags}\label{luxury-handbags}}

\hypertarget{placing-tariffs-on-products-like-ours-in-particular-handbags-that-are-not-at-risk-for-intellectual-property-theft-in-manufacturing-and-are-not-related-to-the-china-2025-plan-will-only-ennoble-the-bad-actors-in-the-chinese-economy-who-pose-a-genuine-threat-to-our-business-via-bad-faith-registrations-of-our-recognized-trademarks-}{%
\subsubsection{``Placing tariffs on products like ours (in particular
handbags) that are not at risk for intellectual property theft in
manufacturing, and are not related to the China 2025 plan, will only
ennoble the bad actors in the Chinese economy who pose a genuine threat
to our business via bad faith registrations of our recognized
trademarks.''
}\label{placing-tariffs-on-products-like-ours-in-particular-handbags-that-are-not-at-risk-for-intellectual-property-theft-in-manufacturing-and-are-not-related-to-the-china-2025-plan-will-only-ennoble-the-bad-actors-in-the-chinese-economy-who-pose-a-genuine-threat-to-our-business-via-bad-faith-registrations-of-our-recognized-trademarks-}}

--- Written request to testify from Rebecca Minkoff

Chinese counterfeiting is a huge financial problem for luxury handbag,
shoe and other retailers, who collectively lose billions of dollars each
year as a result of knockoff versions of their products that are
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/08/16/nyregion/fake-luxury-goods-handbags.html}{produced
in China and sold globally}. Companies say the tariffs will simply make
their products more expensive to produce and give counterfeiters a
bigger leg up in the marketplace.

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

Image

Many American appliances like refrigerators, blenders and food
processors come from Chinese suppliers or use Chinese
components.Credit...Casey Rodgers/Invision for LG Electronics/AP Images

\hypertarget{home-and-child-care-products}{%
\subsubsection{Home and child-care
products}\label{home-and-child-care-products}}

\hypertarget{breast-pumps-and-car-seats}{%
\subsection{Breast Pumps and Car
Seats}\label{breast-pumps-and-car-seats}}

\hypertarget{a-product-marked-as-originating-in-china-actually-reflects-manufactured-and-other-inputs-coming-from-the-united-states-and-many-other-countries-increasing-the-costs-of-these-inputs-will-have-a-negative-impact-on-us-juvenile-product-manufacturers}{%
\subsubsection{``A product marked as originating in China actually
reflects manufactured and other inputs coming from the United States and
many other countries. Increasing the costs of these inputs will have a
negative impact on U.S. juvenile product
manufacturers.''}\label{a-product-marked-as-originating-in-china-actually-reflects-manufactured-and-other-inputs-coming-from-the-united-states-and-many-other-countries-increasing-the-costs-of-these-inputs-will-have-a-negative-impact-on-us-juvenile-product-manufacturers}}

--- Written request to testify from Kelly Mariotti, Juvenile Products
Manufacturers Association

Many child-care products --- including manual breast pumps, car seats,
strollers, play yards, cribs and changing tables --- rely on materials
from China or are produced in China. Several companies testifying this
week say the tariffs will drive up prices, making safety products like
car seats too expensive for low-income families.

\hypertarget{down-bedding-and-jackets}{%
\subsection{Down Bedding (and Jackets)}\label{down-bedding-and-jackets}}

\hypertarget{feathers-in-significant-quantities-will-come-from-china-because-that-is-where-this-byproduct-is-produced-there-are-no-other-countries-in-the-world-that-have-the-supply-needed-to-satisfy-the-demand-of-the-us-market-a-tariff-on-feathers-from-china-will-cause-an-increase-in-cost-to-the-us-consumer-}{%
\subsubsection{``Feathers in significant quantities will come from China
because that is where this byproduct is produced. There are no other
countries in the world that have the supply needed to satisfy the demand
of the U.S. market. A tariff on feathers from China will cause an
increase in cost to the U.S. consumer.''
}\label{feathers-in-significant-quantities-will-come-from-china-because-that-is-where-this-byproduct-is-produced-there-are-no-other-countries-in-the-world-that-have-the-supply-needed-to-satisfy-the-demand-of-the-us-market-a-tariff-on-feathers-from-china-will-cause-an-increase-in-cost-to-the-us-consumer-}}

--- Written statement provided to the trade representative by the
American Down and Feather Council

In 2017, American companies imported 16.4 million kilos of feathers and
down. Most of that came from China, whose population is among the
biggest consumers of duck and produces approximately 80 percent of the
world's duck and goose feathers.

\hypertarget{leather-couches}{%
\subsection{Leather Couches}\label{leather-couches}}

\hypertarget{it-seems-terribly-unfair-given-the-fact-that-there-is-no-leather-upholstery-business-in-the-us-anymore-none-i-would-like-to-think-that-these-are-not-punitive-or-just-arbitrary-because-our-category-seems-to-be-swept-up-in-this-crisis-for-no-explicable-reason}{%
\subsubsection{``It seems terribly unfair given the fact that there is
no leather upholstery business in the U.S. anymore, none. I would like
to think that these are not punitive or just arbitrary, because our
category seems to be swept up in this crisis for no explicable
reason.''}\label{it-seems-terribly-unfair-given-the-fact-that-there-is-no-leather-upholstery-business-in-the-us-anymore-none-i-would-like-to-think-that-these-are-not-punitive-or-just-arbitrary-because-our-category-seems-to-be-swept-up-in-this-crisis-for-no-explicable-reason}}

--- Testimony of David Mathison, Leather Miracles

Furniture manufacturers are among the companies that would face tariffs
on the materials they import from China, including leather, wood, metal
and other components that they rely on for their products. Companies
like Leather Miracles, which employs 50 people in North Carolina, say
there is no alternate source for the materials they need to continue
manufacturing their products and remain in business.

\hypertarget{coffee-makers-refrigerators-and-smoothie-machines}{%
\subsection{Coffee Makers, Refrigerators and Smoothie
Machines}\label{coffee-makers-refrigerators-and-smoothie-machines}}

\hypertarget{imposing-additional-duties-on-the-subject-products-would-cause-disproportionate-economic-harm-to-us-interests-including-small--and-medium-size-businesses-and-consumers}{%
\subsubsection{``Imposing additional duties on the subject products
would cause disproportionate economic harm to U.S. interests, including
small- and medium-size businesses and
consumers.''}\label{imposing-additional-duties-on-the-subject-products-would-cause-disproportionate-economic-harm-to-us-interests-including-small--and-medium-size-businesses-and-consumers}}

--- Written request to testify on behalf of David Stephenson, SharkNinja

From vacuums to blenders to French door refrigerators, the appliances we
use every day often come from China. Many manufacturers say a 25 percent
tariff on the components or finished products they import would require
them to pass that on to consumers, resulting in higher prices and lost
market share to foreign competitors who do not face similar levies.

\emph{Alan Rappeport contributed reporting.}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
