Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}Senate Passes Revised NAFTA,
Sending Pact to Trump's Desk

\url{https://nyti.ms/2RmCb6m}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{senate-passes-revised-nafta-sending-pact-to-trumps-desk}{%
\section{Senate Passes Revised NAFTA, Sending Pact to Trump's
Desk}\label{senate-passes-revised-nafta-sending-pact-to-trumps-desk}}

The Senate gave bipartisan approval to the United
States-Mexico-Canada-Agreement just before House lawmakers presented the
chamber with impeachment charges against President Trump.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/01/16/business/16DC-USMCA-02/merlin_156125379_0b1d8731-5ea0-4592-8a16-0411e8059a9f-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/emily-cochrane}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/11/28/multimedia/author-emily-cochrane/author-emily-cochrane-thumbLarge-v3.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/emily-cochrane}{Emily
Cochrane}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Published Jan. 16, 2020Updated July 1, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

WASHINGTON ---~Congress on Thursday gave final approval to President
Trump's revised
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/01/business/economy/usmca-takes-effect.html}{North
American Free Trade Agreement}, handing the president his second trade
victory of the week as the Senate prepared to try him for high crimes
and misdemeanors.

The 89 to 10 vote in the Senate on implementing legislation for the
revised
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/01/business/economy/usmca-takes-effect.html}{United
States-Mexico-Canada Agreement} will send the measure to Mr. Trump, who
is expected to sign it next week. The vote came just one day after Mr.
Trump signed a
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/01/15/business/economy/china-trade-deal.html}{long-awaited
trade deal with China}, giving the president two trade wins in a single
week.

The unusual show of bipartisan support for the North American trade deal
came just before the House impeachment managers formally presented the
charges against Mr. Trump, offering a striking contrast.

The competing narrative of a president who has achieved big economic
wins while facing accusations of misdeeds while in office may wind up
being Mr. Trump's lasting legacy.

At the White House on Thursday, Mr. Trump complained about the trade
deals being overshadowed by the impeachment proceedings.

``I did the biggest deal ever done in the history of our country
yesterday in terms of trade,'' he said, referring to the China deal,
``and that was the second story to a total hoax. Today we just had
passed the U.S.M.C.A. It's going to take the place of NAFTA, which was a
terrible deal, and the U.S.M.C.A. will probably be second to this witch
hunt hoax, which hopefully everyone knows is not going anywhere. There
was nothing done wrong.''

While U.S.M.C.A.
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/12/19/us/politics/usmca-deal.html}{sailed
through both the House} and Senate, its approval was far from guaranteed
a year ago, when Mr. Trump initially
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/11/30/world/americas/trump-trudeau-canada-mexico.html}{signed
an agreement}with Mexico and Canada.

A core group of House Democrats, working with their Senate counterparts,
spent months
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/12/10/us/politics/usmca-trade-deal.html}{negotiating
new language} that ultimately strengthened labor, environmental,
pharmaceutical and enforcement provisions. The length of those
negotiations pushed the House vote to December, less than 24 hours after
the chamber voted to impeach Mr. Trump for high crimes and misdemeanors.

Lawmakers initially suggested that a Senate vote on the pact would be
delayed until after the trial, which will begin in earnest on Tuesday
and eat into the Senate's time for legislative work. But when Speaker
Nancy Pelosi of California decided to delay sending the articles of
impeachment, senators seized the opportunity to move on the trade pact.

``Our farmers and ranchers expect us to move on this,'' Senator Joni
Ernst, Republican of Iowa and a prominent advocate for the deal's
passage, said at a news conference on Tuesday.

``Folks back home, they don't care what's going on in this bubble
surrounding impeachment. They just simply want to know are we doing the
work that's important to them,'' she said.

Within nine days, six Senate committees had given the implementing
legislation seals of approval, allowing for the vote to occur Thursday
morning before the impeachment trial formally began.

``Undaunted by those who set to throw him out of office since day one,
President Trump forges ahead for the good of the American people,''
Senator Charles E. Grassley, Republican of Iowa and chairman of the
Senate Finance Committee, said. ``Passage of U.S.M.C.A. is better late
than never.''

The bipartisan support for the deal came at a moment when partisan
politics have stymied most legislative efforts. In part because of the
Democratic stamp on the pact's terms, 37 Democrats joined 51 Republicans
in voting for the deal,~including opponents of the original North
American Free Trade Agreement and others typically averse to trade
pacts.

``I never thought I'd be voting for a trade agreement during my Senate
tenure that I wrote a big part of,'' said Senator Sherrod Brown,
Democrat of Ohio, whose vote for the pact was his first for a trade
agreement in a quarter century. Mr. Brown embraced the measure after
labor enforcement language that he and Senator Ron Wyden, Democrat of
Oregon, crafted was included in the final agreement.

Robert Lighthizer, the United States trade representative, sat with
members of his staff in the Senate gallery looking on as senators cast
their votes. At least one senator, Republican Rob Portman of Ohio and a
former trade representative, walked upstairs to chat with him during the
vote.

In 1993, NAFTA
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/1993/11/21/us/senate-roll-call-on-trade-pact.html}{passed
the Senate} on a 61 to 38 vote, and the deal has since been criticized
by lawmakers across Capitol Hill for enabling the flow of American jobs
to Mexico. A substantial part of the new agreement is dedicated to
updating that original text, adding revised guidelines for food safety,
e-commerce and online data flows, as well as anti-corruption provisions.

But there are significant changes in the deal negotiated by Mr. Trump's
trade staff and Democrats, including higher thresholds for how much of a
car must be made in North America in order to avoid tariffs. It rolls
back
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2017/10/16/us/politics/nafta-united-states-canada.html}{a
special system of arbitration for corporations} that has drawn
bipartisan condemnation, and also includes additional provisions
designed to help identify and prevent labor violations, particularly in
Mexico.

Support from a number of prominent labor voices, including the
A.F.L.-C.I.O.'s first endorsement of a trade agreement in 18 years,
helped firm up the support of Democrats like Mr. Brown, Mr. Wyden and
Senator Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts, a contender for the
Democratic presidential nomination.

The only Republican to vote against the deal was Senator Patrick J.
Toomey of Pennsylvania, who on Wednesday criticized it as ``a badly
flawed agreement, an agreement that restricts trade rather than
expanding trade.''

Democrats who opposed the plan did so mainly out of concern about the
deal's lack of provisions to combat climate change. Those voting against
the pact included Senators Kamala Harris of California, Bernie Sanders
of Vermont, another presidential contender, and Chuck Schumer of New
York, the minority leader. Senators Cory Booker of New Jersey, Kirsten
Gillibrand of New York, Brian Schatz of Hawaii, Edward J. Markey of
Massachusetts, Sheldon Whitehouse of Rhode Island and Jack Reed of Rhode
Island rounded out the nine Democrats who voted against the deal.

``When it comes to climate change, the agreement still contains many of
the same flaws of the original Nafta, which I voted against,'' Mr.
Schumer said in a statement on Thursday.

Ms. Harris had expressed similar concerns, saying in a statement earlier
this week that ``by not addressing climate change, the U.S.M.C.A. fails
to meet the crises of this moment.''

But the majority of lawmakers argued that the deal was enough of an
improvement over the original Nafta, which was first passed over a
quarter century ago, to warrant their support.

In a rare gesture for a Thursday in the Senate --- typically the final
day of the weekly session, when senators are rushing to catch flights
back to the district ---~lawmakers remained in the chamber after the
vote.

Instead of leaving for the weekend, they took their seats to wait for
Representative Adam B. Schiff, Democrat of California and the lead
impeachment manager, to begin reading aloud the articles of impeachment.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
