Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/style/self-care/}{Self-Care}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/style/self-care/}{Self-Care}\textbar{}Is Celery Juice a
Sham?

\url{https://nyti.ms/2MmTfId}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

scam or not

\hypertarget{is-celery-juice-a-sham}{%
\section{Is Celery Juice a Sham?}\label{is-celery-juice-a-sham}}

There are claims that the staid, crunchy workhorse usually found beside
Buffalo wings can heal autoimmune diseases, among other benefits. Is
that true?

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2019/10/21/fashion/21scam-celery-benefits/21scam-celery-benefits-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By Dawn MacKeen

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Oct. 16, 2019
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://fdc.nal.usda.gov/fdc-app.html\#/food-details/342643/nutrients}{Celery
juice} has been seemingly everywhere: The murky green potion looks like
water from an algae-filled pond, yet its disciples have been downing it
by the glassful. ￼￼￼ Yes, that staid crunchy workhorse usually smeared
with peanut butter has gone to the top of the vegetable cart.

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

\hypertarget{what-is-celery-juice-said-to-do}{%
\subsection{What is celery juice said to
do?}\label{what-is-celery-juice-said-to-do}}

Stories posted to Instagram and elsewhere are anecdotal, but say that
the juice is the biggest medical remedy for digestive issues, autoimmune
disorders, psoriasis, acne, chronic fatigue syndrome, acid reflux, the
shingles virus, strep bacteria and weight loss. Many of the stories
credit Anthony William, a self-professed originator of the celery juice
craze.

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

\hypertarget{does-it-work}{%
\subsection{Does it work?}\label{does-it-work}}

``There's no scientific evidence to support any of the claims being
made,'' said Rachel E. Scherr, an assistant research scientist in
nutrition at the University of California, Davis. There aren't large
studies in humans on the topic, and the little research that exists on
the vegetable has been cellular or animal.

Nutritionists say other factors could be influencing juicers' sense of
well-being: better hydration from celery's water content
(\href{https://fdc.nal.usda.gov/fdc-app.html\#/food-details/342643/nutrients}{celery
juice} is literally a tall drink of water, 94 percent so); or a placebo
effect.

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

\hypertarget{should-you-still-drink-it-if-there-is-no-evidence}{%
\subsection{Should you still drink it if there is no
evidence?}\label{should-you-still-drink-it-if-there-is-no-evidence}}

``Over all, it's a healthy juice,'' said Dr. Elizabeth Bradley, medical
director of Cleveland Clinic's Center for Functional Medicine. Celery
juice has more potassium and vitamin K than tomato juice and carrot
juice. However, it is lower in important nutrients like vitamin A, which
is abundant in carrot juice. Unlike other vegetables that may lose
polyphenols and antioxidants from the pulp or skin when juiced, Dr.
Bradley said, it is unclear how much loss occurs when juicing whole
celery stalks. Nevertheless, nutritionists recommend consuming a variety
of vegetables and their juices because they all have their own
combination of phytochemicals, antioxidants, vitamins and minerals.

The salty flavor in one cup of celery juice comes from the 215
milligrams of **** sodium, **** an essential electrolyte that helps our
bodies maintain a balance of fluids. The recommended
\href{https://www.cdc.gov/salt/pdfs/sodium_dietary_guidelines.pdf}{dietary
allowance} is less than 2,300 milligrams daily, but most Americans
\href{https://www.cdc.gov/salt/pdfs/Sodium_Fact_Sheet.pdf}{exceed} that.
It is a habit that can increase blood pressure, a risk factor for heart
disease and stroke.

Juicing retains the taste and concentrates the nutrients, but many
preparations reduce the fiber, which nutritionists say is the best part.
The juice contains 3.78 grams per cup, still far below the 25 to 30
grams recommended daily, primarily from food. Fiber helps people feel
full and maintain regularity.

Like kale and spinach, celery contains antioxidants and may have
anti-inflammatory properties. Compared to the stalks, the leaves are
more than 20 times higher in flavones, a class of flavonoids and
compounds found in plants with antioxidant properties, according to a
2017
\href{https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC5421117/\#!po=42.5926}{review}
in Advances in Nutrition. Food is complex, and just because a food is
high in flavones doesn't translate into guaranteed health benefits.
Compounds like flavones are modified after they are absorbed, and these
modified forms might not have the same effect as what is demonstrated in
preclinical studies, according to the review.

For those who were consuming few vegetables and are now drinking celery
juice, nutritionists say that's a good change.

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

\hypertarget{is-this-a-scam}{%
\subsection{Is This A Scam?}\label{is-this-a-scam}}

\hypertarget{is-}{%
\subsubsection{Is ...}\label{is-}}

Celery Juice

,

Kombucha

,

Activated Charcoal

,

CBD

,

Turmeric

,

Fish Oil

,

Chlorophyll

,

Intermittent Fasting

,

The Keto Diet

,

Probiotics

,

Collagen

,

Coffee

,

\hypertarget{a-scam}{%
\subsubsection{A Scam?}\label{a-scam}}

Facts about wellness.

Will these trends change your life --- or

take your money?

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

\hypertarget{why-is-celery-juice-suddenly-everywhere}{%
\subsection{Why is celery juice suddenly
everywhere?}\label{why-is-celery-juice-suddenly-everywhere}}

Many credit Mr. William, who wrote a book called, ``Celery Juice: The
Most Powerful Medicine of Our Time Healing Millions Worldwide.'' He
shares advice with his large fan base through his podcast, his website,
his New York Times best-selling books, or in his contributions to
Gwyneth Paltrow's site Goop.

Mr. William, who also uses the moniker ``Medical Medium,'' is neither a
medical doctor nor formally trained in nutrition, and his process is
unconventional. ``Spirit starts to speak to me and I write every word
exactly the way spirit wants it until I have a stack of notepads many
feet high,'' he said, adding, ``It's a gift that was given to me.''

His claims are as large as the fields of celery in California, the
country's biggest producer. Nutritionists call his assertions unfounded.
``Any reputable scientist would say there's nothing here,'' said David
Levitsky, a professor of nutrition and psychology at Cornell University.
``And I guarantee you next year there will be some other juice or food
or magical mushroom that will come out and offer these same
properties.''

However, across the country, according to an analysis from the United
States Department of Agriculture's Economic Research Service, cartons of
celery were fetching \$15.05 earlier this month, a 42.8 percent increase
from the same time the year before, although far below the high of
\$73.66 in April.

\hypertarget{how-was-celery-used-before}{%
\subsection{How was celery used
before?}\label{how-was-celery-used-before}}

Celery is from the plant Apium graveolens, and is a relative of carrots,
parsley and cilantro*.* Before being cast to the bottom of the crisper,
it had quite the illustrious history. Charles Davis, a plant
evolutionary biologist at Harvard University, said that the Egyptians
placed wild celery in King Tutankhamen's tomb in 1325 B.C. and that the
first cultivated medicinal use of celery dates to 400 B.C. by the
Romans.

Greeks drank a wine from it, and winning athletes wore crowns of the
foliage in Pan-Hellenic games. The seeds and fruit have long been used
medicinally. ``I find it intriguing that the purported medical usage of
the plant is being revived today, but is instead extracted from the
vegetative parts,'' Dr. Davis said in an email interview.

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

\hypertarget{will-celery-juice-hurt-you}{%
\subsection{Will celery juice hurt
you?}\label{will-celery-juice-hurt-you}}

``There's nothing in it that's going to hurt you,'' Dr. Levitsky said.
Celery can have a slight diuretic effect, which may increase urination
and reduce some bloat.

Nutritionists say patients should not discontinue seeing their doctor or
treatment in favor of a celery juice regimen.

But there is something larger at stake, Dr. Levitsky said. Believing in
miraculous remedies can leave patients vulnerable to just about
anything, even harmful treatments. ``It thwarts belief in science and
medicine to some magical mystery cure, and there ain't no such thing,''
he said.

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

\hypertarget{is-celery-juice-a-scam}{%
\subsection{Is celery juice a scam?}\label{is-celery-juice-a-scam}}

``It's definitely not a `miracle juice,''' said Rebecca Scritchfield,
dietitian and author of ``Body Kindness.'' ``It can join the list of the
snake oil remedies.''

Mr. William, for his part, contends he is not misleading anyone; he
neither owns a celery farm nor sells the juice himself. ``I'm not saying
it's a cure-all,'' he said.

Nutritionists say to drink celery juice if it is enjoyable, but don't
take stock in all the claims.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
