Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/technology}{Technology}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/technology}{Technology}\textbar{}The Results Are In for
the Sharing Economy. They Are Ugly.

\url{https://nyti.ms/2YK89Pg}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{the-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus?name=styln-coronavirus-markets\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=e5534310-f1c2-11ea-85e0-dd64533a7a3e\&variant=undefined}{The
Coronavirus
Outbreak}}{The Coronavirus Outbreak}}\label{the-coronavirus-outbreak}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  live\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/08/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?name=styln-coronavirus-markets\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=e5534311-f1c2-11ea-85e0-dd64533a7a3e\&variant=undefined}{Latest
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html?name=styln-coronavirus-markets\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=e5534312-f1c2-11ea-85e0-dd64533a7a3e\&variant=undefined}{Maps
  and Cases}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html?name=styln-coronavirus-markets\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=e5536a20-f1c2-11ea-85e0-dd64533a7a3e\&variant=undefined}{Vaccine
  Tracker}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/02/your-money/eviction-moratorium-covid.html?name=styln-coronavirus-markets\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=e5536a21-f1c2-11ea-85e0-dd64533a7a3e\&variant=undefined}{Eviction
  Moratorium}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/09/02/magazine/food-insecurity-hunger-us.html?name=styln-coronavirus-markets\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=e5540660-f1c2-11ea-85e0-dd64533a7a3e\&variant=undefined}{American
  Hunger}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{the-results-are-in-for-the-sharing-economy-they-are-ugly}{%
\section{The Results Are In for the Sharing Economy. They Are
Ugly.}\label{the-results-are-in-for-the-sharing-economy-they-are-ugly}}

Lyft, Uber and Airbnb depend on travel, vacations and gatherings. That's
a problem when much of the world is staying home.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/05/08/business/07virus-share-print/merlin_171927912_b7214715-4f3e-42ab-b471-c1a4e63a36af-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/kate-conger}{Kate Conger}
and \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/erin-griffith}{Erin
Griffith}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  May 7, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

OAKLAND, Calif. --- The coronavirus pandemic has gutted the so-called
sharing economy. Its most valuable companies, which started the year by
promising that they would soon become profitable, now say consumer
demand has all but vanished.

It is not likely to return anytime soon.

In earnings reports this week, Uber and Lyft disclosed the depth of the
financial damage. The companies said their ride-hailing businesses all
but collapsed in March, the last month of the first quarter, as
shelter-in-place orders spread through Europe and the United States.

The red ink extends beyond ride hailing. The home-sharing company
Airbnb, which investors valued at \$31 billion, had planned to go public
this year. Instead, the company has slashed costs and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/06/technology/airbnb-coronavirus-valuation.html}{raised}
emergency funding, and on Tuesday it laid off 1,900 employees, about 25
percent of its staff. It also reduced its revenue forecast for this year
to half of what it brought in last year.

``While we know Airbnb's business will fully recover, the changes it
will undergo are not temporary or short-lived,'' Brian Chesky, Airbnb's
chief executive, wrote in a memo to employees.

The companies, founded on the notion that they should become as big as
possible as quickly as possible and worry about making a profit
somewhere down the line, now face an uncertain future. And their
timelines for turning a profit appear --- for now --- to have been
tossed aside.

Even when people return to the office and start traveling, the pandemic
could change how they behave for years to come. Thirty percent of
gig-economy revenue could disappear over the next one to two years, with
a portion of it unlikely to return, said Daniel Ives, managing director
of equity research at Wedbush Securities.

``Based on our analysis of the gig economy and the overall pie of
consumers, unfortunately, there's a slice that --- until there's a
vaccine --- will not get in a ride-sharing vehicle or use an Airbnb,''
Mr. Ives said.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-the-coronavirus-outbreak-and-the-economy}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/08/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: The Coronavirus Outbreak and the
Economy}}{Latest Updates: The Coronavirus Outbreak and the Economy}}\label{latest-updates-the-coronavirus-outbreak-and-the-economy}}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/08/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#elon-musk-says-the-new-electric-vw-is-pretty-good-for-a-non-sporty-car-that-is}{6m
ago}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/08/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#elon-musk-says-the-new-electric-vw-is-pretty-good-for-a-non-sporty-car-that-is}{Elon
Musk says the new electric VW is `pretty good. For a `non-sporty' car,
that is.}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/08/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#wage-violations-have-spiked-as-low-paid-workers-become-more-vulnerable-study-says}{15m
ago}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/08/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#wage-violations-have-spiked-as-low-paid-workers-become-more-vulnerable-study-says}{Wage
violations have spiked as low-paid workers become more vulnerable, study
says.}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/08/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#european-stocks-slide-with-worries-over-us-china-trade-and-airlines}{15m
ago}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/08/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#european-stocks-slide-with-worries-over-us-china-trade-and-airlines}{European
stocks slide, with worries over U.S.-China trade and airlines.}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/08/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

More live coverage:
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/08/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Global}

On Tuesday, there was another threat to Uber and Lyft:
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/05/technology/california-uber-lyft-lawsuit.html}{California's
attorney general sued the companies,} claiming that they misclassified
their drivers as independent contractors. If the lawsuit is successful,
the companies could have to pay hundreds of millions of dollars in civil
penalties and back wages for drivers.

Airbnb faces a different challenge. How will hosts ---
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/10/technology/airbnb-hosts-coronavirus.html}{most
of them offering rentals as a side business} --- deal with virus safety?
In an effort to bolster confidence in its listings, the company
announced a set of new cleaning standards for its rentals in April.
Guests can also opt for a 72- or 24-hour vacancy period before they
enter.

There is not much to look forward to in the current quarter for the
companies, according to financial analysts. Mr. Ives said he expected
Uber's revenue to contract 69 percent and Lyft's 66 percent during the
period, which covers April through June.

Lyft said rides on its service fell nearly 80 percent in late March and
remained down 75 percent in mid-April. In May, passengers began to
return cautiously to Lyft, but rides were still down 70 percent, Lyft
executives said on a Wednesday earnings call with financial analysts.

If passengers continued to stay away from the service at similar rates,
Lyft predicted it would lose nearly \$360 million on an adjusted basis,
which excludes stock-based compensation and other expenses, during the
current quarter. Its adjusted loss in the first quarter was \$97.4
million.

``These are the hard truths we're facing,'' Logan Green, Lyft's chief
executive, said on Wednesday. In late April, Lyft laid off 17 percent of
its employees. Executives took a 30 percent pay cut and employee pay was
trimmed 10 percent.

On Thursday, Uber said revenue in the first quarter grew 14 percent from
the same quarter last year, but the company's losses ballooned 190
percent to \$2.9 billion. That deficit was largely driven by a \$2.1
billion loss caused by its investments in international ride-hailing
businesses, like Grab and Didi, that are also experiencing low demand
because of the virus.

``I won't sugarcoat it. Covid-19 has had a dramatic impact on rides,''
Dara Khosrowshahi, Uber's chief executive, said on Thursday in a call
with investors. Use of Uber's ride service was down 80 percent in April,
he said. But Uber saw a bright spot in its food delivery, which grew 89
percent since the previous year,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/01/20/technology/uber-eats-zomato.html}{excluding
India}.

Although Uber has not yet given a new date by which it expects to become
profitable, Mr. Khosrowshahi said the pandemic ``will impact our
timeline by quarters, not years.'' Before the outbreak, Uber said it
would be profitable, excluding some costs, by the end of this year.

Uber laid off 14 percent of its employees on Wednesday as it cut 3,700
people from its recruiting and customer service organizations.

Mr. Khosrowshahi will not take a salary for the rest of the year. He
said in an email to remaining employees, seen by The New York Times,
that the company continued to look for ways to cut costs and may
eliminate more jobs over the next two weeks.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/05/07/business/07virus-share2/07virus-share2-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

While Uber Eats, the food delivery service, has experienced increased
demand and restaurant sign-ups in some markets, the company also shut
down Uber Eats in several international markets where it had been
burning cash and laid off 50 employees from that division.

Its bike and scooter business is another weak point, and Uber invested
\$85 million in a competing service, Lime, that would allow it to
offload its bikes and scooters while still offering Lime's fleet in its
app.

About 500 employees who work on Uber's bike and scooter offerings could
lose their jobs.

``Lime has indicated that they plan to offer interview opportunities to
a few members of our team, while others will receive severance
packages,'' Dennis Cinelli, the head of Uber's micromobility team, said
in an email to employees that was seen by The Times.

Financial analysts expect the companies to begin to recover as consumers
return to work. They are still sitting on a lot of money. Uber has \$9
billion, and Lyft has more than \$2 billion. Before the virus, Airbnb
had \$3 billion in cash on its balance sheet; since then, it has raised
\$1 billion in funding and secured a \$1 billion term loan.

Despite the downturn in business, Lyft's stock was up more than 20
percent on Thursday as it exceeded investors' expectations for revenue
in the first quarter and reassured them with its layoffs last month that
it would cut costs. Uber's stock was up more than 8 percent in
after-hours trading on Thursday.

But investors still question the companies' claims that they will become
profitable as they tap the
\href{https://www.bts.gov/browse-statistical-products-and-data/transportation-economic-trends/tet-2018-chapter-6-household}{\$1.2
trillion} that Americans spend each year on transportation costs like
car ownership and maintenance.

Although Uber and Lyft said they provided a preferable transportation
option over public transit, some analysts worried that consumers would
choose to drive themselves rather than share a car with a ride-hail
driver and risk spreading the virus.

``All investors are trying to figure out industries that the pandemic
will permanently transform for the better or permanently transform for
the worse,'' said Tom White, a senior research analyst with the
financial firm D.A. Davidson.

Kate Conger reported from Oakland, and Erin Griffith from San Francisco.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
