Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/style}{Style}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/style}{Style}\textbar{}The Political Pundits of TikTok

\url{https://nyti.ms/2PwTYrn}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Election
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/biden-vice-president-2020.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Biden's
  V.P. Search}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/07/24/us/politics/trump-biden-campaign-donors.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Map
  of Donations}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/elections/delegate-count-primary-results.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Delegate
  Count}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2019/us/politics/2020-presidential-candidates.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{The
  Candidates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Politics
  Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{the-political-pundits-of-tiktok}{%
\section{The Political Pundits of
TikTok}\label{the-political-pundits-of-tiktok}}

Teenagers are campaigning, debating, running fact checks and forming
party-based coalitions (hype houses). One of them called it ``cable news
for young people.''

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/03/01/fashion/27POLITICStikTok-topart/27POLITICStikTok-topart-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/taylor-lorenz}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/03/18/reader-center/author-taylor-lorenz/author-taylor-lorenz-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/taylor-lorenz}{Taylor Lorenz}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Published Feb. 27, 2020Updated April 29, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

As Twitter and Facebook continue to dominate conversations about social
media and the 2020 presidential election, TikTok is quietly becoming a
political force.

Teenagers in America --- many of them too young to vote --- are forming
political coalitions on TikTok to campaign for their chosen candidates,
post news updates and fact check opponents. They are sharing real-time
commentary for an audience that is far more likely to watch YouTube
videos than turn on a cable news channel.

In a sense, these TikTok users are building short-form TV networks, each
with a cast of talking heads. On TikTok they're called hype houses,
named after the high-powered
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/01/03/style/hype-house-los-angeles-tik-tok.html}{influencer
collab house in Los Angeles}. These political houses are not physical
homes, but virtual, ideological ones represented by group accounts.

There are conservative-leaning houses
(\href{https://www.tiktok.com/@conservativehypehouse}{@conservativehypehouse},
\href{https://www.tiktok.com/@theconservativehypehouse}{@theconservativehypehouse},
\href{https://www.tiktok.com/@tiktokrepublicans}{@TikTokrepublicans} and
\href{https://www.tiktok.com/@therepublicanhypehouse}{@therepublicanhypehouse},
which amassed more than 217,000 followers in under a month) and liberal
ones
(\href{https://www.tiktok.com/@liberalhypehouse}{@liberalhypehouse},
\href{https://www.tiktok.com/@leftist.hype.house}{@leftist.hype.house}).
There are also \href{https://www.tiktok.com/@camdean699}{bipartisan}
houses, for users who love discourse, and undecided houses, for those
who aren't sure what or whom they love.

``I do feel like TikTok is cable news for young people,'' said Sterling
Cade Lewis, 19, who has nearly 100,000 followers. ``CNN and Fox and
big-name news media, those are all geared toward people who have
honestly grown up with a longer attention span.''

TikToks, on the other hand, run a maximum of 60 seconds; most videos are
as short as 15. ``Being able to make shorter videos and educational
clips, it's easier to connect with a younger generation who's just
swiping through their phones 24/7,'' Mr. Lewis said.

In recent months, content on TikTok has been
\href{https://www.vox.com/the-goods/2020/1/22/21069469/tiktok-memes-funny-ww3-politics-impeachment-fires}{getting
more political}. Before the general election in Britain in December,
TikTok users there
\href{https://www.dazeddigital.com/politics/article/47105/1/general-election-tiktok-memes-boris-johnson-jeremy-corbyn-tory-labour}{voiced
their opinions on Brexit} through popular formats, including lip syncs,
skits and ``checks'' (self-assessments, essentially). In the United
States, political videos have revolved around the Trump administration,
the Democratic presidential primary and the general presidential
election in November.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/02/27/autossell/POLITICS-TIKTOK-4/Screen-Shot-2020-02-27-at-12-superJumbo.jpg}

The nickname
``\href{https://melmagazine.com/en-us/story/mayo-pete-memes-buttigieg-tiktok-teens}{Mayo
Pete},'' for example, was popularized on TikTok, as was
\href{https://melmagazine.com/en-us/story/camp-pence-tiktok-memes-lgbtq-conversion-therapy}{a
popular meme} about Mike Pence, suggesting that he is in favor of gay
conversion therapy. (Vice President Pence is opposed to same-sex
marriage, but
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2016/11/30/us/politics/mike-pence-and-conversion-therapy-a-history.html}{he
has never voiced support for conversion therapy}.). Political hype
houses were born out of this enthusiasm for election-related content.

Political TikToks often rely on popular trends and dances. In one video,
Kyndal, 14 and a member of @liberalhypehouse, does a dance as she points
to statistics about President Trump's history of racist comments.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-2020-election}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: 2020
Election}}{Latest Updates: 2020 Election}}\label{latest-updates-2020-election}}

Updated 2020-08-01T01:26:45.732Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-29fdff45}{Kamala
  Harris, a top vice-presidential contender, confronts double
  standards.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-13ec3d9c}{Karen
  Bass and Susan Rice are rising on Biden's vice-presidential
  shortlist.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-49e9a016}{Trump
  says Russian bounties to kill U.S. troops `never took place.'}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

For the most part, these videos revolve around two candidates: Bernie
Sanders and Mr. Trump. ``The Republican hype houses all root for Trump,
and the liberal hype houses all root for Bernie,'' said Javon Fonville,
19, the founder of \href{https://www.tiktok.com/@votebernie2020}{the
progressive hype house} (handle: @votebernie2020).

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/02/27/autossell/politics-tiktok/politics-tiktok-superJumbo.jpg}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/02/27/autossell/politics-tiktok2/politics-tiktok2-superJumbo.jpg}

Many users are campaigning hard, especially because they may not be of
voting age in time for Nov. 3. ``I feel like I am making an impact on
the election even though I can't vote,'' Izzy, 17, said of her
pro-Sanders TikToks.

Many of these creators look up to YouTube's political commentators and
have sought to replicate their success on TikTok, where growth can
happen rapidly.
\href{https://www.tiktok.com/@beanjaminpolitics}{Benjamin Williams}, 19,
said the platform is ideal for the kind of videos he wants to make and
the audience he hopes to reach. ``A lot of political stuff is on
Facebook and Twitter, but Gen Z isn't really into that stuff,'' he said.
``With TikTok you can put politics into comedy and have someone their
age talking like they're a friend.''

Mr. Williams said he is inspired by YouTubers like Steven Crowder, Tim
Pool and Paul Joseph Watson, a prominent far-right personality and
Infowars contributor who is known for spreading conspiracy theories.

Speaking of which: TikTok has struggled to prevent conspiracy theories
from spreading across the app. Media Matters, a nonprofit,
\href{https://www.mediamatters.org/fake-news/tiktok-hosting-videos-spreading-misinformation-about-coronavirus-despite-platforms-new}{recently
issued a report} on the platform's role in spreading false information
on the coronavirus.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/02/27/style/politics-tiktok-5/politics-tiktok-5-superJumbo.jpg}

``It worries me a lot that some of these videos have one million
views,'' Kyndal, of @liberalhypehouse, said, referring to the
misinformation on the platform. ``Knowing that one million
impressionable teens have seen this video and chosen to believe or not
believe it.''

A TikTok spokeswoman wrote in an email: ``We encourage our users to have
respectful conversations about the subjects that matter to them.
However, our Community Guidelines do not permit misinformation that
could cause harm to our community or the larger public.''

For many members of political hype houses, tamping down on
misinformation is a top concern. When various accounts began citing the
claim that Mr. Sanders intended to tax Americans making more than
\$29,000 a year at a rate higher than 50 percent, Jordan Tirona, 19,
responded with a video debunking it.

Though they disagree on major issues, members of different political
groups frequently engage with each other. Their videos often go viral
when they ``duet'' on major issues. (Duetting is a feature on TikTok
that allows users to respond to videos with videos of their own and post
them side by side.)

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/02/27/style/politics-tiktok3/politics-tiktok3-superJumbo.jpg}

The @republicanhypehouse and @liberalhypehouse accounts frequently duet
over \href{https://vm.tiktok.com/bq32C5/}{health care reform and
corporate tax rates}. TikTokers across the partisan divide also take
part in live-streamed debates on TikTok.

Cam Higby, 20, the founder of the bipartisan hype house who also posts
under @\href{https://www.tiktok.com/@republicanism}{republicanism}, said
that ultimately he wants to build a platform on TikTok where anyone can
promote their opinions, whether they're on the right or left. He
live-streams himself for hours, debating people on TikTok and Discord.

Many members of Gen Z will be voting for the first time in the 2020
presidential election. Those who can't have been taking political action
in other ways, especially on social media.

``I think it's cool when you have people who are like 14 trying to get
involved in politics and educate themselves,'' Mr. Higby said. ``Those
are the people --- they're not voting this year, but they'll be voting
within the next term.''

\hypertarget{our-2020-election-guide}{%
\section{Our 2020 Election Guide}\label{our-2020-election-guide}}

Updated July 31, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{the-latest}{%
  \subsection{The Latest}\label{the-latest}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    President Trump's assault on the Postal Service is intersecting with
    his attacks on mail-in voting.
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/politics/trump-usps-mail-delays.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Voting
    rights groups say it is a recipe for disaster.}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{bidens-vp-search}{%
  \subsection{Biden's V.P. Search}\label{bidens-vp-search}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/biden-vice-president-2020.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Here
    are 13 women} who have been under consideration to be Joe Biden's
    running mate, and why each might be chosen --- and might not be.
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{keep-up-with-our-coverage}{%
  \subsection{Keep Up With Our
  Coverage}\label{keep-up-with-our-coverage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Get an
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{email}
    recapping the day's news
  \end{itemize}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Download our mobile app on
    \href{https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nytimes/id284862083?ls=1\&mat_click_id=5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\&referrer=mat_click_id\%3D5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\%26link_click_id\%3D722930677036718082}{iOS}
    and
    \href{http://a.localytics.com/android?id=com.nytimes.android\&referrer=utm_source\%3Dother_nyt_mobile_web\%26utm_medium\%3DWeb\%2520page\%26utm_term\%3DGeneral\%2520Mobile\%2520Page\%26utm_campaign\%3DNYT\%2520Mobile\%2520General\%2520Page}{Android}
    and turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
