Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/opinion/sunday}{Sunday Review}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/opinion/sunday}{Sunday Review}\textbar{}The Republicans
Who Want to Destroy Trump

\href{https://nyti.ms/329Lqhi}{https://nyti.ms/329Lqhi}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

\href{/section/opinion}{Opinion}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{the-republicans-who-want-to-destroy-trump}{%
\section{The Republicans Who Want to Destroy
Trump}\label{the-republicans-who-want-to-destroy-trump}}

Their party's a lost cause. America isn't.

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/frank-bruni}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/04/03/opinion/frank-bruni/frank-bruni-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/frank-bruni}{Frank Bruni}

Opinion Columnist

\begin{itemize}
\item
  July 11, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/07/12/opinion/sunday/12bruni/12bruni-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\hypertarget{listen-to-this-op-ed}{%
\subsubsection{Listen to This Op-Ed}\label{listen-to-this-op-ed}}

Audio Recording by Audm

\emph{To hear more audio stories from publishers like The New York
Times, download}
\href{https://www.audm.com/?utm_source=nytmag\&utm_medium=embed\&utm_campaign=left_behind_draper}{**}
\href{https://www.audm.com/?utm_source=nytopinion\&utm_medium=embed\&utm_campaign=republicans_destroy_trump}{\emph{Audm
for iPhone or Android}}\emph{.}

Should you have any doubt about how passionately George Conway and the
other Never Trumpers at the Lincoln Project want to defeat the
president, check out their ads.

There are dozens at this point, and the best are
\href{https://www.bostonglobe.com/2020/07/04/nation/take-look-dozen-lincoln-projects-most-devastating-anti-trump-ads/}{minute-long
masterpieces} of derision, miniature operas of contempt, designed to get
into President Trump's head and deep under his skin. That's exactly
where they've burrowed.

After the release of
``\href{https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=t_yG_-K2MDo}{Mourning in
America},'' which turned Ronald Reagan's famous
``\href{https://www.washingtonpost.com/video/politics/ronald-reagan-morning-in-america-campaign-1984/2018/09/10/e42baddc-b525-11e8-ae4f-2c1439c96d79_video.html}{Morning
in America}'' commercial on its head, Trump had one of his trademark
Twitter meltdowns. He shrieked at Conway in particular, mentioning his
marriage to one of Trump's brashest aides.

``I don't know what Kellyanne did to her deranged loser of a husband,''
the president tweeted, ``but it must have been really bad.''

Such grace. But if George Conway can just shake it off and
\href{https://lincolnproject.us/}{the Lincoln Project} succeeds, he and
his fellow refugees from Trump's Republican Party will find peace and a
place in a restored, recognizable political order on the other side.
Right?

Wrong. They don't hope to regain control of the Republican Party,
because they expect that Trump-ism will survive Trump and that Trump
himself won't shut up simply because voters shut him down.

``I personally think that the Republican brand is probably destroyed,''
Conway told me. ``It's destroyed by it having become essentially a
personality cult.'' He said that he formally left the party, changing
his voter registration to unaffiliated, some two years ago, and he
doesn't envision being able to return anytime soon.

But the Lincoln Project's full-court press for Joe Biden, which involves
social media and grass-roots organizing as well as internet and
television ads, doesn't mean that Conway and company are looking for a
welcome mat in the Democratic Party. Not at all.

That's what's so fascinating about their quest. They're not fighting to
come in from the wilderness. The wilderness is a given. They're just
fighting to get rid of this one sun-hogging, diseased redwood --- or
orangewood, as the case may be.

I asked Conway, ``So you'll be a man without a party for the rest of
your days?''

``Probably,'' he said. ``It makes me tremendously sad.''

It's easy to miss or minimize how remarkable the Never Trumpers --- at
the Lincoln Project and elsewhere --- are. That's partly because they've
been around almost since Trump's presidential campaign commenced, so
they've lost their novelty and some of their luster.

But they've gained in ranks and grown in determination, to a point where
you have to go back to 1972 --- when many prominent Democrats endorsed
President Richard Nixon, a Republican, over George McGovern, the
Democratic nominee --- to find anything close.

And even that precedent doesn't quite hold up. As the historian Timothy
Naftali told me, the Democrats for Nixon split with him primarily along
ideological lines, and they weren't trying to undermine an incumbent
president. Never Trumpers are doing precisely that, and while they have
ideological quibbles with Trump, they're motivated principally by their
belief that he's something of a monster.

``It's an unprecedented moment,'' said Charlie Sykes, a founder and
editor-at-large of \href{https://thebulwark.com/}{The Bulwark}, a
Trump-bashing publication
\href{https://www.theatlantic.com/politics/archive/2019/02/bulwarks-quest-shame-high-profile-trump-backers/583354/}{begun
in 2018} by Trump-disgusted Republicans like him. Sykes no longer
considers himself a Republican. He described himself to me as ``a
politically homeless contrarian conservative.''

The Bulwark shares personnel and DNA with
\href{https://rvat.org/}{Republican Voters Against Trump} and
Republicans for the Rule of Law, all bastions of Never Trumpers. There's
also a new super PAC called \href{https://43alumniforjoebiden.com/}{43
Alumni for Biden}, a reference to George W. Bush, the 43rd president. It
comprises scores of alumni of his administration who want to see Biden
beat Trump, and it
\href{https://www.reuters.com/article/us-usa-election-biden-republicans-exclus/exclusive-hundreds-of-george-w-bush-administration-officials-to-back-biden-group-says-idUSKBN24253R}{intends
to release testimonials} from former senior Bush administration
officials.

As for the Lincoln Project, it's helmed not by a ragtag band of
renegades but by \href{https://lincolnproject.us/team/}{a cluster of
strategists} who worked for Bush, John McCain or Mitt Romney and were
well-connected Republican insiders until Trump's takeover. The
anti-Trump rebellion is distinguished by the pedigree of the rebels.

And it exists in paradoxical tension with the equally remarkable loyalty
that most Republicans give the president. In the same manner that Trump
triggers outsize dissent, he inspires outsize support. He's just plain
outsize. Depending on the moment,
\href{https://news.gallup.com/interactives/185273/presidential-job-approval-center.aspx}{about
80 percent to 90 percent of voters} who identify as Republican tell
pollsters that they stand behind Trump.

They're the reason that some political observers see what the Lincoln
Project and its kin are doing as an exercise in protracted political
suicide. Even if Trump and his minions get a resounding comeuppance in
November, ``It seems unlikely that Sean Hannity and Laura Ingraham and
Rush Limbaugh will apologize to the Cassandras and say, `You were right
all along!''' Matt Lewis, a conservative,
\href{https://www.thedailybeast.com/the-never-trumpers-may-destroy-him-then-what}{wrote
recently in a column} in the Daily Beast under the headline ``The Never
Trumpers May Destroy Him. Then What?''

Sykes at The Bulwark conceded: ``It's na√Øve to think that the Republican
Party is going to snap back to sanity anytime soon. The fact that people
are talking about
\href{https://www.politico.com/news/2020/07/02/tucker-carlson-2024-republicans-348334}{Tucker
Carlson in 2024} shows you how far they've gone.''

So does that make these Never Trumpers some uniquely high-minded breed?
It's complicated. While they broke with the Republican Party on
principle, they may well have expected the Trump fever to break --- and
for other Republicans to follow them --- in short order. Meanwhile,
Never Trump-ism had its perks, or at least its consolations.

There's an especially rapt audience for takedowns of Trump from
conservatives, and Never Trumpers have found themselves in high demand
as commentators and book authors.

Through some of their anti-Trump organizations, funded by donors, some
of them have arranged employment no longer available to them in
conventional Republican circles.
\href{https://www.theatlantic.com/ideas/archive/2020/06/tactics-lincoln-project/613636/}{In
The Atlantic recently}, Andrew Ferguson fairly called out individual
Never Trumpers for inconsistency, hypocrisy and opportunism, and raised
questions about the degree to which a few of the people with the Lincoln
Project are
\href{https://www.opensecrets.org/news/2020/05/lincoln-project-capitalizes-on-trump-rage/}{profiting
from it}.

But the most important syllable in Never Trumper is Trump, and Never
Trumpers are essentially sowing the seeds of their own diminished
relevance by working to get rid of him.

That's why, when I look at them, I see patriotism, though John Weaver
--- who, along with Conway, helped to found the Lincoln Project ---
emphasized a different idea when we spoke. He stressed atonement.

Trump's election made him revisit how he and other Republican
strategists had paved the way for Trump. For instance, Weaver worked for
the man who was the first U.S. senator to endorse Trump for president.

``Jeff Sessions wouldn't have gotten to the Senate had I not overseen
his race in 1996,'' Weaver told me. ``Now I look back at that and say,
`What kind of goddamn penance do I have to pay for that?'''

Sykes spoke of ``a revelation'' that he has experienced, courtesy of
Trump. ``The heart of politics is not about the policy,'' he told me.
``It's about the values. I can disagree with you on eight out of 10
issues, but if you're an honorable, honest, empathetic human being, we
can do business.'' Trump is none of those things. Biden is most or all
of them --- and will get Sykes's vote in November.

In exile he and other Never Trumpers have found clarity. They cut to the
heart of the matter. That's reflected in a Lincoln Project
\href{https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hitGT3TkP9s}{ad from late May}
that begins with a close-up of body bags and then pulls back until those
bags form an American flag. These words appear over it: ``100,000 Dead
Americans. One Wrong President.''

I don't know that they'll tip the election. But they sure as hell tell
it like it is.

\emph{I invite you to sign up for my free}
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/frank-bruni}{\emph{weekly
email newsletter}}\emph{. You can follow me on Twitter
(}\href{https://twitter.com/FrankBruni}{\emph{@FrankBruni}}\emph{).}

\emph{Listen to}
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/column/the-argument}{\emph{``The
Argument'' podcast}} \emph{every Thursday morning, with Ross Douthat,
Michelle Goldberg and me.}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{¬©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
