Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}Pence and Harris Vie for
Wisconsin as Trump Vents From the White House

\url{https://nyti.ms/328q6bj}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{race-and-america}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/george-floyd-protests-minneapolis-new-york-los-angeles?name=styln-george-floyd\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=184058b0-f1bb-11ea-acbc-41a7f42c3c41\&variant=undefined}{Race
and America}}{Race and America}}\label{race-and-america}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/04/nyregion/rochester-police-daniel-prude.html?name=styln-george-floyd\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=184058b1-f1bb-11ea-acbc-41a7f42c3c41\&variant=undefined}{How
  Police Handled Death of Daniel Prude}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/01/us/politics/trump-fact-check-protests.html?name=styln-george-floyd\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=184058b2-f1bb-11ea-acbc-41a7f42c3c41\&variant=undefined}{Trump
  Fact Check}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/30/us/portland-shooting-explained.html?name=styln-george-floyd\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=184058b3-f1bb-11ea-acbc-41a7f42c3c41\&variant=undefined}{Portland
  Shooting}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/30/us/breonna-taylor-police-killing.html?name=styln-george-floyd\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=184058b4-f1bb-11ea-acbc-41a7f42c3c41\&variant=undefined}{Breonna
  Taylor's Life and Death}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{pence-and-harris-vie-for-wisconsin-as-trump-vents-from-the-white-house}{%
\section{Pence and Harris Vie for Wisconsin as Trump Vents From the
White
House}\label{pence-and-harris-vie-for-wisconsin-as-trump-vents-from-the-white-house}}

The unofficial Labor Day kickoff to the fall campaign centered on
Pennsylvania and Wisconsin, two pivotal states for both the president
and Joseph R. Biden Jr.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/09/07/us/politics/07wisconsin1/merlin_176701158_e063c155-3c16-4053-88a7-974a5b6f4a5d-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/jonathan-martin}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/11/06/multimedia/author-jonathan-martin/author-jonathan-martin-thumbLarge.png}}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/alexander-burns}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/09/25/multimedia/author-alexander-burns/author-alexander-burns-thumbLarge-v2.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/jonathan-martin}{Jonathan
Martin} and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/alexander-burns}{Alexander
Burns}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Sept. 7, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

LA CROSSE, Wis. --- For a few hours, the unofficial Labor Day start to
the fall presidential campaign centered around Wisconsin, as Vice
President Mike Pence tried to poach Democrats in this Mississippi River
town and Senator Kamala Harris sought to rally the Democratic base in
Milwaukee.

But their dueling events at opposite ends of this increasingly pivotal
state --- as well as Joseph R. Biden's visit to another battleground,
Pennsylvania --- were soon overwhelmed by a force as strong as any
current: President Trump's thirst for attention. â€‹

The only member of the two tickets not to be on the campaign trail
Monday, Mr. Trump abruptly called a White House news conference and then
used it to air a range of personal and political grievances. He called
his opponents names --- Mr. Biden was a ``stupid person'' and Ms. Harris
was ``not a competent person.'' Yet more notable than his usual partisan
insults was his extraordinary attack on the country's senior military
officials.

Defending himself for a fifth straight day following a report in The
Atlantic that he ridiculed America's war dead, Mr. Trump suggested the
accusations came from Pentagon leaders, whom he described as war
profiteers.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/09/07/us/politics/07wisconsin0/merlin_176699274_4853d282-1766-4f5c-a330-92f27c16a41c-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

``They want to do nothing but fight wars so that all of those wonderful
companies that make the bombs, that make the planes, that make
everything else, stay happy,'' Mr. Trump said of the officers he
commands, making no mention of his own choice for defense secretary,
Mark T. Esper, who was an executive at the defense contractor Raytheon.

The broadside, coming after current and retired officers have been
notably quiet about claims that the president described those killed in
action as ``losers,'' only added more fuel to an explosive story line
that many Republicans want Mr. Trump to put behind him.

For the purposes of the campaign, Mr. Trump's preoccupation with the
Atlantic article illustrated the limited value of the presidential bully
pulpit in the hands of a candidate unwilling to drive a focused message.

Monday, after all, was poised to showcase a showdown between Mr. Pence
and Ms. Harris, who were appearing together for the first time in the
same state on the same day.

The vice president, joined by Labor Secretary Eugene Scalia, was hoping
to appeal to the white working-class voters along the state's western
border who supported Democrats for a generation before helping tip the
state to Mr. Trump by less than a percentage point in 2016.

Standing before a group of employees at a regional utility company, Mr.
Pence trumpeted the administration's work on behalf of dairy farmers,
claimed credit for the state's booming economy before the coronavirus
crisis and repeatedly attacked Mr. Biden and Ms. Harris by name.

Noting that Ms. Harris was one of only 10 senators to oppose the
renegotiated North American free trade pact, because it did not do
enough to address climate change, the vice president argued that she had
put a ``radical environmental agenda ahead of Wisconsin dairy and ahead
of Wisconsin power.''

Though the company they spoke at employs some union members, neither Mr.
Pence nor Mr. Scalia alluded to organized labor in their remarks, a
reflection of their roots on the right but a notable decision given Mr.
Trump's strength in some union households.

Image

Vice President Mike Pence at a campaign event on Monday at the Dairyland
Power Cooperative Frank Linder Service Center in La Crosse,
Wis.Credit...Mark Hoffman/Milwaukee Journal-Sentinel, via Associated
Press

Mr. Pence used the start of his speech to claim that Mr. Biden would
perpetuate ``policies that have literally led to violence in our major
American cities,'' reprising the Republican attack line that Democrats
would preside over a dangerous, lawless nation.

Mr. Pence also scorned Mr. Biden for not criticizing Democratic mayors
or mentioning the far-left group Antifa by name in his condemnations of
violence.

While he acknowledged that the use of force by law enforcement should be
``thoroughly investigated,'' Mr. Pence did not refer to the police
shooting of Jacob Blake, instead focusing on the violent aftermath of
the shooting in Kenosha, Wis., much as Mr. Trump did in his visit there
last week.

In his own trip there last week, Mr. Biden met with the Blake family,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/07/us/trump-vs-biden?action=click\&module=Top\%20Stories\&pgtype=Homepage\#in-her-first-stop-in-the-state-kamala-harris-met-privately-with-jacob-blakes-family}{as
Ms. Harris did} Monday upon arriving in Milwaukee.

She also met with union workers as well as Black business owners and
pastors in the city, where Democratic turnout dipped four years ago and
aided Mr. Trump's victory.

``We have to get this done, I need your help in Milwaukee,'' Ms. Harris
told supporters lined up to greet her on the sidewalk, encouraging them
to participate in early voting.

Even before the events in Kenosha, the state's evenly divided politics
and Mr. Trump's need to keep his 2016 map largely intact were already
thrusting Wisconsin to the center of this year's race.

After Hillary Clinton memorably failed to campaign here four years ago,
Mr. Biden last week chose Wisconsin as his first Midwestern campaign
stop after the Democratic convention, and he has assured local party
leaders that he will return regularly.

Desperate to keep Wisconsin in their column, local Republicans this
summer sought to put the rapper Kanye West on the state's ballot in
hopes he could drain votes from Mr. Biden and make it easier for the
president to win with less than a majority, as Mr. Trump did four years
ago. But they were late filing paperwork for Mr. West and are now in
court appealing the decision to keep him off the ballot.

More recently, as Mr. Pence demonstrated Monday, Republicans have tried
to elevate law-and-order issues to make up ground against Mr. Biden in
Wisconsin.

The former vice president has responded by airing a commercial, here and
in other swing states, that features footage from a speech he delivered
last week in Pittsburgh, in which he pointedly denounced violent
protests.

There's no evidence yet that the effort to portray Mr. Biden as soft on
crime is cutting into his advantage: He has enjoyed a steady lead in
Wisconsin polls for months, including those taken in the aftermath of
the Kenosha unrest.

Image

Onlookers cheered for Ms. Harris in Milwaukee.Credit...Taylor Glascock
for The New York Times

Comparing this election with the one in 2016, when third-party
candidates captured more than 6 percent of the vote
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/elections/2016/results/wisconsin}{in
Wisconsin} and an unusually large number of voters said they were
undecided in final days of the election, Charles Franklin, a Marquette
University pollster, said the current race was far more stable.

``You've got a smaller third-party share and a smaller pool of people
still to break so that makes it less uncertain going into the last 60
days,'' said Mr. Franklin, whose surveys show about half as many
undecided voters as he found four years ago.

Mr. Trump's overall margin in Wisconsin four years ago was less than
23,000 votes, lower than the total number of votes cast for third-party
candidates in Milwaukee County alone that year.

Still, the 2016 results and a similarly narrow win in 2018 by the
Democratic governor, Tony Evers, make clear that Wisconsin is poised to
have the sort of knife's-edge race that characterized presidential
elections in the state before former President Barack Obama's two
sizable victories.

A victory by Mr. Biden here would be a significant blow to Mr. Trump's
Electoral College calculus. If the president were to hold every other
state he captured in 2016, he'd need to win at least one of three
crucial swing states to claim re-election: Michigan, Pennsylvania and
Wisconsin. With his campaign increasingly concerned about Michigan,
where it has cut its advertising, Wisconsin and Pennsylvania loom even
larger.

Not coincidentally, Pennsylvania is where Mr. Biden was on Labor Day.

His day reflected the traditional spirit of the holiday in Democratic
politics, minus the parade routes and union-hall gatherings where Mr.
Biden has been a fixture for decades. They were canceled this year
because of the pandemic.

At
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/07/us/trump-vs-biden?action=click\&module=Top\%20Stories\&pgtype=Homepage\#biden-meets-with-union-workers-in-lancaster-pa}{a
stop} in Lancaster, Pa., Mr. Biden promised that he would be ``the best
friend labor has ever had in the White House'' and criticized Mr. Trump
for treating the stock market as representative of the whole economy.

Later in the day, at a virtual event with Richard Trumka, the
A.F.L.-C.I.O. president, in Harrisburg, Mr. Biden attacked the president
for presiding over the huge job losses during the pandemic and promised
that his administration would ``put people to work right away'' with a
large-scale infrastructure program. Union members, he said, ``deserve a
president who fights like the devil for you.''

Image

Joseph R. Biden Jr. met with union leaders on Monday at the Pennsylvania
A.F.L.-C.I.O. headquarters in Harrisburg, Pa.Credit...Hannah Yoon for
The New York Times

But Mr. Biden, too, returned to the subject of Mr. Trump's respect for
the military --- ``none of the veterans you know are losers,'' he said
--- and accused the president of failing to appreciate not only soldiers
but also a larger community of workers who believe in self-sacrifice.

``He'll never understand you,'' Mr. Biden told the online audience of
union members, adding, ``He'll never understand our cops, our
firefighters.''

Turning more personal, he used an interview with a Pennsylvania
television station to rebut Mr. Trump's claims that was on the decline.
``Watch how I run up ramps and how he stumbles down ramps, OK?'' Mr.
Biden said.

At his news conference, Mr. Trump leveled attacks of his own against Mr.
Biden, often in scattershot terms.

And instead of focusing on Friday's jobs report, which showed
unemployment falling, Mr. Trump vented about other topics.

He complained about mail-in ballots in the upcoming presidential
election, lamented that there was ``no retribution'' by local
authorities against acts of rioting, and litigated his past comments
about American troops after assailing Pentagon leaders.

Repeating his past denials of The Atlantic's report, Mr. Trump said only
``an animal'' would make the comments attributed to him. But he also
reiterated his low opinion of John McCain, former prisoner of war and
Republican senator who died in 2018.

``I was never a fan of John McCain,'' the president said, accusing him
of supporting ``endless wars'' and circulating ``the fake dirty
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/25/us/politics/igor-danchenko-steele-dossier.html}{dossier}''
about Mr. Trump.

``Am I supposed to say, what a wonderful guy?'' the president asked.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{Â©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
