Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/world/asia}{Asia
Pacific}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/world/asia}{Asia Pacific}\textbar{}In Singapore, an
Orderly Election and a (Somewhat) Surprising Result

\url{https://nyti.ms/2ZfjdDO}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{The
Coronavirus Outbreak}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  live\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/02/world/coronavirus-updates.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Latest
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Maps
  and Cases}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Vaccine
  Tracker}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/07/29/us/schools-reopening-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{What
  School May Look Like}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/07/31/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Economy}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{in-singapore-an-orderly-election-and-a-somewhat-surprising-result}{%
\section{In Singapore, an Orderly Election and a (Somewhat) Surprising
Result}\label{in-singapore-an-orderly-election-and-a-somewhat-surprising-result}}

The People's Action Party, which has never been out of power, won yet
again, but by a narrower margin than usual. The opposition had sought to
deny it ``a blank check.''

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/07/10/world/10singapore01/merlin_174416214_7bf7abd5-ab02-4acf-b488-86d3d04c935f-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/hannah-beech}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/10/08/multimedia/author-hannah-beech/author-hannah-beech-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/hannah-beech}{Hannah
Beech}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  July 10, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Face-masked citizens lined up to vote in Singapore on Friday, with
plenty of space separating them from each other. Their temperatures had
been checked. Before receiving their ballots, they spritzed their hands
with sanitizer, and many put on disposable gloves.

If any country could successfully carry out a
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/23/world/asia/singapore-elections-coronavirus.html}{general
election during a global pandemic}, it was surely Singapore, a rich,
manicured city-state with a population that has largely been conditioned
to follow the rules.

The winner was never in doubt, either, even though balloting was
extended by two hours to accommodate the long lines.

But while victory went to the center-right People's Action Party, which
has held power longer than any other elected political party in the
world, results released early Saturday showed a surprising slip in its
support. Its share of the popular vote fell to 61 percent, a nearly
nine-point swing from elections five years ago. The leading opposition
party took a record 10 of Parliament's 93 seats.

Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong, the 68-year-old son of the nation's
founding father, said he would stay at the helm until the coronavirus
crisis passed, and he acknowledged his weakened mandate.

``The results reflect the pain and anxiety that Singaporeans feel in
this crisis, the loss of income, the anxiety about jobs,'' Mr. Lee said
early Saturday morning.

If calling an election during a pandemic was meant to showcase the
steady hand of a party that has used Singapore's greatest strengths ---
deep coffers, technocratic professionalism and a belief in science and
technology --- to battle the coronavirus, the campaign also highlighted
divisions in a society that, like many others in the developed world, is
struggling with a changing geopolitical and economic landscape.

Several of the parliamentary races proved surprisingly competitive, and
high-profile candidates from the governing party lost their contests.
Besides adding four seats to its previous showing, the opposition
Workers' Party won more than 10 percent of the popular vote for the
first time.

``Singapore rode the wave of globalization to great heights, but with
Covid, we're entering a period of deglobalization that leaves
Singapore's economy very vulnerable,'' Bridget Welsh, a political
scientist focused on Southeast Asia, said before the results were
announced.

``From the outside, Singapore looks like a great success story and in
many ways it is, but there are legitimate questions being raised about
what it aspires to be in this new era,'' Ms. Welsh added.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-global-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/01/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: Global Coronavirus
Outbreak}}{Latest Updates: Global Coronavirus Outbreak}}\label{latest-updates-global-coronavirus-outbreak}}

Updated 2020-08-02T17:52:35.962Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/01/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-34047410}{The
  U.S. reels as July cases more than double the total of any other
  month.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/01/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-780ec966}{Top
  U.S. officials work to break an impasse over the federal jobless
  benefit.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/01/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-2bc8948}{Its
  outbreak untamed, Melbourne goes into even greater lockdown.}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/01/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

More live coverage:
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/07/31/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Markets}

The People's Action Party promised, above all, stability and competence.
Having led Singapore since even before independence in 1965, the party
claims credit for transforming a resource-starved backwater on the tip
of peninsular Southeast Asia into one of the most prosperous nations on
the planet.

The coronavirus has
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/20/world/asia/coronavirus-singapore.html}{ripped
through crowded dormitories} housing 200,000 foreign laborers, infecting
tens of thousands, but Singapore has kept its death toll from the
pandemic to just 26 people. Job losses and a looming recession have been
blunted by a relief effort costing more than \$70 billion, the People's
Action Party said. While Singapore has no minimum wage and at least 10
percent of its households are considered poor by some estimates,
extensive public housing for citizens ensures a kind of social safety
net, according to the governing party.

For the 10 opposition parties that ran against the People's Action
Party, the campaign was less an attempt to unseat a political behemoth
than an effort to inject different viewpoints into the national
conversation. The smallest mandate the governing party has ever received
was a 60 percent victory in 2011, a shade worse than Friday's showing.

``What we are trying to deny them is a blank check, and that is what I
think this election is about,'' Jamus Lim, an economist and candidate
for the Workers' Party, said in an online debate during the campaign.

Mr. Lim won a seat in Parliament.

Singapore's political strictures, along with social distancing measures,
put even more roadblocks in the way of an opposition trying to gather
momentum.

The campaign season was only nine days long. A ``fake news'' law that
came into force last year was seen as having a chilling effect on online
debate. Because of the coronavirus restrictions, electoral rallies were
banned. Nor was electoral polling allowed.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/07/10/world/10singapore03/merlin_174209856_f0f7013c-2513-45c8-b1f9-000a5a40dd13-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

The short campaign period was dominated by personal vitriol,
particularly a spat between Mr. Lee and his younger brother, Lee Hsien
Yang, a former brigadier general and business executive who joined the
opposition Progress Singapore Party last month.

Their father, Lee Kuan Yew, co-founded the People's Action Party and
served as prime minister for more than three decades.

The senior Mr. Lee steered the ethnically Chinese-dominated city-state
to independence in 1965, after it broke off from the new country of
Malaysia. He embraced rules and order, championing Confucian virtues.

Today, most Singaporeans are still of Chinese descent, but about 40
percent of the country's 5.7 million residents are foreign-born. Under
racial harmony laws, people who stoke religious or racial enmity can
spend up to three years in jail.

Last year, Heng Swee Keat, the deputy prime minister and presumptive
successor to Mr. Lee, said that older Singaporeans were ``not ready''
for a leader who is not ethnically Chinese. Mr. Heng won his race on
Friday by a relatively narrow margin.

​On Sunday, Raeesah Khan, a ​​candidate for the Workers' Party​​,
apologized for comments on social media that accused the police of
treating ethnic minorities and migrant workers more harshly than whites
or rich Chinese. Her commentary prompted the filing of two police
reports, the Singapore police confirmed.

``Systemic racism is a reality in Singapore,'' said Jolovan Wham, a
social worker and activist who has campaigned for migrant workers'
rights.

Image

A dormitory for migrant workers. Such workers, who live in crowded
conditions, have accounted for most of the coronavirus cases in
Singapore.Credit...Ore Huiying for The New York Times

Members of ethnic minority groups have feared that if they publicly
challenge racism, they may be subjected to investigations by the police,
said Mr. Wham, who spent a week in prison this year for criticizing
Singapore's courts.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{}

\hypertarget{the-coronavirus-outbreak-}{%
\subsubsection{The Coronavirus Outbreak
›}\label{the-coronavirus-outbreak-}}

\hypertarget{frequently-asked-questions}{%
\paragraph{Frequently Asked
Questions}\label{frequently-asked-questions}}

Updated July 27, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{should-i-refinance-my-mortgage}{%
  \paragraph{Should I refinance my
  mortgage?}\label{should-i-refinance-my-mortgage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/coronavirus-money-unemployment.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{It
    could be a good idea,} because mortgage rates have
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/16/business/mortgage-rates-below-3-percent.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{never
    been lower.} Refinancing requests have pushed mortgage applications
    to some of the highest levels since 2008, so be prepared to get in
    line. But defaults are also up, so if you're thinking about buying a
    home, be aware that some lenders have tightened their standards.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{what-is-school-going-to-look-like-in-september}{%
  \paragraph{What is school going to look like in
  September?}\label{what-is-school-going-to-look-like-in-september}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    It is unlikely that many schools will return to a normal schedule
    this fall, requiring the grind of
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/05/us/coronavirus-education-lost-learning.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{online
    learning},
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/29/us/coronavirus-child-care-centers.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{makeshift
    child care} and
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/03/business/economy/coronavirus-working-women.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{stunted
    workdays} to continue. California's two largest public school
    districts --- Los Angeles and San Diego --- said on July 13, that
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/13/us/lausd-san-diego-school-reopening.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{instruction
    will be remote-only in the fall}, citing concerns that surging
    coronavirus infections in their areas pose too dire a risk for
    students and teachers. Together, the two districts enroll some
    825,000 students. They are the largest in the country so far to
    abandon plans for even a partial physical return to classrooms when
    they reopen in August. For other districts, the solution won't be an
    all-or-nothing approach.
    \href{https://bioethics.jhu.edu/research-and-outreach/projects/eschool-initiative/school-policy-tracker/}{Many
    systems}, including the nation's largest, New York City, are
    devising
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/26/us/coronavirus-schools-reopen-fall.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{hybrid
    plans} that involve spending some days in classrooms and other days
    online. There's no national policy on this yet, so check with your
    municipal school system regularly to see what is happening in your
    community.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{is-the-coronavirus-airborne}{%
  \paragraph{Is the coronavirus
  airborne?}\label{is-the-coronavirus-airborne}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    The coronavirus
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/04/health/239-experts-with-one-big-claim-the-coronavirus-is-airborne.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{can
    stay aloft for hours in tiny droplets in stagnant air}, infecting
    people as they inhale, mounting scientific evidence suggests. This
    risk is highest in crowded indoor spaces with poor ventilation, and
    may help explain super-spreading events reported in meatpacking
    plants, churches and restaurants.
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/06/health/coronavirus-airborne-aerosols.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{It's
    unclear how often the virus is spread} via these tiny droplets, or
    aerosols, compared with larger droplets that are expelled when a
    sick person coughs or sneezes, or transmitted through contact with
    contaminated surfaces, said Linsey Marr, an aerosol expert at
    Virginia Tech. Aerosols are released even when a person without
    symptoms exhales, talks or sings, according to Dr. Marr and more
    than 200 other experts, who
    \href{https://academic.oup.com/cid/article/doi/10.1093/cid/ciaa939/5867798}{have
    outlined the evidence in an open letter to the World Health
    Organization}.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{what-are-the-symptoms-of-coronavirus}{%
  \paragraph{What are the symptoms of
  coronavirus?}\label{what-are-the-symptoms-of-coronavirus}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Common symptoms
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/symptoms-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{include
    fever, a dry cough, fatigue and difficulty breathing or shortness of
    breath.} Some of these symptoms overlap with those of the flu,
    making detection difficult, but runny noses and stuffy sinuses are
    less common.
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/27/health/coronavirus-symptoms-cdc.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{The
    C.D.C. has also} added chills, muscle pain, sore throat, headache
    and a new loss of the sense of taste or smell as symptoms to look
    out for. Most people fall ill five to seven days after exposure, but
    symptoms may appear in as few as two days or as many as 14 days.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{does-asymptomatic-transmission-of-covid-19-happen}{%
  \paragraph{Does asymptomatic transmission of Covid-19
  happen?}\label{does-asymptomatic-transmission-of-covid-19-happen}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    So far, the evidence seems to show it does. A widely cited
    \href{https://www.nature.com/articles/s41591-020-0869-5}{paper}
    published in April suggests that people are most infectious about
    two days before the onset of coronavirus symptoms and estimated that
    44 percent of new infections were a result of transmission from
    people who were not yet showing symptoms. Recently, a top expert at
    the World Health Organization stated that transmission of the
    coronavirus by people who did not have symptoms was ``very rare,''
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/09/world/coronavirus-updates.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq\#link-1f302e21}{but
    she later walked back that statement.}
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

``Self-censorship has become the norm,'' he added. ``The lack of freedom
of expression in Singapore has made it difficult to have authentic and
honest debates about important issues affecting us.''

Still, Ms. Khan won a seat in Parliament. At 26, she will be the
youngest member of the legislature.

Young Singaporeans, some of whom have expressed their political views in
boisterous online forums, are part of a global discourse about privilege
and power, said Donald Low, a former high-ranking civil servant in
Singapore who now teaches at the Hong Kong University of Science and
Technology.

Some prominent members of the governing party have pushed back against
the notion that they are beneficiaries of a system that unfairly rewards
an ethnically Chinese elite.

``To deny to young ethnic minorities that a well-to-do Chinese man isn't
privileged, that there isn't prejudice in society, is incredibly
patronizing,'' said Mr. Low.

At a news conference early Saturday, Mr. Lee acknowledged that the
country's youth were yearning for a diversity of political voices.

``The younger voters also want to see more opposition presence in
Parliament,'' he said.

Singapore's prosperity depends on the sweat of its million or so
low-wage migrant workers, who help keep the city neat, efficient and
breathtakingly modern.

Unlike other expatriates who can eventually qualify for permanent
residency, these migrants, who are mostly from South Asia and China,
work in Singapore knowing they are temporary members of society.

Image

The public health crisis among Singapore's migrant workers has catalyzed
a debate about the structure of its hyper-globalized
economy.Credit...Ore Huiying for The New York Times

Labor activists have warned over the years that their dormitories,
relegated to the periphery of the island state, are
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/10/world/asia/coronavirus-migrants.html}{petri
dishes for disease}, and it is perhaps no surprise that the vast
majority of Singapore's more than 45,600 coronavirus cases are among
this population.

The government has said it will build more facilities for foreign
laborers, but it has pushed back against criticism that it ignored
migrants' working conditions to their peril. Most migrants who have
tested positive were asymptomatic or barely sick, health authorities
have said.

``The setting up of new dorms with more space is not a silver bullet,''
K. Shanmugam, Singapore's law minister, said in an interview. Cruise
ships, he noted, are luxurious, yet the coronavirus still spread quickly
within their shared spaces.

But the public health crisis among Singapore's migrant workers has
catalyzed a debate about the fundamental structure of the nation's
hyper-globalized economy.

``The real problem is our overreliance on low-cost foreign labor,'' said
Mr. Low, a former director of fiscal policy at the Singaporean ministry
of finance.

``What this has revealed,'' he added, ``is not just systemic injustice
for foreign workers, but also something that is a stain on Singapore's
veneer of technocratic modernity and superior governance.''

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
