Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/travel}{Travel}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/travel}{Travel}\textbar{}Europe's Patchwork Reopening

\url{https://nyti.ms/2MC3fw9}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{the-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=e424d9f0-e384-11ea-a632-91c271f5eaab}{The
Coronavirus
Outbreak}}{The Coronavirus Outbreak}}\label{the-coronavirus-outbreak}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  live\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/20/world/coronavirus-covid.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=e4250100-e384-11ea-a632-91c271f5eaab}{Latest
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=e4250101-e384-11ea-a632-91c271f5eaab}{Maps
  and Cases}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=e4250102-e384-11ea-a632-91c271f5eaab}{Vaccine
  Tracker}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/19/us/colleges-closing-covid.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=e4250103-e384-11ea-a632-91c271f5eaab}{Colleges
  Closing}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/20/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=e4250104-e384-11ea-a632-91c271f5eaab}{Economy}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{europes-patchwork-reopening}{%
\section{Europe's Patchwork
Reopening}\label{europes-patchwork-reopening}}

As countries consider reviving tourism, the calculus is complicated,
involving ``travel bubbles,'' ever-shifting timelines, virus testing
and, in some cases, self-quarantines.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/06/07/travel/07Europe-reopening-cmyk/merlin_114887603_3cb89618-6d46-4078-9a3f-1bb20f57ca17-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By Paige McClanahan

\begin{itemize}
\item
  June 5, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

As the summer tourist season approaches and Western Europe's Covid-19
crisis continues to subside, leaders across the continent are deciding
whether and how to lift the border restrictions that they imposed amid a
flurry of emergency measures in March. The European Commission has urged
its members to coordinate their reopening, but a patchwork of strategies
has emerged. Some countries ---
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/27/world/europe/italy-beaches-coronavirus-reopening.html}{Italy}
and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/06/world/europe/germany-merkel-coronavirus-reopening.html}{Germany}
among them --- are reopening earlier and more widely. Others --- like
Switzerland, Denmark and the Baltic States --- are proceeding more
slowly, opting for
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/29/travel/coronavirus-travel-bubble.html}{``travel
bubbles''} or bespoke lists of countries whose citizens will be allowed
entry.

Both approaches have drawn criticism. Bubbles or corridors risk creating
confusion and could be seen as discriminatory, say some European
observers. But opening up borders among countries where the
epidemiological situations are vastly different risks triggering an
increase in cases, a scenario that officials are determined to avoid.
Indeed, all of the announced plans for reopening have come with an
important caveat: If Covid-19 cases start to tick back up, then borders
could again be forced to close.

``We need to be sure that a summer tourist season won't come at the high
price of a second wave of infections,'' Heiko Maas, Germany's foreign
minister, said in May. ``So there will be no `normal' summer holiday
this year. Whether the Baltic or the Mediterranean --- the social
distancing and hygiene rules will apply everywhere,'' he said.

For American tourists, Europe will remain off limits this summer, with a
few exceptions. Portugal is currently allowing entry to United States
citizens without a quarantine requirement. Britain, the Republic of
Ireland and Belarus are also open to U.S. citizens, but require a
two-week quarantine. Americans and other non-European Union nationals
may be able to visit Iceland from June 15, but all visitors will be
subject to a Covid-19 test upon arrival. Other European nations remain
closed to visitors coming from across the Atlantic.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/06/05/travel/05Europe-reopening-virus-italy/merlin_168426729_1bbc4754-c990-47e3-b6d9-fb8308bc737e-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\hypertarget{reopening-widely}{%
\subsection{Reopening widely}\label{reopening-widely}}

Italy --- which has Europe's second-highest Covid-19 death toll, after
Britain --- has jumped ahead of its neighbors in welcoming back
tourists, lifting border restrictions on visitors arriving from European
countries as of
\href{https://www.thelocal.it/20200518/who-is-allowed-to-travel-to-italy-from-june-3rd}{June
3.} The next major date in the continent's reopening calendar will be
June 15, when
\href{https://www.schengenvisainfo.com/news/germany-plans-to-open-borders-for-eea-citizens-from-june-15/}{Germany}
and \href{https://www.belgium.be/en/corona}{Belgium} will allow entry to
all E.U. nationals, as well as Britons and citizens of nations like
Iceland, Norway and Switzerland that are within Europe but outside the
E.U. Prime Minister Edouard Philippe of France
\href{https://twitter.com/EPhilippePM/status/1266035805262405632}{has
indicated} that France will do the same, allowing quarantine-free travel
for European visitors as of June 15. (However, starting on June 8,
France will ask British visitors to complete
\href{https://www.gov.uk/government/news/french-border-restrictions-in-response-to-coronavirus}{a
voluntary 14-day self-quarantine}.)

The June 15 border openings will be like a ``D-Day'' for tourism in
Europe, Italy's foreign minister, Luigi Di Maio,
\href{https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=10o8VmIoN78}{told the Italian
broadcaster RAI}. He added that Germans account for a significant share
of Italy's visitors, especially for high-end travel. The tourism sector
accounts for 13 percent of Italy's gross domestic product.

``We must salvage what we can salvage from the summer to help our
hoteliers and entrepreneurs,'' Mr. Di Maio said.

Image

Madrid and other parts of Spain, one of the hardest-hit countries in
Europe, are waiting until July to lift most travel
restrictions.Credit...Emilio Parra Doiztua for The New York Times

\hypertarget{bubbles-and-bespoke-lists}{%
\subsection{Bubbles and bespoke lists}\label{bubbles-and-bespoke-lists}}

While Italy, Germany and France are planning to open up widely, other
European nations are proceeding more cautiously, drawing up selective
lists of countries from which travel will be allowed, or establishing
``travel bubbles'' along the lines of the one
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/reuters/2020/05/27/world/asia/27reuters-health-coronavirus-newzealand.html}{being
considered} by Australia and New Zealand.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-the-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/20/world/coronavirus-covid.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: The Coronavirus
Outbreak}}{Latest Updates: The Coronavirus Outbreak}}\label{latest-updates-the-coronavirus-outbreak}}

Updated 2020-08-21T07:46:15.883Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/20/world/coronavirus-covid.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-68774d88}{Shutdowns,
  warnings and scoldings follow alarming incidents on college campuses.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/20/world/coronavirus-covid.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-26b58724}{Biden
  knocks Trump's pandemic response, and outlines a national strategy.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/20/world/coronavirus-covid.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-4e542da3}{U.S.
  health agencies announce moves to confront the flu season and
  plummeting child vaccination rates.}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/20/world/coronavirus-covid.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

More live coverage:
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/20/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Markets}

Spain, one of the hardest-hit countries in Europe, is waiting until July
to lift most of its travel restrictions. At that point, the country
plans to open up to visitors arriving from a list of nations where the
epidemic is under control, according to Manuel Muñiz, the Spanish
government's State Secretary for Global Spain. That list hasn't been
finalized, Mr. Muñiz said in an interview, but it will probably include
most European nations, and could be expanded to a select group of
countries from outside the region. (The country's land borders with
neighboring France and Portugal
\href{https://english.elpais.com/society/2020-06-04/spain-to-open-land-borders-with-portugal-and-france-from-june-22.html}{are
due to reopen} on June 22.) He added that Spain has asked the European
Centre for Disease Prevention and Control for specific guidance on how
the country should draw up its list.

``When you talk to epidemiologists, what they tell you is that if you
have these two containers with equivalent amount of Covid risk, it's
almost irrelevant if there are transfers of movement of people from one
place to the other,'' said Mr. Muñiz. He added that tourist destinations
need to be able to do four things in order to welcome visitors safely:
Track the virus's spread; test anyone with symptoms; trace the contacts
of those who test positive; and treat those who fall ill.

``When countries open needs to be fundamentally linked to how the
disease is performing there, and whether those capabilities are in
place,'' Mr. Muñiz said.

Image

Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania have opened their internal borders for
citizens to travel between the three countries.Credit...Birgit Puve for
The New York Times, Petras Malukas/Agence France-Presse --- Getty Images

Spain's plan is just one example of a more tailored approach to
reopening. On May 15, three Baltic States --- Latvia, Estonia and
Lithuania ---
\href{https://www.reuters.com/article/us-health-coronavirus-baltic/baltics-open-europes-first-pandemic-travel-bubble-as-curbs-ease-idUSKBN22Q3KM}{began
allowing free movement} across their mutual borders, effectively
establishing the first travel bubble in Europe. (Lithuania has since
opened up to quarantine-free travel
\href{https://www.schengenvisainfo.com/news/travelers-from-24-european-countries-can-enter-lithuania-without-being-quarantined/}{from
24 European nations}, including France and Italy, but not Spain or
Sweden.)

Hungary and Slovenia created
\href{https://www.reuters.com/article/us-health-coronavirus-hungary-slovenia/hungary-slovenia-allow-travel-by-citizens-between-the-two-countries-idUSKBN234277}{their
own bubble} later in May, while Croatia
\href{https://www.croatiaweek.com/croatia-completely-opens-borders-to-nationals-of-10-countries/}{has
begun allowing entry} to nationals of 10 European nations, including
Germany and Austria, but not hard-hit France, Italy or Spain. On June
15, Switzerland
\href{https://www.sem.admin.ch/sem/en/home/aktuell/news/2020/ref_2020-05-27.html}{plans
to open} its borders with Austria, Germany and France, but not Italy,
its neighbor to the south. On the same date, Denmark
\href{https://www.reuters.com/article/us-health-coronavirus-nordics/sweden-excluded-as-neighbours-denmark-and-norway-ease-travel-restrictions-idUSKBN2351MS}{will
reopen} to visitors from Germany, Norway and Iceland, but only for stays
of six nights or more, none of which can be in Copenhagen.

Also on June 15, the Netherlands will begin
\href{https://www.schengenvisainfo.com/news/netherlands-opens-for-tourists-from-12-eu-countries-from-june-15-britons-not-included/}{allowing
entry} to nationals of 12 European nations, including Belgium, Germany
and Italy, but not France, Spain or Britain.

Image

Greece is casting a broad net, extending its bubble to passport holders
from a bespoke list of some 29 countries. Above, Athens.Credit...Maria
Mavropoulou for The New York Times

Greece, where tourism accounts for
\href{https://www.ekathimerini.com/241056/article/ekathimerini/business/greece-is-over-reliant-on-tourism}{nearly
a quarter} of the gross national product, is casting a broader net,
extending its bubble to passport holders from a bespoke list of
\href{https://in.reuters.com/article/health-coronavirus-greece-tourism/greece-to-open-to-tourists-from-29-countries-from-june-15-idINL8N2DB3R4}{29
nations}. Many of those are in Europe, but the list also includes China,
Japan, Israel, New Zealand and a handful of other countries where
authorities deemed the health situation under control; the United States
is not on the list. (Greece's Civil Aviation Authority
\href{http://www.ypa.gr/news/notams-parateinetai-kai-ton-ioynio-h-ypoxrewtikh-prolhptikh-karantina-twn-tajidiwtwn-poy-eiserxontai-sthn-ellada}{has
since clarified} that some arriving passengers may still be subject to
quarantine requirements or mandatory Covid-19 testing.)

Image

Portugal is allowing flights from the United States, as well as Canada,
Brazil and many European countries. Above, Colares,
Portugal.Credit...Daniel Rodrigues for The New York Times

Portugal, however, is
\href{https://dre.pt/home/-/dre/133626315/details/maximized}{currently
allowing flights} from the United States, as well as Canada, Brazil and
many European countries. Meanwhile, Britain remains open to visitors
from anywhere in the world, although anyone arriving after June 8 will
be \href{https://www.gov.uk/uk-border-control}{required to
self-quarantine} for 14 days or risk a £1,000 (\$1,240) fine. The
Republic of Ireland
\href{https://www.dfa.ie/travel/travel-advice/coronavirus/}{also remains
open}, but with a two-week quarantine requirement.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{}

\hypertarget{the-coronavirus-outbreak-}{%
\subsubsection{The Coronavirus Outbreak
›}\label{the-coronavirus-outbreak-}}

\hypertarget{frequently-asked-questions}{%
\paragraph{Frequently Asked
Questions}\label{frequently-asked-questions}}

Updated August 17, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{why-does-standing-six-feet-away-from-others-help}{%
  \paragraph{Why does standing six feet away from others
  help?}\label{why-does-standing-six-feet-away-from-others-help}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    The coronavirus spreads primarily through droplets from your mouth
    and nose, especially when you cough or sneeze. The C.D.C., one of
    the organizations using that measure,
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/14/health/coronavirus-six-feet.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{bases
    its recommendation of six feet} on the idea that most large droplets
    that people expel when they cough or sneeze will fall to the ground
    within six feet. But six feet has never been a magic number that
    guarantees complete protection. Sneezes, for instance, can launch
    droplets a lot farther than six feet,
    \href{https://jamanetwork.com/journals/jama/fullarticle/2763852}{according
    to a recent study}. It's a rule of thumb: You should be safest
    standing six feet apart outside, especially when it's windy. But
    keep a mask on at all times, even when you think you're far enough
    apart.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{i-have-antibodies-am-i-now-immune}{%
  \paragraph{I have antibodies. Am I now
  immune?}\label{i-have-antibodies-am-i-now-immune}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    As of right
    now,\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/22/health/covid-antibodies-herd-immunity.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{that
    seems likely, for at least several months.} There have been
    frightening accounts of people suffering what seems to be a second
    bout of Covid-19. But experts say these patients may have a
    drawn-out course of infection, with the virus taking a slow toll
    weeks to months after initial exposure. People infected with the
    coronavirus typically
    \href{https://www.nature.com/articles/s41586-020-2456-9}{produce}
    immune molecules called antibodies, which are
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/07/health/coronavirus-antibody-prevalence.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{protective
    proteins made in response to an
    infection}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/07/health/coronavirus-antibody-prevalence.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{.
    These antibodies may} last in the body
    \href{https://www.nature.com/articles/s41591-020-0965-6}{only two to
    three months}, which may seem worrisome, but that's perfectly normal
    after an acute infection subsides, said Dr. Michael Mina, an
    immunologist at Harvard University. It may be possible to get the
    coronavirus again, but it's highly unlikely that it would be
    possible in a short window of time from initial infection or make
    people sicker the second time.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{im-a-small-business-owner-can-i-get-relief}{%
  \paragraph{I'm a small-business owner. Can I get
  relief?}\label{im-a-small-business-owner-can-i-get-relief}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    The
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/small-business-loans-stimulus-grants-freelancers-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{stimulus
    bills enacted in March} offer help for the millions of American
    small businesses. Those eligible for aid are businesses and
    nonprofit organizations with fewer than 500 workers, including sole
    proprietorships, independent contractors and freelancers. Some
    larger companies in some industries are also eligible. The help
    being offered, which is being managed by the Small Business
    Administration, includes the Paycheck Protection Program and the
    Economic Injury Disaster Loan program. But lots of folks have
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/05/07/business/small-business-loans-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{not
    yet seen payouts.} Even those who have received help are confused:
    The rules are draconian, and some are stuck sitting on
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/02/business/economy/loans-coronavirus-small-business.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{money
    they don't know how to use.} Many small-business owners are getting
    less than they expected or
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/10/business/Small-business-loans-ppp.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{not
    hearing anything at all.}
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{what-are-my-rights-if-i-am-worried-about-going-back-to-work}{%
  \paragraph{What are my rights if I am worried about going back to
  work?}\label{what-are-my-rights-if-i-am-worried-about-going-back-to-work}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Employers have to provide
    \href{https://www.osha.gov/SLTC/covid-19/standards.html}{a safe
    workplace} with policies that protect everyone equally.
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/coronavirus-money-unemployment.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{And
    if one of your co-workers tests positive for the coronavirus, the
    C.D.C.} has said that
    \href{https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/community/guidance-business-response.html}{employers
    should tell their employees} -\/- without giving you the sick
    employee's name -\/- that they may have been exposed to the virus.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{what-is-school-going-to-look-like-in-september}{%
  \paragraph{What is school going to look like in
  September?}\label{what-is-school-going-to-look-like-in-september}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    It is unlikely that many schools will return to a normal schedule
    this fall, requiring the grind of
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/05/us/coronavirus-education-lost-learning.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{online
    learning},
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/29/us/coronavirus-child-care-centers.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{makeshift
    child care} and
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/03/business/economy/coronavirus-working-women.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{stunted
    workdays} to continue. California's two largest public school
    districts --- Los Angeles and San Diego --- said on July 13, that
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/13/us/lausd-san-diego-school-reopening.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{instruction
    will be remote-only in the fall}, citing concerns that surging
    coronavirus infections in their areas pose too dire a risk for
    students and teachers. Together, the two districts enroll some
    825,000 students. They are the largest in the country so far to
    abandon plans for even a partial physical return to classrooms when
    they reopen in August. For other districts, the solution won't be an
    all-or-nothing approach.
    \href{https://bioethics.jhu.edu/research-and-outreach/projects/eschool-initiative/school-policy-tracker/}{Many
    systems}, including the nation's largest, New York City, are
    devising
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/26/us/coronavirus-schools-reopen-fall.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{hybrid
    plans} that involve spending some days in classrooms and other days
    online. There's no national policy on this yet, so check with your
    municipal school system regularly to see what is happening in your
    community.
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

This patchwork of reopening strategies is chaotic and will ultimately
undermine European tourism, said Eduardo Santander, the executive
director of the European Travel Commission, an association of national
tourism organizations in Europe.

``I think that creating corridors, bubbles, bilateral agreements between
countries only creates more confusion and frustration for the end
consumer,'' Mr. Santander said. He added that his organization has been
lobbying for a harmonized return of travel and tourism across Europe.

``The information that is out there is so fragmented; it's also so
confusing,'' he said, adding that freedom of movement is a pillar of
European identity. ``It's not about cutting a deal with your neighboring
country,'' he added. ``We cannot create these kind of competitive
advantages and disadvantages.''

The European Commission, which
\href{https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/ip_20_854}{has
published} a package of guidelines and recommendations on the resumption
of travel and tourism in Europe, is building a website that will serve
as a ``one-stop shop'' for anyone looking for the latest information on
border restrictions within the bloc. A spokeswoman for the commission
said that the site should be up and running by mid-June. In the
meantime, she recommended that potential travelers check the government
website of their desired destination to find the latest rules.

Image

In France, the mountain resort of Chamonix is preparing for a quieter
summer than usual.Credit...Andrea Wyner for The New York Times

\hypertarget{waiting-to-see}{%
\subsection{Waiting to see}\label{waiting-to-see}}

In many European countries --- especially those along the Mediterranean
coast --- renewing the flow of tourists will be critical to keeping
national economies afloat. But it's not yet clear how many people will
be willing to cross a border for their summer vacations.

``We don't have tourism anymore. Corona has taken it all,'' said Marjan
Dasic, the manager of Tarsa, a popular restaurant in Rijeka, a
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/10/24/travel/what-to-do-36-hours-in-rijeka-croatia.html}{Croatian
seaside city} that was selected as one of Europe's cultural capitals for
2020.

Normally, you would have to call at least a year in advance to reserve a
table at the restaurant, which can seat up to 200 people and welcomes
tourists from across Europe and beyond, Mr. Dasic said. The restaurant
reopened in May after two months of closure, ``but it's like we didn't
open, because no one is coming,'' Mr. Dasic said, adding that another
month without customers will force the restaurant to close for good.

In France, the mountain resort of Chamonix is preparing for a quieter
summer than usual. Major events like mountain races, climbing
competitions and music festivals have been canceled, but the area's
trails will be open for hiking and mountain biking, and cable cars will
be operating with new hygiene measures in place.

Claire Burnet, a spokeswoman for the Chamonix tourist office, predicted
that tourists would come to the mountains to avoid the crowds one might
find at the beach or in a city.

``We are pretty optimistic, especially for the French market,'' Burnet
said. ``For the European market, we're waiting to see.''

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

\emph{\textbf{Follow New York Times Travel}} \emph{on}
\href{https://www.instagram.com/nytimestravel/}{\emph{Instagram}}\emph{,}
\href{https://twitter.com/nytimestravel}{\emph{Twitter}} \emph{and}
\href{https://www.facebookcorewwwi.onion/nytimestravel/}{\emph{Facebook}}\emph{.
And}
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/traveldispatch}{\emph{sign
up for our weekly Travel Dispatch newsletter}} \emph{to receive expert
tips on traveling smarter and inspiration for your next vacation.}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
