Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/world}{World}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/world}{World}\textbar{}Coronavirus Cases in U.S. Are
Rising, Even as Death Rates Trend Down

\url{https://nyti.ms/3gjUO5C}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{the-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=4a62ac60-e39e-11ea-9e73-bd3f3155e7f4}{The
Coronavirus
Outbreak}}{The Coronavirus Outbreak}}\label{the-coronavirus-outbreak}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  live\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/21/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=4a62ac61-e39e-11ea-9e73-bd3f3155e7f4}{Latest
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=4a62d370-e39e-11ea-9e73-bd3f3155e7f4}{Maps
  and Cases}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=4a62d371-e39e-11ea-9e73-bd3f3155e7f4}{Vaccine
  Tracker}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/19/us/colleges-closing-covid.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=4a62d372-e39e-11ea-9e73-bd3f3155e7f4}{Colleges
  Closing}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/20/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=4a62d373-e39e-11ea-9e73-bd3f3155e7f4}{Economy}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{coronavirus-cases-in-us-are-rising-even-as-death-rates-trend-down}{%
\section{Coronavirus Cases in U.S. Are Rising, Even as Death Rates Trend
Down}\label{coronavirus-cases-in-us-are-rising-even-as-death-rates-trend-down}}

At least five U.S. states set single-day records on Friday as the
country's daily infection report passed 50,000 again. President Trump,
in a speech at Mount Rushmore, barely mentioned the pandemic.

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Published July 3, 2020Updated July 4, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

\emph{This briefing has ended.}
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/04/world/coronavirus-updates.html}{\emph{Click
here for the latest updates.}}

\hypertarget{heres-what-you-need-to-know}{%
\subsubsection{Here's what you need to
know:}\label{heres-what-you-need-to-know}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-7c348203}{As infections in the U.S. are rising
  sharply, the death rate has dropped.}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-26a02377}{With U.S. infections surging, Trump
  visits Mt. Rushmore for fireworks.}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-689e6513}{For the U.S. capital, July 4 will
  mean protests as well as celebration.}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-f303931}{Brazil tops 1.5 million total
  infections, just two weeks after reaching a million.}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-63eb27ea}{England will end its quarantine for
  visitors from more than 50 countries. The U.S. isn't one of them.}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-364871b}{Foreigners in a South Korean
  quarantine hotel are finding the welcome anything but warm.}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-778258a1}{Infections among Secret Service
  agents explain Pence's changed visit to Arizona.}
\end{itemize}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/07/03/us/politics/03virus-briefing-texas-sub/merlin_174173043_6331d5aa-9961-4c6e-8f31-696d98341aec-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\hypertarget{as-infections-in-the-us-are-rising-sharply-the-death-rate-has-dropped}{%
\subsection{As infections in the U.S. are rising sharply, the death rate
has
dropped.}\label{as-infections-in-the-us-are-rising-sharply-the-death-rate-has-dropped}}

After a minor late-spring lull, the number of confirmed coronavirus
cases in the United States is
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html}{again
on the rise}. States like Arizona, Florida and Texas are seeing some of
their highest numbers to date, and as the nation hurtles deeper into
summer, the surge shows few signs of stopping.

Yet the virus appears to be killing fewer of the people it infects --- a
seemingly counterintuitive trend that might not last, experts said.

In April and May, Covid-19 led to as many as 3,000 deaths per day and
claimed the lives of roughly 7 to 8 percent of Americans known to have
been infected. Now, even though cases are rising in the majority of
states, some of which are hitting single-day records, the number of
daily deaths is closer to 600, and the death rate is less than 5
percent.

Because death reports can lag diagnoses by weeks, the current rise in
coronavirus cases could portend increases in mortality in the days to
come.
However,\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/03/health/coronavirus-mortality-testing.html}{there
are also a few factors that can help explain the apparent drop}.

One is increased diagnostic testing, which has identified many more
infected individuals with mild or no symptoms. That means those who die
with Covid-19 form a smaller overall proportion of cases, said Caitlin
Rivers, a senior scholar at the Johns Hopkins Center for Health Security

And with more tests available, infections are often identified earlier,
``which allows us to intervene earlier,'' said Saskia Popescu, a
hospital epidemiologist and infectious disease expert in Arizona.

Health experts also noted that treatments had improved, and that the
virus is now infecting more young people, who are less likely to die of
Covid-19.

\hypertarget{with-us-infections-surging-trump-visits-mt-rushmore-for-fireworks}{%
\subsection{With U.S. infections surging, Trump visits Mt. Rushmore for
fireworks.}\label{with-us-infections-surging-trump-visits-mt-rushmore-for-fireworks}}

Image

Spectators arriving at Mount Rushmore National Memorial on Friday for
President Trump's Independence Day event.Credit...Al Drago/Bloomberg

Health officials are
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/02/us/coronavirus-fourth-of-july.html?action=click\&module=Top\%20Stories\&pgtype=Homepage}{urging
Americans to scale back their Fourth of July plans} as the coronavirus
pandemic makes a frightening resurgence.

Reports of new cases have increased 90 percent in the United States in
the last two weeks. More than 53,000 new daily coronavirus cases were
reported in the United States on Friday, according to a New York Times
database. That total exceeded all previous daily counts but the 55,595
on Thursday, the first time the number had passed 50,000.

At least five states set single-day case records on Friday: Alabama,
Alaska, Kansas, North Carolina and South Carolina,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html}{according
to data compiled by The New York Times}. In South Carolina, where more
than 1,800 new cases were announced Friday, the positivity rate has
hovered around 20 percent this week, up from about 10 percent in early
June. In Kansas, where at least 770 new cases were announced, daily
reporting totals vary widely because the state government only releases
new data three times a week. The state reported positivity rates
exceeding 10 percent for the first three days in July, a significant
uptick from mid-June when the rate hovered between 5 and 7 percent.

On Thursday, the United States set a single-day case record for the
sixth time in nine days, with
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html}{more
than 55,000 new cases announced}, and single-day highs in eight states.
Domestic travel restrictions have re-emerged, and many locales have
slowed or reversed reopenings.

The
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/01/business/fourth-of-july-fireworks-displays.html}{vast
majority of July 4 fireworks displays in big cities and small rural
towns have been canceled}. Most politicians, including former Vice
President Joseph R. Biden Jr., the presumptive Democratic nominee, are
forgoing the traditional parades and flag-waving appearances.

President Trump, however, has a different, discordant message: The
sparkly, booming show must go on at all costs. Mr. Trump was in South
Dakota on Friday evening for a massive fireworks display at
\href{http://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/01/us/mount-rushmore.html}{the
Mount Rushmore National Memorial}, a made-for-TV patriotic display that
he has spent years lobbying to revive. (There have been no fireworks at
Mount Rushmore since 2009 because of fears that they would set off
forest fires and contaminate groundwater.)

Few in the packed crowd of supporters wore masks. In his pre-fireworks
speech, Mr. Trump barely mentioned the pandemic, which has killed more
than 120,000 people in America, instead choosing to cast himself as
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/03/us/politics/trump-coronavirus-mount-rushmore.html}{waging
battle against a ``new far-left fascism.''}

Image

Demonstrators, some from different tribes in the region, marched through
Keystone on Friday to protest Mr. Trump's visit to Mount
Rushmore.Credit...Andrew Caballero-Reynolds/Agence France-Presse ---
Getty Images

Hours before Mr. Trump spoke at Mount Rushmore, law enforcement
officials, many holding shields, clashed with protesters blocking a
road.

As tension escalated, an officer warned demonstrators that they should
disperse if they wanted to avoid chemical agents.

``It's not going to be a pleasant smell,'' the officer
said,\href{https://twitter.com/EEBormett/status/1279196853452656641}{according
to a video posted on Twitter}. ``If you don't mind it, you can stay
here, but it's going to be very irritating.''

Anti-Trump protesters chanted and held signs reading, ``You are
trespassing on stolen land,'' and ``Black Lives Matter,'' according to
\href{https://www.pscp.tv/w/1BRKjYOAEMpxw}{video footage of the event}.
A group of Trump supporters held Trump 2020 posters and ``All Lives
Matter'' signs.

Kimberly Guilfoyle, the girlfriend of Mr. Trump's eldest son and a top
fund-raising official for the Trump re-election campaign,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/03/us/politics/kimberly-guilfoyle-trump-campaign-coronavirus.html}{tested
positive for the coronavirus} on Friday before the event at Mount
Rushmore, a person familiar with her condition said.

Ms. Guilfoyle traveled to South Dakota with Donald Trump Jr. They did
not travel aboard Air Force One, according to the person familiar with
her condition, and she was the only person in the group who tested
positive.

The president plans to follow up his trip with a ``Salute to America''
celebration the following day on the South Lawn at the White House,
including a military flyover and a massive fireworks display on the
National Mall that Washington's mayor, Muriel Bowser, has warned
violates local health guidelines.

Mr. Trump has consistently downplayed concerns over new cases, claiming
that young people
\href{https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/1278897430378041344}{``get
better much easier and faster}'' and that the virus will
\href{https://www.nbcnews.com/politics/white-house/trump-says-he-thinks-coronavirus-will-just-disappear-despite-rising-n1232709}{``just
disappear.''}

In many places across the country, face coverings have gone from
suggestions to mandates, but Gov. Kristi Noem of South Dakota, a
Republican, said there were no plans to enforce social distancing during
Mr. Trump's open-air address before a live audience, framed by some of
the nation's most revered presidents.

Early in the pandemic, more than 1,000 cases were linked to the
Smithfield pork processing plant in Sioux Falls, which remains one of
the country's largest known clusters. But in recent weeks, South Dakota
has had one of the country's most encouraging trend lines. The state has
averaged a few-dozen new cases each day, including 85 announced Friday.
There has not been a day with more than 100 new cases in South Dakota
since late May.

\hypertarget{for-the-us-capital-july-4-will-mean-protests-as-well-as-celebration}{%
\subsection{For the U.S. capital, July 4 will mean protests as well as
celebration.}\label{for-the-us-capital-july-4-will-mean-protests-as-well-as-celebration}}

Image

Washington has become a center of protests since the killing of George
Floyd in Minneapolis.Credit...Anna Moneymaker for The New York Times

A number of protests are planned for Independence Day in the nation's
capital, ahead of the annual fireworks display and a
\href{https://www.doi.gov/pressreleases/interior-presents-2020-independence-day-celebration-nations-capital}{military
flyover} hosted by Mr. Trump.

Since the killing of George Floyd in Minneapolis at the end of May,
Washington has become a center of protests. Its mayor, Muriel Bowser,
publicly challenged Mr. Trump's decision to order National Guard troops
into the city during demonstrations against racism and police brutality,
and she presided over the painting of the words ``Black Lives Matter''
in giant yellow letters on a street near the White House.

Black Lives Matter DC and two other groups, Sunrise and the Black Youth
Project 100, announced several events over the weekend focused on
\href{https://www.defundmpd.org/}{defunding the police}. The Instagram
account \href{https://www.instagram.com/dcteensaction/}{\#dcteensaction}
lists at least nine protests for Saturday, including a march near the
Smithsonian National Museum of African American History and Culture and
an evening protest beginning in Malcolm X Park.

For the official celebration, the federal government said it would
provide around 300,000 face coverings, and a news release from the
Department of the Interior warned visitors to observe social distancing
--- while noting that viewing areas on the Mall would be accessible by
four security entry points. Ms. Bowser told reporters that she did not
think the event was in keeping with federal health officials' guidelines
for gatherings during the pandemic.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-the-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/21/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: The Coronavirus
Outbreak}}{Latest Updates: The Coronavirus Outbreak}}\label{latest-updates-the-coronavirus-outbreak}}

Updated 2020-08-21T11:05:09.310Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/21/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-4690b6aa}{Shutdowns,
  warnings and scoldings follow gatherings on college campuses.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/21/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-324af071}{As
  he accepts the Democratic nomination, Biden knocks Trump's pandemic
  response.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/21/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-35890b73}{Hundreds
  of doctors in Kenya go on strike over their pay and protective gear.}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/21/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

More live coverage:
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/20/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Markets}

The holiday comes amid a national
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/06/24/magazine/reparations-slavery.html?searchResultPosition=3}{reckoning
over racism}, and the founding story of the United States is part of
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/08/14/magazine/black-history-american-democracy.html}{what
is being questioned} right now.

William H. Lamar IV, the pastor of the Metropolitan African Methodist
Episcopal Church, a few blocks from the White House, said that he did
not normally celebrate the Fourth but that this year the country might
be observing the holiday with more honesty than usual.

``The symbols coming down, that's only the beginning,'' Reverend Lamar
said. ``That's people saying, `We need a new story. This story excludes
me. It is inherently violent and evil. It murdered me. It erased me as a
human being. I deserve a story that includes me and wants me to
flourish.'''

He added: ``Is there a kind of national story that can hold us together
in this multiethnic, multiracial, multireligious reality? The survival
of this experiment called America depends upon it.''

\hypertarget{brazil-tops-15-million-total-infections-just-two-weeks-after-reaching-a-million}{%
\subsection{Brazil tops 1.5 million total infections, just two weeks
after reaching a
million.}\label{brazil-tops-15-million-total-infections-just-two-weeks-after-reaching-a-million}}

Image

Health professionals administering a coronavirus test in Rio de Janeiro
state on Friday.Credit...Mauro Pimentel/Agence France-Presse --- Getty
Images

Brazil, which has more coronavirus cases than any country but the United
States, topped 1.5 million total infections on Friday, just two weeks
after reaching a million cases, according to a New York Times database.

But even as the country passed that grim milestone, President Jair
Bolsonaro vetoed a measure that would have provided masks to vulnerable
groups and required businesses to provide masks to their employees,
\href{https://apnews.com/ea560c3c7e0766f3f4eb0f77f958140a}{according to
The Associated Press.}

Since mid-June, some major cities in Brazil have eased preventive
measures. Shopping malls have already reopened in São Paulo and Rio de
Janeiro. Beaches are starting to draw crowds again. And Rio allowed gyms
and bars to reopen at 50 percent capacity on Thursday, while some
\href{https://www1.folha.uol.com.br/cotidiano/2020/06/noves-estados-estao-com-mais-de-80-das-utis-lotadas.shtml}{hospital
systems were close to running out}of intensive care beds.

If the country's trend lines hold, some epidemiologists project the
pandemic's death toll in Brazil could surpass that of the U.S. by late
July. Brazil had recorded 63,174 total deaths as of Friday; the U.S. has
recorded 129,402.

Some experts initially thought that Brazil was well equipped to cope
with the pandemic, based on
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/16/world/americas/virus-brazil-deaths.html}{its
track record during past public health emergencies}. Brazil has a public
health care system that, while underfunded, provides robust coverage
across the country.

Global roundup

\hypertarget{england-will-end-its-quarantine-for-visitors-from-more-than-50-countries-the-us-isnt-one-of-them}{%
\subsection{England will end its quarantine for visitors from more than
50 countries. The U.S. isn't one of
them.}\label{england-will-end-its-quarantine-for-visitors-from-more-than-50-countries-the-us-isnt-one-of-them}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/07/03/us/politics/03virus-brieifng-uk/03virus-brieifng-uk-videoSixteenByNine3000.jpg}

Starting July 10, England
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/03/world/europe/britain-quarantine-us-coronavirus.html}{will
drop its mandatory 14-day quarantine} for visitors from more than 50
countries but leave the restrictions in place for travelers coming from
the United States, deepening the isolation of America. Scotland, Wales
and Northern Ireland apply their own travel policies and may not follow
England's lead in easing restrictions.

The European Union recently
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/30/world/europe/eu-reopening-blocks-us-travelers.html}{upheld
a ban on U.S. travelers}, even as it opened its borders to visitors from
Canada, Rwanda, Thailand and 15 other countries. England's policy,
announced on Friday, is less restrictive: Americans can still enter so
long as they agree to isolate themselves for two weeks.

The United States has barred most visitors from Britain since March,
after briefly exempting them from a travel ban on the European Union. At
the time, Europe was dealing with far more coronavirus infections than
the United States. Since then, the epicenter of the pandemic has moved
across the Atlantic.

However, Britain still has
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/world/europe/united-kingdom-coronavirus-cases.html}{the
world's third-highest known death toll}, with triple-digit death counts
still coming most days.

More than half the country's nursing homes have had
\href{https://www.ons.gov.uk/peoplepopulationandcommunity/healthandsocialcare/conditionsanddiseases/articles/impactofcoronavirusincarehomesinenglandvivaldi/26mayto19june2020}{at
least one case since March}. The government announced on Friday that
nursing home residents will be
\href{https://www.gov.uk/government/news/regular-retesting-rolled-out-for-care-home-staff-and-residents}{tested
for the virus monthly}, while staff members will receive tests weekly,
officials announced.

Some public-health experts said the fractious debate over the travel
quarantine had distracted from more pressing problems, like safely
reopening Britain's schools and organizing an effective test-and-trace
program.

``The U.K. government seems focused on giving people a summer pandemic
holiday instead of dealing with the hard issues facing the aviation
industry for the coming year,'' said Professor Devi Sridhar, the
director of the global health governance program at the University of
Edinburgh.

Prime Minister Boris Johnson, who said earlier this week that it was
Britons' ``patriotic duty'' to go to the pub when they reopen at 6 a.m.
on Saturday, has now urged people not to ``overdo it.'' His warning came
after tens of thousands have
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/26/world/europe/uk-coronavirus-lockdown.html}{flocked
to beaches},
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/25/world/europe/brixton-party-police.html}{organized
illegal music parties} and violated social-distancing rules in recent
weeks.

``Let's not blow it now, folks,'' Mr. Johnson told LBC radio on Friday,
weeks after he announced that the country's ``long hibernation'' was
over and that the virus was under control.

In other news:

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \textbf{Brazil,} which has been experiencing a surge in virus cases,
  allowed restaurants and bars to reopen with conditions on Thursday,
  \href{https://www.republicworld.com/world-news/south-america/restrictions-on-rio-restaurants-and-bars-eased.html}{according
  to The Associated Press}. Gyms, dance, fighting and swimming classes
  were also authorized to restart, The A.P. said, as long as there is no
  physical contact, a third of capacity and a time-slot schedule.
\item
  Seeking to give his government a fresh start after the pandemic
  battered the nation, President Emmanuel Macron of \textbf{France}
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/03/world/europe/france-prime-minister-resign.html}{shuffled
  prime ministers on Friday}, trading in the popular incumbent, Édouard
  Philippe, for a relatively unknown functionary who helped guide the
  country out of the health emergency, Jean Castex. Mr. Philippe is one
  of three government officials facing investigation into their handling
  of the coronavirus crisis, according to French prosecutors.
\item
  \textbf{Air France,} which like other airlines has seen ticket sales
  plummet, told labor union leaders on Friday that it needs to cut about
  7,500 jobs by the end of 2022, but that it would achieve the most
  through attrition and would also offer buyouts, early retirement
  packages and assistance with applying for open positions at the
  company. The airline has received 7 billion euros (\$7.8 billion) from
  the French government.
\item
  Chancellor Angela Merkel, whose successful response to the coronavirus
  crisis in \textbf{Germany} has been widely praised, was seen wearing a
  mask for the first time on Friday, as she headed into a session at the
  cramped Bundesrat. Asked by a reporter this week why she didn't mask,
  even as she encourages Germans to, she said: ``If I keep the social
  distancing rules, then I don't need to wear a mask. And when I don't
  social distance, when I go shopping for example, we clearly never run
  into each other.''
\item
  \textbf{Spain} said on Friday that it would not reopen its borders
  with \textbf{Morocco} after Morocco's decision to keep entry points
  closed that are used by millions of people every summer. The dispute
  also affects Ceuta and Melilla, two Spanish enclaves in North Africa.
  Spain also said that it would bar arrivals from Algeria and China. The
  European Union
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/30/world/europe/eu-reopening-blocks-us-travelers.html}{reopened
  its borders this week to travelers from 15 countries}, including
  Algeria, while travelers from China would be permitted if China
  reciprocates.
\item
  \textbf{Austria} recorded more than 100 new cases of the virus on a
  single day this week, its highest such total in more than two months.
  Many of the confirmed infections are connected to a religious
  community in Linz, a city in the northern part of the country, and
  officials closed schools and day care centers in the area for a week.
  Austria's health ministry has registered 17,959 cases and 705 deaths.
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{foreigners-in-a-south-korean-quarantine-hotel-are-finding-the-welcome-anything-but-warm}{%
\subsection{Foreigners in a South Korean quarantine hotel are finding
the welcome anything but
warm.}\label{foreigners-in-a-south-korean-quarantine-hotel-are-finding-the-welcome-anything-but-warm}}

Image

Residents of Yongin, South Korea, protested Friday outside the Ramada by
Wyndham Yongin, a quarantine site for foreigners who arrive in South
Korea with no Covid-19 symptoms.Credit...Choe Sang-hun/The New York
Times

Spending two weeks quarantined in a hotel room is not a pleasant
experience, as thousands of people who've flown internationally since
the pandemic began can attest.

But the 300 foreigners confined to a Ramada hotel in Yongin, South
Korea, have it worse than most.

Each day for the past week, from about 10 a.m. to 5 p.m., protesters
outside the hotel have been raising a deafening noise with drums, brass
gongs and loudspeakers blaring music. They are local residents, angry
that the government chose a hotel in their neighborhood as a quarantine
site.

``Even with double-glazed windows, they can still be heard when the
windows are closed,'' said James Martin Thompson, an app developer from
Washington, from his fifth-floor room in the hotel, the Ramada by
Wyndham Yongin.

``When you're stuck in a small indoor space 24/7, being able to open the
windows makes it much more bearable,'' said Mr. Thompson. ``And during
much of the daytime, that isn't practical with the noise coming from the
demonstrators.''

On June 11, the South Korean government designated the Ramada as one of
eight facilities where foreigners who arrive with no Covid-19 symptoms
are quarantined for two weeks.

Three days later, a foreigner quarantined at the hotel tested positive
for the coronavirus. Since then, residents of the neighborhood, called
Jeondae-ri, have been accusing the government of recklessly exposing
them to infection.

On June 27, protesters began their daily noise-making campaign in front
of the 18-story hotel, hoping to force the authorities to send
foreigners elsewhere for quarantine.

A large banner that protesters hung in front of the Ramada read, ``This
is a hotel that produced a confirmed Covid-19 case. Shut it down
immediately!''

The foreigners are confined to their rooms with little hope of escaping
the torment, even if they wanted to try.

\hypertarget{infections-among-secret-service-agents-explain-pences-changed-visit-to-arizona}{%
\subsection{Infections among Secret Service agents explain Pence's
changed visit to
Arizona.}\label{infections-among-secret-service-agents-explain-pences-changed-visit-to-arizona}}

Image

Vice President Mike Pence visiting the U.S. Public Health Service
headquarters on Monday in Rockville, Md.Credit...Samuel Corum for The
New York Times

Vice President Mike Pence
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/02/us/politics/pence-postponed-arizona-trip-virus.html}{changed
his travel plans in Arizona} after Secret Service agents set to
accompany with him tested positive or showed symptoms, two
administration officials said on Thursday.

Mr. Pence had been scheduled to visit Arizona on Tuesday, but multiple
factors related to the spread of the virus foiled those plans, according
to a person familiar with Mr. Pence's travel.

A swift rise in new cases in the state
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/25/upshot/virus-testing-shortfall-arizona.html}{has
overwhelmed testing centers} in recent days, and Gov. Doug Ducey, a
Republican, ordered bars, gyms and movie theaters closed this week. As
of Friday, there have been more than 4,300 new cases reported in the
state. In an apparent acknowledgment of outbreaks erupting across the
South and the West, the vice president canceled his plan to headline a
``Faith in America'' campaign rally in Tucson on Tuesday and then tour
Yuma with Mr. Ducey.

Instead, Mr. Pence opted for a shorter visit to Phoenix on Wednesday,
where he participated in a public health briefing at Sky Harbor
International Airport.

``Help is on the way,'' Mr. Pence said at a news conference with Mr.
Ducey at the airport, after descending the steps of Air Force Two
wearing a mask, the latest sign of the administration's
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/01/us/coronavirus-masks.html}{evolving
stance on face coverings}.

But the positive tests and symptoms of Secret Service agents expected to
be in proximity to the man who is next in line for the presidency were
some of the factors that prompted his change of schedule, the officials
said. The news of the agents who showed symptoms, or tested positive,
\href{https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/secret-service-agents-preparing-for-pence-arizona-trip-contracted-coronavirus/2020/07/02/8029280c-bc97-11ea-bdaf-a129f921026f_story.html}{was
first reported by The Washington Post}.

A spokeswoman for Mr. Pence did not respond to a request for comment.

The latest illnesses among
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/08/us/politics/white-house-coronavirus-safety.html}{the
small circle of individuals} who interact directly with the vice
president were a reminder of the dangers of carrying on with campaign
and official government travel as the pandemic rages on.

\hypertarget{the-president-of-honduras-is-recovering-at-home-after-being-hospitalized-for-covid-19}{%
\subsection{The president of Honduras is recovering at home after being
hospitalized for
Covid-19.}\label{the-president-of-honduras-is-recovering-at-home-after-being-hospitalized-for-covid-19}}

Image

President Juan Orlando Hernández of Honduras leaving a hospital in
Tegucigalpa, Honduras, on Thursday.Credit...Agence France-Presse, via
Honduras' Presidency

President Juan Orlando Hernández of Honduras has been discharged from
the hospital after receiving more than two weeks of inpatient treatment
for Covid-19 and related pneumonia.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/17/world/americas/honduras-president-coronavirus.html}{He
was admitted} on June 17, hours after he tested positive for the
illness. His wife, Ana García, also tested positive, but convalesced at
home.

``My commitment to Honduras is stronger than ever,''
\href{https://twitter.com/JuanOrlandoH/status/1278695932478001154}{Mr.
Hernández said on Twitter}, announcing his release on Thursday. ``To
work!''

Officials said he would continue his recuperation in isolation at home.

Honduras, like many other countries in Latin America, is struggling to
contain the spread of the virus. As of Friday, more than 21,000 cases
had been confirmed in Honduras, along with more than 590 deaths.

The World Health Organization has declared Latin America the center of
the pandemic, and several countries in the region are now suffering some
of the world's worst outbreaks.

The organization's regional director for the Americas, Carissa Etienne,
warned this week that the death toll from Covid-19 in Latin America and
the Caribbean could roughly quadruple by October to more than 438,000.

U.S. Roundup

\hypertarget{for-fourth-of-july-officials-offer-a-patchwork-of-guidance}{%
\subsection{For Fourth of July, officials offer a patchwork of
guidance.}\label{for-fourth-of-july-officials-offer-a-patchwork-of-guidance}}

Image

A beach temporarily closed in Miami Beach, Florida, on Friday, ahead of
the holiday weekend.Credit...Scott McIntyre for The New York Times

As case counts continued to hit record highs in many states, local
officials released new guidance, creating a patchwork system for
Americans planning to celebrate the holiday weekend.

As many as
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/01/business/fourth-of-july-fireworks-displays.html}{80
percent of community fireworks displays} in large cities and small rural
towns have been canceled this year over fears that they would create a
social distancing nightmare. In New York City, instead of the usual
hourlong fireworks extravaganza, Macy's will have five-minute displays
in undisclosed locations across the five boroughs. The grand finale on
Saturday, which will also be from an undisclosed location, will be
televised.

In Florida, Miami-Dade and Broward counties had already announced they
were closing beaches for the Fourth of July weekend. And on Friday,
Miami-Dade Mayor Carlos Giménez's
\href{https://www.miamidade.gov/releases/2020-07-02-mayor-covid-measures.asp}{countywide
curfew}, which was announced Thursday, went into effect from 10 p.m. to
6 a.m. Mr. Giménez also rolled back the opening of movie theaters,
arcades, casinos, concert halls, bowling halls and adult entertainment
venues that recently had their reopening plans approved by the county.
Florida reported more than 9,400 new cases Friday. Exactly one month
earlier, the state reported just 1,317 new cases.

In Mississippi, which reported more than
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/mississippi-coronavirus-cases.html}{900
new coronavirus cases Friday} --- the second-highest single day total
recorded by the state ---
\href{https://governorreeves.ms.gov/wp-content/uploads/Executive-Order-1496-Extend-Safe-Return-Order.pdf}{Gov.
Tate Reeves's executive orders} will allow indoor gatherings of up to 20
people. Bars and restaurants can offer indoor dining as long as they
stay below 50 percent capacity. Backyard BBQs can have up to 100 people
so long as guests remain socially distanced. And outdoor stadiums will
also be allowed to remain open at 25 percent capacity, potentially
allowing thousands to gather at a single event.

And in Texas, Gov. Greg Abbott reversed course on Thursday, ordering
residents in counties with 20 or more virus cases
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/02/us/coronavirus-texas-masks.html}{to
wear masks in public}. Mr. Abbott, a Republican, had previously opposed
attempts by Democratic mayors and other local officials to require
everyone in their cities to wear masks in public. Texas has been one of
the worst-hit states in the past week reaching a record number of
hospitalizations on Friday, up 270 to 7,652, and reporting more than
6,400 new cases.

Elsewhere in the U.S.:

\begin{itemize}
\item
  In \textbf{Arkansas,} Gov. Asa Hutchinson signed an executive order
  allowing local officials to pass mask ordinances on Friday. Mr.
  Hutchinson, a Republican,
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/states-reopen-map-coronavirus.html}{never
  implemented a statewide stay-at-home order}, instead opting to close
  high-contact businesses like gyms and personal care services. More
  than 540 new cases were announced in the state on Friday, just a day
  after a record 878 cases were reported, according to
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/arkansas-coronavirus-cases.html}{a
  New York Times database.}
\item
  Critics of \textbf{Amtrak}'s newly announced cutbacks
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/03/us/coronavirus-amtrak-cuts.html}{worry
  that the rail agency will not bring back service to the long-distance
  routes} it has long sought to end. With ridership down 95 percent and
  revenue plummeting, Amtrak plans to cut up to 20 percent of its work
  force by October and suspend daily service on routes that service over
  220 communities. Amtrak has received letters from 16 senators asking
  why it needed to enact such steep cuts since it had already received
  \$1 billion in emergency aid.
\item
  Results of \textbf{Major League Baseball}'s first round of widespread
  coronavirus testing were released on Friday, as preseason training
  resumed in full after being shut down for more than three
  months.\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/03/sports/baseball/mlb-workouts-first-practices-boston-red-sox.html}{Out
  of 3,185 tests, 38 were positive} (31 players and seven staff
  members). The league plans to open a 60-game season on July 23, with
  no fans in the stands. Preseason preparation has resumed at teams'
  home stadiums rather than returning to spring-training sites in
  Florida and Arizona.
\item
  In
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/25/upshot/poll-2020-biden-battlegrounds.html}{New
  York Times/Siena College surveys} of \textbf{voters in battleground
  states} for the presidential election, supporters of Joseph R. Biden
  Jr. were far more likely than President Trump's to be
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/03/upshot/biden-supporters-are-more-worried-about-the-health-risks-of-voting.html}{concerned
  about in-person voting} during the pandemic. About 40 percent of Mr.
  Biden's supporters said they would feel uncomfortable, compared with
  just 6 percent of Mr. Trump's supporters. Most of these people said
  they would go to the polls anyway, but 8 percent of Mr. Biden's
  surveyed supporters and less than 2 percent of Mr. Trump's said they
  would be too uncomfortable to go vote. Voting by mail for any reason
  is available in all six battleground states included in the
  Times/Siena data.
\item
  Mayor Lori Lightfoot of \textbf{Chicago} said Thursday that travelers
  from 15 states with large outbreaks would have to quarantine for two
  weeks or face up to \$7,000 in fines.
\item
  Some 13,400 employees, or nearly 70 percent of the staffing, of
  \textbf{Citizenship and Immigration Services}, the federal agency that
  handles U.S. visas and naturalization,
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/03/us/politics/immigration-furloughs-coronavirus.html}{face
  furlough by Aug. 3} because the immigration processing fees that fund
  it have plummeted
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{the-actors-union-citing-safety-concerns-tells-members-not-to-work-on-a-film-being-produced-by-michael-bay}{%
\subsection{The actors' union, citing safety concerns, tells members not
to work on a film being produced by Michael
Bay.}\label{the-actors-union-citing-safety-concerns-tells-members-not-to-work-on-a-film-being-produced-by-michael-bay}}

The SAG-AFTRA actors' union issued a
\href{https://www.sagaftra.org/do-not-work-notice-songbird}{do-not-work
notice} to its members for a pandemic-themed independent film starring
Demi Moore and Craig Robinson, saying that producers had ``not been
transparent about their safety protocols.'' Producers for the film,
``\href{https://deadline.com/2020/05/michael-bay-adam-goodman-songbird-pandemic-themed-thriller-start-in-five-weeks-1202937906/}{Songbird},''
include Michael Bay, who is better known for his work on big-budget
films, and Adam Goodman, a former president of production at Paramount
Pictures.

``Songbird'' has drawn attention as one of the first movies aiming to
roll cameras since the virus brought production in Hollywood to a halt
in March. California allowed film and television shoots to
\href{https://www.latimes.com/entertainment-arts/business/story/2020-06-05/gavin-newsom-hollywood-production}{resume
on June 12} --- under
\href{https://www.latimes.com/entertainment-arts/business/story/2020-06-12/hollywood-reopening-rules-productions-covid-19-pandemic}{strict
safety protocols} --- and Los Angeles began issuing permits last week.
So far, however, only a handful of TV shows (mostly soap operas like
``The Bold and the Beautiful'') have restarted production; none of the
major movie studios are expected to shoot anything before next month.

The independent companies behind ``Songbird'' have said they planned to
use
\href{https://www.hollywoodreporter.com/heat-vision/demi-moore-craig-robinson-board-michael-bay-produced-pandemic-thriller-songbird-1300322}{nontraditional
camera techniques} to avoid having actors in proximity. The film, a
thriller, takes place in the near future during a pandemic lockdown ---
martial law has been imposed to combat a fast-mutating virus --- and
focuses on a young woman and a motorbike courier with rare immunity.

Representatives for the producers either declined to comment or did not
respond to a query. Invisible Narratives, one of the companies involved,
\href{https://deadline.com/2020/07/sag-aftra-songbird-do-not-work-order-los-angeles-shoot-pandemic-1202976458/}{told
Deadline}, an entertainment trade news site, that it was ``actively
working to resolve this paperwork issue.''

\hypertarget{here-are-tips-on-how-to-have-some-socially-distanced-fun-this-weekend}{%
\subsection{Here are tips on how to have some socially distanced fun
this
weekend.}\label{here-are-tips-on-how-to-have-some-socially-distanced-fun-this-weekend}}

Leaders in many states are urging people to stay at home this holiday
weekend. Here are some safe ideas for enjoying the Fourth of July
holiday.

\hypertarget{reluctant-professors-are-one-problem-for-colleges-in-the-fall}{%
\subsection{Reluctant professors are one problem for colleges in the
fall.}\label{reluctant-professors-are-one-problem-for-colleges-in-the-fall}}

Image

``Until there's a vaccine, I'm not setting foot on campus,'' said Dana
Ward, 70, an emeritus professor of political studies at Pitzer College
in California.Credit...Tristan Spinski for The New York Times

College students across the country have been warned that
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/03/magazine/covid-college-fall.html}{campus
life will look dramatically different in the fall}, with temperature
checks at academic buildings, masks in half-empty lecture halls and
maybe no football games.

What they might not expect:
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/03/us/coronavirus-college-professors.html}{a
lack of professors in the classroom}.

Thousands of instructors at American colleges and universities have told
administrators in recent days that they are unwilling to resume
in-person classes because of the pandemic.

\href{https://www.chronicle.com/article/Here-s-a-List-of-Colleges-/248626}{More
than three-quarters of colleges and universities} have decided students
can return to campus this fall. But they face a growing faculty revolt.

``Until there's a vaccine, I'm not setting foot on campus,'' said Dana
Ward, 70, an emeritus professor of political studies at Pitzer College
in Claremont, Calif., who teaches a class in anarchist history and
thought. ``Going into the classroom is like playing Russian roulette.''

This comes as
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/28/us/coronavirus-college-towns.html}{major
outbreaks have hit college towns} this summer, spread by partying
students and practicing athletes.

In Pennsylvania, a Penn State student living off campus has died of
respiratory failure and Covid-19, the first known death of a student at
the university related to the virus, according to the university.

The student, Juan Garcia, 21, who was in the College of Earth and
Mineral Sciences, had been living off-campus in State College when he
began to feel sick, the university said in an announcement expressing
its condolences. He went home to Allentown on June 19, and tested
positive for the coronavirus the next day. He died on June 30, the
university said.

The death comes as faculty, concerned about their own safety and that of
students, are organizing to have more say in the campus opening for the
fall. Sarah J. Townsend, an associate professor of Spanish and
Portuguese and a faculty organizer, said the student's death was
disturbing in part because of the close connection between the campus
and the surrounding town.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{}

\hypertarget{the-coronavirus-outbreak-}{%
\subsubsection{The Coronavirus Outbreak
›}\label{the-coronavirus-outbreak-}}

\hypertarget{frequently-asked-questions}{%
\paragraph{Frequently Asked
Questions}\label{frequently-asked-questions}}

Updated August 17, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{why-does-standing-six-feet-away-from-others-help}{%
  \paragraph{Why does standing six feet away from others
  help?}\label{why-does-standing-six-feet-away-from-others-help}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    The coronavirus spreads primarily through droplets from your mouth
    and nose, especially when you cough or sneeze. The C.D.C., one of
    the organizations using that measure,
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/14/health/coronavirus-six-feet.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{bases
    its recommendation of six feet} on the idea that most large droplets
    that people expel when they cough or sneeze will fall to the ground
    within six feet. But six feet has never been a magic number that
    guarantees complete protection. Sneezes, for instance, can launch
    droplets a lot farther than six feet,
    \href{https://jamanetwork.com/journals/jama/fullarticle/2763852}{according
    to a recent study}. It's a rule of thumb: You should be safest
    standing six feet apart outside, especially when it's windy. But
    keep a mask on at all times, even when you think you're far enough
    apart.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{i-have-antibodies-am-i-now-immune}{%
  \paragraph{I have antibodies. Am I now
  immune?}\label{i-have-antibodies-am-i-now-immune}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    As of right
    now,\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/22/health/covid-antibodies-herd-immunity.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{that
    seems likely, for at least several months.} There have been
    frightening accounts of people suffering what seems to be a second
    bout of Covid-19. But experts say these patients may have a
    drawn-out course of infection, with the virus taking a slow toll
    weeks to months after initial exposure. People infected with the
    coronavirus typically
    \href{https://www.nature.com/articles/s41586-020-2456-9}{produce}
    immune molecules called antibodies, which are
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/07/health/coronavirus-antibody-prevalence.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{protective
    proteins made in response to an
    infection}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/07/health/coronavirus-antibody-prevalence.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{.
    These antibodies may} last in the body
    \href{https://www.nature.com/articles/s41591-020-0965-6}{only two to
    three months}, which may seem worrisome, but that's perfectly normal
    after an acute infection subsides, said Dr. Michael Mina, an
    immunologist at Harvard University. It may be possible to get the
    coronavirus again, but it's highly unlikely that it would be
    possible in a short window of time from initial infection or make
    people sicker the second time.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{im-a-small-business-owner-can-i-get-relief}{%
  \paragraph{I'm a small-business owner. Can I get
  relief?}\label{im-a-small-business-owner-can-i-get-relief}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    The
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/small-business-loans-stimulus-grants-freelancers-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{stimulus
    bills enacted in March} offer help for the millions of American
    small businesses. Those eligible for aid are businesses and
    nonprofit organizations with fewer than 500 workers, including sole
    proprietorships, independent contractors and freelancers. Some
    larger companies in some industries are also eligible. The help
    being offered, which is being managed by the Small Business
    Administration, includes the Paycheck Protection Program and the
    Economic Injury Disaster Loan program. But lots of folks have
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/05/07/business/small-business-loans-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{not
    yet seen payouts.} Even those who have received help are confused:
    The rules are draconian, and some are stuck sitting on
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/02/business/economy/loans-coronavirus-small-business.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{money
    they don't know how to use.} Many small-business owners are getting
    less than they expected or
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/10/business/Small-business-loans-ppp.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{not
    hearing anything at all.}
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{what-are-my-rights-if-i-am-worried-about-going-back-to-work}{%
  \paragraph{What are my rights if I am worried about going back to
  work?}\label{what-are-my-rights-if-i-am-worried-about-going-back-to-work}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Employers have to provide
    \href{https://www.osha.gov/SLTC/covid-19/standards.html}{a safe
    workplace} with policies that protect everyone equally.
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/coronavirus-money-unemployment.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{And
    if one of your co-workers tests positive for the coronavirus, the
    C.D.C.} has said that
    \href{https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/community/guidance-business-response.html}{employers
    should tell their employees} -\/- without giving you the sick
    employee's name -\/- that they may have been exposed to the virus.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{what-is-school-going-to-look-like-in-september}{%
  \paragraph{What is school going to look like in
  September?}\label{what-is-school-going-to-look-like-in-september}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    It is unlikely that many schools will return to a normal schedule
    this fall, requiring the grind of
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/05/us/coronavirus-education-lost-learning.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{online
    learning},
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/29/us/coronavirus-child-care-centers.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{makeshift
    child care} and
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/03/business/economy/coronavirus-working-women.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{stunted
    workdays} to continue. California's two largest public school
    districts --- Los Angeles and San Diego --- said on July 13, that
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/13/us/lausd-san-diego-school-reopening.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{instruction
    will be remote-only in the fall}, citing concerns that surging
    coronavirus infections in their areas pose too dire a risk for
    students and teachers. Together, the two districts enroll some
    825,000 students. They are the largest in the country so far to
    abandon plans for even a partial physical return to classrooms when
    they reopen in August. For other districts, the solution won't be an
    all-or-nothing approach.
    \href{https://bioethics.jhu.edu/research-and-outreach/projects/eschool-initiative/school-policy-tracker/}{Many
    systems}, including the nation's largest, New York City, are
    devising
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/26/us/coronavirus-schools-reopen-fall.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{hybrid
    plans} that involve spending some days in classrooms and other days
    online. There's no national policy on this yet, so check with your
    municipal school system regularly to see what is happening in your
    community.
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

In an indication of how fluid the situation is, the University of
Southern California said on Wednesday that an ``alarming spike'' in
coronavirus cases had prompted it to reverse an earlier decision to
encourage attending classes in person.

With more than a month before campuses start reopening, it is hard to
predict how many professors will refuse to teach face-to-face classes in
the fall. But colleges and professors are planning ahead.

U.S. Roundup

\hypertarget{new-yorkers-head-back-to-the-citys-beaches}{%
\subsection{New Yorkers head back to the city's
beaches.}\label{new-yorkers-head-back-to-the-citys-beaches}}

Image

A surfer headed toward the water at Rockaway Beach in Queens on
Wednesday, the first day this year that New York City's 14 miles of
public beaches were open for swimming.Credit...Amr Alfiky/The New York
Times

New York, transformed by the virus and protests for racial justice, has
been cooped up, and a good, old-fashioned swim ``takes the edge off,''
said Rachel Thompson, a schoolteacher. She was at Rockaway Beach in
Queens on Wednesday as New York City
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/03/nyregion/beaches-open-nyc.html}{opened
its beaches for swimming} --- just in time for the Fourth of July
weekend, when even more people are expected to pack the sand.

Still, several beachgoers that morning, Ms. Thompson included, were
feeling a bit jittery about the city's gradual reopening. An hour after
the ban on swimming was lifted, the mayor announced that
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/01/nyregion/indoor-dining-coronavirus-nyc.html}{indoor
dining at restaurants would not resume} on Monday as anticipated, citing
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/03/world/coronavirus-updates.html}{the
virus's rapid spread in other large states}.

Mayor Bill de Blasio, worried that large crowds might risk virus
transmission, had kept the city's
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/16/nyregion/nyc-beaches-coronavirus.html}{14
miles of beaches closed} even as temperatures rose --- along with
frustration from long-quarantined New Yorkers. With an estimated million
visitors total on a hot day, they are some of the country's most crowded
shorelines, and people largely access them via subways and buses.

Safety measures include lifeguards in masks carrying waist packs with a
face mask, gloves and hand sanitizer. Beachgoers must keep at least six
feet apart and wear face coverings when on the sand or the boardwalk.
Restrooms will operate at half-capacity, and boardwalk concessions must
offer to-go service only.

Hundreds of city workers, deployed as social distancing ambassadors,
will hand out masks, keep space between beachgoers, tally beachgoers to
prevent overcrowding, tend beach entrances to limit capacity and, if
necessary, direct people to less crowded sections.

Worries have lingered about a possible backslide in the state, where,
after reining in the virus, there have been a few alarming outbreaks,
such those at a
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/01/nyregion/rockland-coronavirus-party.html}{house
party} and graduation party in the suburbs just north of the city.

Elsewhere in the U.S.:

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \textbf{In} \textbf{Miami-Dade County, Fla.,} the mayor
  \href{https://www.miamidade.gov/releases/2020-07-02-mayor-covid-measures.asp}{imposed
  a countywide curfew} from 10 p.m. to 6 a.m., starting Friday; he also
  rolled back the opening of movie theaters, arcades, casinos, concert
  halls, bowling halls and adult entertainment venues that recently had
  their reopening plans approved by the county. Miami-Dade and Broward
  counties had already announced they were closing beaches for the
  Fourth of July weekend. On Friday,
  \href{https://experience.arcgis.com/experience/7572b118dc3c48d885d1c643c195314e/}{Florida
  reported 9,488 new cases}.
\item
  Critics of \textbf{Amtrak}'s newly announced cutbacks
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/03/us/coronavirus-amtrak-cuts.html}{worry
  that the rail agency will not bring back service to the long-distance
  routes} it has long sought to end. With ridership down 95 percent and
  revenue plummeting, Amtrak plans to cut up to 20 percent of its work
  force by October and suspend daily service on routes that service over
  220 communities. Amtrak has received letters from 16 senators asking
  why it needed to enact such steep cuts since it had already received
  \$1 billion in emergency aid.
\item
  Results of \textbf{Major League Baseball}'s first round of widespread
  coronavirus testing were released on Friday, as preseason training
  resumed in full after being shut down for more than three
  months.\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/03/sports/baseball/mlb-workouts-first-practices-boston-red-sox.html}{Out
  of 3,185 tests, 38 were positive} (31 players and seven staff
  members). The league plans to open a 60-game season on July 23, with
  no fans in the stands. Preseason preparation has resumed at teams'
  home stadiums rather than returning to spring-training sites in
  Florida and Arizona.
\item
  In
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/25/upshot/poll-2020-biden-battlegrounds.html}{New
  York Times/Siena College surveys} of \textbf{voters in battleground
  states} for the presidential election, supporters of Joseph R. Biden
  Jr. were far more likely than President Trump's to be
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/03/upshot/biden-supporters-are-more-worried-about-the-health-risks-of-voting.html}{concerned
  about in-person voting} during the pandemic. About 40 percent of Mr.
  Biden's supporters said they would feel uncomfortable, compared with
  just 6 percent of Mr. Trump's supporters. Most of these people said
  they would go to the polls anyway, but 8 percent of Mr. Biden's
  surveyed supporters and less than 2 percent of Mr. Trump's said they
  would be too uncomfortable to go vote. Voting by mail for any reason
  is available in all six battleground states included in the
  Times/Siena data.
\item
  \textbf{Texas}, one of the worst-hit states in the past week, saw a
  record number of hospitalizations on Friday, up 270 to 7,652. In a
  reversal, Gov. Greg Abbott on Thursday ordered residents in counties
  with 20 or more virus cases
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/02/us/coronavirus-texas-masks.html}{to
  wear masks in public}. Mr. Abbott, a Republican, had previously
  opposed attempts by Democratic mayors and other local officials to
  require everyone in their cities to wear masks in public.
\item
  Mayor Lori Lightfoot of \textbf{Chicago} said Thursday that travelers
  from 15 states with large outbreaks would have to quarantine for two
  weeks or face up to \$7,000 in fines.
\item
  Some 13,400 employees, or nearly 70 percent of the staffing, of
  Citizenship and Immigration Services, the federal agency that handles
  U.S. visas and naturalization,
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/03/us/politics/immigration-furloughs-coronavirus.html}{face
  furlough by Aug. 3} because the immigration processing fees that fund
  it have plummeted.
\item
  In \textbf{Arkansas,} Gov. Asa Hutchinson signed an executive order
  allowing local officials to pass mask ordinances on Friday. Mr.
  Hutchinson, a Republican,
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/states-reopen-map-coronavirus.html}{never
  implemented a statewide stay-at-home order}, instead opting to close
  high-contact businesses like gyms and personal care services. More
  than 540 new cases were announced in the state on Friday, just a day
  after a record 878 cases were reported, according to
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/arkansas-coronavirus-cases.html}{a
  New York Times database.}
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{biden-supporters-are-more-worried-about-the-health-hazards-of-voting}{%
\subsection{Biden supporters are more worried about the health hazards
of
voting.}\label{biden-supporters-are-more-worried-about-the-health-hazards-of-voting}}

Image

Former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. meeting with families in
Lancaster, Pa., last month.Credit...Hannah Yoon for The New York Times

Identifying likely voters is a challenge for pollsters in every
election. This year, the coronavirus, mail voting and a surge in
political engagement may make it even harder than usual.

For now, Mr. Biden's nine-point lead across the critical battleground
states is so significant that it is essentially invulnerable to
assumptions about turnout, according to
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/25/upshot/poll-2020-biden-battlegrounds.html}{New
York Times/Siena College surveys} of the states likeliest to decide the
election. But supporters of Mr. Biden are
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/03/upshot/biden-supporters-are-more-worried-about-the-health-risks-of-voting.html}{far
more likely to be concerned about in-person voting} during the pandemic,
and his wide polling lead among registered voters could narrow if their
concerns persist to the election.

Over all, one-quarter of registered voters in the battleground states
said they would feel uncomfortable voting in person.

People were asked if they would feel uncomfortable voting in person if
the election were held during the week they were interviewed in June.
About 40 percent of Mr. Biden's supporters said they would feel
uncomfortable, compared with just 6 percent of President Trump's
supporters.

This political divide transcends demographics. A young Biden supporter
in a rural area, for instance, would be likelier to feel uncomfortable
voting than an older Trump supporter in a city, even though the health
risk is probably quite low for the Biden voter and potentially quite
significant for the Trump supporter.

Most of these voters would go to the polls anyway. But about one-quarter
of the uncomfortable voters --- or about 6 percent of the overall
electorate --- said they would feel too uncomfortable to vote in person
if the election were held during the week they were interviewed. This
includes 8 percent of all of Mr. Biden's supporters in the battleground
states, compared with fewer than 2 percent of Mr. Trump's supporters.

It is important to emphasize that no-excuse absentee voting, in which
any voter can request a mail ballot, is available in all six of the
battleground states included in the Times/Siena data.

On Thursday, the Supreme Court
\href{https://www.supremecourt.gov/orders/courtorders/070220zr_n7io.pdf}{blocked
a trial judge's order} that would have made it easier for voters in
three Alabama counties to use absentee ballots in this month's primary
runoff election.

The court's brief, unsigned order gave no reasons, which is typical when
it rules on emergency applications, and it said the order would remain
in effect while appeals moved forward.

The court's four more liberal members --- Justices Ruth Bader Ginsburg,
Stephen G. Breyer, Sonia Sotomayor and Elena Kagan --- said they would
have rejected Alabama's request.

\hypertarget{pubs-are-reopening-in-britain-and-boris-johnson-urges-people-not-to-overdo-it}{%
\subsection{Pubs are reopening in Britain, and Boris Johnson urges
people not to `overdo
it.'}\label{pubs-are-reopening-in-britain-and-boris-johnson-urges-people-not-to-overdo-it}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/07/03/us/politics/03virus-brieifng-uk/03virus-brieifng-uk-videoSixteenByNine3000.jpg}

Boris Johnson, Britain's prime minister, who said earlier this week that
it was Britons' ``patriotic duty'' to go to the pub when they reopen on
Saturday, has now urged people not to ``overdo it.'' His warning came
after tens of thousands have
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/26/world/europe/uk-coronavirus-lockdown.html}{flocked
to beaches},
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/25/world/europe/brixton-party-police.html}{organized
illegal music parties} and violated social-distancing rules in recent
weeks.

Britain has reported
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/world/europe/united-kingdom-coronavirus-cases.html}{the
world's third-highest pandemic death toll}, with triple-digit death
counts still coming most days.

``Let's not blow it now, folks,'' Mr. Johnson told LBC radio on Friday,
weeks after he announced that the country's ``long hibernation'' was
over and that the virus was under control. Restaurant industry workers
have said
\href{https://www.independent.co.uk/life-style/pubs-reopening-super-saturday-social-distancing-hospitality-rules-a9598106.html}{in
British news outlets} that they were afraid of going back to work, and
concerns are high that pub customers could flout basic rules and trigger
new waves of infections.

A spokesman for Mr. Johnson said that pubs could reopen starting at 6
a.m. on Saturday, ``in the event anybody would attempt to try to open at
midnight.''

On Wednesday, the Treasury tweeted that people should ``grab a drink and
raise a glass'' when pubs reopen. The tweet was later deleted. A pub in
south London has promised ``endless supply'' of drinks to ``fuel your
shenanigans,'' after more than three months of closure, which was
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/09/world/europe/uk-pub-coronavirus.html}{a
first in the history of the country's pubs}.

Pubs --- like restaurants, hair salons and other businesses welcoming
visitors again on Saturday ---
\href{https://www.gov.uk/guidance/maintaining-records-of-staff-customers-and-visitors-to-support-nhs-test-and-trace}{will
have to maintain a 21-day record of their customers}, the government has
said, to trace contacts in case of new outbreaks.

In Leicester, 100 miles north of London, pubs and other nonessential
businesses will remain closed because of a regional outbreak of virus
cases.

The British authorities also announced on Friday that, starting July 10,
travelers from countries in Europe including France, Italy and Spain
will no longer have to self-quarantine for 14 days. The change will
currently only apply to England, with Scotland, Wales and Northern
Ireland expected to set up their own rules.

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Starting July 10, \textbf{England}
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/03/world/europe/britain-quarantine-us-coronavirus.html}{will
  drop its mandatory 14-day quarantine} for visitors from more than 50
  countries but leave the restrictions in place for travelers coming
  from the United States, deepening the isolation of America. Scotland,
  Wales and Northern Ireland apply their own travel policies and may not
  follow England's lead in easing restrictions.
\item
  Residents in nursing homes in \textbf{Britain} will be
  \href{https://www.gov.uk/government/news/regular-retesting-rolled-out-for-care-home-staff-and-residents}{tested
  for the virus monthly}, while staff members will receive tests weekly,
  officials announced. According to
  \href{https://www.ons.gov.uk/peoplepopulationandcommunity/healthandsocialcare/conditionsanddiseases/articles/impactofcoronavirusincarehomesinenglandvivaldi/26mayto19june2020}{a
  survey published on Friday} by the Office for National Statistics, 56
  percent of the country's nursing homes have had at least one case
  since March, with 20 percent of residents in such facilities known to
  have been infected. Out of the nearly 44,000 reported deaths in
  Britain, at least 15,500 people have died in nursing homes.
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{ahead-of-a-who-trip-to-china-officials-in-beijing-downplay-expectations}{%
\subsection{Ahead of a W.H.O. trip to China, officials in Beijing
downplay
expectations.}\label{ahead-of-a-who-trip-to-china-officials-in-beijing-downplay-expectations}}

Image

In Wuhan, the central Chinese city where the coronavirus is believed to
have first emerged.Credit...Getty Images

China appears to be downplaying expectations ahead of a planned trip
next week by a World Health Organization team to the country to
investigate the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/coronavirus-timeline.html}{origins
of the outbreak}.

Since the head of the W.H.O., Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, announced the
trip on Monday, several Chinese officials and experts have said that any
investigation into the origins of the virus should not focus only on
China.

``It does not matter which country the scientific identification work
starts with, as long as it involves all related countries and is fairly
conducted,'' Zeng Guang, the chief epidemiologist for the Chinese Center
for Disease Control and Prevention, told the state-run nationalist
newspaper Global Times on Tuesday.

Wang Guangfa, a top government health adviser, told Global Times this
week that the W.H.O. should also go to Spain. He cited a
not-yet-published
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/26/health/coronavirus-spain.html}{study
by researchers at the University of Barcelona} that suggests the virus
was present in Spain's wastewater as early as March 2019.

Independent experts have said the study was flawed, and that other lines
of evidence strongly suggest the virus emerged in China late last year.

The virus most likely originated in bats, but the path of transmission
is still unknown. Experts say establishing that will be a crucial step
in preventing future outbreaks.

The hunt for information has focused on Wuhan, the central Chinese city
where the virus is believed to have first emerged, and specifically the
Huanan Seafood Wholesale Market, which was said to have
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/01/25/world/asia/china-markets-coronavirus-sars.html}{sold
wildlife and had links to many of the country's first reported cases}.

Mike Ryan, head of the W.H.O.'s emergencies program, said on Wednesday
that the agency would be sending two experts from Geneva to join its
China team on next week's trip. He said one would likely be an
epidemiologist and the other an expert in animal health.

Dr. Ryan did not reveal which cities the team was planning to visit. He
described it as a ``scoping mission.''

Getting answers on the origins of the virus has become more difficult as
the issue has become increasingly politicized. China has been on the
defensive for months in response to
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/03/world/europe/backlash-china-coronavirus.html}{growing
criticism from the United States and other countries} for its initial
mishandling of the outbreak. Officials from both the United States and
China have, without providing evidence, accused each other of
intentionally releasing the virus.

But at a news briefing this week, a Chinese foreign ministry spokesman
sounded a less-aggressive note.

``China has always believed that virus tracing is a scientific issue,
and relevant research should be carried out by scientists and medical
experts,'' said Zhao Lijian, the spokesman, who in March promoted a
theory that the U.S. Army purposely introduced the virus to China.

``China continues to support scientists from all over the world in
conducting global scientific research on the source and spread of
viruses,'' he added.

\hypertarget{as-daily-cases-in-the-us-pass-50000-officials-stress-precautions}{%
\subsection{As daily cases in the U.S. pass 50,000, officials stress
precautions.}\label{as-daily-cases-in-the-us-pass-50000-officials-stress-precautions}}

Image

A walk-up coronavirus testing site in Dallas, on
Thursday.Credit...Nitashia Johnson for The New York Times

In Columbia, Mo., where coronavirus case numbers are as high as they've
ever been, contact tracers are overwhelmed. Around Seattle, where a
surge is underway, officials
\href{https://publichealthinsider.com/2020/07/02/wear-your-mask-and-keep-your-distance-we-need-you-to-fight-the-surge-of-covid-19-in-king-county/}{warned
that social distancing was waning}. And in Flint, Mich., where there are
worrisome signs after weeks of improvement, the mayor said the city
would crack down on late-night parties that have drawn hundreds of young
people.

``Someday we will welcome these crowds to our great city,'' Flint's
mayor, Sheldon Neeley, said. ``Now is not the time.''

As the pandemic spirals further out of control in the United States,
politicians and public health officials have become noticeably more
stern. New cases reported have increased 90 percent in the United States
in the last two weeks. On Thursday, the U.S. also set a single-day case
record for the sixth time in nine days, with
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html}{more
than 55,000 new cases announced}, and single-day highs in eight states.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/07/02/us/coronavirus-outbreak-second-peak-promo-1593720137962/coronavirus-outbreak-second-peak-promo-1593720137962-threeByTwoMediumAt2X-v5.png}

In many places, face coverings have gone from suggestions to mandates.
Bars have been reopened --- and closed again. Domestic travel
restrictions have re-emerged. And mayors have told people to shape up
and follow the rules.

``I know that wearing a mask is uncomfortable,'' said Mayor Nan Whaley
of Dayton, Ohio, where case numbers are spiking and face coverings are
now required. ``I know that, unfortunately, wearing a mask has become a
political flash point. But I also know that masks save lives.''

In a reversal, Gov. Greg Abbott of Texas, one of the worst-hit states in
the past week, on Thursday ordered residents in counties with 20 or more
virus cases
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/02/us/coronavirus-texas-masks.html}{to
wear masks in public}.

Mr. Abbott, a Republican, had previously opposed attempts by Democratic
mayors and other local officials to require everyone in their cities to
wear masks in public.

In Chicago, Mayor Lori Lightfoot said Thursday that travelers from 15
states with large outbreaks would have to quarantine for two weeks or
face up to \$7,000 in fines. In Los Angeles County, Calif., where there
are more than 2,000 new cases most days, the top public health official
said ``we urgently need to make a change in the trajectory.'' And in
Northern California, where the outlook is also bad, leaders in several
counties urged residents to
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/02/us/coronavirus-fourth-of-july.html}{celebrate
the Fourth of July at home} and not test the limits of the law.

``Just because you can does not mean it is safe or that you should rush
to do it,'' said Dr. Matt Willis, the Marin County public health
officer.

President Trump plans to celebrate the Independence Day holiday with a
fireworks display on Friday at
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/01/us/mount-rushmore.html}{the
Mount Rushmore National Memorial} in South Dakota. About 7,500 people
are expected to attend the outdoor event, where masks will be available
but not required.

\hypertarget{as-us-infections-reach-another-record-leaders-seek-new-answers-and-itineraries}{%
\subsection{As U.S. infections reach another record, leaders seek new
answers and
itineraries.}\label{as-us-infections-reach-another-record-leaders-seek-new-answers-and-itineraries}}

As the United States headed into the Fourth of July weekend,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/02/us/coronavirus-fourth-of-july.html}{officials
were telling people to hold the partying} until next year. The
coronavirus has exploded in large parts of the nation: On Thursday, the
U.S. set a single-day case record for the sixth time in nine days, with
more than 50,000 new cases reported for the first time, according to
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html}{a
New York Times database}. The figure topped 55,000 by the end of the
day.

Thursday's daily new case total represented an increase of more than 85
percent since two weeks ago, when states were reopening after extensive
lockdowns tempered the outbreak, particularly in the hard-hit Northeast.
Until last week, the country had not surpassed a record daily total for
two months, since 36,738 new cases were reported on April 24.

In a reversal, Gov. Greg Abbott of Texas, one of the worst-hit states in
the past week, on Thursday ordered residents in counties with 20 or more
virus cases
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/02/us/coronavirus-texas-masks.html}{to
wear masks in public}.

Mr. Abbott, a Republican, had previously opposed attempts by Democratic
mayors and other local officials to require everyone in their cities to
wear masks in public. But
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/texas-coronavirus-cases.html}{as
the number of cases increased in recent weeks}, he cleared the way for
local authorities to require masks in businesses, before imposing the
more aggressive statewide requirement.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/07/02/us/politics/02virus-briefing-texas-lede/02virus-briefing-texas-lede-videoSixteenByNine3000-v3.jpg}

Vice President
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/02/us/politics/pence-postponed-arizona-trip-virus.html}{Mike
Pence changed a planned trip this week to Arizona} after Secret Service
agents set to travel with him tested positive for the coronavirus or
showed symptoms, two administration officials said on Thursday.

Mr. Pence had been scheduled to visit Arizona on Tuesday, but multiple
factors related to the spread of the virus foiled those plans, according
to a person familiar with Mr. Pence's travel.

A swift rise in new cases in the state
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/25/upshot/virus-testing-shortfall-arizona.html}{had
overwhelmed testing centers} in recent days, and Gov. Doug Ducey, a
Republican, ordered bars, gyms and movie theaters closed this week. In
an apparent acknowledgment of outbreaks erupting across the South and
the West, the vice president canceled his plan to headline a ``Faith in
America'' campaign rally in Tucson on Tuesday and then to tour Yuma with
Mr. Ducey.

Instead, Mr. Pence opted for a shorter visit to Phoenix on Wednesday,
where he participated in a public health briefing at Sky Harbor
International Airport.

At least eight states reported single-day case records on Thursday:
Alaska, Arkansas, California, Florida, Georgia, Montana, South Carolina
and Tennessee.

Only a dozen states, mostly in the Northeast, have managed to keep new
case levels flat or declining.

In Florida, Mayor Carlos A. Giménez of Miami-Dade County
\href{https://www.miamidade.gov/releases/2020-07-02-mayor-covid-measures.asp}{imposed
a countywide curfew} from 10 p.m. to 6 a.m., starting Friday. Miami-Dade
and Broward counties had already announced they were closing beaches for
the Fourth of July weekend.

``This is one of various actions I'm pursuing to tamp down this spike of
Covid-19 and protect our residents,'' Mr. Giménez said. He is also
rolling back the opening of movie theaters, arcades, casinos, concert
halls, bowling halls and adult entertainment venues that recently had
their reopening plans approved by the county.

Reporting was contributed by Manuela Andreoni,Vikas Bajaj, Aurelien
Breeden, Benedict Carey, Stephen Castle, Nate Cohn, Richard Fausset,
Marie Fazio, J. David Goodman, Jenny Gross, Maggie Haberman, Rebecca
Halleck, Anemona Hartocollis, Annie Karni, Tyler Kepner, Corey
Kilgannon, Mark Landler, Adam Liptak, Giulia McDonnell Nieto del Rio,
Raphael Minder, David Montgomery, Adam Nossiter, Elian Peltier, Amy Qin,
Christopher F. Schuetze, Kirk Semple, Mitch Smith, Sabrina Tavernise,
Derrick Bryson Taylor, Pranshu Verma and Katherine J. Wu.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
