<div id="suggestions" class="suggestions messenger nocontent robots-nocontent" style="display:none;">

<div class="message-bed">

<div class="message-container last-message-container">

<div class="message">

<span class="message-content"> **<span class="message-title">NYTimes.com
no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your
browser.</span> [LEARN MORE
»](http://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/content/help/site/ie9-support.html)
</span>

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div id="shell" class="shell">

<div class="container">

<div class="quick-navigation button-group">

**<span class="button-text">Sections</span>

**<span class="button-text">Home</span>

**<span class="button-text">Search</span>

</div>

<div class="branding">

## [<span class="visually-hidden">The New York Times</span>](http://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/)

### <span class="label-text"> [Magazine](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/magazine) </span>

</div>

<div class="story-meta">

###### <span class="kicker-label"> [Magazine](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/magazine) </span> <span class="pipe">|</span>Patti LuPone on Getting Bullied by Broadway. And Why She Keeps Coming Back.

</div>

<div class="user-tools">

<div id="sharetools-masthead" class="sharetools theme-classic sharetools-masthead" data-aria-label="tools" data-role="group" data-shares="facebook,twitter,email,show-all,save" data-url="https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/10/21/magazine/patti-lupone-broadway-company.html" data-title="Patti LuPone on Getting Bullied by Broadway. And Why She Keeps Coming Back." data-author="By David Marchese" data-media="https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/icons/t_logo_291_black.png" data-description="The actress on her hard-won tough-as-nails reputation, “Evita” and the changing nature of celebrity." data-publish-date="October 21, 2019">

<div class="ad sharetools-inline-article-ad hidden nocontent robots-nocontent">

</div>

</div>

<div class="user-tools-button-group button-group">

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="search-flyout-panel flyout-panel">

**<span class="visually-hidden">Close search</span>

## Site Search Navigation

<div class="control">

<div class="label-container visually-hidden">

Search NYTimes.com

</div>

<div class="field-container">

**<span id="clear-search-input" class="visually-hidden">Clear this text
input</span>

<div class="auto-suggest" style="display: none;">

</div>

Go

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div id="notification-modals" class="notification-modals">

</div>

<span class="story-short-url"><https://nyti.ms/2J8d2J3></span>

## Site Navigation

## Site Mobile Navigation

<div id="page" class="page">

<div id="main" class="main" data-role="main">

<div class="story-meta">

# Patti LuPone on Getting Bullied by Broadway. And Why She Keeps Coming Back.

<div class="story-meta-footer interactive-meta-footer">

<div class="interactive-byline">

<span class="byline" itemprop="author creator" itemscope="" itemtype="http://schema.org/Person">
By
<span class="byline-author" data-byline-name="DAVID MARCHESE" itemprop="name">DAVID
MARCHESE</span> </span> OCT. 21, 2019

</div>

<span class="summary-text">The actress on her hard-won tough-as-nails
reputation, “Evita” and the changing nature of celebrity.</span>

</div>

</div>

<div id="patti-lupone-broadway-company" class="interactive-graphic">

<div class="rad-tooltip">

<div class="rad-tooltip-content">

</div>

![Close
X](https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/10/13/talk-norton/f7725356839dc87c70b39e7b3c83755965654deb/close.svg)

</div>

<div class="rad-article" data-slug="27mag-talk-lupone">

<div class="rad-cover stacked-cover" style="background-color:#FFFFFF">

![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)

<div class="rad-header-wrapper">

<div class="rad-dateline">

<span class="rad-kicker">**Talk** Oct. 21, 2019</span>

</div>

Patti LuPone on getting bullied by Broadway. And why she keeps coming
back.

<div class="rad-byline-pubdate">

<span>By David Marchese</span> <span class="rad-info-box">Photograph by
Mamadi Doumbouya</span>

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="rad-story-body">

There are many pleasures to be had in watching Patti LuPone perform,
particularly on a Broadway stage. There’s her powerful, flexible singing
voice, undiminished at age 70. There’s her operatically expressive face,
her sharply detailed characterizations. There’s also the plain fact that
to see LuPone at maximum, commanding intensity — her default mode — is
to see that most thrilling and increasingly rare of theatrical sights: a
true diva. (And one who has endured a diva’s share of backstage drama.)
“I knew at 4 years old where I was going and what I was going to do,”
said LuPone, a two-time Tony Award winner who will be starring in a
revival of Stephen Sondheim’s “Company” next year. She added with a
snap, “And I didn’t think I was going to be in the chorus.”

**There’s a bit of a paradox going on with Broadway musicals right now.
On one hand, they seem to be in good shape, because shows like “Dear
Evan Hansen” and “Frozen” are making so much money. But on the other
hand, those shows are not really vehicles for traditional
musical-theater stars like yourself. [“War
Paint”<sup>1</sup>](http://nytimes3xbfgragh.onion#tooltip-1)*was***
**that kind of show and struggled to find an audience. Does that at all
make you wonder where you fit in the Broadway ecosystem these days?**
No. But some of those shows should be in Las Vegas and not on a Broadway
stage. The thing really bugging me now about Broadway musicals is that
they’re making me deaf. They’re all so damn loud. But you don’t know
what’s going to hit. You don’t know what’s going to flop. I was
disappointed that [“War
Paint”](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2017/04/06/theater/review-war-paint-patti-lupone-christine-ebersole.html)
didn’t catch on, because it was beautiful, and Christine Ebersole and I
played like gangbusters. How can you know why it didn’t hit? It could
have been where the theater was located. It could have been because
other musicals attracted people. So when you ask me how do I fit: I know
that I have box-office draw, and I know that I’m relied on for it. In a
way, that’s unfair. The pressure shouldn’t be on me to draw a crowd. The
pressure should be on the producers.

**There was a time on Broadway when having a theatrical star like Mary
Martin or Ethel Merman in a show was a guarantee that it would play for
at least a full season. Is that kind of star power a thing of the
past?** No. They used to write for the stars, and they don’t anymore.
Cole Porter and Richard Rodgers were writing for Ethel. So you know you
had a good combination. But I don’t think it’s over. Last night, there
was a line for the cast of “Betrayal,” especially for Charlie Cox and
Tom Hiddleston. Hugh Jackman is going to come onstage for “The Music
Man.”

**But Hugh Jackman and Tom Hiddleston are movie stars who can draw an
audience to their stage work. Ethel Merman and Mary Martin were**
***Broadway*** **stars. There’s a difference.** O.K., you’re right.
Unless you have some sort of broader visibility, it may be harder to
pull an audience. I think I’m a product of that old line of
musical-theater women, because I don’t have that other *thing* to bring
people in. Some people may know me from [“Life Goes
On”<sup>2</sup>](http://nytimes3xbfgragh.onion#tooltip-2) or [“Steven
Universe,”<sup>3</sup>](http://nytimes3xbfgragh.onion#tooltip-3) but
most know me mostly from musicals. Actually, they know me most from the
commercial for
[“Evita.”<sup>4</sup>](http://nytimes3xbfgragh.onion#tooltip-4)

![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)

**Which was a good commercial. Can I ask you a random “Evita” question?
Why does Evita sing “Don’t Cry for Me, Argentina” when she does? Isn’t
everyone happy for her at that point in the show? I don’t get the
narrative logic.** I thought the same thing. I was going, “What the hell
is this song about?” I understand exactly what you’re saying. I never
wanted to do “Evita,” because it was the most bizarre music I’d ever
heard. You’re raised on Rodgers and Hammerstein, Meredith Willson,
Lerner and Loewe, and then you hear that? I heard the “Evita” concept
album, and I went, “Ow, my ear.”

**Did you read [Andrew Lloyd Webber’s
memoir?<sup>5</sup>](http://nytimes3xbfgragh.onion#tooltip-5)**No. Am I
in it?

**Oh, yeah.** Oh, dear.

**He rehashed [the expected
stuff.<sup>6</sup>](http://nytimes3xbfgragh.onion#tooltip-6) He also
made a point of criticizing your diction.** [John
Houseman<sup>7</sup>](http://nytimes3xbfgragh.onion#tooltip-7) used to
call me “flannel mouth.” You don’t know, when you’re in the moment, that
you’re not enunciating. As an audience member, I can understand the
problem. I saw “The Iceman Cometh.” I did not understand a word those
guys were saying. I’ve seen a lot of theater where I don’t understand
what the actors are saying, because they’re forgetting that they need to
project. They need to enunciate. In some of my performances, I was
oblivious to that; I was busy emoting. Apparently, when I was doing
“Three Sisters,” John Houseman wanted to yell at me about my diction.
They kept him away from me, until he literally strangled
me.

![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)

**Literally?** Literally put his hands around my throat and said, “I
want to beat you black and blue until you’re bloody all over and you
have bandages all over your face.” And I’m going, Well, that’s bizarre.
Then I just went to pieces. But I’m an emotional, organic actor, and
that gets in the way of me technically speaking clearly. So the fact
that criticism of my diction follows me around makes total sense. Was
Andrew Lloyd Webber talking about “Sunset Boulevard”?

**He was talking about “Evita.”** How could he talk about “Evita”? The
whole thing is sung. He’s a jerk. He’s a sad sack. He is the definition
of sad sack.

**Do you like any of his music?** I thought “Evita” was the best thing
he and Tim Rice did. But the rest of it is schmaltz.

**We talked about how what’s popular on Broadway has changed. But I’m
wondering, too, if you’ve seen any differences between your generation
of performers and younger generations?** Yes. I am blown away by the
talent onstage in New York, but I see too many actors relying on
microphones. They do not know how to fill a house with their voice, and
therefore their presence. That’s bad. And so is when somebody doesn’t
know the history of theater, or who Marlon Brando or Shirley MacLaine or
Chita Rivera are. It’s like: What are you doing this for? Are you doing
it because it’s a time-honored profession? A necessary profession for
society? Or are you doing it because you want to be famous and rich?

**You’re seeing more of that than you used to?** I think basically
everybody wants to be famous and rich, but I don’t see the commitment,
maybe. It takes sacrifice. It’s hard work to delve into a character.
It’s hard work doing eight shows a week. It’s hard work to protect
your instrument, which is your entire body. I say: “Eight shows a week.
No life.” That’s exactly what it is if you’re
onstage.

![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)

**A couple of years ago, you were saying you thought you had done your
last Broadway musical. But you’re going to be back on Broadway, [playing
Joanne in
“Company.”](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/08/30/theater/broadway-company-sondheim-elliott-katrina-lenk-patti-lupone.html)
Did you feel as if you had to reckon with what [Elaine
Stritch<sup>8</sup>](http://nytimes3xbfgragh.onion#tooltip-8) did in
that part? I imagine that, even just because of
[the](https://phfilms.com/films/company-original-cast-album/)[D.A.
Pennebaker
documentary](https://phfilms.com/films/company-original-cast-album/)
that we’ve all seen, it would be hard not to have her somewhere in your
mind.** It would have been hard not to have Ethel Merman in my mind for
“Gypsy.” It would have been hard not to have Zoe Caldwell in my mind
for “Master Class.” It would have been hard not to have Angela Lansbury
in my mind for “Sweeney Todd.” These are great actors. Well, Ethel was
not such a great actor, but these are icons. Elaine is Elaine, and I am
me. Steve Sondheim actually said to me, years before I did “Company,”
that he was surprised that I understood “Ladies Who Lunch.”

**What was that supposed to mean?** Exactly\! I think he thought that I
was of the lower classes and wouldn’t understand the Upper East Side. I
was surprised that he would think that I wouldn’t be able to do it. Then
I was thrilled that he thought I could. You go through all these things
in your mind. You’re going, Really? Then you’re going, Oh, great, he
loves me\! It’s crazy.

**Do you still have doubts about Sondheim’s estimation of you?** Always.

**Do you still care?** Of course. He’s the master. Some actors don’t
care. I do. I wanted validation. I think Stephen thinks I’m a strong
person and — I don’t know. I’m speculating on what he thinks. I don’t
know what he thinks. Maybe he took a dislike to me early on in my
career. Maybe I’m making this whole thing up. Maybe he likes me. I don’t
know. But I know that he’s happy with this production of “Company” and
was happy with my performance. I think.

**You know, in [Arthur Laurents’s<sup>9</sup>
memoir](http://nytimes3xbfgragh.onion#tooltip-9), he wrote about taking
you out to lunch before your doing “Gypsy” and going over some
performance ruts that he thought you’d fallen into. What was he talking
about?** “Ruts”?

**He used “ruts.”** He never told me that. Here’s the deal. I was raw
meat having gone through that lovely experience of “Sunset Boulevard.” I
come home, and I get a telephone call. I’m offered a play by Arthur
Laurents: “Jolson Sings Again.” I read the play, and I didn’t like the
play. It wasn’t very good. I said, “Are you bringing this to Broadway?”
And I was told, “No, we’re doing it in Seattle.” I went: “I just spent a
year in London. I’m not going to pack a suitcase and go to Seattle.” So
I said no. Then the producer David Stone got it, and they *were* going
to do it on Broadway. But the deal was completely unacceptable, so I
turned it down. Oh\! I’m missing a whole part. First, I got a call from
my manager at the time saying Arthur Laurents wants you to go to his
house and meet with him. I went. I knocked on the door. Arthur answered,
and then out from behind him came David Saint, who would direct the
play. I saw a weak chin on that one. I was like, He’s not going to
direct me. Then Arthur was very convincing, and I went, Yeah, sounds
great.

![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)

**Then what happened?** The deal was terrible, and I passed\! Then I’m
shooting
[“Heist”](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2001/11/09/movies/film-review-forget-the-girl-and-gold-look-for-the-chemistry.html)
in Montreal, and I’m in my hotel room, and I pick up the phone, and it’s
Arthur. He told me I sank his play. In my head I thought, No, actors
don’t sink plays; playwrights sink plays. I did say to him that the
deal was terrible. Then he hung up on me. The next thing I heard was
that I was [banned from his
work.<sup>10</sup>](http://nytimes3xbfgragh.onion#tooltip-10) All of it.
I thought: Why me? I just turned down a play. Why am I getting beat up?
Why do these things happen to me?

**What’s your answer to that question?** I’m telling you the truth: I
don’t understand it. I don’t understand if it’s because people think I
can take it because I’m tough as nails. If I am, I’ve been made tough by
this business in order to survive, in order to continue to perform,
which is what I was born to do. They’re not going to stop me from
getting on a stage. Whatever they tried to do, they, whoever they are,
didn’t succeed. But it did succeed because I felt it.

**Felt what?** I’ve been bullied in this business. There’s something
that happened that I did not put in [my
book,<sup>11</sup>](http://nytimes3xbfgragh.onion#tooltip-11) and I wish
I had. [Hal
Prince<sup>12</sup>](http://nytimes3xbfgragh.onion#tooltip-12) did
something to me. My persona in this business has not been: “Let’s bed
Patti. Get on the casting couch, Patti.” It’s either been: “Nope, out
the door,” or getting slammed on the head. The bullying with Hal Prince
had been in the book, and out of respect for the guy, I took it out. I
wish I had left it in, because when we talk about bullying, it has to be
better defined. I’ve been bullied all my life.

**By whom?** Starting when I was a kid. [My
dad<sup>13</sup>](http://nytimes3xbfgragh.onion#tooltip-13) was the
principal of my elementary school. I remember going to kindergarten, and
I got hit in the face with a snowball with a rock in it. I always
carried around that it happened because my dad was the principal. And my
dad bullied me in front of my class. It wasn’t bullying — he didn’t know
what to do — but in today’s world, you would call it bullying. I ran out
of line at school and embraced my father, and my father didn’t even look
me in the eye; he took me by the shoulders and put me back in line
without explanation. I was humiliated, not understanding what happened.
Do you treat a kid that way? Now, take all that bullying that you get
used to as a child — because apparently that’s what life is — and then
you’re in show business, and it’s the same thing. In the case with Hal
Prince, what happened was so scarring that I said, “I will never work
with this man again.” And I never did.

**Can you tell me what happened with Hal Prince?** Well, it was a
rehearsal with the New York company of “Evita” after he had just opened
the L.A. company of the show. He started the rehearsal with a bullhorn
turned up to 10, saying, “The L.A. company is better than you are, and
now rehearse\!” Then maybe 10 minutes into it, he accused me of changing
blocking. I went, “No, you changed it in previews.” An argument — this
humiliation — ensued for the entire rehearsal. I ended up in a fetal
position in my dressing room, crying my eyes out. Stage management came
in, and I said: “Why didn’t you defend me? The changes were in the
prompt book.” They were Hal Prince’s men, the stage management, and one
of them said, “Oh, honey, he does that to all his leading ladies.” As if
it were acceptable. That was a form of bullying, but you just go, O.K. I
never understood it.

**Is bullying still accepted in the theatrical world?** Maybe not now. I
don’t know how I feel about bullying in show business, because it has
made me stronger. Sometimes you think: Is this a test from the gods? Is
it what you have to go through to get what you want? Or is it just
abuse? In a lot of cases, it is just abuse. But what do you do? There
was nobody I could talk to. That was my ignorance. I should have called
Equity. I should’ve walked out of rehearsal and called my agent. But I
would’ve been fired, and I knew that. What Hal Prince did has never left
me. It did many things besides humiliate me. It diminished my status in
the company as the leading lady. He treated me like a stupid chorus
girl. It was so demoralizing and defeating. He actually said, “Now,
who’s going to win this argument?” I said, “You, because you’re the
director.” He said: “That’s right. Now sing.” “Evita” was the thing that
shot me to stardom, but when I say I didn’t like the experience, that’s
one of the reasons. It was hard as
hell.

![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)

**You described yourself earlier as an organic, emotional actor. That
force-of-nature aspect of what you do is a huge part of what people like
about your performances. Is that also what** ***you*** **like about what
you do?** I am a tragedian. I am a comedian. I am fearless on a stage.
I’m scared to death in my own life. Paranoid. Terrified. But put me on
the stage, and there’s nothing I won’t do to the fullest. It hasn’t been
easy. But there was nothing that was going to stop me from doing what I
was supposed to do. This was my calling. Does that answer your question?

**Sort of, but let me go a little deeper. You must know that when people
buy a ticket for a musical with Patti LuPone in it, they want to see
Patti LuPone be** ***Patti LuPone*** **up there onstage. They don’t want
a shrinking violet. Do those expectations affect how you approach a
performance?** I don’t know what people are coming to see. How much I
commit depends on what is required from the script. If you want to go
the distance — and I always want to go the distance — I *will* let it
out. The fact that there’s a deep well inside me is just how I was
built. That’s the Italian in me. There were a lot of big emotions and
big fights and big sobs growing up. When it was required of me to
express those things in a role, I found that the well went deeper and
deeper and deeper. That has to do with what I’m made of.

**You said you’re scared in your life. Of what?** Everything. A
boogeyman. I am terrified when I go home to Connecticut at dusk. I close
all the first-floor blinds, because I’m afraid somebody is going to be
looking in. If I hear a noise, I’m awake and scared. I don’t know where
that came from. But the fearlessness onstage is because that’s home to
me. There, I’m not afraid.

*This interview has been edited and condensed from two conversations.*

</div>

<div class="rad-article-credits">

David Marchese is a staff writer and the Talk Columnist for the
magazine.

*This interview has been edited and condensed from two
    conversations.*

</div>

</div>

<div class="rad-series-box">

## Related Coverage

<div class="rad-series-link-wrapper">

  - [](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/10/07/magazine/edward-norton-interview.html)
    <div class="promo-image">
    ![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)
    </div>
    <div class="promo-info">
    ### The Disruptive World of Edward Norton
    Oct. 7,
    2019
    </div>
  - [](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/09/15/magazine/pam-grier-interview.html)
    <div class="promo-image">
    ![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)
    </div>
    <div class="promo-info">
    ### Pam Grier on Maintaining Her Independence and Identity in Showbiz
    Sept. 15,
    2019
    </div>
  - [](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/09/30/magazine/bill-maher-interview.html)
    <div class="promo-image">
    ![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)
    </div>
    <div class="promo-info">
    ### Bill Maher on the Perils of Political Correctness
    Sept. 30,
    2019
    </div>
  - [](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/08/07/magazine/nicolas-cage-interview.html)
    <div class="promo-image">
    ![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)
    </div>
    <div class="promo-info">
    ### Nicolas Cage on Acting, Philosophy and Searching for the Holy Grail
    Aug. 7,
    2019
    </div>
  - [](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/09/02/magazine/ram-dass-interview.html)
    <div class="promo-image">
    ![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)
    </div>
    <div class="promo-info">
    ### Ram Dass Is Ready to Die
    Sept. 2, 2019
    </div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="interactive-corrections">

<div id="addendums" class="addendums">

<div class="story-addendum story-content theme-correction">

**Correction: Oct. 21, 2019**  

An earlier version of a headline with this article rendered incorrectly
part of the interview subject’s surname. It is Patti LuPone, not
Lupone.

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div id="related-coverage" class="section related-coverage nocontent robots-nocontent">

<div class="nocontent robots-nocontent">

## More on NYTimes.com

</div>

</div>

<div id="BottomAd" class="ad bottom-ad nocontent robots-nocontent">

<div class="accessibility-ad-header">

Advertisement

</div>

</div>

</div>

## Site Information Navigation

  - [©
    <span itemprop="copyrightYear">2020</span><span itemprop="copyrightHolder provider sourceOrganization" itemscope="" itemtype="http://schema.org/Organization" itemid="http://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion"><span itemprop="name">
    The New York Times
    Company</span></span>](https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice)
  - [Home](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion)
  - [Search](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/search/)
  - Accessibility concerns? Email us at <accessibility@NYTimes.com>. We
    would love to hear from you.
  - [Contact
    Us](https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us)
  - [Work with us](https://www.nytco.com/careers/)
  - [Advertise](https://nytmediakit.com/)
  - [Your Ad
    Choices](https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014892108-Privacy-policy#pp)
  - [Privacy](https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014892108-Privacy-policy)
  - [Terms of
    Service](https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service)
  - [Terms of
    Sale](https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale)

## Site Information Navigation

  - [Site Map](https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion)
  - [Help](https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us)
  - [Site
    Feedback](https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us?redir=myacc)
  - [Subscriptions](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW)

</div>

</div>

<div id="Inv1" class="ad inv1-ad hidden">

</div>

<div id="Inv2" class="ad inv2-ad hidden">

</div>

<div id="Inv3" class="ad inv3-ad hidden">

</div>

<div id="ab1" class="ad ab1-ad hidden">

</div>

<div id="ab2" class="ad ab2-ad hidden">

</div>

<div id="ab3" class="ad ab3-ad hidden">

</div>

<div id="prop1" class="ad prop1-ad hidden">

</div>

<div id="prop2" class="ad prop2-ad hidden">

</div>

<div id="Anchor" class="ad anchor-ad hidden">

</div>

<div id="ADX_CLIENTSIDE" class="ad adx-clientside-ad hidden">

</div>
