Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/us}{U.S.}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/us}{U.S.}\textbar{}Newsom Order Would Keep Most
California Schools Online

\url{https://nyti.ms/32uOzYU}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{school-reopenings}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/spotlight/schools-reopening?name=styln-coronavirus-schools-reopening\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=2e750d70-f4c1-11ea-8aec-23400fafd7a4\&variant=undefined}{School
Reopenings}}{School Reopenings}}\label{school-reopenings}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/08/us/school-districts-cyberattacks-glitches.html?name=styln-coronavirus-schools-reopening\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=2e753480-f4c1-11ea-8aec-23400fafd7a4\&variant=undefined}{Remote
  Learning Glitches}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/08/upshot/children-testing-shortfalls-virus.html?name=styln-coronavirus-schools-reopening\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=2e753481-f4c1-11ea-8aec-23400fafd7a4\&variant=undefined}{Limited
  Testing for Children}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/10/us/des-moines-school-opening-coronavirus.html?name=styln-coronavirus-schools-reopening\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=2e753482-f4c1-11ea-8aec-23400fafd7a4\&variant=undefined}{District
  Defies Reopening Order}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/covid-college-cases-tracker.html?name=styln-coronavirus-schools-reopening\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=2e753483-f4c1-11ea-8aec-23400fafd7a4\&variant=undefined}{Tracking
  College Cases}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{newsom-order-would-keep-most-california-schools-online}{%
\section{Newsom Order Would Keep Most California Schools
Online}\label{newsom-order-would-keep-most-california-schools-online}}

Districts in counties with rising caseloads will be required to teach
remotely until conditions improve.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/07/17/us/17virus-calschools/17virus-calschools-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/jill-cowan}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/12/10/multimedia/author-jill-cowan/author-jill-cowan-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/jill-cowan}{Jill Cowan}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Published July 17, 2020Updated July 24, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

LOS ANGELES --- Responding to
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/california-coronavirus-cases.html}{soaring
coronavirus infections} and growing concern from teachers, Gov. Gavin
Newsom of
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/24/us/ca-schools-reopening.html}{California}
announced new rules on Friday that would force many of the state's
districts to teach remotely when school starts next month.

More than 80 percent of the state's population lives in counties that
would currently not qualify for
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/24/us/ca-schools-reopening.html}{schools}
to reopen based on their surging caseloads and hospitalization rates.
The rules would also require most students to wear masks in classrooms
and force schools that do hold in-person classes to shut down if enough
students or employees test positive for the virus.

``We all prefer in-classroom instruction for all the obvious reasons,''
Mr. Newsom said, ``but only if it can be done safely.''

The announcement comes at the end of a week in which many school
districts across the state and the country, including California's two
largest,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/13/us/lausd-san-diego-school-reopening.html}{Los
Angeles and San Diego}, abandoned plans for in-person instruction,
saying they would start the school year remotely, and in which
California announced
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/14/us/california-counties-reopening.html}{a
sweeping rollback} of plans to reopen businesses.

\emph{{[}Sign up}
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/california-today}{\emph{for
California Today}}\emph{, our newsletter from the Golden State.{]}}

Education leaders in Houston, Atlanta, Nashville, Arlington, Va., and
Broward County, Fla., also said this week that they planned to open the
academic year online, despite
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/14/us/coronavirus-schools-fall.html}{pressure
from President Trump} and some Republican governors who want students in
their classrooms five days a week.

In Texas, where state officials had previously put limits on online
schooling, \href{https://pbs.twimg.com/media/EdI6_hZWkAAG24Y.jpg}{new
guidelines} were issued Friday that would allow as many as eight weeks
of online-only instruction when schools return next month.

And leaders of Chicago's public school system, the nation's
third-largest district after New York and Los Angeles, said on Friday
that they were planning for a mix of in-person and online classes. But
they stressed that the announcement was a tentative framework, with a
final plan expected in August. New York City schools are also planning
an in-person and online mix.

The California rules announced on Friday would require schools in
counties that the state has put on a ``watchlist'' ---
\href{https://www.cdph.ca.gov/Programs/CID/DCDC/Pages/COVID-19/COVID19CountyDataTable.aspx}{based
on indicators} that include new infections per capita, the test
positivity rate and the hospitalization rate --- to teach online until
conditions improve. Currently, 33 of the state's 58 counties, including
many of the most populated,
\href{https://www.cdph.ca.gov/Programs/CID/DCDC/Pages/COVID-19/CountyMonitoringDataStep2.aspx}{are
on the list}.

Counties would have to be off the list for at least two weeks before
their classrooms would be allowed to reopen, but the decision would
still be up to local officials on whether to resume in-person classes,
the governor said.

Many districts in those counties had already said they would start the
academic year online, including San Francisco, Oakland, Sacramento, Long
Beach, Santa Ana and San Bernardino. But at least a few districts that
had planned to hold in-person classes would be required to switch.

``Quite frankly, we are going to have to pivot, which is my new least
favorite word,'' said Eimear O'Farrell, the superintendent of Clovis
Unified School District in Fresno County, which is on the watchlist.

On Wednesday, the
\href{https://www.cusd.com/CUSDAt-A-Glance.aspx}{Central Valley
district} with about 43,000 students
\href{https://www.fresnobee.com/news/coronavirus/article244300057.html}{had
rolled out} what Ms. O'Farrell described as a painstakingly developed
plan to welcome students back to classrooms in August.

``It is a challenge and a source of frustration for us,'' she said in a
virtual news conference on Friday afternoon. ``Every superintendent has
been aiming to get this information out in time.''

The statewide rules would also require teachers and staff members in
schools that are allowed to reopen to maintain six feet of physical
distance with one another and children, and mandate masks for students
in third grade and up. Younger children would be encouraged but not
required to wear face coverings, and all children would be encouraged to
maintain six feet of distance.

The guidelines recommend that school employees be tested regularly for
the coronavirus, something teachers across the country have been pushing
for, although the federal Centers for Disease Control and Prevention has
said doing so
\href{https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/community/schools-childcare/k-12-testing.html}{is
not necessary}, and scaling up testing has been a challenge.

Mr. Newsom's unveiling of a statewide framework for schools marked a
contrast to his usual reluctance to apply one set of policies for all of
California, which he has often described as a kind of
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/14/us/california-coronavirus-newsom-nation-state.html}{nation-state
unto itself}, with roughly 40 million residents spread across a vast and
varied geography.

By and large,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/04/us/california-newsom-coronavirus.html}{Californians
have said they are supportive} of restrictions aimed at curbing the
spread of the virus. But Mr. Newsom has been hesitant to impose
statewide orders, instead repeating that ``localism is determinative''
and allowing counties to drive much of their own reopening.

The results have been at times confusing for residents attempting to
navigate
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/coronavirus-california-reopening-phases.html}{a
patchwork of restrictions} --- though on Monday, in response to climbing
numbers of new cases and shrinking hospital capacity in some areas, he
announced the most
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/14/us/california-counties-reopening.html}{sweeping
statewide rollback} yet of efforts to reopen many businesses.

Still, the state's efforts have met pushback from conservative
officials, largely in more rural parts of the state where the virus has
hit less hard, but also in some populous counties.

In Orange County, where local officials have taken public stances
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/aponline/2020/07/14/us/ap-us-virus-outbreak-school-politics.html}{against
many of the state's restrictions}, the
\href{https://www.ocregister.com/2020/07/15/wagner-chau-back-away-from-controversial-school-board-recommendation/}{Board
of Education voted this week to recommend} that schools reopen without
requiring students to wear masks --- a decision that sparked widespread
outcry. But the board is largely advisory and does not carry authority
over the county's more than two dozen districts, and many education
leaders there have said they will adhere to state and county public
health recommendations.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/spotlight/schools-reopening?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_keepup}{}

\hypertarget{school-reopenings-}{%
\subsubsection{School Reopenings ›}\label{school-reopenings-}}

\hypertarget{back-to-school}{%
\paragraph{Back to School}\label{back-to-school}}

Updated Sept. 11, 2020

The latest on how schools are reopening amid the pandemic.

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    School officials in Des Moines are refusing to hold in-person
    classes,
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/10/us/des-moines-school-opening-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_keepup}{despite
    an order from Iowa's governor and a judge's ruling}, risking school
    funding and their jobs because they think it's unsafe.
  \item
    The University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign had one of the most
    comprehensive plans by a major college to keep the virus under
    control. But it
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/10/health/university-illinois-covid.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_keepup}{failed
    to account for students partying}.
  \item
    College students are
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/10/technology/coronavirus-quarantines-college.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_keepup}{using
    apps to shame their schools}~into better coronavirus plans.
  \item
    For some families, the pandemic
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/10/parenting/family-second-language-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_keepup}{has
    meant a return to their native languages}.
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

That difficulty is mirrored at the federal level, where guidance on the
safety of reopening schools has been unsteady.

On Friday, the C.D.C. postponed releasing new guidance amid a clash with
Mr. Trump, who this month criticized the agency's proposed school
reopening guidelines as
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/08/us/politics/trump-schools-reopening.html}{``very
tough and expensive.''} A copy of the draft rules to which Mr. Trump
apparently objected, outlined in a
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/10/us/politics/trump-schools-reopening.html}{document
obtained by The New York Times} and marked ``For Internal Use Only,''
warned that fully reopening schools remained ``the highest risk'' for
spreading the virus.

But without being able to send their children to school, parents must
shoulder huge burdens, which affects their ability to work. Tens of
millions of school children are
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/05/us/coronavirus-education-lost-learning.html}{falling
behind academically}, and the trends will widen existing socioeconomic
gaps.

Some educators
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/11/us/virus-teachers-classrooms.html}{are
fearful and angry about the prospect of returning to schools} with
unanswered questions. The 310,000-member California Teachers Association
\href{https://aarjb2jw4n53e35fhbquj418-wpengine.netdna-ssl.com/wp-content/uploads/2020/07/CTA-Elected-Leaders-COVID-Letter-7.8.20.pdf}{urged
state leaders} this month to require districts to start the year ``under
robust distance learning protocols'' and described even a hybrid model
as ``high-risk.''

On Friday, the president of the California Federation of Teachers, which
represents 120,000 school employees, said the state's new guidelines did
not go far enough to protect them. He objected to the state's
willingness to allow waivers for some schools in counties on the
watchlist, as well as the lack of mandatory social distancing and
testing for all students.

``This updated guidance still allows for an `acceptable amount of harm'
to come to our students, their families and our education
professionals,'' the president, Jeff Freitas, said in a statement,
demanding that schools across California continue to provide remote
learning until ``the governor can ensure adequate safety measures
throughout the state.''

Erin Springer, who teaches fifth grade at a charter school in Inglewood,
said that starting the new year with remote learning has felt inevitable
since the beginning of summer. She said she wished the call had been
made sooner, so that she and her colleagues could have prepared.

``Almost every teacher I know felt like we were just wasting time,'' Ms.
Springer said.

Mr. Newsom emphasized that education officials across the state would be
working hard to ensure that all students would have access to ``rigorous
distance learning,'' including access to devices and connectivity and
live interactions every day with teachers and other students.

He added that leaders would pay specific attention to students who are
homeless, in the foster care system, or who are English language
learners. The state, he said, has put \$5.3 billion in additional money
toward those efforts.

``We want to create some sense of equivalency,'' Mr. Newsom said.

In Marin County, a Bay Area suburb that is on the state's watchlist,
Brooke Palizi, a mother of two elementary school students, said the
district recently announced that parents would be able to choose between
letting their children attend socially distant in-person classes, remote
learning, and a virtual academy akin to home schooling.

The new guidelines, she said, at least take the guesswork out of her
children's back-to-school plans.

``A decision's been made, instead of it being up in the air, which is
annoying,'' she said.

Dan Levin contributed reporting from New York.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
