Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}Bloomberg Endorses Biden as
Sanders Laments Turnout of Younger Voters

\url{https://nyti.ms/38nlGgw}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Election
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/biden-vice-president-2020.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Biden's
  V.P. Search}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/07/24/us/politics/trump-biden-campaign-donors.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Map
  of Donations}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/elections/delegate-count-primary-results.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Delegate
  Count}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2019/us/politics/2020-presidential-candidates.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{The
  Candidates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Politics
  Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{bloomberg-endorses-biden-as-sanders-laments-turnout-of-younger-voters}{%
\section{Bloomberg Endorses Biden as Sanders Laments Turnout of Younger
Voters}\label{bloomberg-endorses-biden-as-sanders-laments-turnout-of-younger-voters}}

After Mr. Biden's big wins on Super Tuesday Mr. Bloomberg endorsed him
and said that he planned to remain involved in the 2020 presidential
campaign.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/03/04/us/politics/04vid-Bloomberg-Live-PHOTO/04vid-Bloomberg-Live-videoSixteenByNine3000.jpg}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/alexander-burns}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/09/25/multimedia/author-alexander-burns/author-alexander-burns-thumbLarge-v2.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/alexander-burns}{Alexander Burns}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  March 4, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Michael R. Bloomberg dropped out of the presidential race and backed
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/elections/joe-biden.html}{Joseph
R. Biden Jr.} on Wednesday, throwing the financial might of the
Democratic Party's biggest benefactor behind the former vice president's
campaign as Senator
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/elections/bernie-sanders.html}{Bernie
Sanders} of Vermont vowed to wage a long battle for the nomination.

\emph{{[}Read:}
\href{https://stela.nyt.net/url?url=http:\%2F\%2Fwww.nytimes.com\%2F2020\%2F03\%2F05\%2Fworld\%2Feurope\%2Fbernie-sanders-soviet-russia.html}{\emph{As
Bernie Sanders pushed for closer ties, the Soviet Union spotted
opportunity}}\emph{.{]}}

Mr. Sanders, regarded a week ago as having a clear upper hand over Mr.
Biden, sounded chagrined after losses in states from Maine to
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/04/us/politics/joe-biden-texas-primary.html}{Texas}
where he was hoping for huge turnout. There was a surge in voter
participation, but it
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/03/us/politics/super-tuesday-primary-winners.html}{lifted
Mr. Biden} instead.

Mr. Sanders now faces pressure to show he can expand his political base,
and he acknowledged that he had not yet managed to transform the
electorate with a wave of young people.

The sudden shift in political momentum has redefined the Democratic race
at breakneck speed. Since Saturday night, when Mr. Biden won South
Carolina in a landslide, much of the Democratic establishment has
aligned behind him. Two rivals, Pete Buttigieg and Senator Amy
Klobuchar, dropped out and endorsed Mr. Biden on Sunday and Monday; he
won 10 states on Tuesday, including Texas and North Carolina; and Mr.
Bloomberg backed him on Wednesday.

Only Senator
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/elections/elizabeth-warren.html}{Elizabeth
Warren} of Massachusetts remains as a major candidate. Her campaign said
on Wednesday that she was
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/04/us/politics/elizabeth-warren-democratic-primary.html?action=click\&module=Top\%20Stories\&pgtype=Homepage}{assessing
her path forward} in view of another night of dispiriting election
returns, including
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/03/03/us/elections/results-massachusetts-president-democrat-primary-election.html}{a
third-place finish} in her home state, that left Ms. Warren without a
single victory after a month of primaries and caucuses.

Mr. Sanders said on Wednesday that he had spoken with Ms. Warren, who
for months had been his most formidable rival from the Democrats'
populist wing. But Mr. Sanders said he applied no public pressure on her
to stand down and shared no knowledge of her intentions, if he had any.

Some supporters have urged Ms. Warren to take her time, while others are
pressing her to capitalize on her existing leverage by dropping out and
endorsing Mr. Biden, according to Democrats who have spoken to her. But
Ms. Warren made it clear to one supporter on Wednesday that she was not
going to act hastily and that it may be at least another day before she
makes up her mind.

In a further boon to Mr. Biden, Mr. Bloomberg signaled in his concession
speech that he intended to keep wielding his multibillion-dollar fortune
against President Trump. The former New York City mayor had previously
pledged to keep spending large sums of money to help Democrats in the
general election, even if Mr. Bloomberg did not become the nominee. (The
Sanders campaign has said it would not welcome that kind of help.)

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/03/04/us/politics/04bloomberg-out-2/merlin_170031126_9cb4740d-6050-40f3-8539-6ba986a06e42-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

``I am cleareyed about our overriding objective, and that is victory in
November,'' Mr. Bloomberg said, adding, ``I will not be our party's
nominee, but I will not walk away from the most important political
fight of my life.''

Advisers to Mr. Bloomberg said on Wednesday that they had not yet
settled on a detailed spending plan for the general election, but Mr.
Bloomberg is said to be keenly interested not only in the presidential
race but also in Democratic efforts to take full control of Congress.
Members of his enormous campaign staff were told that it would take
perhaps a week for final decisions about how Mr. Bloomberg might
reorient his campaign machinery.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-2020-election}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: 2020
Election}}{Latest Updates: 2020 Election}}\label{latest-updates-2020-election}}

Updated 2020-08-01T01:26:45.732Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-29fdff45}{Kamala
  Harris, a top vice-presidential contender, confronts double
  standards.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-13ec3d9c}{Karen
  Bass and Susan Rice are rising on Biden's vice-presidential
  shortlist.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-49e9a016}{Trump
  says Russian bounties to kill U.S. troops `never took place.'}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

Mr. Biden's campaign raced to harness his new momentum and Mr. Sanders
sought to refocus his rattled political operation for a newly grueling
fight. The Biden campaign has told allies that it is seeking to rapidly
hire campaign staff to strengthen its presence in states where the
former vice president has built little or no organized infrastructure
because of his financial difficulties so far.

Mr. Sanders's team is hoping that his more developed campaign apparatus
might give him a chance to slow Mr. Biden's rise in the half-dozen
states that vote next week, most significantly in the large swing state
of Michigan. Addressing reporters in Burlington, Vt., on Wednesday
afternoon, Mr. Sanders described the Michigan primary as ``enormously
important'' and said he had high hopes to win.

Repeating a litany of criticism he leveled at Mr. Biden in his
election-night speech Tuesday, Mr. Sanders indicated he would focus over
the next week on attacking Mr. Biden's record of supporting what he
described as ``disastrous trade agreements'' that had been particularly
damaging to Midwestern states like Michigan. Mr. Sanders said several
times that ``Joe is going to have to explain'' various other parts of
his record, including his support for the 2003 invasion of Iraq and the
2008 bailout of the financial industry.

Image

Mr. Bloomberg appeared before supporters and staff members on Wednesday
to announce that he was ending his campaign for president and endorsing
Mr. Biden.Credit...Demetrius Freeman for The New York Times

Mr. Biden has not faced a sustained challenge in weeks, having been
largely written off by his rivals after his embarrassing fifth-place
finish in New Hampshire. It remains to be seen whether Mr. Biden will be
able to fully extend the energy that has propelled his campaign over the
last few days, and how deftly he might be able to grapple with a
determined opponent like Mr. Sanders.

But Mr. Sanders acknowledged that he was disappointed by the results
from contests this week in 15 states and territories, two-thirds of
which Mr. Biden won. And in a striking and uncharacteristic admission,
Mr. Sanders conceded that his campaign had not managed to generate the
soaring turnout among young people that he had been counting on to
secure the nomination.

``Have we been as successful as I would hope, in bringing young people
in? And the answer is no,'' Mr. Sanders said. ``We're making some
progress.''

Campaigning in West Beverly Hills, Calif., on Wednesday, Mr. Biden
brandished the breadth and diversity of his support to reject Mr.
Sanders's accusations that he is an instrument of the political
establishment.

``The establishment are all those hard-working, middle-class people,
those African-Americans, those single women,'' Mr. Biden said, referring
to voters who turned out in force for him this week.

Both Biden and Sanders supporters will be looking for victories next
Tuesday in primaries and caucuses in Michigan, Missouri and four other
states. Mr. Bloomberg's exit, and his immediate move to back Mr. Biden,
had the potential to anger Sanders supporters, who have long regarded
Mr. Bloomberg as a malignant force in the 2020 campaign, and stoke
resentment among progressives that party power brokers were again taking
aggressive steps to thwart Mr. Sanders.

But Mr. Bloomberg's decision to leave the race came primarily from an
unsparing assessment of his own feeble prospects.

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/elections/delegate-count-primary-results.html}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/01/31/us/delegate-count-primary-results-promo-1580516316371/delegate-count-primary-results-promo-1580516316371-articleLarge-v80.png}

\hypertarget{democratic-delegate-count-and-primary-election-results-2020}{%
\subsection{Democratic Delegate Count and Primary Election Results
2020}\label{democratic-delegate-count-and-primary-election-results-2020}}

See how many delegates are available in each state.

According to two people briefed on his deliberations, Mr. Bloomberg
reached the decision to withdraw from the race on Wednesday morning,
after meeting with his inner circle of advisers at the Upper East Side
townhouse that is the headquarters of his political and philanthropic
empire. Miles away was the Times Square campaign office where in just a
few months he assembled an enormous team of aides in a late-starting bid
for the presidency.

Mr. Bloomberg's advisers had acknowledged to allies even on Tuesday
evening that it was unlikely he would continue in the race, and by early
Wednesday he was making calls to some of his top supporters to inform
them of his decision. Appearing before supporters later in the day, Mr.
Bloomberg said that the delegate math that would have earned him the
nomination ``had become virtually impossible.''

Mr. Bloomberg and Mr. Biden spoke by phone on Wednesday morning, a
person briefed on the call said. Shortly after Mr. Bloomberg announced
his exit, Mr. Biden posted an appreciative tweet saying he would be
counting on Mr. Bloomberg's help to defeat President Trump.

Mr. Bloomberg's candidacy was unprecedented in its financial firepower,
amounting to a no-expenses-spared effort to take control of a
presidential race. His Democratic rivals accused him of seeking to buy
the presidency, and Mr. Bloomberg often came close to embracing that
idea: In his speeches, he frequently made allusions to his vast personal
fortune and presented himself to Democratic voters as the candidate with
``the record and the resources'' to win the general election.

But Mr. Bloomberg never escaped a set of serious political
vulnerabilities that his advisers identified from the outset, including
his long record of supporting stop-and-frisk policing and numerous
accusations made by women about harassment and gender-based
discrimination by Mr. Bloomberg and his company.

Image

Senator Bernie Sanders spoke at a rally in Essex Junction, Vt, on
Tuesday night. Up until a week ago, Mr. Sanders was regarding as having
the upper hand over Mr. Biden.Credit...Erin Schaff/The New York Times

Both issues came to the fore in the
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/02/20/us/politics/democratic-debate-las-vegas.html}{Democratic
debate in Las Vegas} last month that signaled the beginning of Mr.
Bloomberg's downfall, as Ms. Warren left him reeling with a barrage of
criticism about his conduct toward women. Mr. Biden and Mr. Sanders,
too, harried Mr. Bloomberg for his policing strategies in New York,
questioning his sensitivities on matters of race in a manner Mr.
Bloomberg
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/02/20/us/politics/bloomberg-nevada-debate.html}{defended
stiffly} and in incomplete or misleading terms.

The campaign cost Mr. Bloomberg more than half a billion dollars in
advertising alone. He also spent lavishly on robust on-the-ground
operations, with more than 200 field offices across the country and
thousands of paid staff. His operation dwarfed those of Democratic
rivals who ultimately won states in which he had installed many dozens
of employees and spent heavily on radio, television and direct mail ads.

It also enabled his campaign to produce a staggering volume of
attention-grabbing --- and, to some Democrats, cringe-inducing ---
commercials and other activities aimed at antagonizing Mr. Trump. The
same week Mr. Bloomberg wilted in the Las Vegas debate, his campaign ran
advertisements on the city's huge electronic billboards taunting Mr.
Trump: ``Donald Trump eats burnt steak,'' read one of them.

Mr. Bloomberg used his wealth to assemble an enormous campaign team of
over 2,400 staff members. He concentrated more than 100 offices in Super
Tuesday states, where his infrastructure quickly exceeded that of his
opponents. For instance, in Ms. Warren's home state of Massachusetts ---
where Mr. Bloomberg himself grew up --- he established six field offices
across the state, four more than Ms. Warren and five more than Mr.
Biden, who ultimately won there.

But as a full picture of the results came into focus on Tuesday, Mr.
Bloomberg had won only a single contest, in the territory of American
Samoa.

Reporting was contributed by Katie Glueck from West Beverly Hills,
Calif.; Sydney Ember from Burlington, Vt.; Jonathan Martin, Jeremy W.
Peters and Rebecca R. Ruiz from New York; and Patricia Mazzei from West
Palm Beach, Fla.

\hypertarget{our-2020-election-guide}{%
\section{Our 2020 Election Guide}\label{our-2020-election-guide}}

Updated July 31, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{the-latest}{%
  \subsection{The Latest}\label{the-latest}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    President Trump's assault on the Postal Service is intersecting with
    his attacks on mail-in voting.
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/politics/trump-usps-mail-delays.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Voting
    rights groups say it is a recipe for disaster.}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{bidens-vp-search}{%
  \subsection{Biden's V.P. Search}\label{bidens-vp-search}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/biden-vice-president-2020.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Here
    are 13 women} who have been under consideration to be Joe Biden's
    running mate, and why each might be chosen --- and might not be.
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{keep-up-with-our-coverage}{%
  \subsection{Keep Up With Our
  Coverage}\label{keep-up-with-our-coverage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Get an
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{email}
    recapping the day's news
  \end{itemize}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Download our mobile app on
    \href{https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nytimes/id284862083?ls=1\&mat_click_id=5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\&referrer=mat_click_id\%3D5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\%26link_click_id\%3D722930677036718082}{iOS}
    and
    \href{http://a.localytics.com/android?id=com.nytimes.android\&referrer=utm_source\%3Dother_nyt_mobile_web\%26utm_medium\%3DWeb\%2520page\%26utm_term\%3DGeneral\%2520Mobile\%2520Page\%26utm_campaign\%3DNYT\%2520Mobile\%2520General\%2520Page}{Android}
    and turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
