Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}Capitol Lacks Tests for
Returning Senators While White House Tests Many in Trump's Circle

\url{https://nyti.ms/2SrwuW0}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/news-event/coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{The
Coronavirus Outbreak}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  live\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/01/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Latest
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Maps
  and Cases}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Vaccine
  Tracker}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/07/29/us/schools-reopening-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{What
  School May Look Like}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/live/2020/07/31/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Economy}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{capitol-lacks-tests-for-returning-senators-while-white-house-tests-many-in-trumps-circle}{%
\section{Capitol Lacks Tests for Returning Senators While White House
Tests Many in Trump's
Circle}\label{capitol-lacks-tests-for-returning-senators-while-white-house-tests-many-in-trumps-circle}}

As senators prepare to return on Monday, Congress's doctor warned that
he does not have the capacity to test all 100 for coronavirus. At the
White House, the president and many of his aides are tested repeatedly.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/05/01/us/politics/01dc-virus-testing1/merlin_171652068_8c98087f-a330-4095-81f7-5835630e94bc-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/sheryl-gay-stolberg}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/11/26/multimedia/author-sheryl-gay-stolberg/author-sheryl-gay-stolberg-thumbLarge.png}}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/nicholas-fandos}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/11/06/multimedia/author-nicholas-fandos/author-nicholas-fandos-thumbLarge-v2.png}}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/katie-rogers}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/06/12/multimedia/author-katie-rogers/author-katie-rogers-thumbLarge-v2.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/sheryl-gay-stolberg}{Sheryl Gay
Stolberg}, \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/nicholas-fandos}{Nicholas
Fandos} and \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/katie-rogers}{Katie Rogers}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  May 1, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

WASHINGTON --- Dr. Brian P. Monahan, the tight-lipped doctor who attends
to Congress, sent up on Thursday what some have construed as a warning:
His office, he told senior Republican officials on a private conference
call, cannot screen all 100 senators for the coronavirus when they
return to work on Monday.

Two miles down Pennsylvania Avenue at the White House, the story is very
different. President Trump and Vice President Mike Pence are tested
frequently, aides who come into close contact with them are tested
weekly and the list of people who need to be tested daily keeps
expanding, according to officials familiar with the process.

The stark contrast between the testing haves at the White House and the
have-nots on Capitol Hill,
\href{https://www.politico.com/news/2020/04/30/capitol-physician-senators-coronavirus-testing-226980}{first
reported in Politico,} makes clear that Mr. Trump's pronouncement that
\href{https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ndojafDR2fI\&feature=youtu.be\&t=5389}{``anybody
that wants a test can get a test,''} as he said on March 6 at the
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in Atlanta, is far from true.
Although the rich and powerful are clearly favored, not even all the
powerful have equal access.

And beyond whether people can be tested, there are questions about the
tests available. At the White House, the medical unit is using a
rapid-testing kit developed by Abbott, which yields results in about
five minutes. But Dr. Monahan told the Republican aides on Thursday that
he lacked such equipment, and that it would take at least two days to
get test results.

The disparity highlights the fundamental tension between the natural
impulse to protect a president's health and the desire by most
politicians to project that they are not receiving any special
treatment, Robert Dallek, the presidential historian, said in an
interview Friday.

By flaunting his own access to tests and making false claims about the
availability of testing, Mr. Trump, he said, was only hurting his own
credibility with voters.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/05/01/us/politics/01dc-virus-testing3/merlin_171558327_7513ced3-e2b6-40f0-a5b9-7c6f1113a879-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

``When you add it to the fact that people on Capitol Hill, who after all
form an essential part of the government as well, cannot get testing as
readily, it just underscores the feeling that this man is principally
self-serving,'' Mr. Dallek said. ``It is not a good impression for the
White House to convey.''

The White House appears to agree. Shortly after 11 p.m. Friday, Mr.
Trump's health secretary, Alex M. Azar II,
\href{https://twitter.com/SecAzar/status/1256420542971875330?s=20}{made
an announcement on Twitter}: ``Good news: as the Senate reconvenes to do
important work for the American people during this public health crisis,
we have now received an initial request and are sending 3 Abbott point
of care testing machines and 1,000 tests for their use.''

Whether that will lead to the testing of asymptomatic senators is
unclear. Dr. Monahan, a
\href{https://www.navy.mil/navydata/bios/navybio.asp?bioID=514}{strait-laced
Navy rear admiral} who has been the attending physician of the Capitol
since 2009, has turned down dozens of requests for tests from House
members and senators who have not exhibited symptoms, according to a
congressional official with knowledge of the matter who spoke on the
condition of anonymity to discuss it.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-global-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/01/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: Global Coronavirus
Outbreak}}{Latest Updates: Global Coronavirus Outbreak}}\label{latest-updates-global-coronavirus-outbreak}}

Updated 2020-08-02T06:58:18.835Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/01/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-34047410}{The
  U.S. reels as July cases more than double the total of any other
  month.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/01/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-780ec966}{Top
  U.S. officials work to break an impasse over the federal jobless
  benefit.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/01/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-2bc8948}{Its
  outbreak untamed, Melbourne goes into even greater lockdown.}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/01/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

More live coverage:
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/live/2020/07/31/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Markets}

His attitude is by the book: no symptoms, no test, which is in keeping
with the C.D.C.'s guidelines for testing. In detailed guidance issued to
lawmakers on Friday, Dr. Monahan advised that members of Congress wear
masks or facial coverings when they cannot stand six feet apart from one
another.

At the White House, Mr. Trump's new press secretary, Kayleigh McEnany,
reinforced the impression that administration officials were getting
preferential treatment when she delivered her first news briefing on
Friday --- without a mask. She is among the group of senior officials
tested weekly, as all assistants and deputy assistants to the president
are, an official said on Friday. Aides who are lower in rank are tested
based on how often they are in proximity to Mr. Trump.

The White House medical unit, for its part, is keeping track of test
schedules and results for each office in the complex. Both Mr. Trump and
Mr. Pence have avoided masks in public in favor of stressing how many
times they have tested negative for the virus. Visitors to the White
House are also tested before they are allowed to be close to the
president, including groups of business leaders and governors this week
like John Bel Edwards of Louisiana.

``The governor and Alex Billioux, who is our assistant secretary of
public health, both were tested for Covid-19 when they arrived and
before they could go into the White House,'' Christina Stephens, a
spokeswoman for Mr. Edwards, said on Friday. ``They also had their
temperatures checked several times before entering the Oval Office.''

Reporters who have been traveling with Mr. Pence have undergone
coronavirus testing and journalists traveling with Mr. Trump to Arizona
next week have been advised that they will be tested before boarding Air
Force One.

On Capitol Hill, even the party leaders are not getting that treatment.

Speaker Nancy Pelosi of California had not been tested as of Friday.
Representative Kevin McCarthy of California, the top House Republican,
has, but at the White House, where Mr. McCarthy attended an event with
the president last week.

Image

The office of Dr. Brian P. Monahan, the attending physician in the
Capitol. He~has played a critical behind-the-scenes role throughout the
pandemic in advising officials on how to stay safe.Credit...Anna
Moneymaker/The New York Times

Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, the Democratic leader, has not been
tested; he takes his temperature several times a day and advises those
he talks to do the same. Aides for Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky,
the majority leader, would not say whether he had been tested or not.

There are efforts to conserve at the White House. With so many aides
reporting to work --- and undergoing regular testing --- the White House
Management Office requests regularly that officials who are able to stay
home should to adhere to social-distancing guidelines and to curb the
number of tests being administered. Secret Service agents do not
typically wear masks, but cleaning crew members do.

On Capitol Hill, the decisions have been left largely to Dr. Monahan,
who has played a critical behind-the-scenes role throughout the pandemic
in advising officials on how to stay safe. Under rules posted on his
internal website and shared with The New York Times, lawmakers must
exhibit symptoms, ``have no alternative explanation for illness'' and
must have ``a nexus to risk'' to receive a test.

The tests are then sent off site to an unnamed ``multistate national
testing organization'' for analysis --- a multiday process.

Ms. Pelosi has said repeatedly that Dr. Monahan guides her decisions.
This week, after Dr. Monahan warned Representative Steny H. Hoyer, the
Democratic leader, that it might be risky for them to come back on
Monday as scheduled, Ms. Pelosi
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/04/28/us/politics/house-return-coronavirus.html}{abandoned
plans} to do so. The House will now return May 11.

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/news-event/coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{}

\hypertarget{the-coronavirus-outbreak-}{%
\subsubsection{The Coronavirus Outbreak
›}\label{the-coronavirus-outbreak-}}

\hypertarget{frequently-asked-questions}{%
\paragraph{Frequently Asked
Questions}\label{frequently-asked-questions}}

Updated July 27, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{should-i-refinance-my-mortgage}{%
  \paragraph{Should I refinance my
  mortgage?}\label{should-i-refinance-my-mortgage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/coronavirus-money-unemployment.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{It
    could be a good idea,} because mortgage rates have
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/16/business/mortgage-rates-below-3-percent.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{never
    been lower.} Refinancing requests have pushed mortgage applications
    to some of the highest levels since 2008, so be prepared to get in
    line. But defaults are also up, so if you're thinking about buying a
    home, be aware that some lenders have tightened their standards.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{what-is-school-going-to-look-like-in-september}{%
  \paragraph{What is school going to look like in
  September?}\label{what-is-school-going-to-look-like-in-september}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    It is unlikely that many schools will return to a normal schedule
    this fall, requiring the grind of
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/05/us/coronavirus-education-lost-learning.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{online
    learning},
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/05/29/us/coronavirus-child-care-centers.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{makeshift
    child care} and
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/03/business/economy/coronavirus-working-women.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{stunted
    workdays} to continue. California's two largest public school
    districts --- Los Angeles and San Diego --- said on July 13, that
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/13/us/lausd-san-diego-school-reopening.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{instruction
    will be remote-only in the fall}, citing concerns that surging
    coronavirus infections in their areas pose too dire a risk for
    students and teachers. Together, the two districts enroll some
    825,000 students. They are the largest in the country so far to
    abandon plans for even a partial physical return to classrooms when
    they reopen in August. For other districts, the solution won't be an
    all-or-nothing approach.
    \href{https://bioethics.jhu.edu/research-and-outreach/projects/eschool-initiative/school-policy-tracker/}{Many
    systems}, including the nation's largest, New York City, are
    devising
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/26/us/coronavirus-schools-reopen-fall.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{hybrid
    plans} that involve spending some days in classrooms and other days
    online. There's no national policy on this yet, so check with your
    municipal school system regularly to see what is happening in your
    community.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{is-the-coronavirus-airborne}{%
  \paragraph{Is the coronavirus
  airborne?}\label{is-the-coronavirus-airborne}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    The coronavirus
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/04/health/239-experts-with-one-big-claim-the-coronavirus-is-airborne.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{can
    stay aloft for hours in tiny droplets in stagnant air}, infecting
    people as they inhale, mounting scientific evidence suggests. This
    risk is highest in crowded indoor spaces with poor ventilation, and
    may help explain super-spreading events reported in meatpacking
    plants, churches and restaurants.
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/06/health/coronavirus-airborne-aerosols.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{It's
    unclear how often the virus is spread} via these tiny droplets, or
    aerosols, compared with larger droplets that are expelled when a
    sick person coughs or sneezes, or transmitted through contact with
    contaminated surfaces, said Linsey Marr, an aerosol expert at
    Virginia Tech. Aerosols are released even when a person without
    symptoms exhales, talks or sings, according to Dr. Marr and more
    than 200 other experts, who
    \href{https://academic.oup.com/cid/article/doi/10.1093/cid/ciaa939/5867798}{have
    outlined the evidence in an open letter to the World Health
    Organization}.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{what-are-the-symptoms-of-coronavirus}{%
  \paragraph{What are the symptoms of
  coronavirus?}\label{what-are-the-symptoms-of-coronavirus}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Common symptoms
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/symptoms-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{include
    fever, a dry cough, fatigue and difficulty breathing or shortness of
    breath.} Some of these symptoms overlap with those of the flu,
    making detection difficult, but runny noses and stuffy sinuses are
    less common.
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/04/27/health/coronavirus-symptoms-cdc.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{The
    C.D.C. has also} added chills, muscle pain, sore throat, headache
    and a new loss of the sense of taste or smell as symptoms to look
    out for. Most people fall ill five to seven days after exposure, but
    symptoms may appear in as few as two days or as many as 14 days.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{does-asymptomatic-transmission-of-covid-19-happen}{%
  \paragraph{Does asymptomatic transmission of Covid-19
  happen?}\label{does-asymptomatic-transmission-of-covid-19-happen}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    So far, the evidence seems to show it does. A widely cited
    \href{https://www.nature.com/articles/s41591-020-0869-5}{paper}
    published in April suggests that people are most infectious about
    two days before the onset of coronavirus symptoms and estimated that
    44 percent of new infections were a result of transmission from
    people who were not yet showing symptoms. Recently, a top expert at
    the World Health Organization stated that transmission of the
    coronavirus by people who did not have symptoms was ``very rare,''
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/09/world/coronavirus-updates.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq\#link-1f302e21}{but
    she later walked back that statement.}
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

``If the Capitol physician recommends that we not come back, then we
have to take that guidance,'' she said.

Mr. McConnell chose a very different course. He is bringing the Senate
back into session on Monday amid a rising coronavirus caseload in the
region. Mr. McConnell's staff would not say whether the leader has
spoken directly with Dr. Monahan.

On Friday afternoon, though, Mr. McConnell issued detailed guidelines to
his colleagues based on Dr. Monahan's recommendations, and thanked the
doctor, along with other Senate officials, for working ``hard to develop
solutions so that the United States Senate can smartly and safely begin
resuming our critical in-person work on Monday.''

In a memo Dr. Monahan circulated on Thursday, he offered advice for
attending committee meetings. Wearing masks or face coverings was
``strongly recommended'' in situations where keeping six feet apart was
not possible, he said, and he urged lawmakers to ``use provided hand
sanitizer'' and ``remain seated until the conclusion of the meeting, to
the extent possible.''

``The face covering is likely to be most useful in preventing viral
spread while a person is speaking,'' the memo read.

Dr. Monahan, 60, is a quiet presence in the Capitol, where he oversees
an office that functions as a full-service in-house medical clinic for
those working in the Capitol complex, including in the Supreme Court.
Dr. Monahan often accompanies House or Senate leaders on official
delegation trips overseas, as the White House physician does with the
president.

``He seems to be ubiquitous on Capitol Hill,'' said Senator Chris Van
Hollen, Democrat of Maryland, who lives down the street from Dr. Monahan
in Kensington, Md., a suburb of Washington. ``He really is everywhere
and for us, he is always on duty. He's 24/7.''

Image

This week, after Dr. Monahan warned Democratic leaders that it might be
risky for lawmakers to come back on Monday as scheduled, Speaker Nancy
Pelosi abandoned plans to do so. Credit...Anna Moneymaker/The New York
Times

When Ms. Pelosi's aides needed to figure out how to keep lawmakers safe
while they passed a \$2 trillion coronavirus relief package in March,
Dr. Monahan worked with the sergeant-at-arms to come up with a plan for
a ``visual quorum,'' a senior House Democratic aide said, in which
lawmakers spaced themselves around the chamber and in the galleries
above it.

Last week, when House members returned to the Capitol
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/04/23/us/politics/house-passes-relief-for-small-businesses-and-aid-for-hospitals-and-testing.html}{to
approve a \$484 billion aid package}, Dr. Monahan advised that they vote
in chunks of 60 people at a time, and recommended that they wear masks
on the House floor. Most of the Democrats and many of the Republicans
did. (Mr. McConnell has begun wearing a mask when he leaves and enters
the Capitol, but not in the Senate chamber.)

Now, with senators about to come back to Washington, some are sounding
nervous. Without sufficient diagnostic testing, they fear the Capitol
--- where senators are supported not only by their own aides but also a
vast support staff of food service workers, custodians and other
personnel --- would become a mini hot spot for the virus.

In a letter to Mr. McConnell this week urging him to reconsider his
decision to bring back the Senate, Senator Dianne Feinstein, Democrat of
California, who at 86 is the oldest senator, cited Dr. Monahan.

``The attending physician of Congress, Dr. Brian Monahan, advised House
leadership that he recommends against resuming their session,'' she
wrote. ``Speaker Pelosi and Majority Leader Hoyer did the right thing by
heeding this public health advice and are setting the right example for
the country.''

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
