\href{/section/style}{Style}\textbar{}All Dressed Up, With No Prom to Go
To

\url{https://nyti.ms/3ai7xCy}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/spotlight/at-home?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=at_home_menu}{At
Home}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/07/travel/route-66.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=at_home_menu}{Cruise
  Along: Route 66}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/04/dining/sheet-pan-chicken.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=at_home_menu}{Roast:
  Chicken With Plums}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/04/arts/television/dark-shadows-stream.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=at_home_menu}{Watch:
  Dark Shadows}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/at-home/even-more-reporters-editors-diaries-lists-recommendations.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=at_home_menu}{Explore:
  Reporters' Google Docs}
\end{itemize}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/04/19/fashion/15VIRUS-PROM1/merlin_171364857_85fd101d-fa56-44ce-a749-2732ca0ccdec-superJumbo.jpg}

Credit...By Calla Kessler

Sections

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\hypertarget{all-dressed-up-with-no-prom-to-go-to}{%
\section{All Dressed Up, With No Prom to Go
To}\label{all-dressed-up-with-no-prom-to-go-to}}

These high school seniors were looking forward to their last dance. Then
their proms started getting canceled.

Credit...By Calla Kessler

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

Photographs by Calla Kessler

Text by
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/jazmine-hughes}{Jazmine
Hughes}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  April 17, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

A canceled date, another detention, an ill-timed zit: When you're in
high school, any number of problems can make it feel like the end of the
world has arrived. Luckily, for those of us who've already graduated, a
global pandemic never made the list.

But for students in the class of 2020, the Covid-19 crisis arrived just
as they were receiving college acceptance letters, dreaming about new
jobs, gearing up to leave high school behind --- and making plans for
prom, which, for most students, has been canceled.

We photographed 10 students from Omaha in the outfits they had planned
to wear to the dance. They talked to us about their prom dreams, hopes
and disappointments. The cultural rite of passage, which they've largely
experienced through movies and television shows, books and Mom's old
photos, was their chance to feel like adults --- or at least on the
brink of adulthood, anyway --- for the first time.

Now, it feels like high school is ending on a whimper. ``There's been so
many tears, but I guess the best thing that's helped me get through it
is that I'm not alone,'' said Olivia Mathews, 17. ``Every senior in high
school in the world right now knows how I feel, so that makes the pain a
little easier to deal with.''

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

Mercy High School

\hypertarget{aaliyah-flores-pliego-17}{%
\subsection{Aaliyah Flores-Pliego, 17}\label{aaliyah-flores-pliego-17}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/04/19/fashion/17VIRUS-PROM5/merlin_171365520_b78055d9-4916-4bdf-b5fc-96519d4dfb88-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Prom has been rescheduled three times already. First, it was going to be
in late April. Then, May 9. And now they just rescheduled it in June.
The girls at our school really want to have a prom, and we have a
teacher who really wants us to have one, too. We have that special kind
of relationship with teachers where they're not just our teachers ---
they know about our lives. They're trying to do anything that they can.

I'm a big fangirl of prom. I watch a lot of movies about high school. I
always envisioned prom as something special, something memorable, just
because you only go to high school once.

At an all-girls school, prom is a really big deal, because we're able to
pick out a boy, and we can meet everyone's boyfriends or guy friends. I
was planning on taking this guy that I'm talking to, and we're just
really great friends. Who knows! What if we end up getting married, and
we didn't end up going to prom together? Anything could have happened on
prom day.

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

Bellevue West High School

\hypertarget{trey-hepburn-18}{%
\subsection{Trey Hepburn, 18}\label{trey-hepburn-18}}

Image

Credit...Calla Kessler/The New York Times

I was actually hoping that I would get prom king. I'm a likable person.
I don't treat anyone any different than how I would treat my family. In
my head, I was thinking, I'd be dancing with somebody, and then the
music stops and they announce it, and as soon as they do, everyone
starts cheering and chanting my name. It would have been really cool.

Assuming that I stay healthy through this time, I would honestly say
that I'm one of the lucky people in the sense that I was able to stay
home through this and not have gotten the virus. But the fact that it
happened like my year, it's kind of funny: I was actually born right
before 9/11 happened, and now I'm going into the real world with
coronavirus happening. It's weird.

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

Mercy High School

\hypertarget{sunny-yang-18}{%
\subsection{Sunny Yang, 18}\label{sunny-yang-18}}

Image

Credit...Calla Kessler/The New York Times

Prom is a really big deal. Since it's an all-girls school, we pick one
prom queen and two princesses. I ordered my dress before spring break,
in February. I was so excited, and I wanted to be prepared so I could
plan my makeup and the jewelry, color-coding my outfit.

For me, it's a day to be a princess. We wear uniforms all the time. We
don't get to wear jeans or any cute tops, so it was a day where I can
wear something special and cute. It's a day to treat myself: spending
money, looking gorgeous, looking happy all that day, not worrying about
homework. The very first job that I got was to save up money for prom.

I'm an immigrant from South Korea. I came here for high school. I tell
my Korean friends that prom's a big deal because it's the last day that
you can actually enjoy whatever you want to do before you graduate high
school. I had the Disney Channel in Korea, and all the high school
movies always had a prom. I wanted to have that experience at least
once.

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

Creighton Prep

\hypertarget{ty-mcsweeney-18}{%
\subsection{Ty McSweeney, 18}\label{ty-mcsweeney-18}}

Image

Credit...Calla Kessler/The New York Times

I go to an all-guys school. It is kind of a big deal, but not the worst
thing in the world. It's just another thing that we're missing out on.
The girls we'd take are probably more upset about it. I try to keep a
positive mind-set. I'm on student council at my school, so I knew the
plans for it. It was going to be a casino-type thing, a bunch of fun
games. One of my friends is on the planning committee, and he's been
saying it's like the biggest disappointment.

I'm not getting that experience to feel like I'm moving on in life. My
life is just waiting for me, but I can't leave the house. In time, I'm
going to get over it. But looking back, if I have kids or something,
they'll be like, ``Whoa, you were alive during this point,'' so that'll
be kind of cool.

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

Mercy High School

\hypertarget{nyaduel-mayang-paljor-18}{%
\subsection{Nyaduel Mayang Paljor, 18}\label{nyaduel-mayang-paljor-18}}

Image

Credit...Calla Kessler/The New York Times

I was hurt when I found out prom was canceled, because I was so excited
to finally have my senior prom and look my best for the last time. I
borrowed a dress. I went to Instagram and looked at some of my friends'
prom photos from last year, and saw one that I liked, so I screenshotted
it and asked if I could borrow it.

I've had the same friend group since freshman year, and we take pictures
together for every dance. It's sad that we don't get to get our last
dance photo shoot together. I thought it'd be like the movies and I'd
get to take photos with my friends, you know?

It sucks, because all that stuff is gone, but at the same time, a lot of
stuff that I didn't enjoy for my school is gone as well, so it balances
out. I didn't like waking up early every single day, five times a week.
Now, I don't have to do that.

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

Omaha Northwest High School

\hypertarget{livia-mcfadden-17}{%
\subsection{Livia McFadden, 17}\label{livia-mcfadden-17}}

Image

Credit...Calla Kessler/The New York Times

I'm a big school person: I'm extra-involved, overinvolved. I like to
support other people. So prom being canceled hurts, because everything
that I do means so much to me. I always want to be making the most of
the time I have, and now all that time is gone.

Everyone wants to walk in prom court, and that was something that I was
looking forward to as well: the chance to run and maybe be prom queen. I
was prom princess last year, and I felt amazing. I was special. I kind
of got my moment already, but I wanted someone else to get the chance to
feel the way that I felt. I just wish that everyone could have that
moment.

Sometimes things work out, and sometimes they don't, but there's always
hope and there's always a chance to seize an opportunity. Hopefully we
can do something, as the class of 2020, to make up for the prom, and
teach the lesson of don't just give up because something's been taken,
but take it back.

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

Central High School

\hypertarget{gunnar-duke-18}{%
\subsection{Gunnar Duke, 18}\label{gunnar-duke-18}}

Image

Credit...Calla Kessler/The New York Times

I was disappointed when prom got canceled, because I always wear a suit
that stands out a lot. This year was going to be all dark purple satin
material. It had eagle cuff links, which is the mascot of our high
school, and it was going to have a white cape around it, and I had
golden spiked shoes that matched a golden bow tie. It was going to look
really cool. I just like being different, standing out. At junior prom,
I wore this pink leopard suit.

My grandma makes all my suits from scratch. She has since sophomore
year. I usually come up with an idea, and then we go pick out a fabric
that she likes, and she shows me how it'll turn out. She's already done
with the suit part, but she's not done with the cape. I usually always
post pictures of my outfit on Instagram --- it just won't be the same.

It's just kind of sad because the reason that it was canceled is all out
of our control. There's not a lot we can do about it. But I missed out
only a little bit, because most people get two proms and I only had one.
If I have kids, I'll tell them to make the most of their prom and don't
have any regrets, because something might just come up like this again.
You never know when it's your last prom.

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

Central High School

\hypertarget{kaya-koraleski-18}{%
\subsection{Kaya Koraleski, 18}\label{kaya-koraleski-18}}

Image

Credit...Calla Kessler/The New York Times

Junior prom isn't that great, in my opinion, so I was super excited for
senior prom. Prom is pretty much a rite of culture for Omaha kids. It's
the big night to get super dressed up. It's always been a huge thing to
go out and buy your dress early. I got my dress in December or January.
Me and my two best girlfriends went to Von Maur here in Omaha, and it
was like, prom is so far away, we're not going to find a dress, and then
I found the perfect one. I have this navy blue, long, super sparkly
dress, because I wanted a dress with the themes of the roaring 20s,
which is the theme of our year. I had my hair figured out in February.
It's a very indescribable feeling, getting ready for a big event that
you know you're going to remember for the rest of your life.

All my classes are moved online to doing Zoom meetings, and we're
talking in my government class about how this could be happening in the
fall again, and it just sounds like a nightmare that this is going to
happen during my freshman year of college, too. It just feels like I'm
missing a lot of the big opportunities that people are always like,
``Oh, just wait for this. It's one moment that you'll never forget.''
I'm not getting those moments.

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

Creighton Prep

\hypertarget{isiaah-clark-18}{%
\subsection{Isiaah Clark, 18}\label{isiaah-clark-18}}

Image

Credit...Calla Kessler/The New York Times

I am part of chamber choir, and last year the seniors in the program
approached me with the idea of having me play the piano and sing at
their prom. Of course, I was kind of hesitant, because I was still a
junior and I really looked up to those guys. But it was really dope. I
was going to play again this year. My friend and I had been going
through and vetting people and making sure they were serious about
playing at prom, because it's a time commitment, with the rehearsals.

We were going to play Stevie Wonder, Bruno Mars and then also our class
song, which is ``Home,'' by Phillip Phillips. It would have been magical
to be up there jamming with my friends. Honestly, they're like my
brothers. Something I think I would never forget is the energy in the
room. It would have been electric.

I was going to take my girlfriend to prom. It would have been on our
one-year anniversary, on prom day. My grandfather was going to let me
drive his Corvette, which just hurts now.

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

Marian High School

\hypertarget{olivia-mathews-17}{%
\subsection{Olivia Mathews, 17}\label{olivia-mathews-17}}

Image

Credit...Calla Kessler/The New York Times

I have a bunch of older siblings, so I was looking forward to this
moment my whole life. As a kid, I was just like, ``Wow, that looks so
cool, I can't wait till I get to do that someday. Only the big kids get
to do it!'' When I finally got to that age, I was like, this is my time
to shine. My first prom was junior year, and I didn't know that it was
going to be my last one, so I didn't really soak it all in. If I had
known, I would have spent less time on my phone. I would have partied
like there was no tomorrow.

I feel like the world has kind of skipped over us, and forgotten how big
of a deal your senior year can be. When everything started to get
canceled, I was like, can't we postpone it? Because this is it for me.
I'm not going to be able to do this ever again.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
