Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/podcasts/the-daily}{The Daily}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/podcasts/the-daily}{The Daily}\textbar{}The Woman Defending
Harvey Weinstein

\href{https://nyti.ms/39hghZy}{https://nyti.ms/39hghZy}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

transcript

Back to The Daily

bars

0:00/32:57

-32:57

transcript

\hypertarget{the-woman-defending-harvey-weinstein}{%
\subsection{The Woman Defending Harvey
Weinstein}\label{the-woman-defending-harvey-weinstein}}

\hypertarget{hosted-by-michael-barbaro-produced-by-alexandra-leigh-young-jonathan-wolfe-and-lynsea-garrison-and-edited-by-lisa-chow}{%
\subsubsection{Hosted by Michael Barbaro, produced by Alexandra Leigh
Young, Jonathan Wolfe and Lynsea Garrison, and edited by Lisa
Chow}\label{hosted-by-michael-barbaro-produced-by-alexandra-leigh-young-jonathan-wolfe-and-lynsea-garrison-and-edited-by-lisa-chow}}

\hypertarget{one-of-the-reporters-who-broke-the-story-of-the-hollywood-producers-alleged-abuse-speaks-with-donna-rotunno-the-lawyer-behind-mr-weinsteins-legal-strategy}{%
\paragraph{One of the reporters who broke the story of the Hollywood
producer's alleged abuse speaks with Donna Rotunno, the lawyer behind
Mr. Weinstein's legal
strategy.}\label{one-of-the-reporters-who-broke-the-story-of-the-hollywood-producers-alleged-abuse-speaks-with-donna-rotunno-the-lawyer-behind-mr-weinsteins-legal-strategy}}

Friday, February 7th, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item
  donna rotunno\\
  I was contacted on a Tuesday evening as I was leaving my office, from
  someone in New York, and they said it's something big. And it's funny,
  because I think most people would expect me to say I was shocked by
  the call. And I really wasn't.

  We spoke for eight hours the first time I came. And he was really
  interested in speaking to a female lawyer, and I said I thought that
  was a good idea for him.

  Being a woman at least puts me in a position where people say, well,
  wait, this woman has a different position than what the majority of
  women are feeling today. But I also believe that I hold the position
  that a lot of women feel and don't want to talk about. At the end of
  the day, Harvey Weinstein is well aware of the fact that his life is
  on the line here. And obviously, having a voice is not only necessary
  and fair but it's something that he deserves. He deserves to have a
  voice out there.
\item
  archived recording 1\\
  How are you feeling, Harvey?
\item
  archived recording 2\\
  Thank God your mother's not here to see this.
\end{itemize}

michael barbaro

From The New York Times, I'm Michael Barbaro. This is ``The Daily.''

\begin{itemize}
\item
  archived recording 3\\
  Mr. Weinstein, how are you feeling today?
\item
  archived recording 4\\
  Harvey Weinstein walked gingerly into court this morning without the
  walker he has relied on for weeks.
\item
  archived recording 5\\
  Harvey, how are you feeling today?
\end{itemize}

michael barbaro

In the trial of Harvey Weinstein, six women have taken the stand, each
making similar accusations of rape and sexual assault against the movie
producer.

\begin{itemize}
\item
  archived recording 6\\
  She alleged that Harvey Weinstein urinated on her, threw her on the
  bed, got on top of her and pinned her ---
\item
  archived recording 7\\
  Today, she took the stand, recounting three separate assaults, at
  times sobbing uncontrollably.
\item
  archived recording 8\\
  But the defense previewed what it called dozens of loving emails sent
  by some accusers to the producer.
\end{itemize}

michael barbaro

Throughout their testimony, Weinstein's defense lawyers have portrayed
those encounters as consensual ---

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  archived recording 9\\
  The relationship continued ---
\end{itemize}

michael barbaro

--- and suggested that in many cases, it was the women who wanted
something from Weinstein.

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  archived recording 10\\
  Donna Rotunno, Harvey Weinstein's lawyer, asked Jessica Mann to read
  an email that she had sent to her boyfriend at the time.
\end{itemize}

michael barbaro

His lawyers have seized on the fact that the two women whose accounts
are at the center of the criminal charges agreed to have sex and
friendly contact with Weinstein after they were allegedly victimized.

\begin{itemize}
\item
  archived recording 11\\
  Today, on her second day of testimony, Jessica Mann had a breakdown on
  the stand during cross-examination, when she was being questioned by
  Weinstein's attorney Donna Rotunno.
\item
  archived recording 12\\
  ``You met Harvey Weinstein at a Hollywood Oscar party,'' the defense
  attorney asked. ``Yes.'' ``Did you think that meant you were getting a
  role?'' ``Yes.''
\end{itemize}

michael barbaro

Today: My colleague Megan Twohey, one of the reporters who broke the
story of Weinstein's alleged abuse more than two years ago, speaks with
Donna Rotunno, the lawyer behind Weinstein's defense

\begin{itemize}
\item
  archived recording 1\\
  Morning.
\item
  archived recording 2\\
  {[}CHATTER{]}
\item
  archived recording 3\\
  Any comment on the trial, Mr. Weinstein?
\item
  archived recording (harvey weinstein)\\
  I have good lawyers.
\item
  archived recording 4\\
  How you doing, Harvey?
\item
  archived recording (harvey weinstein)\\
  Really good.
\item
  archived recording 5\\
  I hope so, for crying out loud.
\end{itemize}

michael barbaro

It's Friday, February 7.

megan twohey

So we'll be --- we can start? O.K., so you're going to put on your ---

alexandra leigh young

Do you want to tell us what you had for breakfast?

donna rotunno

Sure. I had a nothing for breakfast {[}LAUGHING{]}, actually. Not even a
coffee.

megan twohey

All right. Well, Donna, thank you again for being with us this
afternoon. I've read that you have represented as many as 40 men accused
of sexual misconduct. That's a lot.

donna rotunno

It is.

megan twohey

Do you remember a specific case that pulled you into representing men
accused of sexual misconduct?

donna rotunno

You know, I think, really, one of the cases that pulled me in initially,
before I even was taking these kinds of cases, was the Duke lacrosse
case. It's like here we have the media coming out and just assassinating
these young guys, and then coming to find out that this story completely
collapsed. And I remember my mother saying at the time, when we were
watching the coverage on the news, ``When those boys die someday, their
obituary is going to say `the Duke lacrosse players.' '' And I thought,
wow, here's this allegation that sticks with you your whole life. I
mean, these are life changing circumstances. I think quite often we look
to the accusers, and we talk about the effects that these things have on
their lives. But we do not look at the effects that these types of
allegations and accusations have on the person being accused. And you
have to look at what it does to people's financial abilities, their
status in the community. I mean, I represented a guy in Chicago who is a
custom clothing designer, who made clothes for movie sets and presidents
and high level executives in Chicago. And one woman makes an allegation,
and all of that business goes away. And so he wins, but what do you win?
You win your case in criminal court, and then you have to worry about
building your reputation back, if you can, where people are willing to
then come back and frequent your establishment. So the ramifications are
social. They're economic. They are mental --- the mental toll that it
takes. I mean, look at Harvey. Look at Harvey physically, from what he
looked like when all of this started to what he looks like now. People
can talk all they want about walkers and faking it. Physically, it is so
apparently obvious what this has done, and the toll this has taken on
him.

megan twohey

You're talking about the toll that the criminal justice system can take
on men accused of sexual misconduct. When I was working as a reporter in
Chicago, my investigations turned up evidence of the opposite. That all
too often, victims of sex crimes were the ones being mistreated by
police and prosecutors. I discovered that law enforcement was, for
example, shelving rape kits, basically sitting on valuable DNA evidence
that could help victims obtain justice. I found that sex-abusing doctors
were continuing to practice even after patients reported them to police.
And in response to my reporting, prosecutors and police acknowledged
that they had failed victims. But are you saying that from your
perspective, it was the accused who were being treated unfairly or ---

donna rotunno

No. I'm talking about the fact that we --- especially today --- all I
can tell you is, in my cases, what I see, we allow people who make
allegations to automatically take on a victim status. And I think for
me, all I'm looking for is fairness. And if we automatically have this
notion that we're supposed to believe all women, or believe all victims,
or believe all people that come forward, we are taking out a very large
portion of the steps that we should be taking before we get to that
notion --- that just because someone says something they should be
believed. So I think it's, what you have reported, I will not disagree
with. I've seen police do horrible things. I've seen prosecutors do
horrible things. But I'm speaking from the perspective of what I think
going through something like this, and an allegation, does to someone.
And one isn't it more serious than the other. One shouldn't be more
important than the other. They're facts. Difficult for people to come
forward. Difficult for people to be accused.

megan twohey

Are you saying that as you built your practice and created this niche in
terms of representing men accused of sexual misconduct, that as you saw
it, the criminal justice system favored victims?

donna rotunno

I think 100 percent. I think it 100 percent favored victims. I think
prosecutors and police are afraid to be skeptical of complaining
witnesses and accusers today. I think they feel like, I better just
believe what they say. I think it's also happening in domestic violence
cases.

megan twohey

What is it like to cross-examine alleged victims of sex crimes?

donna rotunno

I think that it requires a skillful set of questions and preparation.
And I don't ever look at my job as going in there trying to be
disrespectful, or berate someone, or minimize what they claim happened
to them. I don't take pride in having to put people through
circumstances that they may find difficult. That's not the point of what
I do. My job is to ask questions that make a trier of fact, whether that
be a judge or a jury, determine if they think their story is credible.
What someone says does not mean that that's what happened. There's
always more than one side to a story. And there's something in our
Constitution, the Sixth Amendment right to confront witnesses. And my
client, whoever that is at the time, has the right to confront his
accusers through me or my team. And that's what I have to do. And to
live in this country, to not believe that baffles me.

megan twohey

So what did you think about how the \#MeToo movement unfolded?

donna rotunno

I've talked about \#MeToo a lot, and I get labeled this anti-\#MeToo.
It's not really anti-\#MeToo. it's anti-what happens because of things
like \#MeToo. So if 500 positives come from \#MeToo --- and I'm sure I
could sit here with you and look at all the things that have come from
\#MeToo and agree that there's positive things that come from \#MeToo.
But if as part of that, that strips your right to due process --- if
we're going to convict people before they have a trial, I find that to
be damaging and detrimental.

megan twohey

In making your decision to represent Weinstein, did you factor in this
long history of accusations of sexual harassment and sexual assault
against Weinstein outside of the criminal charges, some of which were
made years before 2017 and the \#MeToo movement being ignited?

donna rotunno

You know, I didn't. I didn't. Because my role in this is to represent
him in a criminal case. And as I've said multiple times, there is a
difference between sins and crimes. And you can believe that Harvey
Weinstein is a sinner. And you can believe that he did things that you
wouldn't do or you don't like. But my question here is, does that rise
to the level of a crime?

megan twohey

What are sins?

donna rotunno

I mean, sins are treating somebody inappropriately. Sins are yelling at
somebody at work. Cheating on your wife, I mean, that's a sin. And you
know, those types of things are not good, but they also don't mean that
you should spend the rest of your life in prison.

{[}music{]}

megan twohey

So what do you see as the clearest evidence that Harvey Weinstein should
not be convicted?

donna rotunno

I think, you know, these are consensual encounters. We have
communications at the time that I believe prove that they were
consensual encounters. I believe the actions of women after the fact
prove that they were consensual encounters. When you look at real-time
communications between two people, it really lends a very interesting
spotlight into what was happening between two people at the time. And
maybe the story being told today or in a courtroom is different. And I
guess at the end of the day, it's going to be for the 12 people on the
jury to decide based on the evidence, if they can shut out everything
else that they've heard. And hopefully they will make their decision
based on the facts and the evidence that they hear in the courtroom.

megan twohey

Do you think that sexual violence can take place within otherwise
consensual relationships?

donna rotunno

I do. I absolutely do.

megan twohey

But you don't think that that ---

donna rotunno

No, I don't think that that plays into this case at all. I don't think
it plays into this case when you have people that are continuing to
contact him when they have absolutely no other reason to. You know,
things like reaching out to Mr. Weinstein after you change your phone
number, saying, I wanted to make sure you had my new phone number. These
communications go far beyond anything that any mental health
professional, psychiatrist, psychologist --- they go far beyond any of
these new circumstances that doctors want to put forth in order to
explain away why people may enter into certain behaviors. They go far
beyond that.

megan twohey

So what about the wide understanding that Harvey Weinstein was not just
a powerful producer in the entertainment industry, but one of the most
powerful producers. Somebody who could make and break careers that could
serve as a gateway into the entertainment industry. And a lot of the
women who have made allegations, not just in the criminal case, but
beyond the criminal case, have said that even after experiencing alleged
sexual misconduct, they had communication with him because they felt
like he could either hurt or harm their careers.

donna rotunno

Well, the notion that he could hurt them is absolutely ridiculous.
Harvey Weinstein was one of many very powerful people. And if Harvey
Weinstein called one of the other people in the industry and said don't
use actress A, they would have wanted to use actress A 10 times more. So
that notion that he could hurt people's careers I absolutely find
ridiculous. The second part of your question is, these are still choices
that women are making. And whether they're choices you're happy you made
or not happy you made, you still made a choice. And women have to start
owning those choices. And they either have to say, I'm not going to do
these things to attempt to get a job, or I'm going to own my choice for
making that decision.

megan twohey

Can you elaborate on that a little bit? I'm trying to understand how
that --- when you say that women have choices, I'm trying to understand
how that does not extend to you saying that women have a choice whether
or not to be sexually harassed or sexually assaulted. that you seem to
be placing all of the responsibility on the woman.

donna rotunno

Megan, I'm not blaming anyone. Megan, no, I'm not putting all of the
responsibility on the woman. I'm placing responsibility on the woman.
Women cannot be equal if women don't start taking on equal risk. Women
want men to take on all the risk. They want to then put themselves in
whatever situation they're in, and then walk out and say, oh my God, I
had no idea that was going to happen to me. You can't have it both ways.
And when you're put in circumstances that you think are questionable, or
negative, or you don't want to be in, or you think this is the only way
I'm going to get the job, we know that that's ridiculous. We know that
if women stand up and say, I'm not going to take this, I'm not going to
do this, you have other options. So when I make comments and say ``if
you go to the hotel room,'' doesn't mean you deserve to have something
bad happen to you. But if you go to the hotel room, you continue to
perpetrate a culture that allows that to be acceptable. And so if women
take the power and women say, none of us are going to a hotel room, then
that culture must change.

megan twohey

I mean, I think it's also important to make clear that you're kind of
conflating women in general, agreeing to meet somebody in a hotel room,
with alleged victims of Harvey Weinstein agreeing to meet Harvey
Weinstein in hotel rooms. In those cases, it was very well established
that Harvey Weinstein conducted business in hotel rooms. Oftentimes,
women who say that they were victimized by Weinstein in those hotel
rooms said that they were showing up for work meetings. In fact, some of
them had been told to go there by their agents.

donna rotunno

Well, I'm just going to tell you that in my case, the two charged
victims in my case, that is not the circumstance. And if you are asked
to go to a event for the Oscars, and then you are asked to go out for
drinks after the event for the Oscars, and then you are asked at
midnight to come up and see a script, I think at some point women have
to --- like, the radar has to go up, or the light bulb has to go on, and
you have to say, O.K., this may not be what I think it is.

megan twohey

So there are --- of the many women who said that they showed up for work
meetings at a hotel room or at an office, only to feel like Harvey
Weinstein turned around and preyed on them and tried to sexually assault
or harass them --- there are women who have said that they were able to
find ways to get out of the room. There are obviously other women who
say that they failed to be able to get out of the room. That he attacked
them, that he physically restrained them.

donna rotunno

Again, based on the cases that I have and the things that I'm seeing,
anytime someone said, I don't want to do this, you have a bad reputation
with women, I'm not giving you a massage --- they walked out of the
room. I think anybody that said no, they walked out. And a lot of people
that said no are very famous now.

megan twohey

What reason would these women have to lie?

donna rotunno

We have created a society of celebrity victimhood status. We have
created a society where women don't have to take any responsibility for
their actions. And we have created a society where if we say believe all
women, that means we're not supposed to question anyone at all. So there
is absolutely no risk for a woman to come forward now and make a claim.
Zero.

megan twohey

It's one thing for a woman to step forward and make an allegation on
social media or in the pages of a newspaper. It's another thing for a
woman to agree to be part of a criminal prosecution and to move forward
with all that that entails, including the rigorous cross-examination
that you and your co-counsel are performing. Do you think that women
would submit themselves to that process if they were lying?

donna rotunno

Yes. Because I've seen it over and over and over again.

megan twohey

So you believe that Harvey Weinstein is not guilty of the criminal
charges he's facing in this trial, but there are these more than 90
women who have accused Weinstein of sexual misconduct. Do you accept
that this criminal case aside, he may very well be guilty of being a
sexual predator?

donna rotunno

My job is not to defend all things Harvey Weinstein. My job is to defend
Harvey Weinstein in a criminal courtroom, which I'm doing. And society
will make the judgment call after that. That's not my call to make.

megan twohey

So you don't think that the stories of those 90 plus women are valid or
are meaningful in relation to you?

donna rotunno

Megan, it's not about valid. Megan, you could turn this around every way
you want. Everybody that's listening to this knows you wrote a book and
knows you have a completely different agenda than the reason that I'm
sitting here. And I came here today, in good faith, to talk to you about
this conversation. And I'm more than happy to do it. But in terms of me
going back and talking about every claim someone made, I'm sure if I
delved into individual claims, I would find things that make me say, I'm
not so sure. But in terms of what happens going forward, Harvey
Weinstein hopefully is going to walk out of that criminal courtroom as a
free man. And then the society is going to make its judgments. And
that's not for me to decide. And for you either, frankly.

megan twohey

So, and I'm sorry, but to go back to the comment you made about the fact
that, you know, my colleague Jodi Kantor and I not just broke the
Weinstein story and did a lot of investigative reporting on this, we did
in fact write a book. But when you say my agenda or our agenda, what do
you mean by that?

donna rotunno

Well, you have a completely different view on this, and of course I'm
not begrudging you. You have a right to your opinion, just as I have a
right to mine. But all I'm saying is that, you know, I look at the title
of the book. The title of the book is ``She Said.'' It's very difficult
for Harvey to be able to tell another side, or tell his side of the
story, when there is a criminal case going on. So I'm just cautioning
people to be a little bit more skeptical about a one-sided version of
events. That's all.

megan twohey

Well, I'm sorry, but I have to sort of dispute your claim that we have
at any point presented one-sided journalism. We have ---

donna rotunno

Megan, I'm not saying that. I'm not saying that.

megan twohey

We have, yeah, we have engaged. We have gone to Harvey Weinstein and
presented all of the allegations that we were planning to publish and
given him adequate time to respond. And I think that, you know, I just
want to emphasize that we go into our reporting with skepticism. That
when we were reporting the allegations of sexual misconduct against
Weinstein, that we didn't simply turn around and publish those
allegations without doing due diligence, without turning to people in
whom these women had confided, in whom they had reported these alleged
attacks, and gathering that corroborating evidence, and tracking down
the documents of the secret settlements that were silenced and other
internal company records.

donna rotunno

Again, I'm not debating any of this. I read it. I read it. I'm not
debating any of this. I'm merely stating that now that we're in a
criminal courtroom, there is a different forum to be able to tell this
story and let these events play out. That's all.

megan twohey

So certainly there are women who believe you are doing the right thing
by defending Harvey Weinstein, but you must know a lot of women who see
you as a kind of traitor. How do you respond to that?

donna rotunno

All I can say to them is I hope they never find themselves in a
situation where their family member is accused, and they're hoping that
the criminal justice system is fair to them. Because at the end of the
day, that's the most important part of this whole aspect, is that if you
are accused of a crime, the system of justice should work one way or
another. And I'm not here to predict outcomes. I don't know what's going
to happen or what the jury's going to do. But just as everybody wants
fairness to the people making allegations, I want Mr. Weinstein to have
the same fairness that should be afforded to him.

megan twohey

Well, thank you so much for taking the time to talk to us, Donna. I
really appreciate it.

donna rotunno

Thanks. I appreciate it, too.

megan twohey

Are there any question, and other questions, guys? I know that was a
long one.

donna rotunno

That's all right.

megan twohey

Oh, and actually I had another question, which was whether or not you've
been sexually assaulted.

donna rotunno

I have not.

megan twohey

O.K.

donna rotunno

I have not.

megan twohey

O.K.

donna rotunno

Because I would never put myself in that position.

megan twohey

So you're saying --- O.K., actually, I'm sorry. So you're saying that
you --- you're saying that you have never been sexually assaulted,
because you would never put yourself in the position of being sexually
assaulted?

donna rotunno

No. I've always made choices, from college age on, where I never drank
too much, I never went home with someone that I didn't know. I just
never put myself in any vulnerable circumstance ever.

megan twohey

Do you believe that every woman who's been sexually assaulted somehow
put herself in that position, whether it was having drinks or agreeing
to go to a hotel room?

donna rotunno

Absolutely not. But just as we make smart decisions when we walk out on
the street at night, I think you have to make the same decisions when
you're putting yourself in circumstances with other people. When we walk
out at night, we look around. We make sure we have our phone. Some
people take Mace. We take precautions. And all I'm saying is, is that
women should take precautions.

megan twohey

Do you think it's possible for women to take all of those precautions
and still be sexually assaulted? To still be pulled into a dark alley,
to still be ---

donna rotunno

Totally different conversation.

megan twohey

To still ---

donna rotunno

Totally --- being pulled into a dark alley is a totally different
conversation.

megan twohey

So you are talking about sexual assault, women being sexually assaulted
by somebody they know?

donna rotunno

Correct.

megan twohey

Do you think it's possible for women to be sexually assaulted by
somebody that they know, even if they've taken precautions?

donna rotunno

Sure, anything's possible, Megan. It's not about what's possible. It's
about trying to, again, minimize the risk. If you go out on a date with
someone and you go out for dinner and you go out for drinks and you know
them sort of, and you know, you're sort of maybe developing a
relationship with them. And you make a choice to go into their home at
the end of the night, what do you think could potentially happen? And if
you're not prepared for what could potentially happen, I think we're
kidding ourselves. And then to leave and say I had no idea that this
person would maybe try to be sexual with me or have a sexual advance, I
think is naïve

megan twohey

I can't help but feel like you continue to place the burden of safety on
women, on potential victims in general. Should the burden rest on them?
Or should it rest on the perpetrators?

donna rotunno

I think it should rest equally. And we've moved this conversation so far
away from what we were talking about, but if you go out with someone,
you can't have it both ways. We can't have things like Tinder, where
people swipe right and go meet whoever they meet --- and most of the
time those are sexual interactions --- and then say, you know what? I
went out with them, and I went to their house and we were flirting or
kissing or whatever. And then say I had no idea that he may want to do
this. You just can't have it both ways. So I'm saying that women need to
be very clear about their intentions. I think women need to be very
prepared for the circumstances they put themselves in. And I think
absolutely women should take on equal risk that men are taking on. And
the responsibility should be equal as well.

megan twohey

Is there anything that you think that men need to do differently?

donna rotunno

Sure, I think men also need to be very clear about their intentions. And
if I was a man in today's world, before I was engaging in sexual
behavior with any woman today, I would ask them to sign a consent form.

megan twohey

You are being serious.

donna rotunno

I'm being dead serious. I'm being dead serious. Because how easy is it
for two people to engage in behavior and a day later, two days later,
five days later, 27 years later, somebody say, you know what? That's not
what that was. Why not? Why not? Take all of the question out of it.
Make it easier on everybody.

megan twohey

Well, Donna ---

donna rotunno

You're welcome.

megan twohey

Donna, thank you again for taking so much time. I really do appreciate
it.

donna rotunno

No worries.

{[}music{]}

michael barbaro

On Thursday, the prosecution rested its case against Harvey Weinstein,
and defense lawyers for Weinstein began calling their own witnesses.

We'll be right back.

Here's what else you need to know today. A Times analysis of the results
of the Iowa caucuses has found that more than 100 precincts reported
results that were internally inconsistent, missing data or not
mathematically possible under the rules of the Iowa caucuses. The
irregularities do not appear to be deliberate and may not affect the
outcome, but they point to larger problems with the caucuses, which have
been criticized for years as amateurish, and raise questions about when,
if ever, the public will get precise results from the contest. On
Thursday afternoon, the chairman of the Democratic National Committee,
Tom Perez, called for a recount of the Iowa results.

And ---

\begin{itemize}
\item
  archived recording\\
  Ladies and gentlemen, the president of the United States.
  {[}APPLAUSE{]}
\item
  archived recording (donald trump)\\
  Thank you very much.
\end{itemize}

michael barbaro

In his first public remarks since his acquittal in the Senate
impeachment trial, President Trump celebrated the verdict, expressed no
regret for his conduct and mocked the Democrats, who had pursued the
charges against him.

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  archived recording (donald trump)\\
  It was evil. It was corrupt. It was dirty cops. It was leakers and
  liars, and this should never ever happen to another president, ever.
\end{itemize}

michael barbaro

During his speech delivered at the White House, Trump personally thanked
his defense lawyers, his Republican allies in Congress and the Senate
majority leader, who oversaw the trial.

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  archived recording (donald trump)\\
  And Mitch McConnell, I want to tell you, you did a fantastic job.
  {[}APPLAUSE{]}
\end{itemize}

michael barbaro

``The Daily'' is made by Theo Balcomb, Andy Mills, Lisa Tobin, Rachel
Quester, Lynsea Garrison, Annie Brown, Clare Toeniskoetter, Paige
Cowett, Michael Simon Johnson, Brad Fisher, Larissa Anderson, Wendy
Dorr, Chris Wood, Jessica Cheung, Alexandra Leigh Young, Jonathan Wolfe,
Lisa Chow, Eric Krupke, Marc Georges, Luke Vander Ploeg, Adizah Eghan,
Kelly Prime, Julia Longoria, Sindhu Gnanasambandan, Jazmin Aguilera, MJ
Davis Lin, Austin Mitchell, Sayre Quevedo Neena Pathak, Dan Powell, Dave
Shaw, Sidney Harper, Daniel Guillemette, Hans Buetow and Robert Jimison.
Our theme music is by Jim Brunberg and Ben Landsverk of Wonderly.
Special thanks to Sam Dolnick, Mikayla Bouchard, Stella Tan, Lauren
Jackson, Julia Simon, Mahima Chablani and Nora Keller. That's it for
``The Daily.'' I'm Michael Barbaro. See you on Monday.

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/column/the-daily}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2017/01/29/podcasts/the-daily-album-art/the-daily-album-art-square320-v4.png}The
Daily}Subscribe:

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://itunes.apple.com/us/podcast/id1200361736}{Apple
  Podcasts}
\item
  \href{https://www.google.com/podcasts?feed=aHR0cHM6Ly9yc3MuYXJ0MTkuY29tL3RoZS1kYWlseQ\%3D\%3D}{Google
  Podcasts}
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{the-woman-defending-harvey-weinstein-1}{%
\section{The Woman Defending Harvey
Weinstein}\label{the-woman-defending-harvey-weinstein-1}}

\hypertarget{one-of-the-reporters-who-broke-the-story-of-the-hollywood-producers-alleged-abuse-speaks-with-donna-rotunno-the-lawyer-behind-mr-weinsteins-legal-strategy-1}{%
\subsection{One of the reporters who broke the story of the Hollywood
producer's alleged abuse speaks with Donna Rotunno, the lawyer behind
Mr. Weinstein's legal
strategy.}\label{one-of-the-reporters-who-broke-the-story-of-the-hollywood-producers-alleged-abuse-speaks-with-donna-rotunno-the-lawyer-behind-mr-weinsteins-legal-strategy-1}}

Hosted by Michael Barbaro, produced by Alexandra Leigh Young, Jonathan
Wolfe and Lynsea Garrison, and edited by Lisa Chow

Transcript

transcript

Back to The Daily

bars

0:00/32:57

-0:00

transcript

\hypertarget{the-woman-defending-harvey-weinstein-2}{%
\subsection{The Woman Defending Harvey
Weinstein}\label{the-woman-defending-harvey-weinstein-2}}

\hypertarget{hosted-by-michael-barbaro-produced-by-alexandra-leigh-young-jonathan-wolfe-and-lynsea-garrison-and-edited-by-lisa-chow-1}{%
\subsubsection{Hosted by Michael Barbaro, produced by Alexandra Leigh
Young, Jonathan Wolfe and Lynsea Garrison, and edited by Lisa
Chow}\label{hosted-by-michael-barbaro-produced-by-alexandra-leigh-young-jonathan-wolfe-and-lynsea-garrison-and-edited-by-lisa-chow-1}}

\hypertarget{one-of-the-reporters-who-broke-the-story-of-the-hollywood-producers-alleged-abuse-speaks-with-donna-rotunno-the-lawyer-behind-mr-weinsteins-legal-strategy-2}{%
\paragraph{One of the reporters who broke the story of the Hollywood
producer's alleged abuse speaks with Donna Rotunno, the lawyer behind
Mr. Weinstein's legal
strategy.}\label{one-of-the-reporters-who-broke-the-story-of-the-hollywood-producers-alleged-abuse-speaks-with-donna-rotunno-the-lawyer-behind-mr-weinsteins-legal-strategy-2}}

Friday, February 7th, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item
  donna rotunno\\
  I was contacted on a Tuesday evening as I was leaving my office, from
  someone in New York, and they said it's something big. And it's funny,
  because I think most people would expect me to say I was shocked by
  the call. And I really wasn't.

  We spoke for eight hours the first time I came. And he was really
  interested in speaking to a female lawyer, and I said I thought that
  was a good idea for him.

  Being a woman at least puts me in a position where people say, well,
  wait, this woman has a different position than what the majority of
  women are feeling today. But I also believe that I hold the position
  that a lot of women feel and don't want to talk about. At the end of
  the day, Harvey Weinstein is well aware of the fact that his life is
  on the line here. And obviously, having a voice is not only necessary
  and fair but it's something that he deserves. He deserves to have a
  voice out there.
\item
  archived recording 1\\
  How are you feeling, Harvey?
\item
  archived recording 2\\
  Thank God your mother's not here to see this.
\end{itemize}

michael barbaro

From The New York Times, I'm Michael Barbaro. This is ``The Daily.''

\begin{itemize}
\item
  archived recording 3\\
  Mr. Weinstein, how are you feeling today?
\item
  archived recording 4\\
  Harvey Weinstein walked gingerly into court this morning without the
  walker he has relied on for weeks.
\item
  archived recording 5\\
  Harvey, how are you feeling today?
\end{itemize}

michael barbaro

In the trial of Harvey Weinstein, six women have taken the stand, each
making similar accusations of rape and sexual assault against the movie
producer.

\begin{itemize}
\item
  archived recording 6\\
  She alleged that Harvey Weinstein urinated on her, threw her on the
  bed, got on top of her and pinned her ---
\item
  archived recording 7\\
  Today, she took the stand, recounting three separate assaults, at
  times sobbing uncontrollably.
\item
  archived recording 8\\
  But the defense previewed what it called dozens of loving emails sent
  by some accusers to the producer.
\end{itemize}

michael barbaro

Throughout their testimony, Weinstein's defense lawyers have portrayed
those encounters as consensual ---

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  archived recording 9\\
  The relationship continued ---
\end{itemize}

michael barbaro

--- and suggested that in many cases, it was the women who wanted
something from Weinstein.

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  archived recording 10\\
  Donna Rotunno, Harvey Weinstein's lawyer, asked Jessica Mann to read
  an email that she had sent to her boyfriend at the time.
\end{itemize}

michael barbaro

His lawyers have seized on the fact that the two women whose accounts
are at the center of the criminal charges agreed to have sex and
friendly contact with Weinstein after they were allegedly victimized.

\begin{itemize}
\item
  archived recording 11\\
  Today, on her second day of testimony, Jessica Mann had a breakdown on
  the stand during cross-examination, when she was being questioned by
  Weinstein's attorney Donna Rotunno.
\item
  archived recording 12\\
  ``You met Harvey Weinstein at a Hollywood Oscar party,'' the defense
  attorney asked. ``Yes.'' ``Did you think that meant you were getting a
  role?'' ``Yes.''
\end{itemize}

michael barbaro

Today: My colleague Megan Twohey, one of the reporters who broke the
story of Weinstein's alleged abuse more than two years ago, speaks with
Donna Rotunno, the lawyer behind Weinstein's defense

\begin{itemize}
\item
  archived recording 1\\
  Morning.
\item
  archived recording 2\\
  {[}CHATTER{]}
\item
  archived recording 3\\
  Any comment on the trial, Mr. Weinstein?
\item
  archived recording (harvey weinstein)\\
  I have good lawyers.
\item
  archived recording 4\\
  How you doing, Harvey?
\item
  archived recording (harvey weinstein)\\
  Really good.
\item
  archived recording 5\\
  I hope so, for crying out loud.
\end{itemize}

michael barbaro

It's Friday, February 7.

megan twohey

So we'll be --- we can start? O.K., so you're going to put on your ---

alexandra leigh young

Do you want to tell us what you had for breakfast?

donna rotunno

Sure. I had a nothing for breakfast {[}LAUGHING{]}, actually. Not even a
coffee.

megan twohey

All right. Well, Donna, thank you again for being with us this
afternoon. I've read that you have represented as many as 40 men accused
of sexual misconduct. That's a lot.

donna rotunno

It is.

megan twohey

Do you remember a specific case that pulled you into representing men
accused of sexual misconduct?

donna rotunno

You know, I think, really, one of the cases that pulled me in initially,
before I even was taking these kinds of cases, was the Duke lacrosse
case. It's like here we have the media coming out and just assassinating
these young guys, and then coming to find out that this story completely
collapsed. And I remember my mother saying at the time, when we were
watching the coverage on the news, ``When those boys die someday, their
obituary is going to say `the Duke lacrosse players.' '' And I thought,
wow, here's this allegation that sticks with you your whole life. I
mean, these are life changing circumstances. I think quite often we look
to the accusers, and we talk about the effects that these things have on
their lives. But we do not look at the effects that these types of
allegations and accusations have on the person being accused. And you
have to look at what it does to people's financial abilities, their
status in the community. I mean, I represented a guy in Chicago who is a
custom clothing designer, who made clothes for movie sets and presidents
and high level executives in Chicago. And one woman makes an allegation,
and all of that business goes away. And so he wins, but what do you win?
You win your case in criminal court, and then you have to worry about
building your reputation back, if you can, where people are willing to
then come back and frequent your establishment. So the ramifications are
social. They're economic. They are mental --- the mental toll that it
takes. I mean, look at Harvey. Look at Harvey physically, from what he
looked like when all of this started to what he looks like now. People
can talk all they want about walkers and faking it. Physically, it is so
apparently obvious what this has done, and the toll this has taken on
him.

megan twohey

You're talking about the toll that the criminal justice system can take
on men accused of sexual misconduct. When I was working as a reporter in
Chicago, my investigations turned up evidence of the opposite. That all
too often, victims of sex crimes were the ones being mistreated by
police and prosecutors. I discovered that law enforcement was, for
example, shelving rape kits, basically sitting on valuable DNA evidence
that could help victims obtain justice. I found that sex-abusing doctors
were continuing to practice even after patients reported them to police.
And in response to my reporting, prosecutors and police acknowledged
that they had failed victims. But are you saying that from your
perspective, it was the accused who were being treated unfairly or ---

donna rotunno

No. I'm talking about the fact that we --- especially today --- all I
can tell you is, in my cases, what I see, we allow people who make
allegations to automatically take on a victim status. And I think for
me, all I'm looking for is fairness. And if we automatically have this
notion that we're supposed to believe all women, or believe all victims,
or believe all people that come forward, we are taking out a very large
portion of the steps that we should be taking before we get to that
notion --- that just because someone says something they should be
believed. So I think it's, what you have reported, I will not disagree
with. I've seen police do horrible things. I've seen prosecutors do
horrible things. But I'm speaking from the perspective of what I think
going through something like this, and an allegation, does to someone.
And one isn't it more serious than the other. One shouldn't be more
important than the other. They're facts. Difficult for people to come
forward. Difficult for people to be accused.

megan twohey

Are you saying that as you built your practice and created this niche in
terms of representing men accused of sexual misconduct, that as you saw
it, the criminal justice system favored victims?

donna rotunno

I think 100 percent. I think it 100 percent favored victims. I think
prosecutors and police are afraid to be skeptical of complaining
witnesses and accusers today. I think they feel like, I better just
believe what they say. I think it's also happening in domestic violence
cases.

megan twohey

What is it like to cross-examine alleged victims of sex crimes?

donna rotunno

I think that it requires a skillful set of questions and preparation.
And I don't ever look at my job as going in there trying to be
disrespectful, or berate someone, or minimize what they claim happened
to them. I don't take pride in having to put people through
circumstances that they may find difficult. That's not the point of what
I do. My job is to ask questions that make a trier of fact, whether that
be a judge or a jury, determine if they think their story is credible.
What someone says does not mean that that's what happened. There's
always more than one side to a story. And there's something in our
Constitution, the Sixth Amendment right to confront witnesses. And my
client, whoever that is at the time, has the right to confront his
accusers through me or my team. And that's what I have to do. And to
live in this country, to not believe that baffles me.

megan twohey

So what did you think about how the \#MeToo movement unfolded?

donna rotunno

I've talked about \#MeToo a lot, and I get labeled this anti-\#MeToo.
It's not really anti-\#MeToo. it's anti-what happens because of things
like \#MeToo. So if 500 positives come from \#MeToo --- and I'm sure I
could sit here with you and look at all the things that have come from
\#MeToo and agree that there's positive things that come from \#MeToo.
But if as part of that, that strips your right to due process --- if
we're going to convict people before they have a trial, I find that to
be damaging and detrimental.

megan twohey

In making your decision to represent Weinstein, did you factor in this
long history of accusations of sexual harassment and sexual assault
against Weinstein outside of the criminal charges, some of which were
made years before 2017 and the \#MeToo movement being ignited?

donna rotunno

You know, I didn't. I didn't. Because my role in this is to represent
him in a criminal case. And as I've said multiple times, there is a
difference between sins and crimes. And you can believe that Harvey
Weinstein is a sinner. And you can believe that he did things that you
wouldn't do or you don't like. But my question here is, does that rise
to the level of a crime?

megan twohey

What are sins?

donna rotunno

I mean, sins are treating somebody inappropriately. Sins are yelling at
somebody at work. Cheating on your wife, I mean, that's a sin. And you
know, those types of things are not good, but they also don't mean that
you should spend the rest of your life in prison.

{[}music{]}

megan twohey

So what do you see as the clearest evidence that Harvey Weinstein should
not be convicted?

donna rotunno

I think, you know, these are consensual encounters. We have
communications at the time that I believe prove that they were
consensual encounters. I believe the actions of women after the fact
prove that they were consensual encounters. When you look at real-time
communications between two people, it really lends a very interesting
spotlight into what was happening between two people at the time. And
maybe the story being told today or in a courtroom is different. And I
guess at the end of the day, it's going to be for the 12 people on the
jury to decide based on the evidence, if they can shut out everything
else that they've heard. And hopefully they will make their decision
based on the facts and the evidence that they hear in the courtroom.

megan twohey

Do you think that sexual violence can take place within otherwise
consensual relationships?

donna rotunno

I do. I absolutely do.

megan twohey

But you don't think that that ---

donna rotunno

No, I don't think that that plays into this case at all. I don't think
it plays into this case when you have people that are continuing to
contact him when they have absolutely no other reason to. You know,
things like reaching out to Mr. Weinstein after you change your phone
number, saying, I wanted to make sure you had my new phone number. These
communications go far beyond anything that any mental health
professional, psychiatrist, psychologist --- they go far beyond any of
these new circumstances that doctors want to put forth in order to
explain away why people may enter into certain behaviors. They go far
beyond that.

megan twohey

So what about the wide understanding that Harvey Weinstein was not just
a powerful producer in the entertainment industry, but one of the most
powerful producers. Somebody who could make and break careers that could
serve as a gateway into the entertainment industry. And a lot of the
women who have made allegations, not just in the criminal case, but
beyond the criminal case, have said that even after experiencing alleged
sexual misconduct, they had communication with him because they felt
like he could either hurt or harm their careers.

donna rotunno

Well, the notion that he could hurt them is absolutely ridiculous.
Harvey Weinstein was one of many very powerful people. And if Harvey
Weinstein called one of the other people in the industry and said don't
use actress A, they would have wanted to use actress A 10 times more. So
that notion that he could hurt people's careers I absolutely find
ridiculous. The second part of your question is, these are still choices
that women are making. And whether they're choices you're happy you made
or not happy you made, you still made a choice. And women have to start
owning those choices. And they either have to say, I'm not going to do
these things to attempt to get a job, or I'm going to own my choice for
making that decision.

megan twohey

Can you elaborate on that a little bit? I'm trying to understand how
that --- when you say that women have choices, I'm trying to understand
how that does not extend to you saying that women have a choice whether
or not to be sexually harassed or sexually assaulted. that you seem to
be placing all of the responsibility on the woman.

donna rotunno

Megan, I'm not blaming anyone. Megan, no, I'm not putting all of the
responsibility on the woman. I'm placing responsibility on the woman.
Women cannot be equal if women don't start taking on equal risk. Women
want men to take on all the risk. They want to then put themselves in
whatever situation they're in, and then walk out and say, oh my God, I
had no idea that was going to happen to me. You can't have it both ways.
And when you're put in circumstances that you think are questionable, or
negative, or you don't want to be in, or you think this is the only way
I'm going to get the job, we know that that's ridiculous. We know that
if women stand up and say, I'm not going to take this, I'm not going to
do this, you have other options. So when I make comments and say ``if
you go to the hotel room,'' doesn't mean you deserve to have something
bad happen to you. But if you go to the hotel room, you continue to
perpetrate a culture that allows that to be acceptable. And so if women
take the power and women say, none of us are going to a hotel room, then
that culture must change.

megan twohey

I mean, I think it's also important to make clear that you're kind of
conflating women in general, agreeing to meet somebody in a hotel room,
with alleged victims of Harvey Weinstein agreeing to meet Harvey
Weinstein in hotel rooms. In those cases, it was very well established
that Harvey Weinstein conducted business in hotel rooms. Oftentimes,
women who say that they were victimized by Weinstein in those hotel
rooms said that they were showing up for work meetings. In fact, some of
them had been told to go there by their agents.

donna rotunno

Well, I'm just going to tell you that in my case, the two charged
victims in my case, that is not the circumstance. And if you are asked
to go to a event for the Oscars, and then you are asked to go out for
drinks after the event for the Oscars, and then you are asked at
midnight to come up and see a script, I think at some point women have
to --- like, the radar has to go up, or the light bulb has to go on, and
you have to say, O.K., this may not be what I think it is.

megan twohey

So there are --- of the many women who said that they showed up for work
meetings at a hotel room or at an office, only to feel like Harvey
Weinstein turned around and preyed on them and tried to sexually assault
or harass them --- there are women who have said that they were able to
find ways to get out of the room. There are obviously other women who
say that they failed to be able to get out of the room. That he attacked
them, that he physically restrained them.

donna rotunno

Again, based on the cases that I have and the things that I'm seeing,
anytime someone said, I don't want to do this, you have a bad reputation
with women, I'm not giving you a massage --- they walked out of the
room. I think anybody that said no, they walked out. And a lot of people
that said no are very famous now.

megan twohey

What reason would these women have to lie?

donna rotunno

We have created a society of celebrity victimhood status. We have
created a society where women don't have to take any responsibility for
their actions. And we have created a society where if we say believe all
women, that means we're not supposed to question anyone at all. So there
is absolutely no risk for a woman to come forward now and make a claim.
Zero.

megan twohey

It's one thing for a woman to step forward and make an allegation on
social media or in the pages of a newspaper. It's another thing for a
woman to agree to be part of a criminal prosecution and to move forward
with all that that entails, including the rigorous cross-examination
that you and your co-counsel are performing. Do you think that women
would submit themselves to that process if they were lying?

donna rotunno

Yes. Because I've seen it over and over and over again.

megan twohey

So you believe that Harvey Weinstein is not guilty of the criminal
charges he's facing in this trial, but there are these more than 90
women who have accused Weinstein of sexual misconduct. Do you accept
that this criminal case aside, he may very well be guilty of being a
sexual predator?

donna rotunno

My job is not to defend all things Harvey Weinstein. My job is to defend
Harvey Weinstein in a criminal courtroom, which I'm doing. And society
will make the judgment call after that. That's not my call to make.

megan twohey

So you don't think that the stories of those 90 plus women are valid or
are meaningful in relation to you?

donna rotunno

Megan, it's not about valid. Megan, you could turn this around every way
you want. Everybody that's listening to this knows you wrote a book and
knows you have a completely different agenda than the reason that I'm
sitting here. And I came here today, in good faith, to talk to you about
this conversation. And I'm more than happy to do it. But in terms of me
going back and talking about every claim someone made, I'm sure if I
delved into individual claims, I would find things that make me say, I'm
not so sure. But in terms of what happens going forward, Harvey
Weinstein hopefully is going to walk out of that criminal courtroom as a
free man. And then the society is going to make its judgments. And
that's not for me to decide. And for you either, frankly.

megan twohey

So, and I'm sorry, but to go back to the comment you made about the fact
that, you know, my colleague Jodi Kantor and I not just broke the
Weinstein story and did a lot of investigative reporting on this, we did
in fact write a book. But when you say my agenda or our agenda, what do
you mean by that?

donna rotunno

Well, you have a completely different view on this, and of course I'm
not begrudging you. You have a right to your opinion, just as I have a
right to mine. But all I'm saying is that, you know, I look at the title
of the book. The title of the book is ``She Said.'' It's very difficult
for Harvey to be able to tell another side, or tell his side of the
story, when there is a criminal case going on. So I'm just cautioning
people to be a little bit more skeptical about a one-sided version of
events. That's all.

megan twohey

Well, I'm sorry, but I have to sort of dispute your claim that we have
at any point presented one-sided journalism. We have ---

donna rotunno

Megan, I'm not saying that. I'm not saying that.

megan twohey

We have, yeah, we have engaged. We have gone to Harvey Weinstein and
presented all of the allegations that we were planning to publish and
given him adequate time to respond. And I think that, you know, I just
want to emphasize that we go into our reporting with skepticism. That
when we were reporting the allegations of sexual misconduct against
Weinstein, that we didn't simply turn around and publish those
allegations without doing due diligence, without turning to people in
whom these women had confided, in whom they had reported these alleged
attacks, and gathering that corroborating evidence, and tracking down
the documents of the secret settlements that were silenced and other
internal company records.

donna rotunno

Again, I'm not debating any of this. I read it. I read it. I'm not
debating any of this. I'm merely stating that now that we're in a
criminal courtroom, there is a different forum to be able to tell this
story and let these events play out. That's all.

megan twohey

So certainly there are women who believe you are doing the right thing
by defending Harvey Weinstein, but you must know a lot of women who see
you as a kind of traitor. How do you respond to that?

donna rotunno

All I can say to them is I hope they never find themselves in a
situation where their family member is accused, and they're hoping that
the criminal justice system is fair to them. Because at the end of the
day, that's the most important part of this whole aspect, is that if you
are accused of a crime, the system of justice should work one way or
another. And I'm not here to predict outcomes. I don't know what's going
to happen or what the jury's going to do. But just as everybody wants
fairness to the people making allegations, I want Mr. Weinstein to have
the same fairness that should be afforded to him.

megan twohey

Well, thank you so much for taking the time to talk to us, Donna. I
really appreciate it.

donna rotunno

Thanks. I appreciate it, too.

megan twohey

Are there any question, and other questions, guys? I know that was a
long one.

donna rotunno

That's all right.

megan twohey

Oh, and actually I had another question, which was whether or not you've
been sexually assaulted.

donna rotunno

I have not.

megan twohey

O.K.

donna rotunno

I have not.

megan twohey

O.K.

donna rotunno

Because I would never put myself in that position.

megan twohey

So you're saying --- O.K., actually, I'm sorry. So you're saying that
you --- you're saying that you have never been sexually assaulted,
because you would never put yourself in the position of being sexually
assaulted?

donna rotunno

No. I've always made choices, from college age on, where I never drank
too much, I never went home with someone that I didn't know. I just
never put myself in any vulnerable circumstance ever.

megan twohey

Do you believe that every woman who's been sexually assaulted somehow
put herself in that position, whether it was having drinks or agreeing
to go to a hotel room?

donna rotunno

Absolutely not. But just as we make smart decisions when we walk out on
the street at night, I think you have to make the same decisions when
you're putting yourself in circumstances with other people. When we walk
out at night, we look around. We make sure we have our phone. Some
people take Mace. We take precautions. And all I'm saying is, is that
women should take precautions.

megan twohey

Do you think it's possible for women to take all of those precautions
and still be sexually assaulted? To still be pulled into a dark alley,
to still be ---

donna rotunno

Totally different conversation.

megan twohey

To still ---

donna rotunno

Totally --- being pulled into a dark alley is a totally different
conversation.

megan twohey

So you are talking about sexual assault, women being sexually assaulted
by somebody they know?

donna rotunno

Correct.

megan twohey

Do you think it's possible for women to be sexually assaulted by
somebody that they know, even if they've taken precautions?

donna rotunno

Sure, anything's possible, Megan. It's not about what's possible. It's
about trying to, again, minimize the risk. If you go out on a date with
someone and you go out for dinner and you go out for drinks and you know
them sort of, and you know, you're sort of maybe developing a
relationship with them. And you make a choice to go into their home at
the end of the night, what do you think could potentially happen? And if
you're not prepared for what could potentially happen, I think we're
kidding ourselves. And then to leave and say I had no idea that this
person would maybe try to be sexual with me or have a sexual advance, I
think is naïve

megan twohey

I can't help but feel like you continue to place the burden of safety on
women, on potential victims in general. Should the burden rest on them?
Or should it rest on the perpetrators?

donna rotunno

I think it should rest equally. And we've moved this conversation so far
away from what we were talking about, but if you go out with someone,
you can't have it both ways. We can't have things like Tinder, where
people swipe right and go meet whoever they meet --- and most of the
time those are sexual interactions --- and then say, you know what? I
went out with them, and I went to their house and we were flirting or
kissing or whatever. And then say I had no idea that he may want to do
this. You just can't have it both ways. So I'm saying that women need to
be very clear about their intentions. I think women need to be very
prepared for the circumstances they put themselves in. And I think
absolutely women should take on equal risk that men are taking on. And
the responsibility should be equal as well.

megan twohey

Is there anything that you think that men need to do differently?

donna rotunno

Sure, I think men also need to be very clear about their intentions. And
if I was a man in today's world, before I was engaging in sexual
behavior with any woman today, I would ask them to sign a consent form.

megan twohey

You are being serious.

donna rotunno

I'm being dead serious. I'm being dead serious. Because how easy is it
for two people to engage in behavior and a day later, two days later,
five days later, 27 years later, somebody say, you know what? That's not
what that was. Why not? Why not? Take all of the question out of it.
Make it easier on everybody.

megan twohey

Well, Donna ---

donna rotunno

You're welcome.

megan twohey

Donna, thank you again for taking so much time. I really do appreciate
it.

donna rotunno

No worries.

{[}music{]}

michael barbaro

On Thursday, the prosecution rested its case against Harvey Weinstein,
and defense lawyers for Weinstein began calling their own witnesses.

We'll be right back.

Here's what else you need to know today. A Times analysis of the results
of the Iowa caucuses has found that more than 100 precincts reported
results that were internally inconsistent, missing data or not
mathematically possible under the rules of the Iowa caucuses. The
irregularities do not appear to be deliberate and may not affect the
outcome, but they point to larger problems with the caucuses, which have
been criticized for years as amateurish, and raise questions about when,
if ever, the public will get precise results from the contest. On
Thursday afternoon, the chairman of the Democratic National Committee,
Tom Perez, called for a recount of the Iowa results.

And ---

\begin{itemize}
\item
  archived recording\\
  Ladies and gentlemen, the president of the United States.
  {[}APPLAUSE{]}
\item
  archived recording (donald trump)\\
  Thank you very much.
\end{itemize}

michael barbaro

In his first public remarks since his acquittal in the Senate
impeachment trial, President Trump celebrated the verdict, expressed no
regret for his conduct and mocked the Democrats, who had pursued the
charges against him.

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  archived recording (donald trump)\\
  It was evil. It was corrupt. It was dirty cops. It was leakers and
  liars, and this should never ever happen to another president, ever.
\end{itemize}

michael barbaro

During his speech delivered at the White House, Trump personally thanked
his defense lawyers, his Republican allies in Congress and the Senate
majority leader, who oversaw the trial.

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  archived recording (donald trump)\\
  And Mitch McConnell, I want to tell you, you did a fantastic job.
  {[}APPLAUSE{]}
\end{itemize}

michael barbaro

``The Daily'' is made by Theo Balcomb, Andy Mills, Lisa Tobin, Rachel
Quester, Lynsea Garrison, Annie Brown, Clare Toeniskoetter, Paige
Cowett, Michael Simon Johnson, Brad Fisher, Larissa Anderson, Wendy
Dorr, Chris Wood, Jessica Cheung, Alexandra Leigh Young, Jonathan Wolfe,
Lisa Chow, Eric Krupke, Marc Georges, Luke Vander Ploeg, Adizah Eghan,
Kelly Prime, Julia Longoria, Sindhu Gnanasambandan, Jazmin Aguilera, MJ
Davis Lin, Austin Mitchell, Sayre Quevedo Neena Pathak, Dan Powell, Dave
Shaw, Sidney Harper, Daniel Guillemette, Hans Buetow and Robert Jimison.
Our theme music is by Jim Brunberg and Ben Landsverk of Wonderly.
Special thanks to Sam Dolnick, Mikayla Bouchard, Stella Tan, Lauren
Jackson, Julia Simon, Mahima Chablani and Nora Keller. That's it for
``The Daily.'' I'm Michael Barbaro. See you on Monday.

Previous

More episodes ofThe Daily

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/07/podcasts/the-daily/Jack-dorsey-twitter-trump.html?action=click\&module=audio-series-bar\&region=header\&pgtype=Article}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/08/10/podcasts/10daily-dorsey/merlin_154148610_97295061-f25c-4394-9501-38651a2d4029-thumbLarge.jpg}}

August 7, 2020Jack Dorsey on Twitter's Mistakes

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/06/podcasts/the-daily/beirut-explosion-damage.html?action=click\&module=audio-series-bar\&region=header\&pgtype=Article}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/08/05/video/vi-beirut-promo/vi-beirut-promo-thumbLarge.jpg}}

August 6, 2020~~•~ 23:45The Day That Shook Beirut

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/05/podcasts/the-daily/protests-racism-police-brutality.html?action=click\&module=audio-series-bar\&region=header\&pgtype=Article}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/07/30/us/05daily/portland-mapping-unrest-1596155031199-thumbLarge-v2.jpg}}

August 5, 2020~~•~ 43:46`Stay Black and Die'

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/04/podcasts/the-daily/mail-in-voting-president-trump.html?action=click\&module=audio-series-bar\&region=header\&pgtype=Article}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/07/30/us/politics/04daily/30trump-election1-thumbLarge.jpg}}

August 4, 2020~~•~ 25:27Is the U.S. Ready to Vote by Mail?

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/03/podcasts/the-daily/algorithmic-justice-racism.html?action=click\&module=audio-series-bar\&region=header\&pgtype=Article}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/06/24/business/03daily/24michigan-arrest1-thumbLarge.jpg}}

August 3, 2020~~•~ 28:13Wrongfully Accused by an Algorithm

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/02/podcasts/the-daily/on-female-rage.html?action=click\&module=audio-series-bar\&region=header\&pgtype=Article}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/01/21/magazine/21mag-femaleanger1-copy/21mag-femaleanger1-thumbLarge.jpg}}

August 2, 2020The Sunday Read: `On Female Rage'

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/podcasts/the-daily/vanessa-guillen-military-metoo.html?action=click\&module=audio-series-bar\&region=header\&pgtype=Article}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/07/12/us/politics/31daily/00dc-army-metoo-thumbLarge.jpg}}

July 31, 2020A \#MeToo Moment in the Military

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/30/podcasts/the-daily/congress-facebook-amazon-google-apple.html?action=click\&module=audio-series-bar\&region=header\&pgtype=Article}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/07/30/reader-center/30daily/merlin_175077825_5ebc931b-baa1-489a-960c-34e4d845e997-thumbLarge.jpg}}

July 30, 2020~~•~ 35:19The Big Tech Hearing

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/29/podcasts/the-daily/china-trump-foreign-policy.html?action=click\&module=audio-series-bar\&region=header\&pgtype=Article}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/07/26/world/29daily/00china-us-clash1-thumbLarge.jpg}}

July 29, 2020~~•~ 28:40Confronting China

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/28/podcasts/the-daily/unemployment-benefits-coronavirus.html?action=click\&module=audio-series-bar\&region=header\&pgtype=Article}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/07/23/business/28daily/23virus-uiexplain1-thumbLarge.jpg}}

July 28, 2020~~•~ 26:13Why \$600 Checks Are Tearing Republicans Apart

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/27/podcasts/the-daily/new-york-hospitals-covid.html?action=click\&module=audio-series-bar\&region=header\&pgtype=Article}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/07/27/world/27daily-hospitals/27daily-hospitals-thumbLarge.jpg}}

July 27, 2020~~•~ 33:28The Mistakes New York Made

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/26/podcasts/the-daily/the-accusation-the-sunday-read.html?action=click\&module=audio-series-bar\&region=header\&pgtype=Article}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/03/22/magazine/26audm-2/22mag-titleix-thumbLarge.jpg}}

July 26, 2020The Sunday Read: `The Accusation'

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/column/the-daily}{See All Episodes ofThe
Daily}

Next

Published Feb. 7, 2020Updated Feb. 18, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\emph{\textbf{Listen and subscribe to our podcast from your mobile
device:}}\\
\textbf{\href{https://itunes.apple.com/us/podcast/the-daily/id1200361736?mt=2}{\emph{Via
Apple Podcasts}}} \emph{\textbf{\textbar{}}}
\textbf{\href{https://open.spotify.com/show/3IM0lmZxpFAY7CwMuv9H4g?si=SfuMSC55R1qprFsRZU3_zw}{\emph{Via
Spotify}}} \emph{\textbf{\textbar{}}}
\textbf{\href{http://www.stitcher.com/podcast/the-new-york-times/the-daily-10}{\emph{Via
Stitcher}}}

\emph{Note: This episode contains descriptions of sexual violence.}

In the
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/02/18/nyregion/harvey-weinstein-trial-donna-rotunno.html}{trial
of Harvey Weinstein}, six women have taken the stand, each making
similar accusations of rape and sexual assault against the movie
producer. Throughout their testimony, Weinstein's defense lawyers have
portrayed those encounters as consensual and suggested that in many
cases it was the women who wanted something from Mr. Weinstein.

His lawyers have seized on the fact that the two women whose accounts
are at the center of the criminal charges in his New York trial agreed
to have sex and friendly contact with
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/02/18/nyregion/harvey-weinstein-trial-donna-rotunno.html}{Mr.
Weinstein} after they were allegedly victimized.

Today, one of The Times reporters who broke the story of Mr. Weinstein's
alleged abuse more than two years ago speaks with Donna Rotunno, the
lawyer behind Mr. Weinstein's legal strategy.

\textbf{On today's episode:}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/megan-twohey}{Megan Twohey}, an
  investigative reporter for The Times and co-author of
  ``\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/09/08/books/review/she-said-jodi-kantor-megan-twohey.html?smid=pc-thedaily}{She
  Said: Breaking the Sexual Harassment Story That Helped Ignite a
  Movement}," spoke with
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/search?query=donna+rotunno}{Donna
  Rotunno}, Harvey Weinstein's lead defense lawyer.
\end{itemize}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/02/10/nyregion/07daily-donna-image1/07daily-donna-image1-articleLarge-v2.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\textbf{Background reading:}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Long before an avalanche of allegations against Mr. Weinstein set off
  a global reckoning over sexual harassment,
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/01/14/nyregion/weinstein-woman-metoo.html}{Ms.
  Rotunno was steadily building a career} as a criminal lawyer in
  Chicago with an unusual specialty: defending men accused of sex
  crimes.
\item
  Mr. Weinstein built a
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2017/12/05/us/harvey-weinstein-complicity.html}{network
  of complicity} that dozens of women say kept them silent for years.
\item
  Haven't been following the trial?
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/02/06/nyregion/harvey-weinstein-trial.html}{Here's
  what's happened so far}.
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2017/11/10/us/men-accused-sexual-misconduct-weinstein.html}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2017/11/10/us/men-accused-sexual-misconduct-weinstein-1510370544262/men-accused-sexual-misconduct-weinstein-1510370544262-articleLarge-v2.jpg}

\hypertarget{after-weinstein-71-men-accused-of-sexual-misconduct-and-their-fall-from-power}{%
\subsection{After Weinstein: 71 Men Accused of Sexual Misconduct and
Their Fall From
Power}\label{after-weinstein-71-men-accused-of-sexual-misconduct-and-their-fall-from-power}}

A list of men who have resigned, been fired or otherwise lost power
since the Harvey Weinstein scandal broke.

\emph{Tune in, and tell us what you think. Email us at}
\href{mailto:thedaily@nytimes.com}{\emph{thedaily@nytimes.com}}\emph{.
Follow Michael Barbaro on Twitter:}
\href{https://twitter.com/mikiebarb}{\emph{@mikiebarb}}\emph{. And if
you're interested in advertising with ``The Daily,'' write to us at}
\href{mailto:thedaily-ads@nytimes.com}{\emph{thedaily-ads@nytimes.com}}\emph{.}

Megan Twohey contributed reporting.

``The Daily'' is made by Theo Balcomb, Andy Mills, Lisa Tobin, Rachel
Quester, Lynsea Garrison, Annie Brown, Clare Toeniskoetter, Paige
Cowett, Michael Simon Johnson, Brad Fisher, Larissa Anderson, Wendy
Dorr, Chris Wood, Jessica Cheung, Alexandra Leigh Young, Jonathan Wolfe,
Lisa Chow, Eric Krupke, Marc Georges, Luke Vander Ploeg, Adizah Eghan,
Kelly Prime, Julia Longoria, Sindhu Gnanasambandan, Jazmín Aguilera,
M.J. Davis Lin, Austin Mitchell, Sayre Quevedo, Neena Pathak, Dan
Powell, Dave Shaw, Sydney Harper, Daniel Guillemette, Hans Buetow and
Robert Jimison. Our theme music is by Jim Brunberg and Ben Landsverk of
Wonderly. Special thanks to Sam Dolnick, Mikayla Bouchard, Stella Tan,
Lauren Jackson, Julia Simon, Mahima Chablani and Nora Keller.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
