Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}Georgia's Election Mess:
Many Problems, Plenty of Blame, Few Solutions for November

\url{https://nyti.ms/2Ymivmy}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/20/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{D.N.C.
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/20/us/politics/biden-presidential-nomination-dnc.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Biden's
  Speech}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/us/elections/2020-presidential-election-calendar.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Election
  Calendar}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/11/us/politics/vote-by-mail-us-states.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Voting
  by Mail}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Politics
  Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{georgias-election-mess-many-problems-plenty-of-blame-few-solutions-for-november}{%
\section{Georgia's Election Mess: Many Problems, Plenty of Blame, Few
Solutions for
November}\label{georgias-election-mess-many-problems-plenty-of-blame-few-solutions-for-november}}

Tuesday's disastrous primary election was plagued by glitches, but
Democrats also saw a systemic effort to disenfranchise voters.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/06/10/us/politics/10georgia-mess1/merlin_173383173_3ffe7a03-9816-402c-826f-090e8fcd5184-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/richard-fausset}{Richard
Fausset} and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/reid-j-epstein}{Reid J.
Epstein}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  June 10, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

ATLANTA --- Before Georgia's embattled election officials can fix a
voting system
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/09/us/politics/atlanta-voting-georgia-primary.html}{that
suffered a spectacular collapse}, leading to absentee ballots that never
got delivered and hourslong waits at polling sites on Tuesday, they must
first figure out who is responsible.

As multiple investigations begin into what went wrong, and as Democrats
accuse the state's Republicans of voter suppression, a picture emerged
Wednesday of a systematic breakdown that both revealed general
incompetence and highlighted some of the thorny and specific challenges
that the coronavirus pandemic may pose to elections officials
nationwide.

As it seeks answers, Georgia is being roiled by a politically volatile
debate over whether the problems were the result of mere bungling, or an
intentional effort by Republican officials to inhibit voting.

Brad Raffensperger, the Republican secretary of state, placed the blame
on greater Atlanta's liberal-leaning counties of Fulton and DeKalb,
arguing that local officials had botched the rollout of the state's new
\$107 million electronic voting system.

But Democrats, who blame Mr. Raffensperger, saw more nefarious forces at
play, noting that many of the longest lines plagued predominantly black
neighborhoods in and around Atlanta while rural white counties
experienced relatively fewer problems.

While Tuesday's contests were relatively low-stakes primaries, Georgia
is expected to be
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/09/us/politics/georgia-primary-election-senate-race-jon-ossoff.html}{a
presidential battleground} in November, as well as the site of two
contested Senate races that could determine control of the chamber.

``What happened in Georgia yesterday was by design,'' Hillary Clinton,
the 2016 Democratic presidential nominee,
\href{https://twitter.com/HillaryClinton/status/1270726057692327937?s=20}{wrote
on Twitter} Wednesday. ``Voter suppression is a threat to our
democracy.''

The debate over how to fix Georgia's troubled system, and who is to
blame for the trouble, is likely to resonate far beyond the state as the
nation prepares for contentious November elections that will play out on
a landscape transformed by the presence of the coronavirus.

The pandemic has placed more emphasis than ever on
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/10/us/politics/voting-by-mail-georgia.html}{voting
by mail} in states like Georgia. But the burden of increasing absentee
balloting while also operating in-person voting sites that adhere to
safety precautions is proving to be a cumbersome process marked by
confused voters and exhausted and underfunded administrators.

``What we were asked to do is do absentee by mail, and we still had to
do our full complement of Election Day infrastructure,'' Richard Barron,
the weary-looking Fulton County elections administrator, said during a
Tuesday night news conference held over Zoom. ``We did our early-voting
infrastructure and it stretched us.''

\hypertarget{latest-updates-2020-election}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/19/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: 2020
Election}}{Latest Updates: 2020 Election}}\label{latest-updates-2020-election}}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/19/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#night-3-featured-more-policy-a-focus-on-women-and-a-full-throated-rejection-of-trump-by-his-predecessor}{7h
ago}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/19/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#night-3-featured-more-policy-a-focus-on-women-and-a-full-throated-rejection-of-trump-by-his-predecessor}{Night
3 featured more policy, a focus on women and a full-throated rejection
of Trump by his predecessor.}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/19/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#trump-live-tweeted-obamas-speech-tonight-hell-appear-on-fox-news-right-before-bidens-tomorrow}{9h
ago}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/19/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#trump-live-tweeted-obamas-speech-tonight-hell-appear-on-fox-news-right-before-bidens-tomorrow}{Trump
live-tweeted Obama's speech tonight. He'll appear on Fox News right
before Biden's tomorrow.}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/19/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#advocates-for-domestic-violence-survivors-praised-biden-in-a-video}{9h
ago}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/19/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#advocates-for-domestic-violence-survivors-praised-biden-in-a-video}{Advocates
for domestic violence survivors praised Biden in a video.}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/19/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

Richard L. Hasen, a professor of law and political science at the
University of California, Irvine, who writes frequently about America's
voting problems, said Georgia's meltdown resulted from a failure to
anticipate predictable problems.

There is ample proof, he said, that state officials have not acted to
address the problems that have made it difficult to vote there.

``If you go back and look at the lawsuits brought for years against
Georgia's voting system, the state has repeatedly denied that it has a
problem and dragged its feet on election reform,'' he said.

Dr. Hasen said that other states may see similar election system
breakdowns in November, given the large number of people who will want
to vote absentee, and the expensive and complex demands the virus has
placed on in-person voting sites. He noted that problems have already
\href{https://www.npr.org/2020/06/03/869042005/primary-election-snafus-show-challenges-for-november-vote}{plagued
recent elections} in Maryland and Pennsylvania.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/06/10/us/politics/10georgia-mess2/merlin_173386293_c8abfeaa-6ca2-4c5c-9ec4-1af3bc1dbece-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Congress
\href{https://abcnews.go.com/Politics/congress-pours-400-million-boosting-states-election-efforts/story?id=69793454}{has
allocated \$400 million} to help states run elections in the pandemic,
but Dr. Hasen said the states may need as much as \$4 billion to deal
with the added complications.

Georgia's voters had low expectations, and Tuesday's primary did not
meet them. In many parts of greater Atlanta, voters
\href{https://www.atlantamagazine.com/news-culture-articles/lets-talk-to-atlanta-voters-about-their-chairs/}{brought
their own lawn chairs to the polls}, expecting long lines and not
wanting to stand in the heat.

Fulton County pushed its poll closing time from 7 p.m. to 9 p.m., but
some voters in Union City, a suburb south of Atlanta that is 88 percent
black, waited in line until 12:37 a.m. to vote.

``As a black person I was actually sad. I was thinking to myself, `How
long do we have to be going through this?''' said LaTosha Brown, a
co-founder of Black Voters Matter, who
\href{https://twitter.com/MsLaToshaBrown/status/1270674550980739073?s=20}{documented
the Union City voting line on Twitter}. ``This is supposed to be a new
system but we continue to see old problems.''

Much of the trouble that plunged Georgia's voting system into chaos
Tuesday was specific to the state, stemming from the rollout of new
voting machines and an electronic voter check-in system, which some
elections experts had been sounding alarm bells about for months.

Poll workers proved to be tragically unfamiliar with the system. And a
number of the most seasoned poll workers in the Atlanta area, many of
whom are older, chose to sit the election out to avoid exposure to the
coronavirus.

At the same time, the state had encouraged more voters to avoid
in-person voting altogether and vote using absentee ballots. With
Covid-19 concerns in mind, elections officials sent an absentee ballot
application to every eligible voter in the state in ``active'' status
--- meaning they had voted in the past several years.

But a number of voters who filled out those applications never received
a ballot. Some of them spoke Tuesday night at a Zoom meeting of the
Fulton County Board of Registration and Elections, saying that they
ended up having to vote in person after their ballots didn't show up.

Mr. Raffensperger said he would begin an investigation into why Fulton
and DeKalb counties were riddled with problems that left voters waiting
in line for hours.

``We really need to do a management review,'' Mr. Raffensperger said in
an interview Tuesday afternoon. He said voters ``really weren't aware''
of the hurdles state and local elections officials faced in conducting
an election in the coronavirus era.

The Georgia House speaker, David Ralston, a Republican, announced that
an investigation of ``irregularities'' in the Tuesday election would be
headed up by a fellow Republican state representative, Shaw Blackmon,
the head of a governmental affairs committee. The probe will look at
problems ``across Georgia,'' Mr. Ralston's office said in a statement,
``particularly in Fulton County.''

``The legislative branch of government has an obligation to go beyond
the mutual finger-pointing and get to the truth and the real reasons
underlying these frustrations and concerns,'' Mr. Ralston said.

Fair Fight Action, the voting rights organization started by Stacey
Abrams, is considering more lawsuits on top of the one it has pending
against the secretary of state's office after the disputed 2018
governor's race that Ms. Abrams lost to Gov. Brian Kemp. And a number of
Georgia Democrats and voting rights advocates have called for Mr.
Raffensperger to resign.

Many said Mr. Raffensperger was required to ensure a smooth election,
even if the counties ran individual polling locations.

``The Georgia law and the Georgia Constitution and statutory law is very
clear that the buck stops with the secretary of state,'' Sachin
Varghese, the **** general counsel for the Democratic Party of Georgia,
said Wednesday.

``He is the chief elections officer in Georgia and has ultimate
responsibility for the conduct of elections,'' Mr. Varghese said. ``That
responsibility includes making sure that counties have adequate training
have adequate supplies and are prepared to run elections well. And he
has failed to do so.''

Still, Georgia officials from both parties expressed hope that the
state's upcoming elections --- there will be runoffs on July 21 before
the general election in November --- would not be as poorly run as
Tuesday's primary.

``I believe that folks can learn from their mistakes,'' said former Gov.
Roy Barnes, a Democrat. ``I was in government for 26 years. You have to
prioritize your spending and I can think of nothing that has a larger
priority than running efficient elections and upholding our democracy.''

Georgia's voting problems cascaded. The state had bought 30,000 new
voting machines that were being used for the first time. Local officials
were training hundreds of replacement poll workers as late as Monday
night. Then, on Tuesday, a variety of breakdowns included blown fuses at
polling locations --- because the voting machines overloaded the
electrical systems --- and a lack of provisional ballots on hand.

``I don't think anybody's acting in bad faith --- I really do think that
this is the set of cards that we're dealing with at the moment,'' said
former Representative Jack Kingston, a Republican from Savannah. ``The
tendency of politics is to point the finger, but I don't think there's
anything nefarious going on.''

Georgia Democrats were already seizing on the narrative of potential
voter suppression for fund-raising purposes.

The campaign of the Rev. Dr. Raphael G. Warnock, a Democratic Senate
candidate, sent an email to potential supporters that described
Tuesday's long lines and said that the Democrats would have to work
``twice as hard'' to ``overcome G.O.P. voter suppression.'' It asked for
a donation of at least \$5.

Carolyn Bourdeaux, a Democrat who advanced to a runoff for a House seat
in Atlanta's northeast suburbs, called on Mr. Raffensperger to resign
hours before the polls closed.

Ms. Abrams, whose own absentee ballot arrived ruined, said the hurdles
voters faced Tuesday were likely to make them lose confidence in the
election process.

``The wonderful thing that's being concealed by the disaster is that we
have record turnout,'' she said. ``People want to be heard. They want to
participate. And it is multigenerational and multiethnic, but that
enthusiasm gets dampened when incompetence and malfeasance come together
and ruin their ability to participate.''

Richard Fausset reported from Atlanta, and Reid J. Epstein from
Washington.

\hypertarget{our-2020-election-guide}{%
\section{Our 2020 Election Guide}\label{our-2020-election-guide}}

Updated Aug. 20, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{convention-recap}{%
  \subsection{Convention Recap}\label{convention-recap}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Joe Biden accepted the Democratic nomination, urging Americans to
    have faith that they could
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/20/us/politics/Joe-Biden-accepts-democratic-nomination.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{``overcome
    this season of darkness.''}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{news-analysis}{%
  \subsection{News Analysis}\label{news-analysis}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Looming over Mr. Biden's nomination was the ever-present shadow of
    another man who's poised to dominate the campaign:
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/20/us/politics/biden-dnc-speech-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Donald
    J. Trump}.
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{keep-up-with-our-coverage}{%
  \subsection{Keep Up With Our
  Coverage}\label{keep-up-with-our-coverage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Get an
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{email}
    recapping the day's news
  \end{itemize}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Download our mobile app on
    \href{https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nytimes/id284862083?ls=1\&mat_click_id=5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\&referrer=mat_click_id\%3D5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\%26link_click_id\%3D722930677036718082}{iOS}
    and
    \href{http://a.localytics.com/android?id=com.nytimes.android\&referrer=utm_source\%3Dother_nyt_mobile_web\%26utm_medium\%3DWeb\%2520page\%26utm_term\%3DGeneral\%2520Mobile\%2520Page\%26utm_campaign\%3DNYT\%2520Mobile\%2520General\%2520Page}{Android}
    and turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
