Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

The T List: Five Things We Recommend This Week

\url{https://nyti.ms/31U5OlR}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{the-t-list-five-things-we-recommend-this-week}{%
\section{The T List: Five Things We Recommend This
Week}\label{the-t-list-five-things-we-recommend-this-week}}

Elegant needlepoint, makeup inspired by the Met --- and more.

Sept. 3, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\emph{Welcome to the T List, a newsletter from the editors of T
Magazine. Each week, we're sharing things we're eating, wearing,
listening to or coveting now.}
\textbf{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/t-list?module=inline}{\emph{Sign
up here}}} \emph{\textbf{to find us in your inbox every Wednesday.}}
\emph{You can always reach us at}
\href{mailto:tlist@NYTimes.com}{\emph{tlist@NYTimes.com}}\emph{.}

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

\hypertarget{eat-this}{%
\subsubsection{Eat This}\label{eat-this}}

\hypertarget{convivial-dining-at-ollies-pizza-in-upstate-new-york}{%
\subsection{Convivial Dining at Ollie's Pizza in Upstate New
York}\label{convivial-dining-at-ollies-pizza-in-upstate-new-york}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/09/02/t-magazine/02tmag-newsletter-slide-IOQF/02tmag-newsletter-slide-IOQF-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By Alice Newell-Hanson

One hazy evening last month --- as I was sitting on a wooden picnic
bench at the new pizza place Ollie's in High Falls, N.Y. --- I felt a
sudden wave of nostalgia for sleep-away camp, where I (now somewhat
implausibly) spent weeks in proximity to hundreds of other children each
summer as a kid. Ollie's, which is a family-run operation, offers a
similar kind of uncomplicated joy and camaraderie, with a focus on
simple pleasures --- in this case, sheets of Roman-style pizza and
gooey-crusted Neapolitan pies you can order from the window of a
19th-century blackened wood barn and then eat on a lawn bordered by
overgrown banks of wildflowers such as orange cosmos, zinnias and
milkweed. Two of the restaurant's three founders, Ilan Bachrach and
Innis Lawrence, met as kids at a summer camp just nearby (Lawrence grew
up and now lives in High Falls with the restaurant's third co-founder,
Sophie Peltzer-Rollo, and their 3-year-old daughter, Ollie, after whom
the restaurant is named). Additionally, one of the trio's close friends,
Frank Pinello, of
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2011/03/09/dining/reviews/09under.html}{Best
Pizza} in Brooklyn, is a partner in the venture and helped develop the
recipe for its proprietary dough, which is made using locally grown and
milled flour. The crust, at once chewy and gently charred, is so good I
drove back one afternoon through a thunderstorm for more. \emph{4
Bruceville Road, High Falls, N.Y.,}
\href{https://www.ollies.pizza/}{\emph{ollies.pizza}}\emph{.}

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

\hypertarget{make-this}{%
\subsubsection{Make This}\label{make-this}}

\hypertarget{affordable-needlepoint-to-hang-at-home}{%
\subsection{Affordable Needlepoint to Hang at
Home}\label{affordable-needlepoint-to-hang-at-home}}

Image

Loop, started by Amy and Sarah Blessing during the pandemic, offers more
accessible kinds of needlepoint.~

By Crystal Meers

With their new needlepoint company,
\href{https://www.instagram.com/loopcanvas/}{Loop Canvas}, the sisters
Amy and Sarah Blessing are inviting everyone into their lifelong love
affair with crafting. During a trip to London about 10 years ago, the
pair marveled at the fine needlepoints at
\href{https://www.libertylondon.com/us/home?gclid=EAIaIQobChMIo5uIwPLK6wIVC43ICh2kfwcIEAAYASAAEgKVEPD_BwE}{Liberty
London}. ``They had the most elaborate and traditional canvases ---
beautiful hand-painted scenes of things like a cat in a basket,'' says
Sarah Blessing. ``But you could be working on it for 12 years and not
want it in your home when it's finished.'' Agreeing that the requisite
price and time commitment stopped many people from starting to
needlepoint, they plotted a new course for the craft. While
co-quarantining with their families in Traverse City, Mich., they
brought their business idea to life. Loop updates the centuries-old art
with simple, two-color silhouettes that the novice can master and the
enthusiast will still enjoy. Digitally printing their designs on canvas
(instead of hand-painting them) has also allowed them to keep the price
point under \$100. ``This is our form of meditation,'' says Amy
Blessing. The company's initial offering of flora, fauna and insect
designs are available on its website, with a children's collection and
collaborations with the fashion designer Clare Vivier and the home-goods
designer Heather Taylor coming soon. \emph{\$88 per set,}
\href{http://loopcanvas.com/}{\emph{loopcanvas.com}}\emph{.}

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

\hypertarget{book-this}{%
\subsubsection{Book This}\label{book-this}}

\hypertarget{a-reimagined-colonial-manor-in-mexico-city}{%
\subsection{A Reimagined Colonial Manor in Mexico
City}\label{a-reimagined-colonial-manor-in-mexico-city}}

Image

Left: a glimpse of the original brick frame of the 19th-century
townhome. Right: the exposed Catalan vault ceiling in one of the guest
bedrooms.Credit...Fabian Martínez

By Michaela Trimble

Located in Mexico City's historic downtown --- where one of the oldest
Spanish cathedrals in the Americas rests atop the ceremonial center of
the Aztec world --- the Círculo Mexicano is housed in a 19th-century
townhome that's been transformed into a Shaker-inspired boutique hotel
by the hotel developer
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2013/02/24/travel/not-your-average-hostels.html}{Grupo
Habita} and the architecture firm
\href{http://ambrosietchegaray.com/}{Ambrosi Etchegaray}. As an ode to
Manuel Álvarez Bravo, the building's former resident and one of Mexico's
most celebrated 20th-century photographers, Círculo Mexicano features
the artist's works in its lobby, which is also home to several shops,
including Atlawa, which carries resin kitchenware, and Templo, where
you'll find a collection of artisanal Oaxacan pottery. In the
cobblestone courtyard, the chef
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/06/04/dining/gabriela-camara-mexican-food.html}{Gabriela
Cámara}, of Contramar, helms a seafood restaurant and a cantina-style
bar called Itacate del Mar, while the rooftop terrace is the setting for
a contemporary French-inspired restaurant --- as well as a swimming
pool, sauna and soaking tub --- where guests can enjoy views of the
Metropolitan Cathedral, the National Palace and the Templo Mayor. The
private patios attached to each of the 25 guest rooms and suites, which
are furnished with custom oak pieces by the local design studio La
Metropolitana, also make for good lookout spots. \emph{Starting at \$150
a night,}
\href{https://www.circulomexicano.com/en/}{\emph{circulomexicano.com}}\emph{.}

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

\hypertarget{see-this}{%
\subsubsection{See This}\label{see-this}}

\hypertarget{black-joy-represented-in-william-scotts-art}{%
\subsection{Black Joy Represented in William Scott's
Art}\label{black-joy-represented-in-william-scotts-art}}

Image

Left: William Scott's ``Untitled'' (2013). Right: the artist's
``Untitled'' (2018).Credit...Courtesy of the artist, Creative Growth and
Ortuzar Projects

By Thessaly La Force

I had the occasion of meeting the San Leandro, Calif.-based artist
William Scott last year when I visited Creative Growth, the Oakland
nonprofit that provides a professional studio environment, gallery
exhibitions and representation for artists with developmental
disabilities. Scott is self-taught, and he frequently references figures
in pop culture --- from Frankenstein's monster to Janet Jackson to Darth
Vader --- in a wholesome and sci-fi-inflected textual and visual
vernacular that is distinctly his own. His new show,
``\href{http://www.ortuzarprojects.com/exhibitions/william-scott/works?view=slider}{It's
a Beautiful Day Outside},'' featuring drawing, painting, sculpture and
original video, will be on view this month at the TriBeCa gallery
Ortuzar Projects; it's the first exhibition of his work in New York City
since he showed at White Columns 11 years ago. If 2020 is a year of
reckoning, then Scott's pieces --- which convey unbridled optimism and
Black beauty --- are powerful reminders of what we need more of in this
world. They also make me think of the smile that crossed the face of
David Byrne --- who is one of Creative Growth's most devoted supporters
and a fan of Scott's work --- after he greeted the artist at the
nonprofit's fund-raiser last year.
\href{http://www.ortuzarprojects.com/}{\emph{ortuzarprojects.com}}\emph{.}

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

\hypertarget{buy-this}{%
\subsubsection{Buy This}\label{buy-this}}

\hypertarget{estuxe9e-lauder-makeup-inspired-by-fernand-luxe9ger}{%
\subsection{Estée Lauder Makeup Inspired by Fernand
Léger}\label{estuxe9e-lauder-makeup-inspired-by-fernand-luxe9ger}}

Image

Left to right: a trio of lipsticks, a palette of eye shadow and a powder
compact, all featuring a design inspired by Fernand Léger's ``The
Village'' (1914).Credit...Courtesy of Estée Lauder

By Caitie Kelly

The Metropolitan Museum of Art has finally (and cautiously) reopened,
just in time to celebrate
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/27/arts/design/met-museum-reopens-anniversary.html}{its
150th anniversary}. To honor it, the Met Store has launched a
multi-designer capsule collection of housewares, tech accessories,
fashion and beauty items inspired by iconic works of art that belong to
the museum. The beauty brand Estée Lauder looked to Fernand Léger's
``\href{https://www.metmuseum.org/art/collection/search/500488}{The
Village}'' (1914). The abstract painting --- believed to be one of the
last Léger made before the outbreak of World War I --- depicts in
bright, primary colors a small village, playfully rendered in
cylindrical shapes and spheres. Green trees run along the village's
perimeter, encircling a church and bell tower. Childlike but modern, the
painting catches Europe on the brink of change. Its tones, along with
the Met's signature red hue, are reflected in the packaging and pigments
of a limited-edition eye-shadow palette, lipstick set and powder
compact. Considering that Léger was among the last century's greatest
painters, one whose experimentation with Cubism presaged the more
playful Pop Art movement, it seems only fitting to have his work on a
palette to enjoy ourselves. Estée Lauder is donating 100 percent of the
proceeds to the Metropolitan Museum of Art through March 2021, or until
sold out. \emph{From \$52,}
\href{https://store.metmuseum.org/150/collaborations?more_ways_to_shop=1240}{\emph{store.metmuseum.org}}\emph{.}

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

\hypertarget{from-ts-instagram}{%
\subsubsection{From T's Instagram}\label{from-ts-instagram}}

\hypertarget{a-magnificent-english-garden-in-bloom}{%
\subsection{A Magnificent English Garden in
Bloom}\label{a-magnificent-english-garden-in-bloom}}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
