Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}Josh Hawley Defeats Claire
McCaskill in Missouri Senate Race

\url{https://nyti.ms/2yWMRzX}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{josh-hawley-defeats-claire-mccaskill-in-missouri-senate-race}{%
\section{Josh Hawley Defeats Claire McCaskill in Missouri Senate
Race}\label{josh-hawley-defeats-claire-mccaskill-in-missouri-senate-race}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/11/07/us/politics/07midterms6/07midterms6-videoSixteenByNine3000.jpg}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/nicholas-fandos}{Nicholas Fandos}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Nov. 6, 2018
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

ST. LOUIS --- Beating back a liberal suburban groundswell that proved
lethal to many House Republicans, Josh Hawley claimed victory here on
Tuesday over Senator Claire McCaskill, toppling one of Senate Democrats'
last remaining moderate voices, The Associated Press said.

\emph{{[}See the results for the}
\emph{\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2018/11/06/us/elections/results-house-elections.html?action=click\&module=Spotlight\&pgtype=Homepage}{House
of Representatives}, the}
\emph{\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2018/11/06/us/elections/results-senate-elections.html}{Senate}}
\emph{and}
\emph{\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2018/11/06/us/elections/results-governor-elections.html?action=click\&module=Intentional\&pgtype=Article}{governors'
races}, and}
\emph{\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/11/06/us/politics/midterm-elections-results.html}{read
our analysis}.{]}}

The contest was one of the most expensive Senate races in the country's
history --- tens of millions of dollars in ads blanketed the state's
airwaves --- framing the stakes: With Mr. Hawley's victory, Republicans
completed a rapid takeover of a onetime swing state and padded their
majority in the Senate.

``Tonight the people of Missouri have said that our way of life and our
values are going to renew this country and that is what we are about,
and that is what we are for,'' Mr. Hawley said to a crowd of roaring
supporters in Springfield, Mo., in the state's conservative southwest.

Mr. Hawley, the state's attorney general, will be 39 when he is sworn
in, making him one of the Senate's youngest members. His conservative
intellectual stature, Republicans believe, has the potential to leave a
lasting imprint on the Senate for years to come.

A former Supreme Court clerk and law professor, Mr. Hawley was one of
the Republicans' most prized Senate recruits. The state party cleared
the field for his nomination, but a slow start to his campaign prompted
some second-guessing.

Ultimately he prosecuted an aggressive case against Ms. McCaskill,
successfully painting her as too liberal for Missouri and plastering his
``Fire Claire'' campaign bus with photographs of his opponent and the
Democratic leaders of the Senate and the House, Chuck Schumer of New
York and Nancy Pelosi of California, who are deeply unpopular here. He
excoriated her decision to vote against President Trump's two Supreme
Court nominees.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/11/07/us/politics/07dc-mccaskill-live/merlin_146456487_0b66c6d6-91a3-4b85-8b6f-a7107bd2eb7b-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Mr. Trump, whose approval rating is higher than the national average in
Missouri, lavished praise and support on Mr. Hawley during the campaign,
visiting the state twice in the last week to rally on the Republican's
behalf, including a stem-winding last-minute appeal late Monday night in
Cape Girardeau. Mr. Hawley initially kept his distance from Mr. Trump,
but he pulled the president close in the campaign's final months. The
strategy appears to have worked.

``I like the direction that our country is going in right now,'' said
Julie Hickert, 53, after casting a ballot Tuesday morning in
Chesterfield, a St. Louis suburb. ``He is going to continue fighting the
fight.''

For Ms. McCaskill, 65, who
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2006/11/08/us/politics/08missouri.html}{swept
into office amid Democrats' last wave}, in 2006, and was re-elected
after a stroke of luck sank her opponent's campaign in 2012, the
undertow of conservative strength here proved too much this time around.
Republicans made her one of their top national targets, and hammered
away in personal and sometimes visceral terms.

Ms. McCaskill raised huge sums of money, rallied women in the state's
suburbs and cities, and worked furiously to preserve enough rural
support to eke out a win. But it was not enough in Missouri, where
Republicans have exploited deep divisions over cultural issues like
abortion and race relations to execute a rapid statewide takeover.

Widely regarded as a shrewd campaigner, Ms. McCaskill turned heads in
the campaign's closing days by backing Mr. Trump's polarizing approach
to a caravan of asylum seekers marching toward the Southern border and
releasing a radio ad that described her as ``not one of those crazy
Democrats.''
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/10/30/us/politics/claire-mccaskill-crazy-democrats.html}{She
later elaborated on Fox News}.

The ad and backlash against it among liberal and black voters in St.
Louis and Kansas City perfectly encapsulated Ms. McCaskill's challenge
in a state that has substantial liberal, urban populations as well as
rural and exurban swing voters who have moved toward the Republicans.

In the end, Ms. McCaskill suffered steep losses across the state's rural
interior.

The loss likely marks the end of life in public office for Ms.
McCaskill, a singular figure in Missouri politics who began her public
career more than three decades ago in a male-dominated State Capitol and
outlasted most of her Democratic peers. She has long coveted the state's
governorship, having narrowly lost a bid in 2004, but on Tuesday night,
she signaled that she had run her final race, though she said she would
be unencumbered in speaking her mind.

``Believe it or not, I've really had to be kind of careful,'' she told
supporters here. ``Not anymore. I will be out there fighting with you. I
am not going away.''

The results were equally stinging for Democrats here and in Washington.
As Ms. McCaskill warned Democratic voters at events across the state in
the race's final days, it may well be a long time before Democrats can
compete successfully on a statewide level here again. Senate Democrats
will lose an influential voice of Midwestern moderation at a time when
the party is still wrestling with how best to counter Mr. Trump's
electoral success in 2020. The loss of Ms. McCaskill and other moderate
Democrats, like Heidi Heitkamp in North Dakota and Joe Donnelly of
Indiana, is all but certain shift Senate Democrats center considerably
leftward in the next two years.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{Â©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
