Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/business/dealbook}{DealBook}\textbar{}Congress Versus the
`Emperors'

\url{https://nyti.ms/2P76zka}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

DealBook Business and Policy

DealBook Newsletter

\hypertarget{congress-versus-the-emperors}{%
\section{Congress Versus the
`Emperors'}\label{congress-versus-the-emperors}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/07/30/business/30db-newsletter-tech/merlin_175082016_1abaa848-e171-431a-9a82-816fab57fc05-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

July 30, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\emph{Join us today for our DealBook Debrief call with The Times's
foreign affairs columnist Thomas Friedman, who will discuss
``\href{https://timesevents.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/dealbookdebrief0730/newsletter}{\emph{America's
Place in a Pandemic World}}}.'' The struggle to contain the coronavirus
is upending U.S. relationships with allies and emboldening adversaries.
What happens next?**
\emph{\href{https://timesevents.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/dealbookdebrief0730/newsletter}{\emph{R.S.V.P.
here}}} \emph{\emph{to find out at 11 a.m. Eastern. (Want this
delievered to your inbox each day?}}
\href{http://p.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/email/re?location=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\&campaign_id=0\&instance_id=0\&segment_id=0\&user_id=f4577a56bcf773214e9a1d55b5fe9d24\&regi_id=0nl=dealbook\&emc=edit_dk_20180529}{\emph{Sign
up here}}\emph{.)}

\hypertarget{emperors-of-the-online-economy}{%
\subsection{`Emperors of the online
economy'}\label{emperors-of-the-online-economy}}

For more than five hours yesterday, U.S. lawmakers grilled Jeff Bezos,
Tim Cook, Sundar Pichai and Mark Zuckerberg over
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/29/technology/big-tech-hearing-apple-amazon-facebook-google.html}{the
power that their companies command} and the potential for abusing that
power. Talk about
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/20/smarter-living/coronavirus-zoom-facetime-fatigue.html}{Zoom
fatigue}. (Or, technically, Cisco Webex fatigue.)

\textbf{The chairman of the antitrust subcommittee set the tone early.}
Representative David Cicilline, Democrat of Rhode Island, called Amazon,
Apple, Facebook and Google ``emperors of the online economy'' that
``enjoy the power to pick winners and losers, shake down small
businesses and enrich themselves while choking off competitors.''

\textbf{These moments stood out to us:}

• \textbf{Jeff Bezos of Amazon} faced questions about his company's
relationships with third-party sellers. When Representative Pramila
Jayapal, the Democrat who represents Amazon's district in Washington,
asked him whether the company misused sales data to develop products
that competes with those merchants, a rattled Mr. Bezos said, ``I can't
answer that question yes or no.''

• \textbf{Tim Cook of Apple} was confronted over his company's
iron-fisted control of its App Store and whether its demands of other
developers were unfair. When Representative Jerry Nadler of New York
asked whether Apple's pressing Airbnb and ClassPass for additional
commissions for sales made through their apps
\href{https://www.theverge.com/2020/7/29/21335706/antitrust-hearing-highlights-facebook-google-amazon-apple-congress-testimony}{constituted
``pandemic profiteering,''} Mr. Cook said the tech giant would ``never''
do that --- but said some such cases would require additional payouts to
Apple.

• \textbf{Sundar Pichai of Google} confronted several questions about
his company's dominance in advertising. The hearing began when Mr.
Cicilline said documents showed the tech giant sought to create ``a
walled garden that increasingly keeps users within its sites.'' Mr.
Pichai responded, ``I'm really focused on giving users what they want.''

• \textbf{Mark Zuckerberg of Facebook} was presented with
\href{https://www.theverge.com/2020/7/29/21345723/facebook-instagram-documents-emails-mark-zuckerberg-kevin-systrom-hearing}{awkward
emails that he sent in 2012} to Facebook's C.F.O. about acquiring
smaller competitors, including Instagram. ``One way of looking at this
is that what we're really buying is time,'' Mr. Zuckerberg wrote. Less
than an hour after sending that email, the Facebook founder sent another
noting that, ``I didn't mean to imply that we'd be buying them to
prevent them from competing with us in any way.'' Mr. Nadler pressed him
hard on this.

\textbf{How they rated.} The C.E.O.s appeared virtually, beamed into the
hearing room where socially-distanced, masked lawmakers sat on a
wood-paneled stage. The Times's Mike Isaac gave Mr. Bezos
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/07/29/technology/tech-ceos-hearing-testimony/tech-executives-looked-like-they-work-in-well-tech-offices}{the
best marks} for the quality of his setup: ``8/10 for the cool Pacific
Northwest dad office vibes. Two points subtracted for his connectivity
issues.'' The Times's fashion critic, Vanessa Friedman,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/29/style/Bezos-zuckerberg-cook-pichai-testimony-suits.html}{rated
their attire}, noting that they ``looked more like four guys dressed up
in their first graduation suits --- serious, sincere, a little
uncomfortable --- than the four horsemen of the digital apocalypse whose
planetary power was a threat to one and all.''

\textbf{By the numbers.} Mr. Cook drew fewer questions from lawmakers
than the others,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/07/29/technology/tech-ceos-hearing-testimony\#heres-which-tech-ceo-was-asked-the-most-questions-by-lawmakers}{as
compiled} by The Times's Kellen Browning. But Apple's chief stood out
for the number of times he shifted attention to competitors, or to
China, arguing that their market power was more pressing: He employed
this tactic 13 times during the hearing, twice as often as Mr.
Zuckerberg, according to Kellen's calculations.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/07/30/business/30db-newsletterCEOs/30db-newsletterCEOs-articleLarge.png?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\textbf{What the C.E.O.s} \emph{\textbf{didn't}} \textbf{say.} The
website Protocol listed
\href{https://www.protocol.com/some-questions-big-tech-ceos-refused-to-answer}{all
the questions} that the executives responded to with some variation of
``I'll get back to you on that.'' Kellen notes that Mr. Pichai did this
the most, 13 times, versus seven times for Mr. Zuckerberg and three each
for Mr. Bezos and Mr. Cook.

• Today, the executives will be on safer ground, as all four report
quarterly earnings after the market closes. Will they stick to
discussing income statements and balance sheets, or will they push back
on what was said during yesterday's proceedings?

Image

Airbus reported a huge loss for the first half of the
year.Credit...Regis Duvignau/Reuters

\hypertarget{heres-what-is-happening}{%
\subsection{Here's what is happening}\label{heres-what-is-happening}}

\textbf{Pandemic unemployment benefits are set to expire on Friday.} The
extra \$600 a week that many jobless workers in the U.S.
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/29/business/economy/unemployment-benefits-coronavirus.html}{have
relied upon} are likely to vanish after
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/29/business/economy/virus-aid-trump.html}{President
Trump undercut} Senate Republicans' effort to negotiate a coronavirus
aid package with Democrats.

\textbf{TikTok's C.E.O. tried to reduce the political heat.} Kevin
Mayer, the video app's American chief, offered to
\href{https://www.axios.com/tiktoks-new-ceo-says-company-will-reveal-how-its-algorithms-work-aff01b6c-8f33-454f-9b4a-7d52292ce501.html}{open
up some of its core algorithms} to address concerns about its treatment
of user data and ownership by a Chinese tech giant. Republican lawmakers
say a separate plan for TikTok to sell a majority stake to Western
investors
\href{https://www.ft.com/content/45373b5e-0d7d-4478-9c72-525cfd541ec5}{wouldn't
allay their concerns}.

\textbf{Big European corporates reported earnings.} It was a mixed bag:
\textbf{Airbus} reported
\href{https://www.ft.com/content/c9e9b984-ff43-460e-97c9-75c5e481927b}{a
big loss} for the first half and vowed to conserve cash;
\textbf{AstraZeneca} reported a
\href{https://www.ft.com/content/2def1ffd-186c-494c-b5e3-a9a9b2c429a8}{26
percent rise in earnings} for its first half as sales of new drugs beat
forecasts; \textbf{Credit Suisse}
\href{https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2020-07-30/credit-suisse-revamps-trading-and-investment-bank-in-overhaul}{beat
expectations}, thanks to a surge in trading revenue; trading also aided
\textbf{Shell}, which reported
\href{https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2020-07-30/shell-saved-from-a-dismal-second-quarter-by-oil-trading-gains}{a
smaller-than-expected loss}, and \textbf{Total}, which disclosed a
surprise profit; and \textbf{Nestlé} announced an
\href{https://www.marketwatch.com/story/nestle-profit-rises-but-sees-slower-growth-ahead-2020-07-30}{18
percent rise in first-half profit} but warned of slowing growth for the
rest of the year.

\textbf{Qualcomm struck a patent deal with Huawei.} The U.S. chip maker
announced that it had
\href{https://www.wsj.com/articles/qualcomm-inks-licensing-deal-with-huawei-despite-u-s-china-tensions-11596059709}{settled
a long-running licensing dispute} at a time when the Trump
administration has cracked down on the Chinese tech giant. Shares in
Qualcomm jumped 12 percent on the news.

\textbf{Ashley Judd can sue Harvey Weinstein for sexual harassment.} A
panel of judges
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/29/business/media/judd-weinstein-lawsuit-appeal.html}{overturned
a lower court's ruling} that the actress could not sue Mr. Weinstein for
sexual harassment under California law because Ms. Judd and the movie
producer did not have a specific business relationship at the time that
she said the misconduct took place.

\hypertarget{its-going-to-be-bad}{%
\subsection{It's going to be bad}\label{its-going-to-be-bad}}

The Commerce Department will today publish a preliminary estimate of
U.S. economic output for the second quarter. It's expected to be the
worst result since quarterly G.D.P. statistics were first compiled more
than 70 years ago.

\textbf{How bad?} The headline number is expected to show that G.D.P.
fell 35 percent in the second quarter. But that doesn't mean that the
economy shrank by more than a third in just three months,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/29/business/economy/us-gdp-report.html}{The
Times's Ben Casselman explains}. The U.S. reports these statistics using
annualized rates, which amplify short-term changes. In fact, G.D.P. is
expected to be about 10 percent smaller in the second quarter than it
was in the first. (That would be about the same as Germany, which
reported
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/07/30/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus/german-economy-suffers-biggest-slump-in-50-years}{a
10.1 percent decline} in its G.D.P. this morning.) Still terrible, but
not quite as eye-popping.

Image

\textbf{``The path of the economy will depend significantly on the
course of the virus.''} Underscoring the economy's fragility,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/29/business/economy/federal-reserve-meeting-interest-rates.html}{the
Fed chairman Jay Powell noted} at a news conference yesterday that
containing the coronavirus was the ``fundamental'' factor that would
determine the path of growth in the future. That path is
``extraordinarily uncertain,'' he said, adding that a rebound in the
labor market was ``going to take a while.'' In the meantime, the central
bank is ``not even thinking about thinking about thinking about raising
rates.'' (Compared with his last news conference, that's an extra
``thinking about.'')

\hypertarget{the-not-so-painful-ceo-pay-cuts}{%
\subsection{The not-so painful C.E.O. pay
cuts}\label{the-not-so-painful-ceo-pay-cuts}}

As the pandemic hit, prompting waves of furloughs and layoffs, many
corporate leaders showed solidarity by cutting their pay. As it turns
out, it often wasn't much of a sacrifice.

\textbf{Two-thirds of C.E.O.s who reduced their pay took only a 10
percent hit at most,}
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/29/business/economy/ceo-pay-pandemic-layoffs.html}{The
Times's Peter Eavis reports}, citing a study by the research firm
CGLytics. The reductions typically hit executives' salaries, which form
only a small part of their total pay. (Stock awards and bonuses are
usually much bigger parts of their pay packages.)

\textbf{Here's how some C.E.O.s fared, compared with what they earned in
2019:}

• \textbf{Ed Bastian} of Delta Air Lines took a 5.35 percent cut.

• \textbf{Oscar Munoz} of United Airlines took a 3 percent cut.

• \textbf{Bob Iger} of Walt Disney took a 3.3 percent cut.

• \textbf{Arne Sorenson} of Marriott took a cut of less than 2 percent.

• \textbf{Glenn Kelman} of the real estate brokerage Redfin took a
\$284,000 cut, worth 100 percent of his 2019 pay.

Image

Credit...Carlo Allegri/Reuters

\hypertarget{whats-up-with-kodak}{%
\subsection{What's up with Kodak?}\label{whats-up-with-kodak}}

Its stock price, for starters. Shares in the erstwhile photography
pioneer soared in recent days as it
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/07/28/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus\#the-united-states-will-lend-kodak-765-million-to-make-drug-components}{won
a federal loan} to produce ingredients for coronavirus treatments. But
the timing of the trading has aroused suspicion.

\textbf{Kodak's stock jumped more than 15 times higher} \textbf{this
week,} representing a potential second act for a company that has
struggled to find a new direction. Momentum begets momentum, and perhaps
unsurprisingly, Kodak shares have become
\href{https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2020-07-29/kodak-stock-surge-attracks-43-000-robinhood-traders-in-24-hours}{a
favorite of speculative day traders} on the Robinhood app, where nearly
79,000 users added the stock to their portfolios in just 24 hours.

Image

\textbf{Some have cried foul,} pointing to heavy trading volumes ahead
of Kodak's official announcement about the government loan. The Wall
Street Journal reports that there is an explanation: Kodak
\href{https://www.wsj.com/articles/tweets-and-articles-sent-kodak-shares-surging-before-official-announcement-11596056729?mod=hp_lista_pos2}{had
briefed news outlets} in its hometown, Rochester, N.Y. --- but neglected
to say that the information was not for public reporting at the time.
Some of those tweets and stories were deleted shortly after posting, but
not before eagle-eyed traders saw the news.

\hypertarget{the-speed-read}{%
\subsection{The speed read}\label{the-speed-read}}

\textbf{Deals}

• Deutsche Bank's C.E.O., Christian Sewing, rejected speculation that
the German lender would seek to revive merger talks with its rival
Commerzbank.
(\href{https://www.reuters.com/article/us-commerzbank-m-a-deutsche-bank/deutsche-bank-ceo-damps-speculation-of-reviving-commerzbank-merger-talks-idUSKCN24U1YZ}{Reuters})

• The online lender OnDeck Capital has agreed to sell itself for \$90
million, after going public in 2014 at a \$1.3 billion valuation.
(\href{https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2020-07-29/online-lenders-fizzling-in-crisis-with-on-deck-agreeing-to-sale}{Bloomberg})

• Cerevel Therapeutics, a biotech start-up created by Pfizer and Bain
Capital that focuses on neurological diseases, will go public by merging
with a so-called blank check company.
(\href{https://www.statnews.com/2020/07/30/coles-led-cerevel-therapeutics-to-raise-445-million-to-develop-brain-drugs-with-fewer-side-effects/}{Stat})

\textbf{Politics and policy}

• The U.S. Postal Service reached an agreement with the Treasury
Department over a \$10 billion pandemic loan.
(\href{https://www.wsj.com/articles/treasury-u-s-postal-service-reach-agreement-on-10-billion-coronavirus-relief-loan-11596035448}{WSJ})

• President Trump held a pair of fund-raisers in Texas oil country,
courting energy moguls with permits for new projects and denouncing Joe
Biden's clean-energy proposals.
(\href{https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2020-07-29/trump-heads-to-texas-where-virus-has-made-campaign-competitive}{Bloomberg})

\textbf{Tech}

• Huawei has become the world's biggest smartphone maker, mostly because
of a big slip in Samsung's international sales.
(\href{https://www.cnbc.com/2020/07/30/huawei-overtakes-samsung-to-be-no-1-smartphone-maker-thanks-to-china.html}{CNBC})

• The messaging app Telegram filed an antitrust complaint with Europe's
competition regulator over Apple's App Store policies.
(\href{https://www.ft.com/content/88589fc5-8410-4274-859c-d27b3d83fe20}{FT})

\textbf{Best of the rest}

• How did Starbucks get left behind in the pandemic?
(\href{https://marker.medium.com/the-case-for-shorting-starbucks-388a91e65421}{Marker})

• Some are hoping that the coronavirus will lead to the end of the
penny.
(\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/29/business/coin-shortage-penny.html}{NYT})

• Two days ago, Bill Gates told Andrew on CNBC that Elon Musk's
``position is to maintain a high level of outrageous comments.'' The
Tesla C.E.O. has taken that to heart.
(\href{https://twitter.com/elonmusk/status/1288722245280464896}{@elonmusk})

\emph{We'd love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to}
\href{mailto:dealbook@NYTimes.com?subject=Newsletter\%20Feedback}{\emph{dealbook@NYTimes.com}}\emph{.}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
