Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/us}{U.S.}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/us}{U.S.}\textbar{}Trump Foments Protests Against
Governors; Experts Warn of Testing Shortages

\url{https://nyti.ms/3ajkADM}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{the-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=fddebdb0-f1d6-11ea-8367-83b45a6aab78\&variant=undefined}{The
Coronavirus
Outbreak}}{The Coronavirus Outbreak}}\label{the-coronavirus-outbreak}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  live\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/08/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=fddebdb1-f1d6-11ea-8367-83b45a6aab78\&variant=undefined}{Latest
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=fddebdb2-f1d6-11ea-8367-83b45a6aab78\&variant=undefined}{Maps
  and Cases}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=fddebdb3-f1d6-11ea-8367-83b45a6aab78\&variant=undefined}{Vaccine
  Tracker}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/02/your-money/eviction-moratorium-covid.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=fddee4c0-f1d6-11ea-8367-83b45a6aab78\&variant=undefined}{Eviction
  Moratorium}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/09/02/magazine/food-insecurity-hunger-us.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=fddee4c1-f1d6-11ea-8367-83b45a6aab78\&variant=undefined}{American
  Hunger}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{trump-foments-protests-against-governors-experts-warn-of-testing-shortages-}{%
\section{Trump Foments Protests Against Governors; Experts Warn of
Testing Shortages
}\label{trump-foments-protests-against-governors-experts-warn-of-testing-shortages-}}

The president issued calls to `LIBERATE' states, and several announced
plans to ease restrictions. At least 7,000 of the virus deaths in the
U.S. are connected to nursing homes.

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Published April 17, 2020Updated April 20, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

\emph{This briefing has ended. Follow}
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/18/us/coronavirus-updates.html}{\emph{our
latest coverage of the coronavirus pandemic}}\emph{.}

\hypertarget{trump-calls-to-liberate-states-where-people-are-protesting-social-distancing-restrictions}{%
\subsection{Trump calls to ``LIBERATE'' states where people are
protesting social distancing
restrictions.}\label{trump-calls-to-liberate-states-where-people-are-protesting-social-distancing-restrictions}}

President Trump on Friday
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/17/us/politics/trump-coronavirus-governors.html}{openly
encouraged right-wing protests} of social distancing restrictions in
states with stay-at-home orders, a day after announcing guidelines for
how the nation's governors should carry out an orderly reopening of
their communities on their own timetables.

In a series of all-caps tweets that started two minutes after a Fox News
report on the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/20/us/politics/trump-coronavirus.html}{protesters},
the president declared,
``\href{https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/1251169217531056130}{LIBERATE
MICHIGAN}!'' and
``\href{https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/1251168994066944003}{LIBERATE
MINNESOTA}!'' --- two states whose Democratic governors have imposed
strict social distancing restrictions. He also
\href{https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/1251169987110330372}{lashed
out at Virginia}, where the state's Democratic governor and legislature
have pushed for strict gun control measures, saying: ``LIBERATE
VIRGINIA, and save your great 2nd Amendment. It is under siege!''

His stark departure from the more bipartisan tone of his
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/16/us/politics/coronavirus-trump-guidelines.html}{announcement
on Thursday night} suggested Mr. Trump was ceding any semblance of
national leadership on the pandemic, and choosing instead to divide the
country by playing to his political base.

Echoed across the internet and on cable television by conservative
pundits and ultraright conspiracy theorists, his tweets were a
remarkable example of a president egging on demonstrators and helping to
stoke an angry fervor that in its anti-government rhetoric was eerily
reminiscent of the birth of the Tea Party movement a decade ago.

Mr. Trump's call for liberation from social distancing rules followed
protests around the country as protesters --- many wearing red ``Make
America Great Again'' hats --- congregated in packed groups around state
capitols to demand that restrictions be immediately lifted and to
demonize their Democratic governors.

In Michigan, protesters waved banners in support of Mr. Trump and
protested Gov. Gretchen Whitmer by chanting, ``Lock her up.'' In St.
Paul, Minn., a group calling itself ``Liberate Minnesota'' rallied
against stay-at-home orders in front of the home of Gov. Tim Walz. In
Columbus, Ohio, protesters crowded closely together as they pressed up
against the doors of the state's Capitol.

Gov. Jay Inslee of Washington said Mr. Trump's tweets ``encourage
illegal and dangerous acts'' and said the president was ``putting
millions of people in danger of contracting Covid-19.''

Mr. Inslee added: ``His unhinged rantings and calls for people to
`liberate' states could also lead to violence. We've seen it before.''

And in Michigan, Ms. Whitmer said she hoped the president's comments
would not incite more protests.

``The most important thing that anyone with a platform can do is try to
use that platform to tell people, `We are going to get through this,'''
she said.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/09/07/us/coronavirus-us-cases-promo-1599509646276/coronavirus-us-cases-promo-1599509646276-articleLarge.png}

\hypertarget{coronavirus-in-the-us-latest-map-and-case-count}{%
\subsection{Coronavirus in the U.S.: Latest Map and Case
Count}\label{coronavirus-in-the-us-latest-map-and-case-count}}

A detailed county map shows the extent of the coronavirus outbreak, with
tables of the number of cases by county.

\hypertarget{the-lack-of-testing-presents-a-serious-challenge-to-reopening-health-experts-say}{%
\subsection{The lack of testing presents a serious challenge to
reopening, health experts
say.}\label{the-lack-of-testing-presents-a-serious-challenge-to-reopening-health-experts-say}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/04/17/us/17virus-us-briefing-testing/merlin_171622686_27da0a98-742d-4899-b97e-42ce12d30db9-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Any effort by states to begin to ease restrictions requires an expanded
testing capacity to give people a sense of security, health experts say,
and the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/15/us/coronavirus-testing-trump.html}{country
is far behind} in conducting enough tests to responsibly inform those
decisions.

But Vice President Mike Pence asserted on Friday that the United States
currently has the testing capacity to allow all states to move to begin
the first phase of the White House's
\href{https://www.whitehouse.gov/openingamerica/}{guidelines} for
reopening their economies.

``Our best scientists and health experts assess that today we have a
sufficient amount of testing to meet the requirements of phase one
reopening if state governors should choose to do that,'' Mr. Pence said
at the White House's daily briefing. He was followed by several top
public health officials, who provided a detailed description of the
nation's testing capacity, whose scale they said was underappreciated.

Speaking after Mr. Pence, Dr. Anthony Fauci, the federal government's
top infectious disease expert, said that ``existing capacity'' for
testing nationwide can be utilized, but used the future tense when
discussing the potential for states to scale back social distancing
measures. ``We will have, and there will be enough tests to take this
country safely through phase one,'' Dr. Fauci said.

The numbers the officials cited in the briefing --- 3.7 million tests so
far, and about 120,000 tests per day --- represent the current snapshot
of testing in the United States. But experts said that testing will have
to be drastically expanded to get an accurate picture of how the virus
is spreading around the country, and to be able to stamp out future
outbreaks. The ultimate goal is to separate the sick from the healthy so
that Americans feel safe returning to a somewhat normal life and the
virus does not sweep through communities again, which requires more
widespread testing.

The capacity for such testing has been growing but not fast enough,
public health experts say. Supplies continue to run out and some areas
are still only testing people who present specific symptoms. Tests to
determine whether someone has already had the virus are slowly rolling
out, but most have not been vetted by the Food and Drug Administration.

State health officials and medical providers nationwide say they still
cannot diagnose as many people as they need. The biggest challenge is
gettingthe supplies needed to process tests, including chemical
reagents, swabs and pipettes. Manufacturers of those supplies are facing
a huge global demand.

Without widespread testing and surveillance, said Angela Rasmussen, a
virologist at Columbia University in New York, ``we won't be able to
quickly identify and isolate cases in which the patients are
presymptomatic or asymptomatic, and thus community transmission could be
re-established.''

Mr. Trump, whose administration has been criticized for its slow rollout
of tests as the virus took hold in the United States, again
\href{https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/1251186839983132673?s=20}{sought
to portray testing as a state responsibility} on Friday, even as many
governors are pleading for more federal help.

At his briefing at the White House on Friday evening, Mr. Trump
dismissed the concerns that public health experts have raised about
testing, claiming that ``the United States has the most robust, advanced
and accurate testing system anywhere in the world.'' He rejected
criticisms of its shortcomings as ``false and misleading'' and
reiterated his position that ``the governors are responsible for
testing.''

Earlier Friday, a telephone call between Mr. Pence and Senate Democrats
grew heated as Democrats pressed the vice president about the lack of
testing. Senator Angus King, the independent senator from Maine, called
the lack of national testing a ``dereliction of duty.''

In recent weeks, the F.D.A. has approved new tests that could make doing
testing easier, such as one that measures the level of virus in saliva
and does not need a swab. The F.D.A.
\href{https://www.fda.gov/news-events/press-announcements/coronavirus-covid-19-update-fda-gates-foundation-unitedhealth-group-quantigen-and-us-cotton}{also
recently said a new kind of swab} could be used to test for the virus, a
polyester type that can be quickly manufactured in the millions. Both
the saliva test and the polyester swab were cited by officials during
the briefing.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/04/17/us/coronavirus-testing-states.html}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/04/17/us/coronavirus-testing-states-promo-1587163422882/coronavirus-testing-states-promo-1587163422882-articleLarge-v4.png}

\hypertarget{coronavirus-testing-needs-to-triple-before-the-us-can-reopen-experts-say}{%
\subsection{Coronavirus Testing Needs to Triple Before the U.S. Can
Reopen, Experts
Say}\label{coronavirus-testing-needs-to-triple-before-the-us-can-reopen-experts-say}}

As some governors look to ease coronavirus restrictions, public health
experts say the country needs at least half a million tests per day to
safely reopen.

\hypertarget{cuomo-and-trump-spar-over-the-federal-response-to-the-outbreak}{%
\subsection{Cuomo and Trump spar over the federal response to the
outbreak.}\label{cuomo-and-trump-spar-over-the-federal-response-to-the-outbreak}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/04/17/nyregion/17-vid-cuomo-live-still/17-vid-cuomo-live-still-videoSixteenByNine3000.jpg}

In another series of tweets on Friday, the president
\href{https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/1251181563506757632}{rekindled
a fight with Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo} of New York, only days after heaping
praise on him, by saying that the state's chief executive should ``spend
more time `doing' and less time `complaining.'''

The retort came after Mr. Cuomo said that New York could not fully
reopen its economy without more widespread testing and help from the
federal government. Even before Mr. Cuomo had finished speaking during
his televised daily briefing,
\href{https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/1251181563506757632?s=20}{Mr.
Trump lashed out, tweeting}, ``We built you thousands of hospital beds
that you didn't need or use, gave large numbers of Ventilators that you
should have had, and helped you with testing that you should be doing.''
He said Mr. Cuomo owed the federal government a thank-you.

``First of all, if he's sitting home watching TV, maybe he should get up
and go to work, right?'' Mr. Cuomo responded in real time. ``Second,
let's keep emotion and politics out of this, and personal ego if we can.
Because this is about the people.''

Mr. Cuomo said another 630 people died of the virus in New York on
Thursday, according to official state figures, bringing the total
confirmed death toll to 12,822. He said the toll was ``breathtaking in
its pain and grief and tragedy.''

\hypertarget{latest-updates-the-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/08/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: The Coronavirus
Outbreak}}{Latest Updates: The Coronavirus Outbreak}}\label{latest-updates-the-coronavirus-outbreak}}

Updated 2020-09-08T13:19:46.724Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/08/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-46162376}{Trillions
  of dollars separate lawmakers' proposals for virus relief.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/08/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-679303d7}{Nine
  drugmakers pledge to thoroughly vet any coronavirus vaccine.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/08/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-1c973131}{`The
  lockdown killed my father': Farmer suicides add to India's virus
  misery.}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/08/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

More live coverage:
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/08/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Markets}

\hypertarget{prominent-conservatives-and-donors-are-behind-some-statehouse-protests}{%
\subsection{Prominent conservatives and donors are behind some
statehouse
protests.}\label{prominent-conservatives-and-donors-are-behind-some-statehouse-protests}}

Image

Hundreds of supporters of the Michigan Conservative Coalition protest
against the state's extended stay-at-home order.Credit...Seth
Herald/Reuters

The protests in Michigan, Ohio and elsewhere calling for easing the
restrictions were reminiscent of the early days of the Tea Party
movement, when angry activists stormed town hall meetings of Democratic
members of Congress to protest President Barack Obama's health care
overhaul. Both featured impassioned demonstrators on the ground --- and
the behind-the-scenes involvement of prominent conservatives and donors.

The chairman of one of the groups behind Michigan's protest on Thursday,
the Michigan Freedom Fund, is Greg McNeilly, a close longtime associate
of the education secretary, Betsy DeVos. Mr. McNeilly has denied any
involvement by Ms. DeVos or others in her family, which has long
financed conservative causes in Michigan.

Others organizing protests have been open about the involvement of
outside donors.

Speaking on a
\href{https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2h7czFYx6-s\&feature=youtu.be\&t=856}{YouTube
program} called ``Freedom on Tap,'' the Trump-allied economics
commentator Stephen Moore said he was ``working with a group in
Wisconsin that wants to do a drive-in,'' which he equated to the sit-ins
of the civil rights era, only this time in protest of the restrictions
put in place by Gov. Tony Evers, a Democrat.

Speaking of the planned Wisconsin rally, he said he had one big donor
who had promised to pay the bail and legal fees of anyone who was
arrested.

``So this is a great time, gentlemen and ladies, for civil
disobedience,'' Mr. Moore said. ``We need to be the Rosa Parks here, and
protest against these government injustices.''

Mr. Moore serves on Mr. Trump's coronavirus economic advisory group and
has helped start another group urging a faster reopening of the economy,
called Save Our Country.

Mr. Trump had briefly considered Mr. Moore last year for a seat on the
Federal Reserve board, but Mr. Moore's past comments about women,
including that they should not earn more than men, drew criticism.

In an interview, Mr. Moore declined to name the donor he was referring
to, but described him as ``so upset about what's happening with the
abridgment of freedom.''

Likening the latest protests to the Tea Party, he said that to focus on
donors is to miss true wellsprings of anger among everyday people.
``These are people coming to us, but we're not coming to them,'' he
said. ``All we're trying to do is just encourage people to
participate.''

\hypertarget{the-federal-government-will-direct-19-billion-in-aid-to-farmers}{%
\subsection{The federal government will direct \$19 billion in aid to
farmers.}\label{the-federal-government-will-direct-19-billion-in-aid-to-farmers}}

President Trump said on Friday he would channel \$19 billion to American
farmers and ranchers who have been hurt by the fallout from the
coronavirus, payments that come on top of tens of billions of dollars of
assistance given to farmers in the last year to offset the pain of the
trade war with China.

Most of the aid --- \$16 billion --- will be in the form of direct
payments to farmers who have experienced losses from the outbreak, Mr.
Trump said in a briefing. The government will also buy \$3 billion worth
of fresh produce, dairy and meat that will be distributed to people in
need through food banks and other community and faith organizations, he
added.

``These are great people, great Americans,'' Mr. Trump said of farmers.
``It is money well deserved. Not only were they targeted at one point by
China, and that was over a period of time, and you saw that happening,
and they never complained.''

The Trump administration has extended \$28 billion to American farmers
and ranchers over the past year to help offset the pain of the
president's trade war with China. Mr. Trump ratcheted up tariffs on
hundreds of billions of dollars of Chinese products in an effort to
reach a trade deal, prompting China to respond with tariffs on American
soybeans, pork, dairy and other products that crippled sales to one of
the world's largest markets.

The spread of the coronavirus has further disrupted agricultural supply
chains. Outbreaks have shuttered meat processing plants, while the
closure of restaurants and food service, a major consumer of American
food products, means some dairy farmers have been forced to dump their
milk.

``Having to dump milk or plow under vegetables ready to market is not
only financially distressing, but it's heartbreaking as well to those
who produce them,'' Sonny Perdue, the secretary of agriculture, said in
the briefing.

\hypertarget{at-least-7000-people-living-in-or-connected-to-us-nursing-homes-have-died}{%
\subsection{At least 7,000 people living in or connected to U.S. nursing
homes have
died.}\label{at-least-7000-people-living-in-or-connected-to-us-nursing-homes-have-died}}

Image

A patient was evacuated from the Magnolia Rehabilitation and Nursing
Center in Riverside, Calif., last week.Credit...Chris Carlson/Associated
Press

The first warning of the devastation that the coronavirus could wreak
inside American nursing homes came in late February, when residents of
a\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/21/us/coronavirus-nursing-home-kirkland-life-care.html}{facility
in suburban Seattle} perished, one by one, as families waited helplessly
outside.

In the ensuing six weeks, large and shockingly lethal outbreaks have
continued to ravage nursing homes across the nation. Now a tally by The
New York Times has found the number of people living in or connected to
nursing homes who have died of the coronavirus to be at least 7,000, far
higher than previously known.

In New Jersey, 17 bodies piled up in a nursing home morgue, and more
than a quarter of a Virginia home's residents have died. At least 24
people at a facility in Maryland have died; more than 100 residents and
workers have been infected at another in Kansas; and people have died in
centers for military veterans in Florida, Nevada, New York, Maine,
Massachusetts, Oregon and Washington.

Over all, about a fifth of deaths from the virus in the United States
have been tied to nursing homes or other long-term care facilities, The
Times review of cases shows. And more than 36,000 residents and
employees across the nation have contracted it.

Covid-19 is on track to kill far more people in the United States this
year than the seasonal flu, but determining just how deadly the new
virus will be
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/17/us/coronavirus-death-rate.html}{is
a key question} facing epidemiologists, who expect resurgent waves of
infection that could
\href{https://science.sciencemag.org/content/early/2020/04/14/science.abb5793}{last
into 2022}.

The virus is known to be more deadly to aging, immune-compromised
people, and small, confined settings like nursing homes, where workers
frequently move from one room to the next, are particularly vulnerable
to spreading infection. But oversights and failures also have
contributed to the crisis.

In interviews with more than two dozen workers in long-term care
facilities as well as family members of residents and health care
experts, a portrait emerged of a system unequipped to handle the
onslaught and disintegrating further amid the growing crisis.

\hypertarget{governors-in-texas-minnesota-and-other-states-are-looking-to-ease-restrictions}{%
\subsection{Governors in Texas, Minnesota and other states are looking
to ease
restrictions.}\label{governors-in-texas-minnesota-and-other-states-are-looking-to-ease-restrictions}}

Image

A man wearing a mask walking his dog near Marlins Park in Miami last
week.Credit...Scott McIntyre for The New York Times

Texas will let all stores in the state open next week for
``retail-to-go,'' permitting pickup and delivery but not in-store
shopping. Minnesota will allow golf courses and driving ranges to reopen
this weekend. Vermont will let its farmers' markets reopen on May 1.

Around the country, governors began announcing plans to ease
restrictions in their states on Friday, even as cases continue to surge
in some parts of the country and inadequate testing will make it
difficult for them to identify and contain future outbreaks.

In Texas, Gov. Greg Abbott, a Republican, said that he would lift
restrictions on some medical procedures and reopen state parks while
requiring masks and social distancing. Schools will remain closed for
the remainder of the school year.

In Ohio, Gov. Mike DeWine described what things might look like
beginning May 1: new social distancing guidelines at businesses,
employees wearing masks, and staggered arrival times and lunch times.

``Businesses won't be able to attract workers or customers if they feel
they aren't safe there,'' said Mr. DeWine, a Republican. ``A lot of this
will be common sense and taking what we've learned so far and putting it
into effect.''

Gov. Ron DeSantis of Florida said on Friday that he would refer to the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/16/us/politics/coronavirus-trump-guidelines.html}{White
House guidelines on reopening} but not necessarily abide by everything
they propose.

``We will obviously use that as a kind of baseline,'' Mr. DeSantis, a
Republican, said at a news conference in Fort Lauderdale. ``It doesn't
mean Florida is going to do every single thing they say or not say.''

But just as much of the country entered life under quarantine in a
patchwork fashion, it is poised to ease restrictions the same varied
way, responding to
the\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html\#states}{local
needs to fight the virus}.

In Maryland, where cases and deaths continue to rise, Gov. Larry Hogan,
a Republican, said at a news conference Friday that four things must be
``solidly in place'' before he moves to lift restrictions: expanded
testing, increased hospital capacity for a surge in patients, more
personal protective equipment, and a robust contact tracing operation.
He said that he would give an update on the progress in those areas, and
detail the state's plans, next week. State officials said that schools
there would remain closed through at least May 15.

Gov. Gavin Newsom of California announced a bipartisan economic advisory
committee on Friday that includes all four of the state's living former
governors and some of the nation's leading corporate executives
including the chief executive of Apple, Tim Cook, and the chairman of
Disney, Robert A. Iger, as well as the former head of the Federal
Reserve, Janet Yellen.

\hypertarget{dallas-homeless-shelter-is-evacuated-after-38-positive-tests}{%
\subsection{Dallas homeless shelter is evacuated after 38 positive
tests.}\label{dallas-homeless-shelter-is-evacuated-after-38-positive-tests}}

A Dallas homeless shelter
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/17/us/dallas-homeless-shelter-coronavirus.html}{was
evacuated} on Friday after 38 residents tested positive for the
coronavirus, another example of the pandemic sweeping through one of the
nation's most vulnerable populations.

City officials said 164 residents at the privately run shelter, Dallas
Life, were taken by bus to a hotel on Friday, and would be isolated in
individual rooms for 14 days while the shelter was cleaned. Nobody was
hospitalized, according to the shelter's director, Bob Sweeney.

Mr. Sweeney said the shelter, which can house as many as 500 people,
stopped taking new residents and reduced its staffing to a skeleton crew
of about 12 in mid-March, as the pandemic escalated.

About eight days ago, he said, a resident with a fever tested positive
for the virus. Two more residents tested positive this week, prompting
health officials to order that everyone in the shelter be tested.

Advocates for homeless people said they were not surprised by the
outbreak, given the risk that residents, many with respiratory
illnesses, face when living in often cramped shelters. A week ago, 70
people at San Francisco's largest homeless shelter tested positive for
the coronavirus in the largest reported outbreak at a single shelter in
the United States.

\hypertarget{doctors-are-prescribing-hydroxychloroquine-but-dont-know-if-it-works}{%
\subsection{Doctors are prescribing hydroxychloroquine but don't know if
it
works.}\label{doctors-are-prescribing-hydroxychloroquine-but-dont-know-if-it-works}}

Image

At Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan, most Covid-19 patients who are not
on the verge of dying receive a five-day regimen of
hydroxychloroquine.Credit...Gabriela Bhaskar for The New York Times

For weeks doctors around the country have been giving hydroxychloroquine
to ill patients, and as a preventive measure to some who have been
exposed to the coronavirus.

But even after treating hundreds of patients with the antimalarial drug,
doctors interviewed did not report clear results or remarkable
recoveries that can be traced to the drug.

At Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan, most
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&module=STYLN_coronahub\&variant=show\&region=header\&context=menu}{Covid-19}
patients who are not on the verge of dying receive a five-day regimen of
hydroxychloroquine, the long-used malaria drug that President Trump has
repeatedly promoted as a ``what have you got to lose'' remedy. While his
own top health officials are more cautious --- noting there is limited
evidence about the drug's benefits --- doctors across the country have
been prescribing the drug for weeks.

Dr. Bushra Mina, the chief of pulmonary medicine at Lenox Hill, is well
aware that there are no rigorous clinical trials showing that the drug
works. But he can't wait for the evidence to come in, he said, when
people are dying.

``I think it's a battle, and your options are very limited,'' Dr. Mina
said. ``You're really looking for what you can do with whatever evidence
you have.''

Hydroxychloroquine and a related drug, chloroquine, have been used for
decades to treat and prevent malaria, and hydroxychloroquine has been
used by people with lupus and rheumatoid arthritis because it is known
to calm the immune system. In laboratory tests, it has been shown to
block the coronavirus from invading cells, although it hasn't been
proven in human trials. The drugs are not recommended for people who
have abnormal heart rhythms.

\hypertarget{heres-a-guide-for-those-in-need-of-financial-help}{%
\subsection{Here's a guide for those in need of financial
help.}\label{heres-a-guide-for-those-in-need-of-financial-help}}

If your income has fallen or been cut off completely, we're here to
help. Here is some basic information you'll need to get through the
current crisis, including guides to government benefits, free services
and financial strategies.

\hypertarget{those-weve-lost-israel-sauz-gas-station-worker-and-new-father-dies-at-22}{%
\subsection{Those we've lost: Israel Sauz, gas-station worker and new
father, dies at
22.}\label{those-weve-lost-israel-sauz-gas-station-worker-and-new-father-dies-at-22}}

Image

Israel Sauz with his son, Josiah. Mr. Sauz was a well-liked assistant
night manager of a gas station-convenience store in Tulsa,
Okla.Credit...via Dariela Gonzalez

Israel Sauz of Tulsa, Okla., couldn't wait to see his first child, a
baby boy named Josiah. And he couldn't wait for the world to see him,
too. So he got in close and took a picture for Facebook of his son, fast
asleep in a green onesie, shortly after the boy came into the world one
Sunday last month.

Just 21 days later, on April 5, Mr. Sauz was dead. He was 22.

The cause was complications related to Covid-19, the disease caused by
the virus, according to family friends and the school district where he
attended high school.

Many in Tulsa may not have recognized his name, but they knew the
smiling face --- he was an assistant night manager at a busy QuikTrip
gas station and convenience store about a mile east of downtown Tulsa.
He was still a teenager when he first started working for QuikTrip, a
popular chain based in Tulsa.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{}

\hypertarget{the-coronavirus-outbreak-}{%
\subsubsection{The Coronavirus Outbreak
›}\label{the-coronavirus-outbreak-}}

\hypertarget{frequently-asked-questions}{%
\paragraph{Frequently Asked
Questions}\label{frequently-asked-questions}}

Updated September 4, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{what-are-the-symptoms-of-coronavirus}{%
  \paragraph{What are the symptoms of
  coronavirus?}\label{what-are-the-symptoms-of-coronavirus}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    In the beginning, the coronavirus
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/coronavirus-facts-history.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq\#link-6817bab5}{seemed
    like it was primarily a respiratory illness}~--- many patients had
    fever and chills, were weak and tired, and coughed a lot, though
    some people don't show many symptoms at all. Those who seemed
    sickest had pneumonia or acute respiratory distress syndrome and
    received supplemental oxygen. By now, doctors have identified many
    more symptoms and syndromes. In April,
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/27/health/coronavirus-symptoms-cdc.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{the
    C.D.C. added to the list of early signs}~sore throat, fever, chills
    and muscle aches. Gastrointestinal upset, such as diarrhea and
    nausea, has also been observed. Another telltale sign of infection
    may be a sudden, profound diminution of one's
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/22/health/coronavirus-symptoms-smell-taste.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{sense
    of smell and taste.}~Teenagers and young adults in some cases have
    developed painful red and purple lesions on their fingers and toes
    --- nicknamed ``Covid toe'' --- but few other serious symptoms.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{why-is-it-safer-to-spend-time-together-outside}{%
  \paragraph{Why is it safer to spend time together
  outside?}\label{why-is-it-safer-to-spend-time-together-outside}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/15/us/coronavirus-what-to-do-outside.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{Outdoor
    gatherings}~lower risk because wind disperses viral droplets, and
    sunlight can kill some of the virus. Open spaces prevent the virus
    from building up in concentrated amounts and being inhaled, which
    can happen when infected people exhale in a confined space for long
    stretches of time, said Dr. Julian W. Tang, a virologist at the
    University of Leicester.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{why-does-standing-six-feet-away-from-others-help}{%
  \paragraph{Why does standing six feet away from others
  help?}\label{why-does-standing-six-feet-away-from-others-help}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    The coronavirus spreads primarily through droplets from your mouth
    and nose, especially when you cough or sneeze. The C.D.C., one of
    the organizations using that measure,
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/14/health/coronavirus-six-feet.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{bases
    its recommendation of six feet}~on the idea that most large droplets
    that people expel when they cough or sneeze will fall to the ground
    within six feet. But six feet has never been a magic number that
    guarantees complete protection. Sneezes, for instance, can launch
    droplets a lot farther than six feet,
    \href{https://jamanetwork.com/journals/jama/fullarticle/2763852}{according
    to a recent study}. It's a rule of thumb: You should be safest
    standing six feet apart outside, especially when it's windy. But
    keep a mask on at all times, even when you think you're far enough
    apart.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{i-have-antibodies-am-i-now-immune}{%
  \paragraph{I have antibodies. Am I now
  immune?}\label{i-have-antibodies-am-i-now-immune}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    As of right
    now,\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/22/health/covid-antibodies-herd-immunity.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{~that
    seems likely, for at least several months.}~There have been
    frightening accounts of people suffering what seems to be a second
    bout of Covid-19. But experts say these patients may have a
    drawn-out course of infection, with the virus taking a slow toll
    weeks to months after initial exposure.~People infected with the
    coronavirus typically
    \href{https://www.nature.com/articles/s41586-020-2456-9}{produce}~immune
    molecules called antibodies, which are
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/07/health/coronavirus-antibody-prevalence.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{protective
    proteins made in response to an
    infection}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/07/health/coronavirus-antibody-prevalence.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{.
    These antibodies may}~last in the body
    \href{https://www.nature.com/articles/s41591-020-0965-6}{only two to
    three months}, which may seem worrisome, but that's~perfectly normal
    after an acute infection subsides, said Dr. Michael Mina, an
    immunologist at Harvard University. It may be possible to get the
    coronavirus again, but it's highly unlikely that it would be
    possible in a short window of time from initial infection or make
    people sicker the second time.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{what-are-my-rights-if-i-am-worried-about-going-back-to-work}{%
  \paragraph{What are my rights if I am worried about going back to
  work?}\label{what-are-my-rights-if-i-am-worried-about-going-back-to-work}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Employers have to provide
    \href{https://www.osha.gov/SLTC/covid-19/standards.html}{a safe
    workplace}~with policies that protect everyone equally.
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/coronavirus-money-unemployment.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{And
    if one of your co-workers tests positive for the coronavirus, the
    C.D.C.}~has said that
    \href{https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/community/guidance-business-response.html}{employers
    should tell their employees}~-\/- without giving you the sick
    employee's name -\/- that they may have been exposed to the virus.
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

He lived in the Tulsa suburb of Broken Arrow. He and his wife, Krystal,
had celebrated their first wedding anniversary two weeks before Josiah
was born.

\hypertarget{homemade-or-more-professional-which-mask-is-best-for-you}{%
\subsection{Homemade or more professional: Which mask is best for
you?}\label{homemade-or-more-professional-which-mask-is-best-for-you}}

Image

Credit...Tony Cenicola/The New York Times

Face masks have become an emblem in the fight against the virus, with
officials in the United States and elsewhere recommending --- and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/15/nyregion/coronavirus-face-masks-andrew-cuomo.html}{in
some cases mandating} --- that people wear them to help slow the spread
of the deadly outbreak.

Figuring out what to wear is not so easy. N95 and medical masks, which
offer the most protection and are heavily in demand, should be reserved
for health care workers who are regularly exposed to infected patients.

Here's a look at some of the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/10/well/live/coronavirus-face-masks-guides-protection-personal-protective-equipment.html}{types
of masks} you might encounter, how they work, what to consider when
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/how-to-make-face-mask-coronavirus.html}{making
your own} and the level of protection they could provide.

\hypertarget{a-south-dakota-mayor-wrestles-with-the-need-for-a-stay-at-home-order-amid-a-local-outbreak}{%
\subsection{A South Dakota mayor wrestles with the need for a
stay-at-home order amid a local
outbreak.}\label{a-south-dakota-mayor-wrestles-with-the-need-for-a-stay-at-home-order-amid-a-local-outbreak}}

Mayor Paul TenHaken of Sioux Falls, S.D., has abandoned his effort to
put in place a stay-at-home order in his city, which is at the center of
a coronavirus outbreak that
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/15/us/coronavirus-south-dakota-meat-plant-refugees.html}{shut
down a Smithfield pork processing plant}.

He told the City Council on Friday that new data showed that local
hospitals were able to handle an influx of coronavirus patients,
\href{https://www.argusleader.com/story/news/crime/2020/04/17/coronavirus-update-covid-19-sioux-falls-after-cdc-tours-smithfield/5151219002/}{The
Sioux Falls Argus Leader reported}.

Earlier this week, Mr. TenHaken, a Republican, said in an interview that
he was frustrated by his inability to convince Sioux Falls residents to
stay in their homes. He had unsuccessfully petitioned Gov. Kristi Noem,
a Republican, for a countywide stay-at-home order.

``We're starting to become a poster child for a lack of response,'' he
said, noting that hundreds of people in his city had tested positive for
the coronavirus, many of whom worked at Smithfield.

The people in his city were deeply divided over his efforts to institute
a stay-at-home order. ``I have half the city saying, `Shut this entire
place down and tell me when to come out,''' he said. ``And I have the
other half saying, `Don't you dare.'''

\hypertarget{tim-cook-bob-iger-janet-yellen-and-former-governors-join-californias-bipartisan-economic-advisory-council}{%
\subsection{Tim Cook, Bob Iger, Janet Yellen and former governors join
California's bipartisan economic advisory
council.}\label{tim-cook-bob-iger-janet-yellen-and-former-governors-join-californias-bipartisan-economic-advisory-council}}

Gov. Gavin Newsom of California announced a bipartisan economic advisory
committee on Friday that includes all four of the state's living former
governors and some of the nation's leading corporate executives
including the chief executive of Apple, Tim Cook, and the chairman of
Disney, Robert A. Iger, as well as the former head of the Federal
Reserve, Janet Yellen.

The former governors are two Republicans, Pete Wilson and Arnold
Schwarzenegger, and two Democrats, Gray Davis and Jerry Brown. The
committee will be led by Tom Steyer, the billionaire businessman and
former presidential candidate.

Mr. Steyer said the committee's aim would be ``to develop a strategy to
help California recover as fast as safely possible from the Covid-19
induced recession.''

``Health and safety remain the most important points here,'' Mr. Steyer
said.

Mr. Newsom's initiative to call on his predecessors is in contrast to
President Trump who was asked in March whether he would consult with
previous presidents for guidance on how to navigate the crisis. ``I
don't think I'm going to learn much,'' Mr. Trump
\href{https://slack-redir.net/link?url=https\%3A\%2F\%2Fwww.whitehouse.gov\%2Fbriefings-statements\%2Fremarks-president-trump-vice-president-pence-members-coronavirus-task-force-press-briefing-8\%2F\&v=3}{said
at the time}.

\hypertarget{small-business-administration-loans-have-so-far-flowed-heavily-to-california-and-texas}{%
\subsection{Small Business Administration loans have so far flowed
heavily to California and
Texas.}\label{small-business-administration-loans-have-so-far-flowed-heavily-to-california-and-texas}}

Money from the Small Business Administration's Paycheck Protection
Program, which ran out of funds on Thursday, flowed heavily to
California and Texas, with construction companies and manufacturers
getting the largest number of loans, rather than harder-hit retailers
and restaurants, according to
\href{https://home.treasury.gov/system/files/136/SBA\%20PPP\%20Loan\%20Report\%20Deck.pdf}{new
data}.

The nearly \$350 billion in the Paycheck Protection Program also
disproportionately flowed to states that have suffered fewer infections
and deaths under the virus, like Kansas, than to harder-hit states like
New York and New Jersey, when adjusting for the size of the
small-business economy in each state.

The new data, which include loan approvals through Thursday, show
accommodation and food service firms have received less than 9 percent
of the money from the program, about \$30.5 billion, though they have
suffered the largest job losses of any industry during this recession.
Construction firms received the largest share, at just over 13 percent
or about \$45 billion worth.

The program was designed for banks to distribute the loans, which the
federal government will pay off in most cases. That structure advantaged
companies with existing relationships with banks.

S.B.A. officials included data on the largest lending institutions in
the program, though they were not identified. The top lender distributed
more than \$14 million in loans with an average size of more than
\$500,000 per loan --- suggesting that the institution was giving loans
to relatively large businesses.

Meanwhile, stocks in the United States rallied on Friday, with efforts
to reopen the economy taking center stage and investors undeterred by
more data showing the economic damage.

The gains came after Mr. Trump
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/16/us/politics/coronavirus-trump-guidelines.html}{told
governors} they could begin reopening, and Boeing --- one of the
nation's largest manufacturers --- said it planned to
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/16/business/boeing-restart-production-coronavirus.html}{bring
about 27,000 employees back to work in Washington State} to resume
aircraft production.

The announcement is the first attempt at large-scale resumption of
business activity by a U.S. corporation since the much of the country
most nonessential work. The S\&P 500 rose 2.7 percent, while Boeing's
gains led the Dow Jones industrial average to a 3 percent jump.

After global stock markets nose-dived earlier this year, they have been
rebounding since late March, as investors have routinely looked past
evidence of the economic damage, and instead focused on hopes for an
eventual recovery. Friday's gains mean stocks ended the week higher,
despite reports showing a historic plunge in retail sales and a
continued surge in unemployment claim

\hypertarget{epidemiologists-still-dont-know-the-worldwide-death-rate-for-covid-19}{%
\subsection{Epidemiologists still don't know the worldwide death rate
for
Covid-19.}\label{epidemiologists-still-dont-know-the-worldwide-death-rate-for-covid-19}}

Image

Transporting coffins in Bergamo, Italy, last month.Credit...Fabio
Bucciarelli for The New York Times

Coroners in some parts of the United States are overwhelmed. Funeral
homes in
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/17/podcasts/the-daily/alexandria-ocasio-cortez-coronavirus.html}{virus
hot spots} can barely keep up. Newspaper obituary pages in hard-hit
areas go on and on. Covid-19 is on track to kill far more people in the
United States this year than the seasonal flu.

But determining just how deadly the new virus will be is a key question
facing epidemiologists, who expect resurgent waves of infection that
could
\href{https://science.sciencemag.org/content/early/2020/04/14/science.abb5793}{last
into 2022}.

As the virus spread across the world in late February and March,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/13/us/coronavirus-deaths-estimate.html}{the
projection circulated by infectious disease experts} of how many
infected people would die
\href{https://www.imperial.ac.uk/media/imperial-college/medicine/sph/ide/gida-fellowships/Imperial-College-COVID19-NPI-modelling-16-03-2020.pdf}{seemed
plenty dire}:
\href{https://www.c-span.org/video/?c4860450/user-clip-dr-anthony-fauci-addresses-covid-19-mortality-rate}{around
1 percent}, or 10 times the rate of a typical flu.

But according to various unofficial Covid-19 trackers that calculate the
death rate by dividing total deaths by the
\href{https://qap.ecdc.europa.eu/public/extensions/COVID-19/COVID-19.html}{number
of known cases}, about 6.4 percent of people infected with the virus
have now died worldwide.

In Italy, the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/world/europe/italy-coronavirus-cases.html}{death
rate stands at about 13 percent}, and in the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html}{United
States}, around 4.3 percent, according to the latest figures on known
cases and deaths. Even in South Korea, where widespread testing helped
contain the outbreak, 2 percent of people who tested positive for the
virus have died,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/world/coronavirus-maps.html\#countries}{recent
data shows}.

Those supposed death rates also appear to vary widely by geography:
Germany's fatality rate appears to be roughly
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/04/world/europe/germany-coronavirus-death-rate.html}{one-tenth
of Italy's}, and Los Angeles's about half of New York's. Among U.S.
states, Michigan, at around 7 percent, is at the high end, while
Wyoming, which reported its first two deaths this week, has one of the
lowest death rates, at about 0.7 percent.

Virology experts say there is
\href{https://twitter.com/trvrb/status/1242628550563250176}{no evidence}
that any strain of the virus, officially known as SARS-CoV-2,
\href{https://nextstrain.org/help/coronavirus/FAQ\#is-one-strain-of-the-covid-19-virus-more-severe}{has
mutated to become more severe} in some parts of the world than others,
raising the question of why there appears to be so much variance from
country to country.

\hypertarget{with-social-distancing-difficult-on-ships-the-crew-of-the-mercy-a-navy-hospital-moves-ashore}{%
\subsection{With social distancing difficult on ships, the crew of the
Mercy, a Navy hospital, moves
ashore.}\label{with-social-distancing-difficult-on-ships-the-crew-of-the-mercy-a-navy-hospital-moves-ashore}}

Image

The hospital ship Mercy in the Port of Los Angeles on
Wednesday.Credit...Mario Tama/Getty Images

Aboard the hospital ship U.S.N.S. Mercy, docked in the Port of Los
Angeles, most of the military crew is moving off the ship and into
hotels ashore. Sailors will be bussed from their hotels to to work their
shifts aboard the Mercy. Navy spokesman Lt. Andrew Bertucci said on
Friday that the decision was made in order to better facilitate social
distancing.

``The plan is to drastically decrease the amount of contact that the
crew has with each other,'' Lieutenant Bertucci said. ``It will
ultimately be safer for both the crew and the patients.''

Between 800 to 900 crew members had been living on the Mercy full-time,
but that number will go down to about 100 to 200 in the coming days. On
Thursday 150 sailors moved off the ship, and that same number is
expected to move to hotels daily through Sunday. Lieutenant Bertucci
noted that the crew aboard the U.S.N.S. Comfort, which is docked in New
York City, recently moved most of its crew to hotels ashore as well.

The move comes after a total of seven crew members tested positive for
Covid-19 since the ship arrived to help area hospitals treat non-Covid
patients, and more than 100 of the crew who had been in contact with
those seven have moved off the ship into precautionary quarantine. All
of the Mercy sailors in quarantine have tested negative for the
coronavirus and are regularly monitored in case they were to develop any
symptoms.

The commanding officer of the Mercy's medical treatment team, Capt. John
Rotruck, is quarantined aboard the ship in his stateroom after an
investigation found that he had been in proximity to a Covid-positive
crew member. Captain Rotruck has tested negative for novel coronavirus,
and said his ability to continue the ship's mission is unchanged.

The ship will continue to treat the patients it already has onboard, and
will take new patients as requested by local authorities.

\hypertarget{there-are-29-dead-at-one-ny-nursing-home-or-more-no-one-will-say}{%
\subsection{There are 29 dead at one N.Y. nursing home. Or more. No one
will
say.}\label{there-are-29-dead-at-one-ny-nursing-home-or-more-no-one-will-say}}

Berna Lee got the call from the nursing home in Queens on April 3: Her
mother had a fever, nothing serious. She was assured that there were no
cases in the home. Then she started calling workers there.

``One said, `Girl, let me tell you, it's crazy here,''' Ms. Lee said.
```Six people died today.'''

In a panic, Ms. Lee drove from her home in Rhode Island to the nursing
home, beginning a two-week scramble for information, as workers at the
facility, \href{https://www.sapphirerehab.com/}{Sapphire Center for
Rehabilitation and Nursing of Central Queens}, told her privately that
many residents had died, and that most of the home's leadership was out
sick or in quarantine.

Finally, she banged on her mother's first-floor window to see if she was
OK. It was unclear whether her mother understood what was happening, Ms.
Lee said.

``I didn't know how bad it was,'' she said. ``People told me bodies were
dropping.''

The crisis at Sapphire highlighted
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/11/nyregion/nursing-homes-deaths-coronavirus.html}{the
desperate state of nursing homes in the New York region} and illustrated
what relatives of residents said was a deeply troubling lack of
information about what was going on inside the homes.

\hypertarget{chinas-economy-shrinks-for-first-time-in-decades-and-the-death-toll-in-wuhan-is-revised-higher}{%
\subsection{China's economy shrinks for first time in decades, and the
death toll in Wuhan is revised
higher.}\label{chinas-economy-shrinks-for-first-time-in-decades-and-the-death-toll-in-wuhan-is-revised-higher}}

Image

An outdoor market in Beijing on Wednesday. China has lifted many
restrictions on work and travel, but business as usual is a long way
away.Credit...Giulia Marchi for The New York Times

Chinese officials on Friday said the world's second-largest economy
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/16/business/china-coronavirus-economy.html}{had
shrunk} in the first three months of the year, ending
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2018/11/25/world/asia/china-economy-strategy.html}{a
streak of untrammeled growth} that survived
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/05/30/world/asia/china-tiananmen-crackdown.html}{the
Tiananmen Square crackdown},
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/02/03/business/economy/SARS-coronavirus-economic-impact-china.html}{the
SARS epidemic} and even the global financial crisis.

The data reflects China's drastic efforts to stamp out the coronavirus,
which included shutting down most factories and offices in January and
February as the outbreak sickened tens of thousands of people.

The stark numbers make clear how monumental the challenge of getting the
global economy back on its feet will be, and may help to explain why
world leaders --- including President Trump --- are so eager to restart
their own economies. Since it emerged from abject poverty and isolation
more than 40 years ago, China has become perhaps the world's
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/02/business/economy/china-coronavirus-economy.html}{most
important growth engine}.

But the leaders in Beijing have faced criticism over a lack of
transparency in their handling of the epidemic.

Faced with
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/02/us/politics/cia-coronavirus-china.html}{mounting
skepticism over its official figures}, China on Friday revised up its
death toll in the central city where the coronavirus first emerged.

Officials in the city, Wuhan, placed the new tally at 3,869 deaths, an
increase of 1,290, or 50 percent, from the previous figure. The number
of confirmed infections in the city was also revised upward to 50,333,
an increase of 325.

Officials in Wuhan said the revised death toll now included those who
died at home in the early days of the outbreak, as well as deaths that
were not properly reported by hospitals or registered on death
certificates.

Reporting was contributed by Peter Baker, Ellen Barry, Alan Blinder,
Julie Bosman, Emily Cochrane, Michael Cooper, Michael Crowley, Manny
Fernandez, Emily Flitter, Michael Gold, Amy Julia Harris, Adeel Hassan,
John Ismay, John Leland, Michael Levenson, Andy Newman, Zach Montague,
Roni Caryn Rabin, Jim Rutenberg, Marc Santora, Michael Schwirtz, Dionne
Searcey, Michael D. Shear, Knvul Sheikh, Mitch Smith, Alyson Stamos,
Matt Stevens, Eileen Sullivan, Ana Swanson, Kate Taylor, Katie Thomas,
Tracey Tully and Meiying Wu.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
