<div id="__next">

<div data-gtm-trigger="blocker-detector" data-detected="false">

</div>

<div class="aeb424b1 _4b91d496">

<div class="_79e0b90c">

<div class="_7a9ea2c1">

<div class="_08ef6c79">

<div class="_79440d36">

[Wirecutter](https://www.nytimes.com/wirecutter/ "Wirecutter")

</div>

</div>

</div>

[Skip To Content](#main)

<div class="section c8918152">

<span class="_21c96e8f"> Search Wirecutter For: </span>

<span class="_21c96e8f"> Search </span>

</div>

Reviews for the real world

  - [Electronics](/wirecutter/electronics/)
      - [All Electronics](/wirecutter/electronics/)
      - [Accessories](/wirecutter/electronics/accessories/)
      - [Audio](/wirecutter/electronics/audio/)
      - [Batteries and Charging](/wirecutter/electronics/batteries/)
      - [Cameras](/wirecutter/electronics/cameras/)
      - [Camera
        Accessories](/wirecutter/electronics/camera-accessories/)
      - [Computers](/wirecutter/electronics/computers/)
      - [Exercise](/wirecutter/health-fitness/exercise/)
      - [Gaming](/wirecutter/electronics/gaming/)
      - [Headphones](/wirecutter/electronics/headphones/)
      - [Home Theater](/wirecutter/electronics/home-theater/)
      - [Laptops](/wirecutter/electronics/laptops/)
      - [Networking](/wirecutter/electronics/networking/)
      - [Printers & Scanners](/wirecutter/office/printers-scanners/)
      - [Projectors](/wirecutter/electronics/projectors/)
      - [Smart Home Devices](/wirecutter/home-garden/smart-home/)
      - [Smartphones](/wirecutter/electronics/smartphones/)
      - [Storage](/wirecutter/electronics/storage-devices/)
      - [Tablets](/wirecutter/electronics/tablets/)
      - [TVs](/wirecutter/electronics/tvs/)
      - [USB-C](/wirecutter/electronics/usb-c/)
  - [Home & Garden](/wirecutter/home-garden/)
      - [All Home & Garden](/wirecutter/home-garden/)
      - [Bathroom](/wirecutter/home-garden/bathroom/)
      - [Bedroom](/wirecutter/home-garden/bedroom/)
      - [Cleaning](/wirecutter/home-garden/cleaning/)
      - [Closet & Laundry](/wirecutter/home-garden/closet-laundry/)
      - [Garage](/wirecutter/home-garden/garage/)
      - [Entertaining](/wirecutter/home-garden/entertaining-home/)
      - [Furniture](/wirecutter/home-garden/furniture/)
      - [Gardening](/wirecutter/home-garden/gardening/)
      - [Safety](/wirecutter/home-garden/safety-home-garden/)
      - [Smart Home Devices](/wirecutter/home-garden/smart-home/)
      - [Storage](/wirecutter/home-garden/storage-home-garden/)
      - [Tools](/wirecutter/home-garden/tools/)
      - [Weather](/wirecutter/home-garden/weather/)
  - [Kitchen & Dining](/wirecutter/kitchen-dining/)
      - [All Kitchen & Dining](/wirecutter/kitchen-dining/)
      - [Baking](/wirecutter/kitchen-dining/baking/)
      - [Coffee](/wirecutter/kitchen-dining/coffee/)
      - [Cookware](/wirecutter/kitchen-dining/cookware/)
      - [Dining &
        Entertaining](/wirecutter/kitchen-dining/entertaining/)
      - [Large Appliances](/wirecutter/kitchen-dining/large-appliances/)
      - [Small Appliances](/wirecutter/kitchen-dining/small-appliances/)
      - [Storage](/wirecutter/kitchen-dining/storage/)
      - [Tools](/wirecutter/kitchen-dining/tools-kitchen-dining/)
      - [Wine & Bar](/wirecutter/kitchen-dining/wine-bar/)
  - [Money](/wirecutter/money/)
      - [All Money](/wirecutter/money/)
      - [Shopping](/wirecutter/money/shopping/)
      - [Managing Your Money](/wirecutter/money/managing-money/)
  - <span id="js_medium_overflow"><span class="_5efcd444 _6607bef3">More
    categories...</span></span>
      - [Travel](/wirecutter/travel/)
          - [All Travel](/wirecutter/travel/)
          - [Backpacks](/wirecutter/travel/backpacks/)
          - [Bags](/wirecutter/travel/bags/)
          - [Gear](/wirecutter/travel/gear-travel/)
          - [Luggage](/wirecutter/travel/luggage/)
      - [Gifts](/wirecutter/gifts/)
          - [All Gifts](/wirecutter/gifts/)
          - [Gift Guide](/wirecutter/gifts/guide/)
          - [Gifts for Babies & Kids](/wirecutter/gifts/kids/)
          - [Gifts for Grown-Ups](/wirecutter/gifts/adults/)
          - [Mother's Day Gifts](/wirecutter/gifts/mothers-day/)
          - [Graduation
        Gifts](/wirecutter/gifts/graduation/)
      - <span id="js_large_overflow"><span class="_5efcd444 _6607bef3">More
        categories...</span></span>
          - [Appliances](/wirecutter/appliances/)
              - [All Appliances](/wirecutter/appliances/)
              - [Large Appliances](/wirecutter/appliances/large/)
              - [Small Appliances](/wirecutter/appliances/small/)
              - [Vacuum
            Cleaners](/wirecutter/appliances/vacuums/)
          - <span id="js_xlarge_overflow"><span class="_5efcd444 _6607bef3">More
            categories...</span></span>
              - [Health & Fitness](/wirecutter/health-fitness/)
                  - [All Health & Fitness](/wirecutter/health-fitness/)
                  - [Cycling](/wirecutter/health-fitness/cycling/)
                  - [Exercise](/wirecutter/health-fitness/exercise/)
                  - [Medical
                    Supplies](/wirecutter/health-fitness/medical-supplies/)
                  - [Personal
                    Care](/wirecutter/health-fitness/personal-care/)
                  - [Wearables](/wirecutter/health-fitness/wearables/)
              - [Baby & Kid](/wirecutter/baby-kid/)
                  - [All Baby & Kid](/wirecutter/baby-kid/)
                  - [Baby](/wirecutter/baby-kid/baby/)
                  - [Pregnancy &
                    Nursing](/wirecutter/baby-kid/pregnancy-nursing/)
                  - [School](/wirecutter/baby-kid/school/)
                  - [Toys](/wirecutter/baby-kid/toys/)
              - [Outdoors](/wirecutter/outdoors/)
                  - [All Outdoors](/wirecutter/outdoors/)
                  - [Apparel](/wirecutter/outdoors/apparel/)
                  - [Camping](/wirecutter/outdoors/camping/)
                  - [Gear](/wirecutter/outdoors/gear/)
                  - [Hiking](/wirecutter/outdoors/hiking/)
                  - [Snow](/wirecutter/outdoors/snow/)
                  - [Swim](/wirecutter/outdoors/swim/)
                  - [Weather](/wirecutter/home-garden/weather/)
              - [Pets](/wirecutter/pets/)
                  - [All Pets](/wirecutter/pets/)
                  - [Cats](/wirecutter/pets/cats/)
                  - [Dogs](/wirecutter/pets/dogs/)
                  - [Gear](/wirecutter/pets/gear-pets/)
              - [Hobby & Crafts](/wirecutter/hobby-crafts/)
                  - [All Hobby & Crafts](/wirecutter/hobby-crafts/)
                  - [Music](/wirecutter/hobby-crafts/music/)
              - [Software & Apps](/wirecutter/software/)
              - [Office](/wirecutter/office/)
                  - [All Office](/wirecutter/office/)
                  - [Furniture](/wirecutter/office/furniture-office/)
                  - [Home Office](/wirecutter/office/home-office/)
                  - [Printers &
                    Scanners](/wirecutter/office/printers-scanners/)
              - [Cars](/wirecutter/cars/)
                  - [All Cars](/wirecutter/cars/)
                  - [Accessories](/wirecutter/cars/accessories-auto/)
              - [Adult](/wirecutter/adult/)

<!-- end list -->

  - [Deals](/wirecutter/deals/)
  - [Blog](/wirecutter/blog/)

</div>

</div>

<div class="_95901dd5">

<span class="_29227d8c" data-aria-label="Statement">Reviews for the real
world.</span>

Wirecutter is reader-supported. When you buy through links on our site,
we may earn an affiliate commission. [Learn more](/wirecutter/about/)

</div>

<div>

## Real Talk

Advice, staff picks, mythbusting, and more. Let us help
you.

<div id="main" class="c3337163 a2138adf" data-role="main" data-aria-live="assertive" tabindex="-1">

<div class="b8b86cf3">

![<span class="_4fdd0c8c">Photo: Sarah
Kobos</span>](https://cdn.thewirecutter.com/wp-content/uploads/2020/03/wifiextender-lowres-2x1-1847-320x160.jpg)

<div class="cbcbf96b blog_post__heading">

# How to Make Your Wi-Fi Suck Less While Working From Home

<div id="updates-box" class="_18505aa2 _98ea1940 aaf2fa34" data-scp="updates">

<span class="f99bac00">Published </span>March 18, 2020

</div>

</div>

<div class="_66686289">

<div class="c99a056f">

  - ![Joel Santo
    Domingo](https://cdn.thewirecutter.com/wp-content/uploads/2018/10/sd-joel.jpg)
    
    [Joel Santo
    Domingo](https://www.nytimes.com/wirecutter/authors/joel-santo-domingo/)

</div>

<div class="_21d99fed afa10b17" data-scp="social">

Share this post

<div class="_2659729d" data-icon="twitter-rounded">

</div>

<div class="_2659729d" data-icon="facebook-rounded">

</div>

<div class="_2659729d" data-icon="email-rounded">

</div>

</div>

<div class="_55d72ed3">

<div class="section c2992ae3">

<div>

If your Wi-Fi cuts out when you’re streaming a movie, it’s a bummer. But
if it happens while you’re talking to your boss over Skype or giving a
presentation via Zoom, it can feel like a calamity. Working from home
means you may have to be your own IT department and manage your Internet
connection so that you can access company resources, connect with
colleagues, and prove you’re not slacking off. You can fix some problems
without spending a dime, but some issues require buying new hardware.  

### Free fixes that can speed things up

Some of the most effective tricks to improve your home network are also
the cheapest, so don’t rush online to buy new tech before tackling a few
finer setup issues.

**Just move closer to your router.** Yes, it seems simple. But moving to
a couch or table next to the router can stabilize a spotty connection
during a call—and if you need the better speed only intermittently, it
may be the most effective solution with the least amount of hassle.

**Update your router’s firmware.** Firmware improvements often include
speed tweaks and can solve known problems with buggy devices. Most
mesh-networking kits and many recent routers have automatic firmware
updates, but some routers make you log in to your router’s admin page
and then check and update the firmware manually. Generally, you can find
firmware updates under “system settings,” “advanced settings,” or
“system tools,” but a Google search for your router’s model number
should bring up a user manual with more detailed instructions.

**Put your Wi-Fi router out in the open, in a central spot.** Don’t hide
the router away in a cabinet—that can contribute to overheating, and the
building materials in the cabinet can block Wi-Fi signals. Wi-Fi signals
radiate out from the router, so placing the router in the center of your
home is your best bet, provided you can relocate the router and cable
modem together. If you can’t plug in your router anywhere else, look for
nearby shelves and place the router physically higher in the room with
no obstructions around it. If your router has external antennas, make
sure they are screwed in tightly. They do no good if they’re still in
the box.

**Use Smart Connect (band steering) on your router.** [Band
steering](https://www.nytimes.com/wirecutter/reviews/best-wi-fi-router/#flaws-but-not-dealbreakers)
acts like traffic control for your router so that your devices connect
on the optimal channels. This feature moves slower devices with weaker
signals to the 2.4 GHz bands and puts faster, closer devices on the 5
GHz bands. That way, the smart speaker in an upstairs bathroom, for
example, will be on a different channel and won’t interfere with a video
meeting on a laptop downstairs. Look for a setting like “Smart Connect”
on your router’s administration page. It should be on by default, but if
not you can usually find it under the “Wi-Fi settings” tab.

**Remove or retire older wireless devices, and unplug things you don’t
need right now.** Older 802.11g and 802.11n Wi-Fi devices can tie up
your network because they hold on to their network connections longer
than newer 802.11ac devices do. After all, a router isn’t connected to
all your devices simultaneously; rather, it’s switching back and forth
between them at a blindingly fast rate. Unplug or turn off older
Internet security cameras, tablets, and even older smartphones during
work hours. You shouldn’t have to worry about idle devices like game
consoles (even if kids or roommates are home), but older smart devices
may be constantly connecting to services on the Internet.

**Minimize bandwidth-hogging distractions.** Listening to Spotify in the
background while working is probably fine, but quit the app if you’re
trying to get the best speeds possible. And if your connection is
causing problems, resist the urge to stream Netflix just because no one
is around to criticize you for it. Video uses bandwidth you need for
connecting to your company’s Web interface, a shared document, or a
meeting.

**Hardwire your laptop to the router.** If your wireless network is bad,
going wired is the most reliable way to eliminate problems like
stuttering videoconference calls. Plug an Ethernet cable into a spare
port in the back of your router and connect the cable to the Ethernet
port on your laptop (or a USB-to-Ethernet adapter if your laptop doesn’t
have a dedicated port). Ethernet cables can get unwieldy if they’re
longer than a dozen feet, but any cord will instantly improve your
Internet connection. Plus, you probably have a spare 6-foot Ethernet
cable in your junk drawer or the box your router came in. (For more
information on why Ethernet is better, see “[A Simple Solution to Bad
Wi-Fi: Use
Wires](https://www.nytimes.com/wirecutter/blog/bad-wifi-solutions/).”)

**If all else fails, turn off your video.** The video portion of
services such as Zoom and Webex takes up the majority of your bandwidth.
If you can’t fix your connection, turn off the video or dial in on your
phone to hear the meeting. You’ll have to ask the host to send you the
slide deck, but it’s the more polite and productive option versus
surviving through choppy video on your end.

### Things you may have to spend money on

After trying the quick fixes above, you may still have trouble
connecting your laptop to Wi-Fi. If it’s time to spend money, you have a
few options.

**Consider increasing the speed of your Internet subscription.** Your
router might be able to transmit at a rate [over 200
Mbps](https://www.nytimes.com/wirecutter/reviews/best-wi-fi-router/#an-overview-of-the-test-results),
but your connection to the Internet is limited by the service plan
you’ve subscribed to. Average broadband speeds in 2015 were around 14
Mbps, and some folks still have the plans they signed up for at that
time. Average speeds today are closer to 100 Mbps. We recommend checking
your connection with [Speedtest.net](https://www.speedtest.net/) or
[Fast.com](https://fast.com/) before starting regular Web conferencing.
For example, the Zoom service [recommends 3
Mbps](https://support.zoom.us/hc/en-us/articles/201362023-System-Requirements-for-PC-Mac-and-Linux)
for HD videoconferencing (and you may need more, or a more reliable
connection), while kids or roommates streaming Netflix in the next room
[require 5 Mbps](https://help.netflix.com/en/node/306) for HD videos.
You can change your service level by calling your Internet provider’s
customer service line, or modify it on your account page online.

**Use an extender for a small dead zone.** If your Wi-Fi is good but you
have a small dead zone, our latest [Wi-Fi extender
pick](https://www.nytimes.com/wirecutter/reviews/best-wi-fi-extender/)
is an inexpensive fix that can improve the reliability of connections in
that one problem room in your home. If you often rely on tech support
from your ISP, you can try ordering a more expensive extender directly
from your provider
([AT\&T](https://www.nytimes.com/wirecutter/out/link/37503/160244/4/111781/?merchant=AT%26T),
[Comcast/Xfinity](https://www.nytimes.com/wirecutter/out/link/37504/160245/4/111782/?merchant=Xfinity),
Verizon) that the company will then help troubleshoot.

**If your Wi-Fi sucks everywhere, it may be time to start over.** If
your router is more than a couple of years old and is struggling in more
places than not, a [newer
router](https://www.nytimes.com/wirecutter/reviews/best-wi-fi-router/)
or a [mesh
kit](https://www.nytimes.com/wirecutter/reviews/best-wi-fi-mesh-networking-kits/)
will improve the range, stability, and speed all over your home.
Standalone routers should be fine for average-size homes, while mesh
kits are recommended when you need to cover a larger space or if your
house contains Wi-Fi–blocking materials such as masonry or metal
construction. If you’re working from home with kids home from school as
well, your router may need to connect to dozens of devices at the same
time. A new router or mesh kit will be able to keep all those laptops,
tablets, gaming consoles, printers, and streaming boxes connected to a
stable network. Definitely consider a replacement if you’re still using
an 802.11 b/g/n router from the early 2010s.

**Buy your modem**. Your router is what creates your Wi-Fi network, but
your
[modem](https://www.nytimes.com/wirecutter/reviews/best-cable-modem/) is
what allows that network to connect to the Internet through your ISP.
You may need to buy a new cable modem in order to subscribe to a faster
Internet plan, and doing so will definitely [save you a few
bucks](https://www.nytimes.com/wirecutter/reviews/best-cable-modem/#who-this-is-for)
in the long
    run.

</div>

<div class="_66d4c92b">

## Further reading

  - 
    
    <div class="b1014fd6">
    
    [](https://www.nytimes.com/wirecutter/reviews/best-home-printers/)
    
    ![](https://cdn.thewirecutter.com/wp-content/uploads/2018/07/home-printer-tp-lowres-6215-2-2-120x80.jpg)
    
    </div>
    
    <div class="fefb562c">
    
    ### [The Best Home Printers](https://www.nytimes.com/wirecutter/reviews/best-home-printers/)
    
    by Ben Keough
    
    <div id="group-text-50607" class="_3ae86362">
    
    Run a home business? Have a student in the house? Depending on your
    needs, we have a few recommendations for the best printer for
    you.
    
    </div>
    
    </div>

  - 
    
    <div class="b1014fd6">
    
    [](https://www.nytimes.com/wirecutter/reviews/the-best-tech-and-apps-for-your-home-office/)
    
    ![](https://cdn.thewirecutter.com/wp-content/uploads/2016/03/01-featured-image-home-office-tech-apps-630-120x80.jpg)
    
    </div>
    
    <div class="fefb562c">
    
    ### [The Best Tech and Apps for Your Home Office](https://www.nytimes.com/wirecutter/reviews/the-best-tech-and-apps-for-your-home-office/)
    
    by Wirecutter Staff
    
    <div id="group-text-586" class="_3ae86362">
    
    We’ve collected our favorite picks—from dozens of guides and
    hundreds of hours of research and testing—to make your home office
    more productive and
    comfortable.
    
    </div>
    
    </div>

  - 
    
    <div class="b1014fd6">
    
    [](https://www.nytimes.com/wirecutter/reviews/best-smart-home-sensors-for-alexa/)
    
    ![](https://cdn.thewirecutter.com/wp-content/uploads/2019/07/alexasmartsensors-lowres-9966-120x80.jpg)
    
    </div>
    
    <div class="fefb562c">
    
    ### [The Best Smart Home Sensors for Alexa](https://www.nytimes.com/wirecutter/reviews/best-smart-home-sensors-for-alexa/)
    
    by Jennifer Pattison Tuohy
    
    <div id="group-text-104654" class="_3ae86362">
    
    Besides being terrific voice-controlled speakers, the Echo Show and
    Echo Plus can pair with sensors to automate the smart devices in
    your
    home.
    
    </div>
    
    </div>

  - 
    
    <div class="b1014fd6">
    
    [](https://www.nytimes.com/wirecutter/blog/headphones-and-speakers-for-college-students/)
    
    ![](https://cdn.thewirecutter.com/wp-content/uploads/2019/08/portable-bluetooth-speakers-2018-lowres-2258-120x80.jpg)
    
    </div>
    
    <div class="fefb562c">
    
    ### [Headphones and Speakers for College Students—for Masking Noise and Making It](https://www.nytimes.com/wirecutter/blog/headphones-and-speakers-for-college-students/)
    
    by Brent Butterworth
    
    <div id="group-text-105869" class="_3ae86362">
    
    Adjusting to dorm life can be tough for a college freshman, but the
    right audio gear can help ease the
pain.
    
    </div>
    
    </div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div style="display:none" data-arachne="slc_edit_singular_link">

[Edit](https://thewirecutter.com/wp-admin/post.php?post=143950&action=edit)

</div>

</div>

<div id="js-site-footer" class="_9a67face">

<div class="_6c5b175b">

  - [Electronics](/wirecutter/electronics/)
  - [Home & Garden](/wirecutter/home-garden/)
  - [Kitchen & Dining](/wirecutter/kitchen-dining/)
  - [Money](/wirecutter/money/)
  - [Travel](/wirecutter/travel/)
  - [Gifts](/wirecutter/gifts/)
  - [Appliances](/wirecutter/appliances/)
  - [Health & Fitness](/wirecutter/health-fitness/)
  - [Baby & Kid](/wirecutter/baby-kid/)
  - [Outdoors](/wirecutter/outdoors/)
  - [Pets](/wirecutter/pets/)
  - [Hobby & Crafts](/wirecutter/hobby-crafts/)
  - [Software & Apps](/wirecutter/software/)
  - [Office](/wirecutter/office/)
  - [Cars](/wirecutter/cars/)
  - [Adult](/wirecutter/adult/)
  - [Deals](/wirecutter/deals/)
  - [Lists](/wirecutter/lists/)
  - [Blog](/wirecutter/blog/)

<div class="de081dee">

  - [About Wirecutter](/wirecutter/about/ "About Wirecutter")
  - [Masthead](/wirecutter/masthead/ "Masthead")
  - [Jobs](/wirecutter/jobs/ "Jobs")
  - [Contact Us](/wirecutter/contact-us/ "Contact Us")

<!-- end list -->

  - [Privacy
    Policy](https://www.nytimes.com/subscription/privacy-policy#/privacy "Privacy Policy")
  - [Terms of
    Use](https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service "Terms of Use")
  - [Cookie
    Policy](https://www.nytimes.com/subscription/privacy-policy#/cookie "Cookie Policy")
  - [Partnerships &
    Advertising](/wirecutter/partners/ "Partnerships & Advertising")
  - [RSS Feed](/wirecutter/feed/ "RSS Feed")

<div class="dec0eaf5 _4e774f57 _5daf54c5">

Let's be friends\!

  - [](https://www.facebook.com/thewirecutter/ "Wirecutter's Facebook")
  - [](https://www.instagram.com/wirecutter/ "Wirecutter's Instagram")
  - [](https://twitter.com/wirecutter/ "Wirecutter's Twitter")

You can [send us a note](/wirecutter/contact-us/) too.

</div>

</div>

© 2020 Wirecutter, Inc., [A New York Times
Company](https://nytimes.com/)

</div>

</div>

</div>
