Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/world/europe}{Europe}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/world/europe}{Europe}\textbar{}Two Suspected Russian
Agents Among 14 Convicted in Montenegro Coup Plot

\url{https://nyti.ms/2VTzGN2}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{two-suspected-russian-agents-among-14-convicted-in-montenegro-coup-plot}{%
\section{Two Suspected Russian Agents Among 14 Convicted in Montenegro
Coup
Plot}\label{two-suspected-russian-agents-among-14-convicted-in-montenegro-coup-plot}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2019/05/10/world/10montenegro1/merlin_154604499_93517224-cef9-4011-a273-ccd953b111c8-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/andrew-e-kramer}{Andrew E. Kramer}
and Joseph Orovic

\begin{itemize}
\item
  May 9, 2019
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

A court in Montenegro on Thursday found 14 people, including two
Russians suspected of being spies, guilty of plotting a coup in 2016 to
prevent the tiny Balkan country from joining NATO.

Prosecutors did not directly accuse the Russians of working for Moscow,
but the case turned up possible evidence of an operation by the Russian
military intelligence agency formerly known as the G.R.U. of using a
nerve agent to
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/09/09/world/europe/sergei-skripal-russian-spy-poisoning.html}{poison
a former Russian spy living in Britain} last year and numerous other
operations in the West. The agency has also been accused of
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2018/07/13/us/politics/how-russia-hacked-the-2016-presidential-election.html?action=click\&module=RelatedCoverage\&pgtype=Article\&region=Footer}{interfering
in the United States election} in 2016.

The Russians, who were tried in absentia and are believed to be in
Russia, ``knowingly tried to terrorize Montenegrins, attack others,
threaten and hurt basic constitutional and social structures,'' the
judge, Susana Mugosa, said on Thursday in court in Podgorica, the
capital.

Judge Mugosa sentenced the two, who were referred to throughout the
trial by the pseudonyms on their fake passports, Eduard V. Shirokov and
Vladimir N. Popov, to 15 and 12 years in prison. It is unlikely they
will serve the terms.

Two Montenegrin politicians accused of coordinating with them to disrupt
a parliamentary election in October 2016, Andrija Mandic and Milan
Knezevic, were each sentenced to five years in prison. The other
sentences ranged from parole to eight years in prison.

The 2016 parliamentary vote in Montenegro, formerly a part of
Yugoslavia, was viewed as a referendum on membership in NATO, which had
been agreed to but had not yet taken effect. On the eve of the vote,
more than 20 Serbian nationalists and others were arrested, and
eventually 14 people were
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2016/11/26/world/europe/finger-pointed-at-russians-in-alleged-coup-plot-in-montenegro.html}{accused
of plotting to disrupt the election} and install an anti-NATO
government.

Instead, the governing Democratic Party of Socialists fared well enough
to remain in power, and the country joined the alliance in 2017.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2019/05/10/world/10montenegro2/merlin_154608882_e28f71d0-49bb-41e1-a5d6-9571b4875b34-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

The trial in Montenegro bolstered the case made by
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/07/13/us/politics/mueller-indictment-russian-intelligence-hacking.html}{Western
intelligence agencies and prosecutors} that Russia has sought to
undermine rival powers by
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2017/11/15/world/europe/russia-brexit-twitter-facebook.html}{sowing
dissension among allies}, disrupting elections and fueling separatist
movements.

Often at the heart of those allegations is the ruthless and effective
agency formerly called the G.R.U., and now known as the G.U., or Main
Directorate. For years it was a black box to foreign governments, but
its activities have spilled into the open in recent years with a flurry
of operations in the West.

Evidence introduced at the trial showed that the two Russian defendants
used crude but effective spycraft, asking one recruit to save a secret
number on his cellphone as ``taxi for the hotel'' and to arrange a
clandestine meeting with ``an invitation to grab a beer.''

The case roiled politics in Montenegro, which has a population of about
600,000 people. The government called it evidence of a threat to
democracy, with critics and defense lawyers saying it was an effort by
the president, Milo Djukanovic, to attack domestic political opponents.

People who disputed the Kremlin connection said the evidence showed such
bungling that it could not have been a true Russian espionage plot.
Money for the coup plot, for example, was wired by Western Union using
the headquarters of the G.R.U. in Moscow as the sender's address.

``If Russia wanted to organize a coup here, they could do it in 20
minutes,'' Mr. Knezevic, one of the defendants and head of an opposition
party, said in an interview last fall. ``Nobody believes in this coup
besides the special prosecutor.''

But reckless operations easily unraveled by Western intelligence
agencies have been a hallmark of recent G.R.U. activities, and in
Montenegro the apparent incompetence of the Russians and those
interacting with them did not convince the judge of innocence.

Awakened to the range and recklessness of the G.R.U.'s activities,
Western governments are retaliating. In 2018, more than 150 Russian
diplomats were expelled from different countries as punishment for the
nerve agent attack in Salisbury, England, on a former G.R.U. officer,
Sergei V. Skripal. In October, officials in the Netherlands, Britain and
the United States accused the agency of a string of
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/10/04/us/politics/russia-hacks-doping-poisoning.html}{cyberattacks
against Western institutions}.

Image

Montenegrin police officers escorting people suspected of planning armed
attacks after the parliamentary vote in Podgorica, Montenegro, in
2016.Credit...Darko Vojinovic/Associated Press

After prosecutors indicted the two Russians in 2017, they released
images of their passports, which showed that the photograph of the
supposed Mr. Shirokov matched that of a former Russian military attaché
to Poland, Eduard Shishmakov, whom the Poles had expelled for spying.

Suspicions of Russian intelligence ties grew last year, after two
Russian men, whom the British government called G.R.U. agents, were
accused in the nerve agent attack on Mr. Skripal. He and three other
people who were exposed to the agent survived,
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/07/08/world/europe/uk-dawn-sturgess-novichok-salisbury.html}{but
one woman died}.

The two Russians accused in the Skripal case had nine-digit passport
numbers that were just three apart, and the ``Shirokov'' passport in the
Montenegro case was separated from one of them by just 26. Bellingcat, a
group analyzing open-source information about intelligence activities,
\href{https://www.bellingcat.com/news/uk-and-europe/2018/09/20/skripal-suspects-confirmed-gru-operatives-prior-european-operations-disclosed/}{pointed
to the similar numbers} as evidence that they had been obtained by the
Russian spy agency.

Mr. Shishmakov plotted the coup with a Serbian nationalist, Sasa
Sindjelic, and members of the Democratic Front, an alliance of
right-wing parties, prosecutors said. Mr. Sindjelic became a witness for
prosecutors and was not charged. After the trial, he
\href{https://balkaninsight.com/2019/03/12/montenegro-witness-retracts-coup-plot-testimony/}{recanted}his
testimony.

The plan was to claim electoral fraud on the day of the voting and seize
the Parliament building, Mr. Sindjelic testified. He described
precautions like storing a sensitive phone number under a bland listing
and using code for meetings, and he said the Russians had given him
encrypted telephones and the equivalent of about \$200,000 to plan the
coup.

``I was giving away money like Santa Claus,'' Mr. Sindjelic testified at
the trial. He said he had even considered keeping receipts for all the
money he was disbursing.

``I asked if people needed to sign a piece of paper confirming they took
the money,'' Mr. Sindjelic testified.

In this instance, at least, caution prevailed. He said the Russians told
him not to.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
