Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}Betsy DeVos's Rocky Path as
Trump's Pick for Education Secretary

\url{https://nyti.ms/2jXk3NI}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{betsy-devoss-rocky-path-as-trumps-pick-for-education-secretary}{%
\section{Betsy DeVos's Rocky Path as Trump's Pick for Education
Secretary}\label{betsy-devoss-rocky-path-as-trumps-pick-for-education-secretary}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2017/02/07/us/07devospath-1/07devospath-1-articleInline.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/emmarie-huetteman}{Emmarie
Huetteman}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Feb. 7, 2017
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

From the moment she was introduced in late November as President Trump's
nominee for education secretary, Betsy DeVos has taken heat from not
only teachers' unions but also some charter school advocates and parent
groups.

Ms. DeVos, a wealthy Republican fund-raiser and philanthropist who is a
major supporter of school vouchers, has faced
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2016/11/23/us/politics/betsy-devos-trumps-education-pick-has-steered-money-from-public-schools.html}{vociferous
opposition}. Her support for directing taxpayer dollars to privately run
schools, and her efforts to shape education in her home state of
Michigan and across the country, elicited criticism from opponents who
argued that she had neglected the public schools she would be charged
with improving as the head of the Department of Education.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2017/02/07/us/07devospath-2/07devospath-2-articleInline.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Ms. DeVos endured a grueling line of questioning from senators during
her confirmation hearing last month. While Republicans praised what they
called her commitment to education and to children, Democrats said they
were startled by many of her answers, which they said laid bare the
weaknesses of an education secretary pick who has little experience with
public schools.

They expressed their concern as well about the potential for conflicts
of interest in her complex web of financial investments; Ms. DeVos was
the first of Mr. Trump's nominees not to complete an ethics review
before appearing before senators.

Image

Senator Elizabeth Warren, Democrat of Massachusetts, pressed Ms. DeVos
on how she could oversee the Department of Education if neither she nor
her children had ever taken out a student loan.Credit...Al Drago/The New
York Times

Image

Senator Susan Collins, Republican of Maine, has said she will not vote
for Ms. DeVos as education secretary, meaning that Vice President Mike
Pence could have to break a tie in a confirmation vote.Credit...Al
Drago/The New York Times

Ms. DeVos faced a number of uncomfortable questions, which critics said
showed a lack of familiarity with laws protecting students with
disabilities and the metrics for assessing student progress. In addition
to pointing out Ms. DeVos's inexperience in running a large bureaucracy,
Senator Elizabeth Warren, Democrat of Massachusetts,
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2017/01/17/us/politics/betsy-devos-education-senate-hearing.html}{questioned
how she could manage the Department of Education} --- the largest
provider of student loans --- if neither she nor her children had ever
borrowed money for school.

``So you have no personal experience with college financial aid?'' she
asked.

Image

Protesters at the offices of Senator Lamar Alexander, Republican of
Tennessee, in Knoxville last week. Mr. Alexander, a former education
secretary, said that Ms. DeVos would be an excellent person for the
job.Credit...Tom Sherlin/The Daily Times, via Associated Press

As demonstrations popped up across the country, thousands of calls and
messages flooded the Capitol, many of them urging senators to vote
against Ms. DeVos and Mr. Trump's other nominees.

In a move that put Ms. DeVos's nomination in question, two Republican
senators --- Susan Collins of Maine and Lisa Murkowski of Alaska ---
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2017/02/01/us/politics/trump-cabinet-nominations-senate.html}{announced
last week} that they would not vote to confirm her, citing the concerns
of their constituents. ``I have serious concerns about a nominee to be
secretary of education who has been so involved in one side of the
equation, so immersed in the push for vouchers, that she may be unaware
of what actually is successful within the public schools, and also what
is broken and how to fix them,'' Ms. Murkowski said on the Senate floor.

Image

Senator Lisa Murkowski, Republican of Alaska, said she would not vote
for Ms. DeVos. One more Republican defection could be fatal to Ms.
DeVos's prospects.Credit...Al Drago/The New York Times

But as most Senate Republicans maintained their support for Ms. DeVos,
Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the Republican leader, scheduled a
rare, early-morning procedural vote on her nomination to press ahead.

Senator Lamar Alexander of Tennessee, a former education secretary and
chairman of the committee that approved Ms. DeVos in a party-line vote,
said she would be ``an excellent education secretary.''

``She's committed to public education, and there's no better example of
that than her work on the most important reform of public schools in the
last 30 years: public charter schools,'' Mr. Alexander said.

Image

The Ohio Clock near the Senate floor. After gaveling in at 6:30 a.m.
Friday, senators voted to limit further debate, setting the stage for a
final confirmation vote this week.Credit...Al Drago/The New York Times

Image

Protesters outside the Capitol early Friday. Ms. DeVos is a major
supporter of charter schools and vouchers.Credit...Al Drago/The New York
Times

Image

A Capitol police officer before the Friday morning vote.Credit...Al
Drago/The New York Times

After gaveling in at 6:30 a.m. Friday, senators voted to limit further
debate, setting the stage for a final confirmation vote this week.
Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, the Democratic leader, asked his
colleagues to think about their vote over the weekend. ``Sometimes
loyalty to a president demands a bit too much,'' he said.

Image

Senator Chuck Schumer, the Democratic leader, asked his Republican
colleagues to use the weekend to carefully consider their
votes.Credit...Al Drago/The New York Times

On Monday, Senate Democrats said they would spend the final 24 hours
before Ms. DeVos's confirmation vote
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2017/02/06/us/politics/betsy-devos-democrats-education.html}{speaking
out against her on the floor} in a last-ditch effort to woo Republicans
to their side.

But as the evening wore on, it looked increasingly likely that Ms.
Collins and Ms. Murkowski would be the only Republican defectors,
setting up a 50-50 tie. Vice President Mike Pence is expected to break
the deadlock on Tuesday as president of the Senate, offering the 51st
vote to confirm Ms. DeVos as education secretary.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{Â©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
