Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}Will Herman Cain's Death
Change Republican Views on the Virus and Masks?

\href{https://nyti.ms/2DpIuCw}{https://nyti.ms/2DpIuCw}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Election
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/biden-vice-president-2020.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Biden's
  V.P. Search}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/07/24/us/politics/trump-biden-campaign-donors.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Map
  of Donations}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/delegate-count-primary-results.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Delegate
  Count}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/us/politics/2020-presidential-candidates.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{The
  Candidates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Politics
  Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

political Memo

\hypertarget{will-herman-cains-death-change-republican-views-on-the-virus-and-masks}{%
\section{Will Herman Cain's Death Change Republican Views on the Virus
and
Masks?}\label{will-herman-cains-death-change-republican-views-on-the-virus-and-masks}}

His publicly dismissive attitude about the pandemic reflected the
hands-off inconsistency of many party leaders.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/07/30/us/politics/30virus-gop/merlin_175111068_2aebd8d3-e996-4f4e-a935-5c2754ebca4b-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/jeremy-w-peters}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/11/06/multimedia/author-jeremy-w-peters/author-jeremy-w-peters-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/jeremy-w-peters}{Jeremy
W. Peters}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  July 30, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

The
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/30/us/politics/herman-cain-dead.html}{death
of Herman Cain}, attributed to the coronavirus, has made Republicans and
President Trump face the reality of the pandemic as it hit closer to
home than ever before, claiming a prominent conservative ally whose
frequently dismissive attitude about taking the threat seriously
reflected the hands-off inconsistency of party leaders.

Mr. Cain, a former business executive and candidate for the Republican
presidential nomination in 2012, had an irreverent, confrontational
style that mirrored the president's own brand of contrarian politics. In
his more recent role as a public face for the president's re-election
campaign, he became an emblem of Trump-supporting, mask-defiant science
skeptics, openly if not aggressively disdainful of public health
officials who warned Americans to avoid large crowds, cover their faces
and do as much as possible to limit contact with others.

His view was shared by many conservatives, who have applied a
hard-nosed, culture-war mentality to the virus, the most serious public
health crisis in a century.

Mr. Trump wrote in praise of Mr. Cain on Twitter on Thursday,
\href{https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/1288907916020461569?s=20}{calling}
him ``a Powerful Voice of Freedom and all that is good.''

But Mr. Cain's death showed how ill suited that mind-set is to the
country's current predicament. More than 150,000 Americans have died in
a pandemic that is ravaging parts of the country where conservative
leaders long resisted taking steps that have slowed the virus elsewhere,
such as mask mandates and stay-at-home orders.

Those include places like Tulsa, Okla., where Mr. Cain attended a Trump
campaign rally in June and showed his disregard for safety precautions
on social media shortly before receiving a
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/02/us/politics/herman-cain-coronavirus.html}{diagnosis
for the virus}.

With a uniformity that has defied rising death tolls in their own
backyards, Republicans at the federal, state and local levels have
adopted a similar tone of skepticism and defiance, rejecting the advice
of public health officials and deferring instead to principles they said
were equally important: conservative values of economic freedom and
personal liberty.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-2020-election}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: 2020
Election}}{Latest Updates: 2020 Election}}\label{latest-updates-2020-election}}

Updated 2020-08-01T01:26:45.732Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-29fdff45}{Kamala
  Harris, a top vice-presidential contender, confronts double
  standards.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-13ec3d9c}{Karen
  Bass and Susan Rice are rising on Biden's vice-presidential
  shortlist.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-49e9a016}{Trump
  says Russian bounties to kill U.S. troops `never took place.'}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

From Arizona to Texas, as infection rates soared and hospital beds
filled up, Republican governors stood in the way of local governments
that wanted to do more. They overruled city mask mandates, arguing that
it amounted to a form of government overreach. They said that requiring
businesses to close or limit their capacity would strangle the economy
and save few lives. They accused the news media and political opponents
of exaggerating the risks to hurt the president's chances for
re-election.

They scorned the experts and mocked those who heeded the government's
warnings. Representative Matt Gaetz of Florida, a close ally and
vigorous defender of the president, walked around the Capitol in March
\href{https://twitter.com/RepMattGaetz/status/1235309294146539520?ref_src=twsrc\%5Etfw\%7Ctwcamp\%5Etweetembed\%7Ctwterm\%5E1235309294146539520\%7Ctwgr\%5E\&ref_url=https\%3A\%2F\%2Fwww.cnn.com\%2F2020\%2F03\%2F04\%2Fpolitics\%2Fgaetz-coronavirus-gas-mask\%2Findex.html}{wearing}
a Hazmat-style gas mask as he prepared to vote on coronavirus relief
legislation.

The governor of Oklahoma, Kevin Stitt, posted a picture of himself
eating dinner with his family at a crowded restaurant a few days after
the World Health Organization formally declared a pandemic. ``It's
packed tonight!'' his caption read.

And this month in Missouri, Gov. Mike Parson scoffed at the idea of a
mask mandate,
\href{https://www.stltoday.com/news/local/govt-and-politics/mixed-messages-despite-state-guidance-parson-goes-maskless-calls-coverings-dang-masks/article_b4023aa1-e4a3-522a-bbdf-280902abdd73.html}{telling}
a cheering crowd of supporters, ``You don't need government to tell you
to wear a dang mask.''

Yet the virus more than occasionally reminded them that it strikes
people of all political stripes indiscriminately.

After his mask stunt, Mr. Gaetz learned that he might have been exposed
to someone who was infected and attended the Conservative Political
Action Conference. He said he would enter quarantine, and he did not end
up having the virus. Mr. Stitt
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/15/us/oklahoma-governor-coronavirus-stitt.html}{tested}
positive for the virus this month, the first governor in the country to
do so. He continues to resist pressure to issue a mask order,
\href{https://tulsaworld.com/news/state-and-regional/oklahoma-governor-wont-mandate-masks-to-me-thats-a-personal-preference/article_d45a63b6-20df-5282-89d7-1cdc60defdac.html}{calling}
it ``a personal preference.''

And this week, adding to the list of people with direct access to the
president who have tested positive was Robert C. O'Brien, the national
security adviser. Others include
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/03/us/politics/kimberly-guilfoyle-trump-campaign-coronavirus.html}{Kimberly
Guilfoyle}, a former Fox News commentator who is dating Donald Trump Jr.
and is helping lead the Trump campaign's fund-raising efforts.

Among some conservative defenders of the president, there is a sense
that complaints about masks and other mandates as a threat to personal
freedom are overblown.

Grover Norquist, a conservative activist who lobbies for lower taxes and
regulations and has served on the board of the National Rifle
Association, said that using Mr. Cain's death to attack Republicans ``is
going two steps too far.'' But he added, ``There's a difference between
not being excited about being told what to do'' and refusing to do it
altogether. ``But on something like this, when you're out in public, you
should wear a mask because it's not about you.''

Yet there have been few indications that the spate of coronavirus cases
among Republicans is leading to any kind of major reckoning in the
party. After Representative Louie Gohmert of Texas
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/29/us/politics/louie-gohmert-positive-coronavirus-mask.html}{tested}
positive this week, he blamed his diagnosis on wearing a mask.

Mr. Trump, who has spoken of being rattled by the death of an old friend
who contracted the virus, has been photographed only rarely with a mask
on and has repeatedly said he does not consider wearing one the
appropriate step for him. He has allowed, however, that he is supportive
of mask-wearing by others.

The visuals that emerged from the White House from the beginning of the
pandemic suggested an attitude that was, at best, not overly cautious.
At an event at the White House in March with executives from Walmart and
Walgreens in which Mr. Trump praised his administration's preparedness,
he shook hands and patted the backs of multiple people, prompting
critics to complain that the president was sending mixed signals to the
public.

When the virus re-emerged after it initially appeared to have been
subdued, it took weeks of public pressure and private lobbying by
advisers and friends before Mr. Trump more frankly
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/20/us/politics/trump-coronavirus-briefings.html}{acknowledged}
the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html}{toll
the resurgent virus} has taken across the American South and West.

Even some of the harshest critics of Republican leadership said they did
not think that Mr. Cain's death would cause much reflection inside the
party.

Evan McMullin, who ran against Mr. Trump as a third-party candidate in
2016,
\href{https://twitter.com/EvanMcMullin/status/1288849392754143234?ref_src=twsrc\%5Etfw\%7Ctwcamp\%5Etweetembed\%7Ctwterm\%5E1288849392754143234\%7Ctwgr\%5E\&ref_url=https\%3A\%2F\%2Fwww.breitbart.com\%2F2020-election\%2F2020\%2F07\%2F30\%2Fnever-trumps-evan-mcmullin-blames-trump-cult-for-herman-cain-death\%2F}{wrote}
on Twitter that Mr. Cain was ``the first senior casualty of the science
denial Trump cult.''

In an interview, Mr. McMullin said he had little hope this was a wake-up
call. ``I wish that was the case,'' he said. ``Many voters who support
the president live in a totally different, alternate information
environment in which the news of Herman Cain's death --- his visit to
the Trump rally, his decision to not wear a mask --- won't reach them.''

Mr. Cain was eager to display his disregard for the experts and their
warnings. Before the Trump rally in Tulsa, which local public health
officials had urged the campaign to postpone, Mr. Cain urged people to
``Ignore the outrage'' and to defy ``the left-wing shaming!''

Mr. Trump did at one point reschedule the rally, but only after an
outpouring of anger that it had been scheduled for the day of
Juneteenth, the holiday commemorating the emancipation of slaves.

When the rally went forward on June 20, Mr. Cain, one of the most
prominent African-American Trump supporters and a member of his Black
Voices for Trump coalition, posed for a
\href{https://pbs.twimg.com/media/Ea_lixbWAAAdPOP.jpg}{photo} with other
Black attendees. None, including him, wore masks.

A few hours before the event, the campaign had disclosed that six Trump
campaign staff members who had been working on the rally had
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/20/us/trump-rally-tulsa.html?action=click\&module=Top\%20Stories\&pgtype=Homepage}{tested
positive} for the coronavirus during a routine screening.

Mr. Cain tested positive on June 29. On July 2, his staff
\href{https://twitter.com/THEHermanCain/status/1278735184893009921?s=20}{announced}
that he had been hospitalized. Weighing in on the no-mask policy for a
Trump rally planned at Mount Rushmore on July 3, Mr. Cain's Twitter feed
was approving: ``PEOPLE ARE FED UP!''

\hypertarget{our-2020-election-guide}{%
\section{Our 2020 Election Guide}\label{our-2020-election-guide}}

Updated July 31, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{the-latest}{%
  \subsection{The Latest}\label{the-latest}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    President Trump's assault on the Postal Service is intersecting with
    his attacks on mail-in voting.
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/31/us/politics/trump-usps-mail-delays.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Voting
    rights groups say it is a recipe for disaster.}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{bidens-vp-search}{%
  \subsection{Biden's V.P. Search}\label{bidens-vp-search}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/biden-vice-president-2020.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Here
    are 13 women} who have been under consideration to be Joe Biden's
    running mate, and why each might be chosen --- and might not be.
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{keep-up-with-our-coverage}{%
  \subsection{Keep Up With Our
  Coverage}\label{keep-up-with-our-coverage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Get an
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{email}
    recapping the day's news
  \end{itemize}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Download our mobile app on
    \href{https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nytimes/id284862083?ls=1\&mat_click_id=5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\&referrer=mat_click_id\%3D5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\%26link_click_id\%3D722930677036718082}{iOS}
    and
    \href{http://a.localytics.com/android?id=com.nytimes.android\&referrer=utm_source\%3Dother_nyt_mobile_web\%26utm_medium\%3DWeb\%2520page\%26utm_term\%3DGeneral\%2520Mobile\%2520Page\%26utm_campaign\%3DNYT\%2520Mobile\%2520General\%2520Page}{Android}
    and turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
