Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}Why Trump Has No Power to
Delay the 2020 Election

\url{https://nyti.ms/30aDFWT}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/04/us/elections/results-arizona-kansas-michigan-missouri-primaries.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Latest
  Results}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/biden-vice-president-2020.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Biden's
  V.P. Search}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/07/24/us/politics/trump-biden-campaign-donors.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Map
  of Donations}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/delegate-count-primary-results.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Delegate
  Count}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/us/politics/2020-presidential-candidates.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{The
  Candidates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Politics
  Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{why-trump-has-no-power-to-delay-the-2020-election}{%
\section{Why Trump Has No Power to Delay the 2020
Election}\label{why-trump-has-no-power-to-delay-the-2020-election}}

We answer some key questions about holding elections in a crisis. And
no, the president cannot cancel an election on his own.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/07/30/us/politics/30election-explainer/30election-explainer-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/alexander-burns}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/09/25/multimedia/author-alexander-burns/author-alexander-burns-thumbLarge-v2.png}}

By
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/alexander-burns}{Alexander
Burns}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  July 30, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/es/2020/07/30/espanol/estados-unidos/trump-retrasar-elecciones.html}{Leer
en espa√±ol}

President Trump, who is trailing badly in polling of the race for the
White House,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/30/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html}{suggested
on Thursday} that the Nov. 3 general election be delayed ``until people
can properly, securely and safely vote.'' Even for him, floating the
idea of postponing the election was an extraordinary breach of
presidential decorum.

But the president does not have the authority to move the date of a
federal election. And Mr. Trump's other claim on Thursday, that
widespread mail-in voting would make the election ``inaccurate and
fraudulent,'' is false.

Here are answers to some key questions about holding elections in a
crisis.

\hypertarget{can-the-president-cancel-or-postpone-an-election-with-an-executive-order}{%
\subsection{Can the president cancel or postpone an election with an
executive
order?}\label{can-the-president-cancel-or-postpone-an-election-with-an-executive-order}}

No.

\hypertarget{why-not}{%
\subsection{Why not?}\label{why-not}}

\href{https://constitution.congress.gov/browse/essay/artII-S1-C4-1/ALDE_00000230/}{Article
II} of the Constitution
\href{https://crsreports.congress.gov/product/pdf/R/R46413}{empowers
Congress} to choose the timing of the general election.
\href{https://www.loc.gov/law/help/statutes-at-large/28th-congress/session-2/c28s2ch1.pdf}{An
1845 federal law} fixed the date as the first Tuesday after the first
Monday in November.

It would take a change in federal law to move that date. That would mean
legislation enacted by Congress, signed by the president and subject to
challenge in the courts.

\hypertarget{how-likely-is-it-that-the-november-election-will-be-delayed}{%
\subsection{How likely is it that the November election will be
delayed?}\label{how-likely-is-it-that-the-november-election-will-be-delayed}}

Did we mention that the House of Representatives, which is controlled by
Democrats; the Senate, which is controlled by Republicans; and President
Trump would all have to approve such legislation?

To call that unlikely would be an understatement.

Even if all of that happened, there would not be much flexibility in
choosing an alternate election date: The Constitution mandates that the
new Congress must be sworn in on Jan. 3, and that the new president's
term must begin on Jan. 20. Those dates cannot be changed just by the
passage of normal legislation.

Marc Elias, the prominent Democratic election lawyer, on Thursday
knocked down the idea that Mr. Trump could move the election on his own.

\hypertarget{didnt-many-states-postpone-their-primary-elections-this-year}{%
\subsection{Didn't many states postpone their primary elections this
year?}\label{didnt-many-states-postpone-their-primary-elections-this-year}}

Yes: In response to the coronavirus pandemic,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/2020-campaign-primary-calendar-coronavirus.html}{sixteen
states and two territories} either pushed back their presidential
primaries or extended deadlines for voting by mail.

States have broad autonomy to define the timing and procedures for
primary elections. The exact process for setting primary dates varies
from state to state.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-2020-election}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/04/us/elections/primary-election-michigan-arizona-kansas.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: 2020
Election}}{Latest Updates: 2020 Election}}\label{latest-updates-2020-election}}

Updated 2020-08-05T03:23:56.561Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/04/us/elections/primary-election-michigan-arizona-kansas.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-3924dd44}{Two
  G.O.P. Senate primaries offer --- what else? --- a test of loyalty to
  Trump.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/04/us/elections/primary-election-michigan-arizona-kansas.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-62a8e06b}{The
  military-style uniforms of federal agents who responded to the unrest
  in Portland will be replaced.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/04/us/elections/primary-election-michigan-arizona-kansas.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-32b39e33}{President
  Trump is suddenly a big supporter of mail-in voting --- in Florida.}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/04/us/elections/primary-election-michigan-arizona-kansas.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

For example, in Louisiana, state law allows the governor to reschedule
an election because of an emergency, so long as the secretary of state
has certified that an emergency exists. In March, Gov. John Bel Edwards
and Secretary of State R. Kyle Ardoin did just that. (In fact, they
later postponed the primary election for a second time, buying more time
for the state to prepare to hold its vote amid the pandemic.)

\hypertarget{have-federal-officials-considered-moving-a-general-election-in-the-past}{%
\subsection{Have federal officials considered moving a general election
in the
past?}\label{have-federal-officials-considered-moving-a-general-election-in-the-past}}

It was reported in 2004 that some Bush administration officials had
discussed putting in place a method of postponing a federal election in
the event of a terrorist attack. But that idea fizzled quickly, and
Condoleezza Rice, then the national security adviser,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2004/07/13/trail/trail/white-house-tries-to-calm-hubbub-over-vote-delay.html}{said}
that the United States had held ``elections in this country when we were
at war, even when we were in civil war. And we should have the elections
on time.''

\hypertarget{what-about-the-procedures-for-voting-in-the-november-election}{%
\subsection{What about the procedures for voting in the November
election?}\label{what-about-the-procedures-for-voting-in-the-november-election}}

While the date of the presidential election is set by federal law, the
procedures for voting are generally controlled at the state level.

That's why the nation has such a complicated patchwork of voting
regulations, with some states allowing early and absentee voting; some
permitting voting by mail or same-day voter registration; others
requiring certain kinds of identification for voters; and many states
doing few or none of those things.

Democrats included \$3.6 billion in their latest coronavirus aid package
to help states administer their elections safely during the pandemic.
Republicans did not include any such funding in the proposal they rolled
out this week.

Several states have tried to make it easier for voters to use mail-in
ballots this year, helping them to avoid going to polling places on
Election Day.
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/20/us/politics/trump-mail-in-voting-absentee-ballots.html}{In
Michigan}, for example, the secretary of state, Jocelyn Benson, mailed
absentee ballot applications to all 7.7 million registered voters for
the state's August primary election and the November general election.

Even before this year, five states --- Colorado, Hawaii, Oregon, Utah
and Washington --- regularly conducted their elections almost entirely
by mail.

Other states have struggled to manage a flood of absentee ballots. In
New York, where voters requested hundreds of thousands more absentee
ballots than in a typical election,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/17/nyregion/election-absentee-ballots-primary.html}{officials
are still counting votes} more than a month after Primary Day. Key races
in the 12th and 15th Congressional Districts are still unresolved.

That may offer a preview of
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/24/us/politics/november-2020-election-day-results.html}{what
could happen on election night in November}: Unless one candidate wins
in a landslide, there may be no clear and immediate winner in the
presidential race. But that does not mean that the election would be
fraudulent, only that it may take more time to determine the victor.

\hypertarget{is-trump-correct-that-voting-by-mail-leads-to-voter-fraud}{%
\subsection{Is Trump correct that voting by mail leads to voter
fraud?}\label{is-trump-correct-that-voting-by-mail-leads-to-voter-fraud}}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/mail-in-voting-explained.html}{No.}

Numerous studies have shown that
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/mail-in-voting-explained.html}{all
forms of voting fraud are very rare} in the United States. A panel that
Mr. Trump established to investigate election corruption was disbanded
in 2018 after
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/01/03/us/politics/trump-voter-fraud-commission.html}{it
found no real evidence} of fraud.

Experts have said that voting by mail is less secure than voting in
person, but it is still extremely rare to see broad cases of voter
fraud.

In Washington, one of the states that votes almost entirely by mail, a
study conducted by the Republican secretary of state found that 142
potential cases of improper voting in the 2018 election were referred to
county sheriffs and prosecutors for legal action, out of more than 3.1
million ballots cast, which amounted to roughly 0.004 percent of the
electorate.

One of the most prominent recent cases of fraud came in North Carolina's
Ninth Congressional District, where a political operative
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/07/30/us/mccrae-dowless-indictment.html}{was
charged} with fraudulently collecting and submitting absentee ballots in
an effort to manipulate the election results in favor of the Republican
candidate. But such broad schemes are likely to be detected, as this one
was, experts say; the district held a do-over election.

And Mr. Trump himself voted by mail in the last election.

Reid J. Epstein and Linda Qiu contributed reporting.

\hypertarget{our-2020-election-guide}{%
\section{Our 2020 Election Guide}\label{our-2020-election-guide}}

Updated Aug. 4, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{the-latest}{%
  \subsection{The Latest}\label{the-latest}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Kris Kobach, a polarizing figure in Kansas politics,
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/04/us/politics/kobach-tlaib.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{lost
    the Senate primary there}, relieving G.O.P. officials who feared he
    could jeopardize a safe seat.
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{bidens-vp-search}{%
  \subsection{Biden's V.P. Search}\label{bidens-vp-search}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/biden-vice-president-2020.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Here
    are 13 women} who have been under consideration to be Joe Biden's
    running mate, and why each might be chosen --- and might not be.
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{keep-up-with-our-coverage}{%
  \subsection{Keep Up With Our
  Coverage}\label{keep-up-with-our-coverage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Get an
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{email}
    recapping the day's news
  \end{itemize}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Download our mobile app on
    \href{https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nytimes/id284862083?ls=1\&mat_click_id=5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\&referrer=mat_click_id\%3D5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\%26link_click_id\%3D722930677036718082}{iOS}
    and
    \href{http://a.localytics.com/android?id=com.nytimes.android\&referrer=utm_source\%3Dother_nyt_mobile_web\%26utm_medium\%3DWeb\%2520page\%26utm_term\%3DGeneral\%2520Mobile\%2520Page\%26utm_campaign\%3DNYT\%2520Mobile\%2520General\%2520Page}{Android}
    and turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{¬©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
