Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/world/europe}{Europe}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/world/europe}{Europe}\textbar{}After Months of Debate,
England Requires Face Masks for Shoppers

\url{https://nyti.ms/2Oo8Abv}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/news-event/coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{The
Coronavirus Outbreak}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  live\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/01/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Latest
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Maps
  and Cases}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Vaccine
  Tracker}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/07/29/us/schools-reopening-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{What
  School May Look Like}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/live/2020/07/31/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Economy}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{after-months-of-debate-england-requires-face-masks-for-shoppers}{%
\section{After Months of Debate, England Requires Face Masks for
Shoppers}\label{after-months-of-debate-england-requires-face-masks-for-shoppers}}

Many parts of Europe and the United States already require masks in
stores, but in Britain the idea has come up against the twin fears of
appearing either perturbed or ridiculous.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/07/14/world/14virus-uk-masks/14virus-uk-masks-videoSixteenByNine3000.jpg}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/benjamin-mueller}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/02/20/multimedia/author-benjamin-mueller/author-benjamin-mueller-thumbLarge.jpg}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/benjamin-mueller}{Benjamin Mueller}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  July 14, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

LONDON --- Britons, a people famously averse to seeming ruffled in times
of distress, have taken slowly, if at all, to face masks during the
coronavirus pandemic. Jim Williams says people in his home city,
Newcastle, have even yelled at him and shot him angry looks when he wore
one.

``Brits would rather be sick than embarrassed,'' said Mr. Williams, 31,
adding that his own family had turned down masks he bought for them.
``We're all very concerned with doing what other people are doing, and
not wanting to be seen as being hysterical or ridiculous.''

Prime Minister Boris Johnson, rushing to reopen the hardest-hit country
in Europe, weighed in on Tuesday on the side of embarrassment rather
than sickness: He mandated that people wear masks inside shops and
supermarkets in England, putting an end to months of equivocation on the
matter.

Many scientists have found the dithering over face coverings mystifying
and uneasily reminiscent of Britain's delay in imposing a lockdown in
March, part of a laissez-faire approach to the pandemic that has drawn
intense criticism. In March, Mr. Johnson proclaimed Britain ``a land of
liberty'' as he resisted following countries across Europe into
lockdown. He, himself, later became seriously ill with the virus.

Britain now has the third-highest death toll in the world from Covid-19
--- more than 50,000 by one official tally, and about 45,000 by another
--- behind only the United States and Brazil. Scientists say the
Conservative government's slow reactions have cost thousands of lives.

The reversal over face masks, set to take effect on July 24, pulls
England into line with other European countries, like Germany, Italy and
Spain --- France plans to make them mandatory in enclosed spaces on Aug.
1 --- and with Scotland, which is part of Britain but
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/10/world/europe/coroanvirus-scotland-england.html}{sets
its own health policy}. About half of U.S. states require masks in some
public spaces, but the rules vary widely.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/07/14/world/14virus-uk/14virus-uk-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Britain has largely avoided the partisan debate over masks that has
engulfed the United States. Instead, the government's hesitation to
mandate them has stemmed from internal debates among scientific advisers
about the masks' usefulness, and an apparent concern about ensuring that
a resource in short supply was used where it was needed most.

But there were hints on Tuesday of an American-style divide on the
matter.

In an almost empty House of Commons, the Conservative lawmaker Desmond
Swayne railed on Tuesday against what he called ``this monstrous
imposition against myself and a number of outraged and reluctant
constituents.''

``Nothing,'' he said, ``would make me less likely to go shopping than
the thought of having to mask up.''

\hypertarget{latest-updates-global-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/01/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: Global Coronavirus
Outbreak}}{Latest Updates: Global Coronavirus Outbreak}}\label{latest-updates-global-coronavirus-outbreak}}

Updated 2020-08-02T07:42:09.613Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/01/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-34047410}{The
  U.S. reels as July cases more than double the total of any other
  month.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/01/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-780ec966}{Top
  U.S. officials work to break an impasse over the federal jobless
  benefit.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/01/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-2bc8948}{Its
  outbreak untamed, Melbourne goes into even greater lockdown.}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/01/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

More live coverage:
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/live/2020/07/31/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Markets}

The police also bristled at being asked to enforce the new rules by
levying fines of up to 100 pounds, or \$125, with an officers' union
calling it ``unrealistic and unfair'' to expect them to patrol shop
aisles.

For shops that had already told customers to wear masks, the requirement
came as a relief. Just as the government's slowness in imposing a
lockdown in March had forced decisions about closures onto individual
citizens and shopkeepers, so too had its reluctance to make a rule about
face masks left people and businesses struggling to chart their own
paths.

``Obviously, the pandemic isn't over, and we only really wanted to open
if we could keep everyone as safe as possible,'' said Gayle Lazda, a
bookseller at the London Review Bookshop in central London, which has
required masks since it reopened this month. ``Just like before the
lockdown happened, we closed the shop because it seemed like the only
sensible thing to do.''

Image

The police have been asked to enforce the new mask rules by imposing
fines of up to 100 pounds.Credit...Justin Tallis/Agence France-Presse
--- Getty Images

Some scientists had pleaded for months with Mr. Johnson's government to
heed the growing evidence that masks could help stop the spread of the
virus. But the government resisted, with England's deputy chief medical
officer saying on April 3 that ``there is no evidence that general
wearing of face masks by the public who are well affects the spread of
the disease in our society.''

As recently as April 28, the government's
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/04/23/world/europe/uk-coronavirus-sage-secret.html}{powerful
Scientific Advisory Group for Emergencies} retroactively
\href{https://assets.publishing.service.gov.uk/government/uploads/system/uploads/attachment_data/file/888802/S0398_Twenty-ninth_SAGE_meeting_on_Covid-19_.pdf}{edited
the minutes of a previous meeting} to emphasize that ``it would be
unreasonable to claim a large benefit from wearing a mask.''

The advisers' misgivings reflected what critics called an overly rigid
approach to the science. The advisers emphasized a lack of evidence from
randomized controlled trials, a bar that outside scientists said was
impossibly high to meet, especially given the difficulties of measuring
how one person's mask might protect untold others.

``Some scientists feel that a very high level of certainty is required
before advice is given for the public to undertake wearing a mask or
other behaviors that would reduce disease transmission,'' said Paul
Edelstein, an emeritus professor at the University of Pennsylvania, who
helped write an
\href{https://rs-delve.github.io/addenda/2020/07/07/masks-update.html}{influential
report to British scientific advisers} encouraging face coverings this
month.

Masks have been mandatory on public transportation in England since
mid-June, and the government had previously encouraged --- but not
required --- masks in enclosed spaces. But the minutes of their meetings
show that the government's scientific advisers fretted about the
possibility of masks making people more willing to leave home with
symptoms, or to violate social distancing measures.

Image

Masks have been mandatory on public transportation in England since
mid-June.Credit...Toby Melville/Reuters

Trisha Greenhalgh, a professor of primary care at the University of
Oxford, \href{https://www.bmj.com/content/369/bmj.m1435}{published an
analysis on April 9} asking the government to consider how little there
was to lose, and how much to gain, from encouraging the widespread use
of masks. She said in an interview that the issue required considering a
wider range of evidence than some scientists were trained to trust, like
studies of super-spreader events on cruise ships.

``They're creatures of their own upbringing,'' she said of some of the
government's scientific advisers. ``They have a lot of ingrained
assumptions about what counts as rigor, and so then the science isn't
quite rigorous enough.''

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/news-event/coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{}

\hypertarget{the-coronavirus-outbreak-}{%
\subsubsection{The Coronavirus Outbreak
›}\label{the-coronavirus-outbreak-}}

\hypertarget{frequently-asked-questions}{%
\paragraph{Frequently Asked
Questions}\label{frequently-asked-questions}}

Updated July 27, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{should-i-refinance-my-mortgage}{%
  \paragraph{Should I refinance my
  mortgage?}\label{should-i-refinance-my-mortgage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/coronavirus-money-unemployment.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{It
    could be a good idea,} because mortgage rates have
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/16/business/mortgage-rates-below-3-percent.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{never
    been lower.} Refinancing requests have pushed mortgage applications
    to some of the highest levels since 2008, so be prepared to get in
    line. But defaults are also up, so if you're thinking about buying a
    home, be aware that some lenders have tightened their standards.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{what-is-school-going-to-look-like-in-september}{%
  \paragraph{What is school going to look like in
  September?}\label{what-is-school-going-to-look-like-in-september}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    It is unlikely that many schools will return to a normal schedule
    this fall, requiring the grind of
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/05/us/coronavirus-education-lost-learning.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{online
    learning},
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/05/29/us/coronavirus-child-care-centers.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{makeshift
    child care} and
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/03/business/economy/coronavirus-working-women.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{stunted
    workdays} to continue. California's two largest public school
    districts --- Los Angeles and San Diego --- said on July 13, that
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/13/us/lausd-san-diego-school-reopening.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{instruction
    will be remote-only in the fall}, citing concerns that surging
    coronavirus infections in their areas pose too dire a risk for
    students and teachers. Together, the two districts enroll some
    825,000 students. They are the largest in the country so far to
    abandon plans for even a partial physical return to classrooms when
    they reopen in August. For other districts, the solution won't be an
    all-or-nothing approach.
    \href{https://bioethics.jhu.edu/research-and-outreach/projects/eschool-initiative/school-policy-tracker/}{Many
    systems}, including the nation's largest, New York City, are
    devising
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/26/us/coronavirus-schools-reopen-fall.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{hybrid
    plans} that involve spending some days in classrooms and other days
    online. There's no national policy on this yet, so check with your
    municipal school system regularly to see what is happening in your
    community.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{is-the-coronavirus-airborne}{%
  \paragraph{Is the coronavirus
  airborne?}\label{is-the-coronavirus-airborne}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    The coronavirus
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/04/health/239-experts-with-one-big-claim-the-coronavirus-is-airborne.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{can
    stay aloft for hours in tiny droplets in stagnant air}, infecting
    people as they inhale, mounting scientific evidence suggests. This
    risk is highest in crowded indoor spaces with poor ventilation, and
    may help explain super-spreading events reported in meatpacking
    plants, churches and restaurants.
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/06/health/coronavirus-airborne-aerosols.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{It's
    unclear how often the virus is spread} via these tiny droplets, or
    aerosols, compared with larger droplets that are expelled when a
    sick person coughs or sneezes, or transmitted through contact with
    contaminated surfaces, said Linsey Marr, an aerosol expert at
    Virginia Tech. Aerosols are released even when a person without
    symptoms exhales, talks or sings, according to Dr. Marr and more
    than 200 other experts, who
    \href{https://academic.oup.com/cid/article/doi/10.1093/cid/ciaa939/5867798}{have
    outlined the evidence in an open letter to the World Health
    Organization}.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{what-are-the-symptoms-of-coronavirus}{%
  \paragraph{What are the symptoms of
  coronavirus?}\label{what-are-the-symptoms-of-coronavirus}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Common symptoms
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/symptoms-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{include
    fever, a dry cough, fatigue and difficulty breathing or shortness of
    breath.} Some of these symptoms overlap with those of the flu,
    making detection difficult, but runny noses and stuffy sinuses are
    less common.
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/04/27/health/coronavirus-symptoms-cdc.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{The
    C.D.C. has also} added chills, muscle pain, sore throat, headache
    and a new loss of the sense of taste or smell as symptoms to look
    out for. Most people fall ill five to seven days after exposure, but
    symptoms may appear in as few as two days or as many as 14 days.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{does-asymptomatic-transmission-of-covid-19-happen}{%
  \paragraph{Does asymptomatic transmission of Covid-19
  happen?}\label{does-asymptomatic-transmission-of-covid-19-happen}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    So far, the evidence seems to show it does. A widely cited
    \href{https://www.nature.com/articles/s41591-020-0869-5}{paper}
    published in April suggests that people are most infectious about
    two days before the onset of coronavirus symptoms and estimated that
    44 percent of new infections were a result of transmission from
    people who were not yet showing symptoms. Recently, a top expert at
    the World Health Organization stated that transmission of the
    coronavirus by people who did not have symptoms was ``very rare,''
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/09/world/coronavirus-updates.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq\#link-1f302e21}{but
    she later walked back that statement.}
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Britain was far from alone in distrusting masks. Not knowing the extent
of symptomless transmission, scientists in the United States and with
the World Health Organization were also slow to encourage their use,
noted Venki Ramakrishnan, the president of the Royal Society, a
scientific body in Britain.

But Britons proved especially slow to voluntarily adopt masks, with only
21 percent of people saying they wore one in public, according to an
\href{https://yougov.co.uk/topics/health/articles-reports/2020/06/04/covid-19-britons-still-wont-wear-face-masks}{analysis
by YouGov published in June}.

That put Britain far behind almost all of Europe, Asia and the Americas.
Even in France, which has not yet required masks in shops, 79 percent of
people wore them, YouGov said. So did 69 percent of Americans.

Beyond the discomfort, Britons complained in polls that they felt
self-conscious, silly and embarrassed in masks. That reflected in part
what Peter York, a prominent social commentator, described as a
longstanding aversion --- particularly among the upper classes --- to
seeming rattled in the face of disease or distress.

``There's a class-based idea that anything too valetudinarian, too
conspicuously hygienic, is middle-class,'' he said, using a long word
for being unduly anxious about one's health. ``It's one of the sort of
bravado things of the English upper class, that being madly hygienic is
silly.''

For Ayla Hogg, 22, who has been long been wearing a mask around her
village in Scotland, the introduction of a countrywide mandate in recent
days was a comfort after months of disconcerting reactions to her mask.

``You have people purposely avoiding you, and you feel very
self-conscious, like maybe I'm overreacting to this,'' she said.
``British people are incredibly awkward at the best of times. Going
against the norm is very, very odd, and it does make you feel a bit like
an outsider.''

Aurelien Breeden and Emma Bubola contributed reporting.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
