Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/us}{U.S.}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/us}{U.S.}\textbar{}Fires and Pepper Spray in Seattle as
Police Protests Widen Across U.S.

\url{https://nyti.ms/2OZOvs8}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/news-event/george-floyd-protests-minneapolis-new-york-los-angeles?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Race
and America}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/26/us/protests-portland-seattle-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Protesters
  Return to Other Cities}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/24/us/portland-oregon-protests-white-race.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Portland
  at the Center}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/23/podcasts/the-daily/portland-protests.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Podcast:
  Showdown in Portland}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/07/16/us/black-lives-matter-protests-louisville-breonna-taylor.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{45
  Days in Louisville}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{fires-and-pepper-spray-in-seattle-as-police-protests-widen-across-us}{%
\section{Fires and Pepper Spray in Seattle as Police Protests Widen
Across
U.S.}\label{fires-and-pepper-spray-in-seattle-as-police-protests-widen-across-us}}

From Los Angeles to New York, protesters marched in a show of solidarity
with demonstrations in Portland, Ore. In Seattle, they smashed windows
and set fires. A shooting at a protest in Austin, Texas, left one man
dead.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/08/25/us/25SEATTLE-PROTESTS-1/merlin_174955155_8d2c477c-a499-4b58-9bfa-3894457fc9d7-videoSixteenByNine3000.jpg}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/mike-baker}{Mike Baker} and
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/nicholas-bogel-burroughs}{Nicholas
Bogel-Burroughs}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  July 25, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

SEATTLE --- Weeks of violent clashes between federal agents and
protesters in Portland, Ore., galvanized thousands of people to march
through the streets of American cities on Saturday, injecting new life
into protests that had largely waned in recent weeks.

One of the most intense protests was in Seattle, where a day of
demonstrations focused on police violence left a trail of broken windows
and people flushing pepper spray from their eyes. At least 45 protesters
had been arrested as of early evening, and both protesters and police
officers suffered injuries.

Carrying signs such as ``Feds Go Home'' and shouting chants of ``No
justice, no peace,'' some among the crowd of about 5,000 protesters
stopped at a youth detention center and lit several construction
trailers there on fire. Some smashed windows of nearby businesses,
ignited a fire in a coffee shop and blew an eight-inch hole through the
wall of the Seattle Police Department's East Precinct building, the
police said.

``At this point, we declared the event to be a riot, and several orders
to disperse were given,'' the Seattle police chief, Carmen Best, said at
a news conference.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/08/25/us/25SEATTLE-PROTESTS-3-sub/merlin_174955077_41902716-615f-494a-aebb-fe797a7c00a0-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

The police responded by firing flash grenades, showering protesters with
pepper spray and abruptly rushing into crowds, knocking people to the
ground. After a flash grenade left one woman with bloody injuries,
police officers shoved people who had stopped to help her.

In Austin, Texas, the police said one man was shot and killed just
before 10 p.m. during a protest in the city's downtown. In a live video
from the scene, protesters are seen marching through an intersection
when a car blares its horn. Seconds later, five shots ring out, followed
shortly after by several more loud bangs.

The man who was killed may have approached a vehicle with a rifle before
he was shot and killed, Officer Katrina Ratcliff said. Ms. Ratcliff said
the person who shot and killed the man had fired from inside the
vehicle. That person was detained and is cooperating with officers, she
said. No one else was injured.

``All I know is that someone dying while protesting is horrible,'' Mayor
Steve Adler of Austin said in a statement. ``Our city is shaken and,
like so many in our community, I'm heartbroken and stunned.''

Image

Gunshots can be heard in this video taken live from a protest in Austin,
Texas, where one man was shot and killed.Credit...Hiram Gilberto
/@imhiram-HIRAMLIVE

In Los Angeles, protesters clashed with officers in front of the federal
courthouse downtown. Videos showed people smashing windows and lobbing
water bottles at officers after protesters said the police fired
projectiles at them.

The federal courthouse in Portland has been the scene of nightly,
chaotic demonstrations for weeks, which continued again into Sunday
morning, as thousands participated in marches around the city, the 59th
consecutive day of protests there. Earlier, a group of nurses in scrubs
had joined an organized group of mothers in helmets and fathers in hard
hats, all assembled against the fence of a federal courthouse where
federal agents --- a deployment that has been a key focus of the recent
demonstrations --- have been assembled.

Shortly after 1 a.m., the Portland police said the protest had become a
riot and ordered the crowd to leave. Federal agents fired tear gas and
left the courthouse to drive protesters from the streets, continuing to
stretch the boundaries of their authority
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/25/us/portland-federal-legal-jurisdiction-courts.html}{as
legal experts questioned how far the agents could stray beyond federal
property}.

Protesters in several cities said the smoke-filled videos of federal
agents firing tear gas and shoving protesters in Portland had brought
them to the streets on Saturday.

``Portland is leading,'' said Chantelle Hershberger, an organizer with
Refuse Fascism who was part of the Los Angeles activists protesting the
presence of federal agents in Portland, where city officials have
opposed the presence of the federal officers. ``They're showing what it
looks like to stay in the streets despite police oppression, despite the
federal forces being sent in. This kind of energy is actually what's
needed.''

Image

The ``Wall of Moms'' led a march to downtown Portland, Ore., on Saturday
night.Credit...Octavio Jones for The New York Times

Bipasha Mukherjee, 52, of Kirkland, Wash., said she has been protesting
on the streets since May and said it was worrisome to her to see such
aggressive tactics by the police.

``This is not the country I immigrated to,'' said Ms. Mukherjee, who
arrived from India more than 30 years ago. ``It feels like we are
rapidly becoming a fascist state and a police state.''

Michaud Savage of Seattle said the protests there were aimed at both
local authorities and the deployment of federal officers who have waged
a crackdown against a long-running protest in Portland. Mr. Savage said
the law enforcement tactics in Portland, which have included the use of
tear gas and crowd-control munitions, were dangerous and inappropriate.

``It's a very hard slide in an extremely violent direction,'' Mr. Savage
said as he washed his eyes of pepper spray and nursed a wound on his arm
from a flash grenade.

But Ms. Best, the Seattle police chief, said a number of demonstrators
also used violence. Some were tossing concrete blocks from a rooftop to
the street below, she said. The coffee shop that was set afire had
occupied apartments above it that had to be evacuated, she said.

``We support everyone's First Amendment right for free speech and to
gather and assemble in such a way,'' she said. ``But what we saw today
was not peaceful. It was not a peaceful demonstration at all, and
criminal acts were occurring throughout the city, and many people were
at risk.''

Image

Police and protesters Saturday met at the same intersection in Seattle
where the protests stemming from George Floyd's death took
place.~~Credit...Grant Hindsley for The New York Times

Other demonstrations took place on Saturday in New York, Omaha and
Oakland, Calif., among other cities.

In Omaha,
\href{https://www.3newsnow.com/news/local-news/midtown-protest-for-james-scurlock-portland-unrest-leads-to-arrests}{KMTV-TV
reported} that demonstrators turned out in solidarity with the Portland
protests and also in response to the death of James Scurlock, a Black
man
\href{https://omaha.com/news/local/veteran-federal-prosecutor-to-lead-grand-jury-probe-into-james-scurlocks-death/article_f2f0f66d-8400-5923-b441-d2f490c512c7.html}{killed
by a white bar owner in May}. The police arrested 75 to 100 people
Saturday night,
\href{https://www.3newsnow.com/news/local-news/midtown-protest-for-james-scurlock-portland-unrest-leads-to-arrests}{KMTV
reported}.

In Richmond, Va., riot police fired chemical agents at hundreds of
protesters who had marched through the city and gathered around the
Richmond Police Department. The
\href{https://twitter.com/RichmondPolice/status/1287226950822617088}{police
said some protesters} had set fire to a
\href{https://twitter.com/Rob_Desir/status/1287226202592346112?s=20}{city-owned
dump truck} outside the station.

At a protest in Aurora, Colo., a hectic scene played out as people
marched along an interstate highway.

During that protest, someone drove a car into demonstrators, the Aurora
Police Department said, although it was unclear if the car struck any
protesters. The police said a protester had also ``decided to fire off a
weapon,'' which struck at least one other person. That person was taken
to a hospital and was in stable condition, the police said, and a second
person later showed up to the hospital with a graze wound.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/07/17/autossell/portland-v1-2/portland-v1-2-videoSixteenByNineJumbo1600.jpg}

In addition to marching in solidarity with the Portland protesters, the
demonstration in Aurora was also in response to the death of
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/who-was-elijah-mcclain.html}{Elijah
McClain, a 23-year-old massage therapist} who died several days after
officers put him in a chokehold last summer.

Mr. McClain's death was
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/20/us/elijah-mcclain-police-killings.html}{one
of several that have occurred in police custody} around the country that
received fresh attention following the police killing of George Floyd in
Minneapolis in May. Mr. Floyd's death ignited mass protests that drew
millions to the streets in dozens of cities, but the demonstrations
waned in most places.

Seattle and Portland, however, have seen extended demonstrations.
Seattle protesters at one point laid claim to several blocks of the
Capitol Hill neighborhood and
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/11/us/seattle-autonomous-zone.html}{declared
an autonomous zone}. After a series of shootings there led the police to
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/01/us/seattle-protest-zone-CHOP-CHAZ-unrest.html}{clear
the area}, protests had subsided.

Protests in Portland, meanwhile, have continued, with some of the
heaviest demonstrations around federal buildings in the city. On
Saturday, crowds marched from near the federal courthouse to a hotel
several blocks away where federal agents who had been dispatched to the
city were thought to be staying.

``Get out of bed with the feds,'' the protesters chanted.

Later in the night, thousands of people returned to the federal
courthouse. Some threw fireworks at the officers protecting the
building, while others worked to break down the fence surrounding it.
Just before midnight, federal officers began lobbing tear gas and flash
grenades over the fence, dispersing crowds, while the group of mothers
who have been a fixture at the protests stood firm with linked arms,
protected with gas masks.

Image

Thousands of people returned to the federal courthouse in Portland~ on
Friday. Some threw fireworks at the officers protecting the building,
while others tried to break down the fence surrounding it.
Credit...Octavio Jones for The New York Times

Craig Gabriel, an assistant U.S. attorney in Oregon, said at a news
conference earlier on Saturday that federal agents had arrested 60
people at protests in Portland and were pursuing charges against 46 of
them.

Several federal agents had been injured by fireworks and lasers that
protesters shone into their eyes, he said.

Harry Fones, a spokesman for the Department of Homeland Security, whose
agents are among those clashing with protesters, In on Saturday that the
demonstrators were little more than ``violent anarchists rioting on the
streets.''

Protesters in Washington, D.C. planned to hold a demonstration on Sunday
at the Virginia home of Chad Wolf, the Secretary of Homeland Security,
in response to the deployment of federal agents in Portland.

After President Trump issued an executive order to protect statues and
federal property, the Department of Homeland Security
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/25/us/portland-federal-legal-jurisdiction-courts.html}{sent
tactical teams to the city}, beginning a series of clashes that have
resulted in injured protesters, inspector general investigations and
calls from local leaders for federal agents to leave.

Protest crowds in that city have swelled into the thousands, and
demonstrations there were continuing. This week, federal officials
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/23/us/seattle-protests-feds.html}{deployed
a tactical team to Seattle} as well, and protesters cited that
development as one reason for Saturday's demonstrations.

Mike Baker reported from Seattle and Nicholas Bogel-Burroughs from New
York. Reporting was contributed by Kate Conger and Sergio Olmos in
Portland, Ore.; Hallie Golden in Seattle; Aimee Ortiz in New York; Manny
Fernandez in Houston; and Austin Ramzy in Hong Kong.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
