Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}How the Republican
Convention Created Money Woes in Two Cities

\url{https://nyti.ms/38Ct21P}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Election
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/biden-vice-president-2020.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Biden's
  V.P. Search}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/07/24/us/politics/trump-biden-campaign-donors.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Map
  of Donations}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/elections/delegate-count-primary-results.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Delegate
  Count}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2019/us/politics/2020-presidential-candidates.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{The
  Candidates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Politics
  Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{how-the-republican-convention-created-money-woes-in-two-cities}{%
\section{How the Republican Convention Created Money Woes in Two
Cities}\label{how-the-republican-convention-created-money-woes-in-two-cities}}

Donors are wondering why they gave to a Charlotte event that has mostly
been scrapped. And Jacksonville fund-raisers find money is on hold
because of concerns about the surge in virus cases.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/06/26/us/politics/00gop-convention/merlin_173533566_2bf1e95a-b1a0-47c4-8afc-6785786e7711-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/annie-karni}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2019/02/05/multimedia/author-annie-karni/author-annie-karni-thumbLarge.png}}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/rebecca-r-ruiz}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/06/12/multimedia/author-rebecca-r-ruiz/author-rebecca-r-ruiz-thumbLarge.png}}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/kenneth-p-vogel}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/02/20/multimedia/author-kenneth-p-vogel/author-kenneth-p-vogel-thumbLarge-v3.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/annie-karni}{Annie Karni},
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/rebecca-r-ruiz}{Rebecca R. Ruiz} and
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/kenneth-p-vogel}{Kenneth P. Vogel}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Published July 4, 2020Updated July 23, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

\emph{{[}\textbf{\textbf{Update}}:}
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/23/us/politics/jacksonville-rnc.html}{\emph{Trump
abruptly cancels Republican Convention in Jacksonville}}\emph{.{]}}

WASHINGTON --- The abrupt uprooting of the
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/14/us/politics/republican-convention-jacksonville-virus-outdoors.html}{Republican
National Convention} from Charlotte to Jacksonville has created a
tangled financial predicament for party officials as they effectively
try to pay for two big events instead of one.

Tens of millions of dollars have already been spent in a city that will
now host little more than a G.O.P. business meeting, and donors are wary
of opening their wallets again to bankroll a Jacksonville gathering
thrown into uncertainty by a surge in coronavirus cases.

Organizers are trying to assuage vexed Republicans who collectively gave
millions of dollars for a Charlotte event that has mostly been scrapped.
The host committee there has spent virtually all of the \$38 million it
raised before the convention was moved, leaving almost nothing to return
to donors, or to pass on to the new host city.

In Jacksonville, fund-raisers are describing the process as the most
difficult they have ever confronted: Florida has been setting daily
records for new virus cases, freezing money as donors wait and worry
about the safety risks of the pandemic.

``I don't want to encourage people getting sick,'' said Stanley S.
Hubbard, a Minnesota billionaire who has donated more than \$2 million
to help Republicans, including President Trump, since the beginning of
the 2016 election.

Mr. Hubbard, who donated \$25,000 to the R.N.C.'s convention account in
2018, is hesitant to give to the Jacksonville host committee because he
thinks it is ill advised to hold the convention in the midst of a
pandemic. ``Unless this thing goes away, I think it's a bad choice,'' he
said.

The threat of the virus and the complicated financial entanglements are
just the latest problems to beset an event that Mr. Trump upended last
month, after
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/10/us/politics/republican-national-convention-jacksonville-florida.html}{concluding
that Charlotte could not guarantee}the celebratory coronation he covets.
The sudden acrimonious split with Charlotte --- and the scramble in
Jacksonville to organize in weeks an event that typically takes years
--- has produced mounting confusion about what the convention will look
like and who will pay to help stage it.

Organizers are not holding their breath for generous contributions from
big donors, like Sheldon Adelson, the billionaire casino owner, who has
given to host committees in the past but has not indicated he plans to
support the Jacksonville event. Instead, they are working down long
lists of donors who might be willing to give smaller amounts.

But the virus has proved a debilitating impediment for Jacksonville.
Florida had recorded almost 180,000 total coronavirus cases through
Friday,
but\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/florida-coronavirus-cases.html}{the
surge in the last month has been dramatic}. After reporting 667 new
cases on June 1, the state has had more than 5,000 every day since June
24, including more than 10,000 on Thursday. Hospitals across the state
have started to sound the alarm about becoming overburdened.

Mr. Trump shunned Charlotte because North Carolina's Democratic
governor, Roy Cooper, would not promise to forgo safety measures like
distancing and mask-wearing. In Florida, lawmakers had seemed intent on
offering him as unfettered a convention as possible, though in recent
days the city of Jacksonville
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/29/us/politics/rnc-masks-convention.html}{began
requiring} masks in indoor public settings, a stipulation that will
presumably apply at the convention.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-2020-election}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: 2020
Election}}{Latest Updates: 2020 Election}}\label{latest-updates-2020-election}}

Updated 2020-08-01T01:26:45.732Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-29fdff45}{Kamala
  Harris, a top vice-presidential contender, confronts double
  standards.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-13ec3d9c}{Karen
  Bass and Susan Rice are rising on Biden's vice-presidential
  shortlist.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-49e9a016}{Trump
  says Russian bounties to kill U.S. troops `never took place.'}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

Dan Eberhart, a Republican donor who has helped raise money for Mr.
Trump in the past, said the Jacksonville convention was ``a tough
sell,'' noting that ``many donors' businesses are severely impacted by
the virus and large corporations have pulled in their horns on
spending.''

Mr. Eberhart is planning to attend the convention, and said he had been
approached by the Jacksonville host committee about donating, but hasn't
decided whether to do so. ``There are so many variables right now,'' he
said.

By the time
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/06/us/politics/republican-convention-charlotte-2020.html}{Mr.
Trump decided to move the convention}, almost all of the money raised by
the Charlotte host committee had been spent on things like salaries,
insurance, prepayments on contracts, and other expenses.

``It's certainly a challenge,'' said Edward E. Burr, a real estate
developer and member of the Jacksonville host committee.

Mr. Burr said it was still far from clear exactly what the final run of
show will look like, or how many people will attend Mr. Trump's
renominating speech, which is scheduled for Aug. 27. Even some members
of the host committee in Jacksonville are privately wondering if the
city and the R.N.C. have a Plan B --- actually, a Plan C --- as they
watch the number of coronavirus cases in their state rise.

``This path is a twisty path,'' Mr. Burr said. ``A lot of things
continue to change.''

``I've got plenty of friends who said this is a bad thing to do,'' he
added, ``but we are doing it.''

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/07/05/us/politics/05gop-convention-print1/04gop-convention2-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Ronna McDaniel, chairwoman of the Republican National Committee, which
supervises the convention, said in a statement that her team ``will be
providing a safe, first-rate experience for convention goers, and we
have a highly-skilled team working around the clock to make that
happen.''

And Republican officials compared the mad cash dash to a special
election, when a condensed time frame creates anxiety, but ultimately
the money comes through.

Brian Ballard, the top Republican lobbyist in Florida and one of the
party's major fund-raisers, has been leading the fund-raising operation,
along with Katie Walsh, an adviser to the R.N.C. who also helped oversee
fund-raising for Charlotte, and Jeff Miller, a leading fund-raiser for
Mr. Trump's re-election campaign.

Big corporate donors who typically make \$1 million contributions do so
because they want to capitalize on social and branding opportunities at
an event that draws lawmakers, lobbyists and business leaders. But right
now, it's not clear to them what the Jacksonville proceedings will look
like.

As they start from scratch, fund-raisers are also being delicate about
asking Charlotte donors to give again for the Jacksonville run. In an
effort to smooth over raw feelings, donors who have already contributed
will be able to use any of the perks that came with their donations ---
like V.I.P. access and reserved hotel rooms --- in Jacksonville.

``There's deep frustration,'' said Tariq Bokhari, a Republican City
Council member in Charlotte, describing exasperation among prominent
local donors. ``There are people who've put hundreds of thousands if not
millions into this. They care that their investment comes to fruition,
that our city hosts a major convention and our businesses and
hospitality workers get the benefits.''

Organizers in Jacksonville are expecting --- hoping --- that 15,000
people attend, enough to fill the VyStar Veterans Memorial Arena, which
cost about \$150,000 for the week (a fraction of the cost of the arena
in Charlotte). Still, many delegates remain noncommittal about
attending, potentially diminishing the economic boost Jacksonville was
counting on.

Perhaps taking that into account --- and working on a far tighter
timetable --- Jacksonville organizers have expressed more modest
fund-raising goals, aspiring to raise a fraction of the \$70 million
Charlotte officials aimed for.

The Democratic National Convention, scheduled for mid-August in
Milwaukee, has already scaled back its ambitions: Organizers have
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/24/us/politics/democratic-convention-milwaukee-coronavirus.html}{relocated}
the event to a smaller venue, and state delegations have been urged not
to travel in light of the virus.

In 2016, organizers of the Republican convention in Cleveland spent more
than \$1 million on national fund-raising consultants as they sought to
hit their donation goals; they wound up raising about \$60 million.

``It was all based on the contract signed two years out that we had
spent months negotiating, and months before that understanding what the
obligation would be for Cleveland,'' said David Gilbert, who organized
the 2016 Republican gathering.

Image

Mr. Trump shunned Charlotte because North Carolina's Democratic
governor, Roy Cooper, would not promise to forgo safety measures like
distancing and mask-wearing.Credit...Streeter Lecka/Getty Images

Some Republican donors said that, like Mr. Trump, they blamed Mr.
Cooper, North Carolina's governor, for foiling the plans for Charlotte.

``You see the convention go to another state and you know they're going
to reap the benefits, and we desperately needed that,'' said Elaine
Wordsworth, whose husband, Steve Wordsworth, is a North Carolina
businessman who has donated generously to Mr. Trump's re-election fund.

Indeed, when Jacksonville was selected as the host city for the
convention in June, the news was seen by leaders there as a huge
financial shot in the arm for a second-tier city that would never have
been considered for such a role under normal circumstances. The average
economic impact of hosting a convention for the local economy is about
\$200 million, and officials in Jacksonville initially estimated that
even a hurried version of the Republican event would bring in at least
half of that.

But now, many of the people involved in the process in Jacksonville are
beginning to feel like the dog that caught the car. About 58 percent of
registered voters in Duval County, which encompasses Jacksonville, say
they are opposed to the city hosting the mass gathering,
\href{https://www.unf.edu/uploadedFiles/aa/coas/porl/JaxSpeaks0620.pdf}{according
to a new poll from the University of North Florida}, which also showed
that 71 percent of voters said they were at least somewhat concerned
about transmission of coronavirus.

For Republican officials, untangling the financial knot from the
Charlotte convention remains a work in progress. Given the contracts
that had been signed and the many parties around the table --- including
the local host committee, the R.N.C. and the city itself, among others
--- concerns about potential legal action have figured into managing the
fallout, several people connected to the process said.

Patrick Baker, Charlotte's city attorney, said in an interview that the
city itself had spent roughly \$14 million preparing for the convention.
Much of that went toward insurance and security costs, he said, and the
city expected to be reimbursed in full through a federal grant from the
Justice Department.

``The focus of the City Council has been to make sure, at a minimum,
that we're made whole and not left holding the bag,'' Mr. Baker said.

The Charlotte program has been scaled back to the bare minimum. Only the
168 national committeemen are expected to visit Charlotte. While there,
they will attend meetings at one hotel and then take a bus together to
the airport, where they will board a chartered plane and fly to
Jacksonville for the remainder of the convention, according to someone
briefed on the plans.

It's not clear that Charlotte has gotten the message that the party has
fully moved to Jacksonville. The web address
\href{http://2020venues.com/}{2020venues.com} still reflects a full
Charlotte program, referring visitors to an array of destinations and
assisting them with details for booking.

``The economic benefit that comes with all the visitor spending,
obviously we're not going to get that, but with the virus we weren't
going to get it anyway,'' Mr. Baker said. ``I'm glad it's not my job to
put on a convention.''

\hypertarget{our-2020-election-guide}{%
\section{Our 2020 Election Guide}\label{our-2020-election-guide}}

Updated July 31, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{the-latest}{%
  \subsection{The Latest}\label{the-latest}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    President Trump's assault on the Postal Service is intersecting with
    his attacks on mail-in voting.
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/politics/trump-usps-mail-delays.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Voting
    rights groups say it is a recipe for disaster.}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{bidens-vp-search}{%
  \subsection{Biden's V.P. Search}\label{bidens-vp-search}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/biden-vice-president-2020.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Here
    are 13 women} who have been under consideration to be Joe Biden's
    running mate, and why each might be chosen --- and might not be.
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{keep-up-with-our-coverage}{%
  \subsection{Keep Up With Our
  Coverage}\label{keep-up-with-our-coverage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Get an
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{email}
    recapping the day's news
  \end{itemize}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Download our mobile app on
    \href{https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nytimes/id284862083?ls=1\&mat_click_id=5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\&referrer=mat_click_id\%3D5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\%26link_click_id\%3D722930677036718082}{iOS}
    and
    \href{http://a.localytics.com/android?id=com.nytimes.android\&referrer=utm_source\%3Dother_nyt_mobile_web\%26utm_medium\%3DWeb\%2520page\%26utm_term\%3DGeneral\%2520Mobile\%2520Page\%26utm_campaign\%3DNYT\%2520Mobile\%2520General\%2520Page}{Android}
    and turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
