Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}Trump's Covid Failures
Reshape Race and Lift Biden

\url{https://nyti.ms/3jBpqSx}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/24/us/elections/2020-presidential-election.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&module=styln-elections-2020\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Election
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/07/24/us/politics/trump-biden-campaign-donors.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&module=styln-elections-2020\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Map
  of Donations}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/biden-vice-president-2020.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&module=styln-elections-2020\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Biden's
  V.P. Search}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/delegate-count-primary-results.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&module=styln-elections-2020\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Delegate
  Count}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/us/politics/2020-presidential-candidates.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&module=styln-elections-2020\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{The
  Candidates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&module=styln-elections-2020\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Politics
  Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

News Analysis

\hypertarget{trumps-covid-failures-reshape-race-and-lift-biden}{%
\section{Trump's Covid Failures Reshape Race and Lift
Biden}\label{trumps-covid-failures-reshape-race-and-lift-biden}}

President Trump's cancellation of the convention in Florida and sudden
embrace of masks may signal his acceptance of a political landscape
transformed by the pandemic.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/07/25/multimedia/25CONVENTION-ANALYSIS1/25CONVENTION-ANALYSIS1-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/adam-nagourney}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/02/20/multimedia/author-adam-nagourney/author-adam-nagourney-thumbLarge-v3.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/adam-nagourney}{Adam
Nagourney}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  July 25, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

For months, President Trump belittled Joseph R. Biden Jr. as an opponent
cowering in the basement in a mask as he sought to dismiss the
seriousness of a pandemic threatening the nation's health --- and his
re-election prospects.

But with his sudden embrace of masks and the canceling of the Republican
National Convention in Jacksonville, Fla., on Thursday, Mr. Trump has
reluctantly conceded to the reality of a political landscape that has
been transformed by disease and fear. A pandemic that once struck
Democratic states like New York and California has moved with alarming
force into red America and helped to recast his contest with Mr. Biden,
his presumptive Democratic opponent.

Mr. Trump's attempt to downplay the coronavirus, or deride it as a
threat exaggerated by his Democratic opponents and the media, has met
the reality of rising caseloads, death counts and overwhelmed intensive
care units in places like Texas, Arizona, Georgia and Florida, all
states that he won in 2016 and that the Biden campaign had until now
viewed as long shots.

The president's handling of the virus is shaping up as not only a policy
failure, but also a political one. Rather than strengthening his
position against Mr. Biden, Mr. Trump's response to the virus appears to
have created a backlash among voters --- one that has only elevated his
opponent.

``The movement of Covid into the South and West has finally caught up
with Trump,'' said Linda L. Fowler, a professor of government at
Dartmouth College. ``While the disease was decimating blue states, he
was able to pretend it wasn't happening. But now the context has changed
considerably and his people are hurting, underscored by the sinking poll
numbers, the problems for G.O.P. congressional candidates, and the fact
that the party faithful was reluctant to attend the convention.''

The political perils of Mr. Trump's course were driven home a few hours
before he announced he was scrapping the Florida convention. A
\href{https://poll.qu.edu/national/release-detail?ReleaseID=3668}{Quinnipiac
poll} found that Mr. Biden was now leading Mr. Trump in Florida by 13
percentage points, a stunning margin in a state that has become ---
since the recount in the 2000 presidential election between Al Gore and
George W. Bush --- Exhibit A of a nation where elections are decided by
decimal points.

National and battleground state polls over the past two weeks suggest
how much Mr. Trump is out of step with the nation on the pandemic, in
contrast with Mr. Biden. Most Americans support the use of masks and are
apprehensive about students
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/24/us/politics/trump-schools.html}{returning
to school or the reopening of cities}. And they have lost confidence in
the president's ability --- or willingness --- to steer the country out
of a crisis, to the decided advantage of Mr. Biden.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/07/25/multimedia/25CONVENTION-ANALYSIS2/merlin_174919140_681a9262-5a2e-4626-8180-a722b043b421-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

A
\href{https://www.washingtonpost.com/context/july-12-15-2020-washington-post-abc-news-poll/05fce27c-2660-4808-9f10-e5bda90e3faa/?itid=lk_inline_manual_2}{Washington
Post-ABC News poll} this past week found that Americans trusted Mr.
Biden over Mr. Trump to handle the Covid-19 crisis by a double-digit
margin, 54 percent to 34 percent. With the election less than four
months away, and with no evidence that Mr. Biden was being hurt by
campaigning in a mask and supporting tough measures to contain the
virus, Mr. Trump had little choice but to at least try to change course.

``He's wearing a mask and canceling the convention,'' said Mark
McKinnon, who was in charge of advertising for President George W.
Bush's re-election campaign in 2004. ``That's a head-snapping reversal
for a guy who hates to be wrong, hates to back down and, worst of all,
hates to be perceived as weak.''

\hypertarget{latest-updates-2020-election}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/24/us/elections/2020-presidential-election.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&module=styln-elections-2020\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: 2020
Election}}{Latest Updates: 2020 Election}}\label{latest-updates-2020-election}}

Updated 2020-07-25T01:46:31.732Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/24/us/elections/2020-presidential-election.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&module=styln-elections-2020\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-52155c51}{Trump
  saw his convention as a potential success story. Reality intervened.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/24/us/elections/2020-presidential-election.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&module=styln-elections-2020\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-628390e8}{U.S.
  intelligence warns of foreign interference in the election. But
  Democrats say it's not enough.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/24/us/elections/2020-presidential-election.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&module=styln-elections-2020\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-a66d253}{Trump
  signed several executive orders aimed at lowering U.S. drug prices.}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/24/us/elections/2020-presidential-election.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&module=styln-elections-2020\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

The canceling of the Florida convention would appear, for now, to also
play to the Democrats' advantage. Mr. Biden and his aides no longer have
to worry that his scaled-down virtual acceptance speech would look small
and silly next to a full-blown speech by Mr. Trump, as Republicans had
once hoped.

And the Democrats cut back their convention methodically and with no
drama and little notice, calibrating to the worsening pandemic and to
the cautions of medical professionals against large gatherings. By
contrast, Mr. Trump and his party stumbled into this decision, a long
and messy process that included a last-minute switch of the convention
to Florida from North Carolina.

The chaos surrounding the convention planning mirrored the chaos that
surrounded decision-making on many issues in the White House, including
Covid-19. Mr. Trump announced the cancellation at the start of his
Thursday coronavirus briefing, with no real plan about what, if
anything, the Republicans would do in its stead.

``The Republicans now have a month to put together a remote convention
and the Democrats had a three-month head start,'' Ms. Fowler said. ''And
they have wasted a lot of money. It sort of reinforces the competence
problems that this administration has been dealing with.''

Mr. Trump, who has long been a master of imagery, had been hoping to
draw a contrast with Mr. Biden, downplaying the seriousness of the virus
as he pushed to open cities, hold big rallies and gather for conventions
like the one he wanted in Jacksonville. His stance recalled the long
history of Republicans portraying themselves as unbending, resilient and
self-sufficient --- the purported party of strength. (It also recalled
the swagger with which Mr. Trump approached his real estate dealings
when he was a developer in New York.)

``The Trump strategy was to campaign as the strong man,'' Mr. McKinnon
said. While Mr. Biden was hidden ``in a mask in a basement he would be
stepping maskless into adoring crowds at a packed convention.''

But over the past two weeks, mask requirements have been imposed at
Walmart, Target, CVS and McDonald's. Mitch McConnell, the Republican
leader of the Senate, started showing up in the Capitol wearing a mask.
These days, it is a maskless Mr. Trump who looks the outlier --- not Mr.
Biden showing up at a campaign event with a piece of black cloth draped
over his mouth

The end of the conventions this year is the latest evidence of how much
Covid-19 has thoroughly upended the 2020 race. But Mr. Trump's decision
to bow to pressure and pull out of Florida showed the crosscurrents he
is managing as he tries to win re-election in the midst of a pandemic.

Covid-19 is exploding there. And Florida --- under the leadership of
Gov. Ron DeSantis, a Republican and close ally of Mr. Trump --- has
become for many in the medical community a case study in how not to deal
with the virus. That no doubt would have been a dominant theme of the
coverage of the event should it have been held there. Mr. DeSantis, like
Mr. Trump, opposed mask requirements and stay-at-home orders.

Image

The upsurge of Covid-19 cases in Tulsa, Okla., after Mr. Trump's
insistence on a rally there served as a warning of what could happen for
a convention in Jacksonville.Credit...Doug Mills/The New York Times

The Democrats had already decided the risk of a crowded convention
outweighed whatever benefits came from packing thousands of people into
a stadium for a four-day celebration. The upsurge of Covid-19 cases in
Tulsa, Okla., after Mr. Trump's insistence on a crowded rally there
served as a warning of what could have been a politically damaging
aftermath for a convention in Jacksonville.

Republicans who had despaired at Mr. Trump's campaign found solace in
how he has changed this past week: holding White House briefings,
wearing a mask, abandoning the convention, listening to science. They
attributed it to the shake-up at his campaign, when he appointed
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/bill-stepien.html}{Bill
Stepien} as his campaign manager, ousting
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/15/us/politics/trump-campaign-brad-parscale.html}{Brad
Parscale}.

``This presidential race is going to tighten,'' said Scott Reed, who was
the campaign manager for Bob Dole, the Republican senator who ran for
president in 1996. ``Stepien has brought a much-needed dose of
discipline to the campaign and the results are clear --- sharper press
conferences, masks and booting the Florida national convention. The
economy is maintaining strength, and now all that is needed is a vaccine
to give the country hope and optimism about the future.''

But Mr. Trump has already lost a lot of ground on the issue that seems
likely to define the outcome of the race with Mr. Biden. The idea that
Mr. Trump at this late date will change course --- that he will
consistently promote the use of masks or listen to Dr. Anthony Fauci,
the government's top infectious disease expert --- assumes that Mr.
Trump will suddenly find the campaign discipline that has mostly eluded
him over the years.

\hypertarget{our-2020-election-guide}{%
\section{Our 2020 Election Guide}\label{our-2020-election-guide}}

Updated July 24, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{the-latest}{%
  \subsection{The Latest}\label{the-latest}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Kimberly
    Guilfoyle's\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/24/us/politics/kimberly-guilfoyles-trump-fundraising.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&module=styln-elections-2020\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/24/us/politics/kimberly-guilfoyles-trump-fundraising.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&module=styln-elections-2020\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{fund-raising
    for President Trump} draws scrutiny.
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{bidens-vp-search}{%
  \subsection{Biden's V.P. Search}\label{bidens-vp-search}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/biden-vice-president-2020.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&module=styln-elections-2020\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Here
    are 13 women} who have been under consideration to be Joe Biden's
    running mate, and why each might be chosen --- and might not be.
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{keep-up-with-our-coverage}{%
  \subsection{Keep Up With Our
  Coverage}\label{keep-up-with-our-coverage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Get an
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&module=styln-elections-2020\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{email}
    recapping the day's news
  \end{itemize}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Download our mobile app on
    \href{https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nytimes/id284862083?ls=1\&mat_click_id=5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\&referrer=mat_click_id\%3D5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\%26link_click_id\%3D722930677036718082}{iOS}
    and
    \href{http://a.localytics.com/android?id=com.nytimes.android\&referrer=utm_source\%3Dother_nyt_mobile_web\%26utm_medium\%3DWeb\%2520page\%26utm_term\%3DGeneral\%2520Mobile\%2520Page\%26utm_campaign\%3DNYT\%2520Mobile\%2520General\%2520Page}{Android}
    and turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
