Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}Elijah Cummings, Powerful
Democrat Who Investigated Trump, Dies at 68

\url{https://nyti.ms/33BWTUb}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{elijah-cummings-powerful-democrat-who-investigated-trump-dies-at-68}{%
\section{Elijah Cummings, Powerful Democrat Who Investigated Trump, Dies
at
68}\label{elijah-cummings-powerful-democrat-who-investigated-trump-dies-at-68}}

A son of sharecroppers, he fought tirelessly for his hometown,
Baltimore, and became a key figure in the impeachment investigation of
President Trump.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2019/10/19/obituaries/00Cummings1-sub/00Cummings1-sub-videoSixteenByNine3000.jpg}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/sheryl-gay-stolberg}{Sheryl Gay
Stolberg} and \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/david-stout}{David Stout}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Published Oct. 17, 2019Updated Oct. 25, 2019
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

WASHINGTON --- Representative Elijah E. Cummings, a son of sharecroppers
who rose to become one of the most powerful Democrats in Congress and a
central figure in the impeachment investigation of President Trump, died
on Thursday in Baltimore, his hometown. He was 68.

His death, at Johns Hopkins Hospital, was confirmed by his wife, Maya
Rockeymoore Cummings, the Maryland State Democratic chairwoman. A
spokeswoman, Trudy Perkins, said in a statement that Mr. Cummings died
of ``complications concerning longstanding health challenges.'' No other
details were given.

Mr. Cummings, who was serving his 13th term in the House, had been in
poor health. In recent years he had begun making his way around the
Capitol in a motorized scooter and using a walker to steady himself. In
2017, he was in the hospital for two months after complications of a
heart valve replacement, convinced,
he\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/05/08/us/politics/elijah-cummings-trump-impeachment.html?rref=collection\%2Fbyline\%2Fsheryl-gay-stolberg\&action=click\&contentCollection=undefined\&region=stream\&module=stream_unit\&version=search\&contentPlacement=2\&pgtype=collection}{told
The New York Times in May,}that he was ``living on borrowed time.''

With a booming voice and speaking cadence that hinted of the pulpit ---
his parents were preachers --- Mr. Cummings was a compelling figure on
Capitol Hill for more than two decades, repeatedly returned there by
voters in Maryland's Seventh Congressional District, which takes in much
of Baltimore, including a section of the city with more than its share
of social problems. He campaigned tirelessly for stricter gun control
laws and help for those addicted to drugs. He was at times gruff, but
always respected.

But it was as chairman of the House Committee on Oversight and Reform
--- the panel charged with maintaining integrity in government --- that
Mr. Cummings may have left his most lasting legacy. The position gave
him sweeping power to investigate Mr. Trump and his administration, and
he used it.

He sparred with Mr. Trump in the most public of ways.
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/02/26/us/politics/michael-cohen-trump-congress.html}{In
February}, he summoned the president's former lawyer, Michael D. Cohen,
to testify about hush money payments to women who claimed to have had an
affair with Mr. Trump; Mr. Cohen denounced Mr. Trump as a ``racist'' and
a ``con man.'' And he issued subpoenas for Mr. Trump's financial
records;
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/04/22/us/politics/trump-sues-congress.html}{Mr.
Trump responded by suing him}, prompting him to call the president's
effort to block congressional inquiries
``\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/05/08/us/politics/elijah-cummings-trump-impeachment.html}{far
worse than Watergate}.''

In an interview with The Times in May, Mr. Cummings was asked what
message he would like to send to the president.

``I want to send a message that we have one life to live, Mr.
President,'' he replied. ``This is no dress rehearsal. And that the
American people simply want to live their lives without fear of their
leaders. And we, as leaders, have a duty and a responsibility to keep
our promise to them when we ran for office and won --- and that is to
make their lives better. While we're all on this earth, that's my
message.''

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2019/10/18/obituaries/cummings-print3/merlin_154517244_5141cca9-1c91-401d-b596-f1fd6321347e-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Even as his health kept him away from Washington in recent months, Mr.
Cummings, a close ally of Speaker Nancy Pelosi, remained involved in the
impeachment inquiry into Mr. Trump. Those close to him said that he
joined strategy calls with Ms. Pelosi and other chairmen, and signed
subpoenas from his hospital bed.

``In the House, Elijah was our North Star,'' Ms. Pelosi said in a
statement. ``He was a leader of towering character and integrity, whose
stirring voice and steadfast values pushed the Congress and country to
rise always to a higher purpose.''

Mr. Trump, in turn, hurled insults at Mr. Cummings,
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/07/28/us/politics/trump-elijah-cummings-baltimore.html}{calling
him ``racist''} and ``a brutal bully'' who had done ``a very poor job''
representing his constituents in Baltimore, which the president declared
a ``disgusting, rat and rodent infested mess.''

But on Thursday Mr. Trump offered his condolences to Mr. Cummings's
family and praised the congressman on Twitter. ``My warmest condolences
to the family and many friends of Congressman Elijah Cummings,''
\href{https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/1184815052546809862}{he
wrote}. ``I got to see first hand the strength, passion and wisdom of
this highly respected political leader. His work and voice on so many
fronts will be very hard, if not impossible, to replace!''

In the Capitol, members of both parties praised Mr. Cummings for his
social conscience and dogged determination.

``I can't tell you how many friends would call me and be in fear because
they got a letter from Cummings,'' Representative Kevin McCarthy, the
Republican leader,
\href{https://www.c-span.org/video/?465290-5/house-leadership-tributes-representative-elijah-cummings}{said
on the House floor}. ``But he was a man of fairness.''

Mr. Cummings prided himself on his slow, methodical manner, but he could
also work himself into a fiery oration, when his brow would furrow
deeply and his voice would quiver with emotion.

When Hillary Clinton, then the former secretary of state, testified
before the committee investigating the 2012 terrorist attack on
Benghazi, Libya, Mr. Cummings, the panel's top Democrat, flew into a
fury as she withstood hours of withering questions from Republicans.

``I don't know what we want from you,''
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/10/17/us/politics/elijah-cummings-death-illness.html?action=click\&module=Top\%20Stories\&pgtype=Homepage}{Mr.
Cummings cried, accusing Republicans of using taxpayer dollars to try to
destroy Mrs. Clinton's presidential campaign.}``Do we want to badger you
over and over again until you do get so tired so we get the gotcha
moment?''

Image

Mr. Cummings in 2016 with Hillary Clinton after endorsing her for
president. He supported her even as she was being investigated in her
handling of the terrorist attacks in Libya.Credit...Yuri Gripas/Agence
France-Presse --- Getty Images

When Mr. Cohen testified before him in February, the most arresting
moment came not from the witness but from the congressman himself. ``We
have got to get back to normal!'' Mr. Cummings
\href{https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AAdmsSJXn68}{thundered from the
dais} in an impassioned eight-minute closing statement that quickly went
viral.

Elijah Eugene Cummings was born on Jan. 18, 1951, in Baltimore, one of
seven children of Robert and Ruth Cummings, and grew up in the city when
it was still deeply segregated. His parents were former sharecroppers
from South Carolina who had moved north to improve prospects for
themselves and their children.

Mr. Cummings often spoke of his mother, who, with ``only a fourth grade
education,'' went from doing domestic work to eventually founding her
own church, he said. Her humble past had a profound influence on him.

He graduated Phi Beta Kappa from Howard University in Washington, where
he was student government president, with a degree in political science.
He earned a law degree from the University of Maryland and was a
practicing lawyer while serving for 14 years in the Maryland House of
Delegates, where he was the first African-American in the state's
history to be named speaker pro tem.

Mr. Cummings had been eyeing a seat in the United States Senate, where
Democrats were in the minority, when he entered a crowded field in a
special election in 1996 to fill the House seat of Kweisi Mfume, who had
resigned to become president of the N.A.A.C.P. Mr. Cummings beat more
than two dozen other Democrats in a primary, which in heavily Democratic
Baltimore is tantamount to winning the general election. He never had a
serious challenge after that.

Image

Mr. Cummings with Representative Mark Meadows, a North Carolina
Republican, in June after the House Oversight and Reform Committee voted
to find Attorney General William Barr and Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross
in contempt.Credit...T.J. Kirkpatrick for The New York Times

In Washington, Mr. Cummings became active in the Congressional Black
Caucus and served as its chairman for a time. He mentored other members,
like Representative Lacy Clay, who said Mr. Cummings taught him ``life
lessons'' and tutored him on the ways of Congress when he was a
freshman.

Gun control was a political as well as a personal issue for Mr.
Cummings. In June 2011, his nephew Christopher Cummings
\href{https://www.baltimoresun.com/news/bs-xpm-2011-06-13-bs-md-cummings-homicide-20110612-story.html}{was
shot to death in Virginia}, where he was a college student.

In 2015, as Baltimore --- and his own West Baltimore neighborhood ---
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2015/04/28/us/baltimore-freddie-gray.html?rref=collection\%2Fbyline\%2Fsheryl-gay-stolberg\&action=click\&contentCollection=undefined\&region=stream\&module=stream_unit\&version=search\&contentPlacement=7\&pgtype=collection}{erupted
into riots after the funeral of Freddie Gray,} a young black man who had
died in police custody, Mr. Cummings took to the streets, bullhorn in
hand, to plead for calm. Hours earlier, ever the preachers' son, he had
delivered Mr. Gray's eulogy.

``Did you see him?!''
\href{https://www.baltimoresun.com/82dc6d8d-529f-43e3-84c9-c28ed335a89e-132.html}{Mr.
Cummings roared,} his voice rising in anger as he implored the
congregation to confront the invisibility of young black men. ``Did you
see him? Did you see him?'' The congregation roared back with applause.

Mr. Cummings rose through the ranks of the Oversight Committee to become
its top Democrat. In 2019, after Democrats took control of the House, he
ascended to the chairmanship, a role that gave him wide latitude.

He used his authority broadly, investigating everything from whether
\href{https://www.baltimoresun.com/news/maryland/politics/bs-md-census-cummings-citizenship-question-20190314-story.html}{Wilbur
Ross, the commerce secretary, had been truthful} in explaining why he
had added a citizenship question to the 2020 census, to policy matters,
like military suicides and the high cost of prescription drugs. (Ms.
Pelosi
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/10/17/us/politics/donald-trump-impeachment-news.html}{has
appointed}Representative Carolyn Maloney of New York to be the
committee's acting chairwoman.)

The relationship between Mr. Trump and Mr. Cummings got off to a rocky
start. In an April 2017 interview with The New York Times, Mr. Trump
recounted their first meeting, saying, ``Elijah Cummings was in my
office, and he said, `You will go down as one of the great presidents in
the history of our country.'''

Mr. Cummings promptly issued a statement saying he had been misquoted.

``During my meeting with the president and on several occasions since
then,'' the statement said, ``I have said repeatedly that he could be a
great president if --- if --- he takes steps to truly represent all
Americans rather than continuing on the divisive and harmful path he is
currently on.''

Mr. Cummings became ill that year, prompting his wife to abandon a bid
for governor.

``He worked until his last breath,'' she said in a statement on
Thursday, ``because he believed our democracy was the highest and best
expression of our collective humanity and that our nation's diversity
was our promise, not our problem.''

In addition to his wife, Mr. Cummings's survivors include two daughters,
Jennifer and Adia Cummings, and six siblings: Robert Cummings Jr.,
Cheretheria Blount, James Cummings, Diane Woodson, Carnel Cummings and
Yvonne Cummings Jennings.

Mr. Cummings was spiritual in his approach to his illness, and his life.
In the May interview, he told the story of how one day, when he was in
such dire pain that he thought he might faint, a hospital worker turned
up at his bedside, saying the Lord had sent her to deliver a message:
``I'm just trying to get your attention. I'm not done with you.''

In his final months in the Capitol, Mr. Cummings often sat in his
wheelchair by the fireplace in the Speaker's Lobby, the ornate chamber
off the House floor, where he would read quietly or field questions from
reporters. On Thursday, there was a fire going there. But Mr. Cummings's
spot was empty.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
