<div id="suggestions" class="suggestions messenger nocontent robots-nocontent" style="display:none;">

<div class="message-bed">

<div class="message-container last-message-container">

<div class="message">

<span class="message-content"> **<span class="message-title">NYTimes.com
no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your
browser.</span> [LEARN MORE
»](http://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/content/help/site/ie9-support.html)
</span>

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div id="shell" class="shell">

<div class="container">

<div class="quick-navigation button-group">

**<span class="button-text">Sections</span>

**<span class="button-text">Home</span>

**<span class="button-text">Search</span>

</div>

<div class="branding">

## [<span class="visually-hidden">The New York Times</span>](http://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/)

### <span class="label-text"> [Magazine](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/magazine) </span>

</div>

<div class="story-meta">

###### <span class="kicker-label"> [Magazine](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/magazine) </span> <span class="pipe">|</span>Barry Jenkins’s Films of Love, Pain and Black Male Vulnerability

</div>

<div class="user-tools">

<div id="sharetools-masthead" class="sharetools theme-classic sharetools-masthead" data-aria-label="tools" data-role="group" data-shares="facebook,twitter,email,show-all,save" data-url="https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2018/10/04/magazine/barry-jenkins-james-baldwin-if-beale-street-could-talk.html" data-title="Barry Jenkins’s Films of Love, Pain and Black Male Vulnerability" data-author="By Angela Flournoy" data-media="https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/icons/t_logo_291_black.png" data-description="The “Moonlight” director brings his intuitive approach to an adaptation of James Baldwin’s “If Beale Street Could Talk.”" data-publish-date="October 4, 2018">

<div class="ad sharetools-inline-article-ad hidden nocontent robots-nocontent">

</div>

</div>

<div class="user-tools-button-group button-group">

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="search-flyout-panel flyout-panel">

**<span class="visually-hidden">Close search</span>

## Site Search Navigation

<div class="control">

<div class="label-container visually-hidden">

Search NYTimes.com

</div>

<div class="field-container">

**<span id="clear-search-input" class="visually-hidden">Clear this text
input</span>

<div class="auto-suggest" style="display: none;">

</div>

Go

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div id="notification-modals" class="notification-modals">

</div>

<span class="story-short-url"><https://nyti.ms/2PdRPid></span>

## Site Navigation

## Site Mobile Navigation

<div id="page" class="page">

<div id="main" class="main" data-role="main">

<div class="story-meta">

# Barry Jenkins’s Films of Love, Pain and Black Male Vulnerability

<div class="story-meta-footer interactive-meta-footer">

<div class="interactive-byline">

<span class="byline" itemprop="author creator" itemscope="" itemtype="http://schema.org/Person">
By
<span class="byline-author" data-byline-name="ANGELA FLOURNOY" itemprop="name">ANGELA
FLOURNOY</span> </span> OCT. 4, 2018

</div>

<span class="summary-text">The “Moonlight” director brings his intuitive
approach to an adaptation of James Baldwin’s “If Beale Street Could
Talk.”</span>

</div>

</div>

<div id="barry-jenkins-james-baldwin-if-beale-street-could-talk" class="interactive-graphic">

<div class="rad-article" data-slug="07mag-jenkins">

<div class="rad-cover full-bleed" style="background-color:#FFFFFF">

![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)

<div class="rad-header-wrapper">

<div class="rad-head-wrap">

# Heart Doctor

</div>

<div class="rad-sum-by">

The “Moonlight” director brings his intuitive approach to an adaptation
of James Baldwin’s “If Beale Street Could Talk.”

<span class="rad-byline">By ANGELA FLOURNOY</span> OCT. 4, 2018

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="rad-story-body">

<span class="dropcap">O</span>utside, the back house looked like a
charming Silver Lake vacation rental: bright purple bougainvillea,
picnic table in front. Inside, its rustic-tiled bathroom read misplaced
Mediterranean. The refrigerator bore cans of LaCroix and not much else.
The place felt tenuously inhabited, fratty, as if a pledge named Connor
might emerge from a back room to offer everyone cheap beer. And in the
bedroom nearest the kitchen, with its lurid red curtain and indigo wall,
Barry Jenkins, one of the most thoughtful filmmakers of his generation,
stood peering at a panel of computer monitors. He had driven to this
editing suite — north on the 101 freeway from his downtown Los Angeles
apartment — so he could see about adding 16 seconds to his newest film.

“I want the music to hit exactly where it hit before, you know?” He
waited for a response. “You know what I mean, Joi?”

Joi McMillon laughed, and kept her back to Jenkins as she clicked
through the file. She is the first African-American woman to have been
nominated for the Academy Award for film editing, for her work on
Jenkins’s “Moonlight.” They have known each other since their college
days, in the film program at Florida State University. “Yessir,” she
said. “It definitely will hit where it was before.”

The room was too warm, and just as I thought this, the ceiling vent
belched out even warmer air. Male voices down the hall discussed
character motivation in some other project. McMillon made the change to
the music and played the pass for Jenkins again. The penultimate scene
of his film.

“It’s almost like ... ,” Jenkins began. “Not like jazz, because it’s
clichéd to say. But yeah, sometimes one movement needs to de-escalate
before the next movement can escalate. This is the place where I feel
it. It just sucks, because making this choice at this moment means that
when we screen in Toronto we won’t have this adjustment in it.” It was
the first Wednesday in September, and the Toronto International Film
Festival was only four days away. The film, “If Beale Street Could
Talk,” would have its premiere there without these 16 seconds, though
it’s hard to say if anyone not named Barry Jenkins would have noticed.

This was my second meeting with Jenkins, and — more than during the
first — his demeanor seemed bifurcated, one foot still in the shaping of
the work, the other stepping into the role of a presenter, devising
talking points that would carry him from Toronto through the film’s
limited release on Nov. 30, perhaps into the awards season beyond. “I
learned the hard way on ‘Moonlight’ that it’s best to be at the
forefront of the conversation,” he told me that morning. “It’s almost
like tennis, you know? You want to be leading, and not playing off the
back foot.” Still, he was eager to show me outtakes, moments that might
have been. He spoke of the film as if it possessed an immune system, one
with a long list of irritants it couldn’t abide. “The film rejected it,”
he said wistfully of one deleted scene.

A work of cinema, like a novel, is a collage. The finished product is a
result of hundreds of moments of cut and paste: this take moved and
placed next to another one, this voice recorded to change the feel of a
scene shot with no voice-over in mind. A shift to the arrangement or
size of one small piece can make the whole collage feel unstable,
particularly to the collagist. Each time McMillon played the pass again,
the score, composed by Nicholas Britell, swelled up and embraced us
before shrinking away on command. The scene — on its own, compellingly
composed — slid closer to rapturous with the addition of music. A
novelist would kill for such a tool.

“What do you notice about that sequence?” Jenkins asked me. I’d watched
it several times at this point, but I wasn’t sure what in particular I
was supposed to notice. “O.K.,” he said. “Well, I’ll call it. That’s me
imitating Baldwin. The voice-over, that’s the one bit of voice-over not
taken from the
book.”

<div id="interactive-07mag-jenkins-pullquote2" class="rad-interactive large" data-id="100000006138918" data-slug="07mag-jenkins-pullquote2">

<div class="rad-interactive-wrapper">

## 

<div id="FT100000006138918">

</div>

</div>

</div>

<span class="dropcap">B</span>efore the start of production on “If Beale
Street Could Talk,” Jenkins received an unexpected package from Gloria
Karefa-Smart, James Baldwin’s sister and the executor of his estate. It
contained a brown leatherbound notebook dated 1978. In it were Baldwin’s
ideas about how to approach a film adaptation of the novel, some of
which suggest that Jenkins made choices the writer would have endorsed —
using the words of the novel’s young narrator as voice-over, excluding a
certain church scene. “This is the cast he wanted,” Jenkins pointed out,
showing me the book in his apartment. There’s Ruby Dee, a mysteriously
initialed “D.B.,” the singer and actress Rosalind Cash. Baldwin’s list
of dream directors include the photographer and filmmaker Gordon Parks,
the French New Wave director François Truffaut and Lloyd Richards, who
staged the original production of Lorraine Hansberry’s “A Raisin in the
Sun.” “And then I ended up directing the damn thing,” Jenkins said.
Baldwin’s handwriting covers the first two pages of the notebook, but
the rest is blank, as if the writer started jotting down ideas before
being called away to other work.

Jenkins’s apartment, with its wall-length windows, film-related art and
preponderance of books, seems an apt place to house this small part of
Baldwin’s literary footprint. In his living room I spotted Marilynne
Robinson’s “Gilead” (“I’ve read it at least six times”), Vladimir
Nabokov’s “Pale Fire” and, of course, plenty of books by Baldwin
himself. On the cement floor — under a bookshelf, behind a vintage cream
couch — I spotted Jenkins’s Oscar for best adapted screenplay. Jenkins
saw me looking and said he was working on a better spot for it. But he
did have the envelope revealing the best-picture win for “Moonlight”
framed and hung on the wall, alongside a congratulatory note from Warren
Beatty — one of the presenters who mistakenly announced that “La La
Land” had won — telling him the honor was “much deserved.” After the
ensuing hubbub subsided, Jenkins went to Mérida, Mexico, for a few days
to clear his mind. “My favorite thing to do is to sit in the window, the
front window of a cafe looking out at the sidewalk,” he said, “which is
the worst thing to do, or at least in the immediate aftermath of what
happened.”

In addition to this new film’s being the much-anticipated follow-up to
“Moonlight,” it is also the first big-screen English-language film
adaptation of a novel by Baldwin, a writer whose works are closely
guarded by his estate. Much of the country, owing to our current
political reality and Raoul Peck’s 2016 documentary, “I Am Not Your
Negro,” has recently become better acquainted with a truth black readers
grasped long ago: James Baldwin was right about everything. Jenkins
began his adaptation of Baldwin’s fifth novel back in 2013, writing a
faithful screen version of the 1974 book, in which a pregnant
19-year-old woman named Tish works, alongside her family, to prove the
innocence of her child’s jailed father, a young sculptor. This being
Baldwin, of course, there’s more to it: a meditation on the radical
implications of declaring yourself an artist while black, on what it
means to be poor in New York, on the power and limitations of romantic
and filial love.

According to Jenkins, this would be the first of his feature films to
directly grapple with political themes, but I begged to differ, bringing
up the role that gentrification played in his first feature, the 2008
morning-after romance “Medicine for Melancholy” — it’s set in San
Francisco, and the two leads even stumble onto a round-table discussion
of rising housing prices. In “Moonlight” the ravages of the war on drugs
and the brutality of poverty are not at all apolitical. True, Jenkins
said, but with that film, “the whole movie is created to almost force
the audience to confront what this character is feeling. And so it’s
really easy to sit outside the film and just want to hug the film, to
hug the main character. But this is Baldwin. In Baldwin, everyone’s
implicated, including himself. So I think there’s not a passive path
through this film.” It didn’t appear to bother Jenkins that this might
make it harder for some “Moonlight” devotees to stay along for the ride
to “Beale Street.” There were still plenty of reasons to want to hug
this film too.

Barry Jenkins is 38, under six feet tall and solidly built, with a
curated nerdiness: translucent glasses, brightly printed oxford shirts,
slip-on sneakers, a canvas tote bag. He is willfully kind, and has a
plethora of ways to put others at ease. He might call you “bruh” or
“boss” or “my dear” or “boss lady,” though when adamant he’s apt to
call anyone, regardless of gender, “man.” When he listens to you speak,
he lets you know he’s there via a steady cadence of mm-hmms, about 10
per minute, sometimes more. He has the sort of smile that if glimpsed
across the room at a cocktail party might compel you to walk over and
stand near him. “I will not annoy, rebuff or humiliate you,” this smile
says.

“One of the things he says to me a lot is, you know, ‘flies with
honey,’ ” his producer, Adele Romanski, another former film-school
classmate, told me. “I think that’s a life philosophy that he extends to
the work.” This is a useful stance if you are interested in getting
actors to open up, to bare themselves. The stereotype of the American
director-auteur may be of the demanding genius who bullies his actors
into transcendent performances, but Jenkins prefers a nurturing
approach: “I try to find a language that the actor can participate in,”
he says. “There has to be a language for every single person on set.”
These efforts translate onto the screen. But what exactly is it that’s
being translated?

It begins with vulnerability. I’ve spent my life loving black men, and I
understand black masculinity to be malleable, its fabled rigidity
overblown. After work, in the dark, I’ve heard whispered secrets, the
wanderings of restless minds. And yet all of my moviegoing life I’d
never seen this quotidian vulnerability so accurately rendered in film —
not without a wink, a glance away, some posturing that distances — until
I saw Jenkins’s “Moonlight.” An adult son tries to keep emotional
distance from his mother, a recovering crack-cocaine addict, and cannot;
tears stream down his face instead. A drug dealer confirms his
profession to a boy (the same son, but younger), thereby admitting to
playing a part in what holds the mother captive; the boy leaves, and the
drug dealer (a father figure, not a monster) stares straight ahead,
defeated. In “Beale Street,” we watch the main character, Fonny, listen
to his friend Daniel describe the psychological horror of prison. Daniel
begins the conversation nonchalant, swigging a beer, and ends it with
his shoulders stooped forward, the light drained from his eyes. His
honesty and helpless frustration is so familiar from my actual life that
it is nearly too much to bear — a perfect moment of cinema.

I asked Jenkins about his ability to capture a rarely depicted kind of
black male vulnerability as he drove us down Vermont Avenue in his white
Toyota Prius. He said nothing for a while, a first in our hours of
conversation. A chopped-and-screwed version of Solange’s “A Seat at the
Table” drifted from the speakers. “I will say that’s not a goal, but I
would hope that’s true,” he said finally. “I think I know what you’re
talking about, especially these last two films.”

Jenkins is open, specific and effusive when talking about craft,
narrative, culture, sports or politics. Less so when discussing himself.
He tends to speak in long bursts, turning an idea around out loud before
hitting on the declarative statement he likes. He started talking about
his work adapting “In Moonlight Black Boys Look Blue,” the
autobiographical script by Tarell Alvin McCraney that became his
breakthrough feature. The story had uncanny overlaps with Jenkins’s own
biography: an addicted mother, an upbringing in the same Miami ghetto,
subjects Jenkins would not have been comfortable exploring without
McCraney’s words as an intermediary. “I can take Tarell’s experience,”
Jenkins said, “which is much more open than mine, and I can sew
cinematic storytelling into it.” McCraney, whose gay coming-of-age story
informs the plot of “Moonlight,” describes Jenkins, who has a
girlfriend, as approaching emotionality with something akin to a queer
imagination: “I think he has moments where his imagination is not
normative. Just look at his work and see. Where there should be broad
strokes there are polka
dots.”

![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)

“Barry loves love,” Romanski says. “If you look at his work, there are
three different types of love stories from ‘Medicine’ to ‘Moonlight’ to
‘Beale,’ but they’re all love stories.” Love, yes, but also pain. Nat
Sanders, who edited both “Moonlight” and “Beale Street” with McMillon,
says there’s “a duality” to Jenkins: “Any time he wants to, he’s so
charismatic and exuberant. When I do a pass of a scene that really
excites him, you get the best reaction you could ever hope to get. He’ll
do airplanes around the room and jump up and down, yell ‘Bruh\! Bruh\!’
and it’s the best. But also, he’s very private and very quiet.” In
“Chlorophyl,” a short film Jenkins directed in 2011, working without a
formal script, the main character, played by Ana Laura Treviño, reads a
James Baldwin quote, translating into Spanish: “Love does not begin and
end the way we seem to think it does. Love is a battle, love is a war;
love is a growing up.” In a moment of improvisation, Jenkins had handed
her his leather cellphone case, on which he’d paid to have these words
embossed.

Although he values romance in film, Jenkins is hesitant to say he places
as much importance on romantic love in his own life. “I’ve allowed
myself to experience growth in love once in my life, but it was so long
ago,” he says. “I don’t know if I’ve become accustomed to being alone,
or if because of the way I grew up I became conditioned to being alone.
But I guess my identity has been formed around being alone.”

We were back downtown now, in the Arts District, pulling up to a
bookstore on the hunt for a novel I’d recommended to him. It turned out
that this one, the second of three we’d try, did not sell fiction.
Jenkins did a lap anyway, searching for a book of photography by Roy
DeCarava, whose iconic images of midcentury Harlem served as a visual
reference for “Beale Street” and appear at the beginning and end of the
film. On our way back to the car, we passed a boutique where Jenkins
stopped to inquire after the owner: Had she had her baby yet? She had.
Jenkins conveyed his congratulations. For a man who considers being
alone a comfortable mode of existence, he makes reaching out to others
look easy.

<span class="dropcap">J</span>enkins was born on Nov. 19, 1979, and
raised in the Liberty City neighborhood of Miami. When he was 6 months
old, riots in response to the acquittal of police officers involved in
the death of a black man named Arthur McDuffie worsened blight in his
segregated neighborhood. “I’m the baby, by a mile,” he says. “I have one
sister, one brother.” His mother gave birth to his older siblings at 15
and 16 years old. Nine years later, she gave birth to him. “I don’t
think any of us were planned, but I was definitely a mistake,” he says.
“I have no idea who my father is.”

He grew up in Knight Manor (also known as the Village), a housing
project built close to the larger Liberty Square projects. His mother
was addicted to crack, a fact that Jenkins is both open about and firm
in not expounding upon. When “Moonlight” had its premiere, he told me,
“We rented a theater just for her to go see the film, and on the day
of, she decided she could not see it. Probably my fault. I should have
flown back.” Something previously open about Jenkins’s posture — the set
of his shoulders, the steadiness of his gaze — closed off as he told me
this. Later, he says, his mother happened upon a bootleg copy of the
film at a corner store; she bought it and watched at home. “What I see
in that,” Jenkins says, “is she just wanted to watch it by herself in an
environment she could control. She actually complimented Naomie’s
performance” — Naomie Harris, who plays the main character’s troubled
mother. “Say of that what you will.”

Knight Manor was torn down, and a new campus for Miami Northwestern high
school built on top of it. Jenkins would attend classes there, preparing
for the future atop his own demolished childhood home — though he
doesn’t recall giving this symbolism much thought. Of his home life
during these years he reveals little, though he alludes to it often. “I
grew up in a certain kind of way,” he told me. “It’s a crutch. I started
therapy, I stopped. I should start it again. It’s a crutch.” His
reluctance to explain further may also reflect his general disinterest
in creating a public persona, and in the self-mythologizing that goes
with it. “It was what was so difficult about everything that happened
with ‘Moonlight,’ ” he says. “I’m not smart enough to say as much as I
have to say about the film without revealing things about myself. But
that’s the last thing I ever want to do.”

In high school Jenkins played football, got good grades, made it to
senior year. He had been admitted to the University of Florida, but
after a trip to visit F.S.U. in Tallahassee, “I thought: This is the
blackest place in America. I gotta be here.” In Tallahassee, he lived
with high school friends and intended to pursue a creative-writing
degree — he used to be obsessed with the Iowa Writers’ Workshop — until
one day he walked by a sign for the film school and had a change of
heart. He began pursuing a dual degree. “I remember my first short
film,” he says. “I put my roommate in it, and it was a strange film.
We shot it on a Bolex” — a spring-wound camera associated with
avant-garde film — “so it wasn’t like a narrative. It was more
experimental.” His roommates, he says, “just looked at me like they
thought I had lost my mind.” In the film department, though, Jenkins
began making connections with the collaborators he’d work with over the
next two decades: McMillon and Sanders; James Laxton, the
cinematographer for all his feature-length films; and Romanski and Mark
Ceryak, two of his partners at the production company Pastel.

After watching other students’ work, Jenkins didn’t think he had the
technical ability to compete. “Digital filmmaking wasn’t anywhere near
what it is now,” he says; working on film, “you couldn’t see what you
were doing. There’s no playback on set. You can’t shoot it and then
immediately pull it up on the memory card.” The filmmaker needed solid
knowledge from the start. Jenkins took a year away from the film program
to study the craft on his own, finishing his creative-writing credits in
the meantime. He moved in with Laxton. The popular directors to emulate
in their program were those who made big-budget, Spielbergian features.
Jenkins watched foreign art-house cinema in hopes of finding an
alternative aesthetic approach. “I remember we’d have running DVDs
playing in the background,” Laxton told me. “And as people would come in
and out the house, we’d kind of sit down and talk about it.” Before that
year, Jenkins would have named “Die Hard” as his favorite film. After,
it was the Hong Kong filmmaker Wong Kar-wai’s stylized, lovesick
“Chungking Express.”

When Jenkins returned to the program he wrote and directed the short
film “My Josephine,” a mostly subtitled account of an Arab immigrant
couple who own a laundromat and wash American flags for free after the
Sept. 11 attacks. Over wine at a bar near his apartment, Jenkins
recalled making it: “That’s me as a dude who grew up in the hood\!” he
said, his face alight once again. “That’s not me now, 20 years removed
from the hood. That’s me, you know what I mean? And it’s taking my
experience of being somebody from the hood who now is a fish out of
water in this academic setting, in this film consortium, taking that
feeling and putting it into these things. It was
empowering.”

<div id="interactive-07mag-jenkins-pullquote1" class="rad-interactive large" data-id="100000006138905" data-slug="07mag-jenkins-pullquote1">

<div class="rad-interactive-wrapper">

## 

<div id="FT100000006138905">

</div>

</div>

</div>

After graduation, the director Darnell Martin gave Jenkins his first
film job, as her assistant on the set of the TV movie “Their Eyes Were
Watching God.” His work on “My Josephine,” she told me, had “so much
poetry in it. Visually it was really stunning.” Here was an avenue
through which Jenkins could grapple with feelings he otherwise preferred
to leave unexamined. “I think when I found film,” he said, “I found a
way — I still hide a bit — but a way to not hide as much. I felt like I
could put these things into the work because it’s the movie. It’s not
me.”

On a very hot August day, Jenkins sat in a color-grading studio in
Greenwich Village with Laxton and the colorist Alex Bickel. The big
screen at the other end of the room showed a scene at Showmans Jazz Club
in Harlem. The characters Joseph and Frank, played by the veteran actors
Colman Domingo and Michael Beach, sat at the far end of the bar. The
room was realistically smoke-filled for the early ’70s, but too smoky
for the purposes of the film. Jenkins and Laxton took turns guiding
Bickel on how to fix the problem. They moved on to a close-up of Beach’s
face, its topography made more intense by his look of dejection. Jenkins
made a noise of approval. “It was like Take 3 of the zoom,” he said,
“and he just locked in.”

Jenkins enjoys moments when his actors make direct eye contact with the
camera. He and Laxton are in agreement on the power of this sustained
looking, how holding the camera on an actor can bring out a host of
emotions in the viewer. “If you’re in a dark theater with 300 people
sitting next to you,” Laxton said, “and you have someone looking at you
from a big screen, I think it does something to you as an audience
member.” Alfred Hitchcock employed these sorts of shots, as did Jonathan
Demme (who can forget Hannibal Lecter’s stare?), but unlike those
filmmakers, Jenkins and Laxton rarely shoot theirs during moments of
great emotional agitation. Instead they catch their characters at ease,
quiet. “Barry captures silence in a way that we don’t see much, and we
especially don’t see that much in the African-American film experience,”
Mahershala Ali, who won a best-supporting-actor Oscar for playing the
drug-dealer-cum-father-figure in “Moonlight,” told me. “You usually
don’t see black people holding peace and occupying silence, having to
fill those voids in that way.”

Jenkins shoots these moments intuitively, waiting until he feels
something. “I’m not directing them,” he says. “They are just giving me
this thing. And sometimes you can look at an actor and see, Oh, there’s
the soul.” And if they’re comfortable enough, he says, they can look
directly into the camera without losing that soul. “Instead they’re
going to give it to the audience.” KiKi Layne, whose starring role as
Tish in “Beale Street” marks her first foray into film from theater,
described it as looking into a black hole: “I think at one point I told
him that ‘Man, this feels so strange’ and he was like, ‘I know, but I
need it, I need it.’ ” The actors don’t know where these shots will wind
up in the film, and neither, necessarily, does Jenkins, at the time.
Later, though, the emotions viewers read on the actors’ faces — a
close-up of Fonny near the end of the film goes from anxious and unsure
to settled — feel made for the precise moment when they appear on
screen.

These looks don’t quite break the fourth wall, because the actors are
not regarding the audience. In “Beale Street,” they’re most often gazing
at someone they love. For nonblack audience members, it might be the
first time they’ve had a black person direct such a gaze their way;
Jenkins offers a glimpse at a world previously hidden to them. For a
black viewer, there’s more likely a kind of recognition: I know that
face, although I have never seen this actor before. Or, if the actor is
one you’re familiar with, it can go the opposite direction, letting you
see the person anew. Regina King, who plays Tish’s mother in the film,
has played a mother or wife as many times as I have fingers, over
decades. But who was this woman on the screen, staring at her reflection
in a mirror, summoning her courage, while also staring at me?
Typecasting actors isn’t simply about having them play a role they have
played before; it’s about locking them into the same aesthetic
representation of that role. “He knows that it’s not just his film,”
King told me. “He can’t do this without the talent of other people, and
he allows those talents to shine.”

During the festival season leading up to the theatrical release of
“Moonlight,” Jenkins directed an episode of the first season of the
Netflix series “Dear White People,” revolving around an actor named
Marque Richardson; his character has a gun pulled on him by campus
police officers, and by the episode’s end he breaks down, crying. I have
personally known Marque Richardson for 15 years and have watched him act
in all sorts of roles. This episode was the first time he ever felt a
stranger to me on screen.

<span class="dropcap">J</span>enkins prefers to remain on a last-name
basis with older women he respects — “Ms. Winfrey,” “Ms. Morrison” — but
when it comes to the woman whose work in film he admires most, the
72-year-old French director Claire Denis, he calls her “Claire,” with
possessiveness. He gushes about her on social media (“I JUST MET CLAIRE
DENIS AND MAYBE GOT A LIL TEARY EYED”) and describes himself as a
“Claire Denis stan” in his Twitter bio. “Having watched so much of her
work, and read so many of her interviews, and ingested the principles of
how she approaches art,” he says, “I think it does affect the way I make
the things I make. But they’re not like the things she makes.” A framed
poster for “Beau Travail,” Denis’s 1999 drama of male camaraderie,
desire and rivalry within a French Foreign Legion outpost in Djibouti,
hangs in his living room. “She’s unconcerned with the audience, I would
say. It doesn’t occur to her, and because of that I think her movies are
pure artistic curiosity, artistic impulse, artistic reckoning and
reasoning.”

This level of artistic freedom is hard to come by in the world of
Hollywood-financed film, he thinks, but the possibility of leading such
a life — not feeling obligated to have one foot planted in the role of
presenter — captivates him. He could also see himself teaching film to
others in 15 years. In the short term, though, he is working on a
forthcoming limited-series adaptation of Colson Whitehead’s “The
Underground Railroad” for Amazon, and a screenplay based on the life of
the gold-medal-winning boxer Claressa Shields. “I wish I had taken a
break after the Oscars and all that stuff, but I just went right into
this movie, and right into the writers’ room for ‘The Underground
Railroad.’ I didn’t really process all that stuff. And now this movie is
finally ending, and I think it’s time for a moment to process.”

It was our last few minutes together, and I wanted to know — having
heard him speak of a more unfettered artistic life, and witnessing him
bring happiness to others with such ease — what exactly made him happy.
“I’m never happy, man — I mean, that’s just the case,” he said. He
used to think he didn’t deserve to be. Then: “I think making other
people happy makes me happy.” He recalled helping Alex Hibbert, who
plays the child version of the main character in “Moonlight,” find his
footing as an actor. “When other people do things on my sets that either
they didn’t believe they could do, or understand they could do, or that
surprises them?” That, he said, was amazing. It was a matter of helping
them tap into the ineffable. “What I say to the actors, if they ask, is
that it’s not about a certain meaning; it’s definitely about a certain
feeling. How can we work together to create this feeling, even if the
feeling is not knowable?

“I really want that simple life, you know?” Jenkins said. “I think
that’s why I fell in love with this book.” He quoted the moment in
Baldwin’s novel when Fonny, the young sculptor jailed for a crime he
swears he didn’t commit, says he only needs art and the love of his
woman to survive: “ ‘I got two things in my life, man — I got my wood
and stone, and I got Tish.’ ” Despite the increasing complexity that
comes with a successful Hollywood career, Jenkins desires the same. “I
have my wood and stone now,” he said.

</div>

<div class="rad-article-credits">

Angela Flournoy is the author of the novel “The Turner House” and a 2018
National Endowment for the Arts fellow. She last wrote for the magazine
about [Big Shaq’s song “Mans Not
Hot.”](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2018/03/08/magazine/25-songs-future-of-music.html#/big-shaq)

</div>

</div>

<div class="rad-series-nav" data-slug="07mag-jenkins">

## The Culture Issue

<div class="rad-series-link-wrapper">

  - [](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2018/10/03/magazine/lady-gaga-movie-star-is-born.html)
    <div class="promo-image">
    ![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)
    </div>
    <div class="promo-info">
    ### Lady Gaga Isn’t Done Shape-Shifting Yet
    Oct. 3,
    2018
    </div>
  - [](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2018/10/03/magazine/morality-social-justice-art-entertainment.html)
    <div class="promo-image">
    ![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)
    </div>
    <div class="promo-info">
    ### Should Art Be a Battleground for Social Justice?
    Oct. 3,
    2018
    </div>
  - [](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2018/10/04/magazine/good-place-michael-schur-philosophy.html)
    <div class="promo-image">
    ![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)
    </div>
    <div class="promo-info">
    ### What Makes ‘The Good Place’ So Good?
    Oct. 4,
    2018
    </div>
  - [](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2018/10/04/magazine/barry-jenkins-james-baldwin-if-beale-street-could-talk.html)
    <div class="promo-image">
    ![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)
    </div>
    <div class="promo-info">
    ### Barry Jenkins’s Films of Love, Pain and Black Male Vulnerability
    Oct. 4,
    2018
    </div>
  - [](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2018/10/05/magazine/instagram-cindy-sherman-ugly-beauty.html)
    <div class="promo-image">
    ![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)
    </div>
    <div class="promo-info">
    ### The Ugly Beauty of Cindy Sherman’s Instagram Selfies
    Oct. 5,
    2018
    </div>
  - [](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2018/10/05/magazine/culture-moments-2018.html)
    <div class="promo-image">
    ![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)
    </div>
    <div class="promo-info">
    ### Seven Boundary-Pushing Cultural Moments of 2018
    Oct. 5,
    2018
    </div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="rad-series-box">

## Related Coverage

<div class="rad-series-link-wrapper">

  - [](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2018/10/03/magazine/lady-gaga-movie-star-is-born.html)
    <div class="promo-image">
    ![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)
    </div>
    <div class="promo-info">
    ### Lady Gaga Isn’t Done Shape-Shifting Yet
    Oct. 3,
    2018
    </div>
  - [](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2018/10/03/magazine/morality-social-justice-art-entertainment.html)
    <div class="promo-image">
    ![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)
    </div>
    <div class="promo-info">
    ### Should Art Be a Battleground for Social Justice?
    Oct. 3,
    2018
    </div>
  - [](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2018/10/04/magazine/good-place-michael-schur-philosophy.html)
    <div class="promo-image">
    ![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)
    </div>
    <div class="promo-info">
    ### What Makes ‘The Good Place’ So Good?
    Oct. 4,
    2018
    </div>
  - [](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2018/10/04/magazine/barry-jenkins-james-baldwin-if-beale-street-could-talk.html)
    <div class="promo-image">
    ![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)
    </div>
    <div class="promo-info">
    ### Barry Jenkins’s Films of Love, Pain and Black Male Vulnerability
    Oct. 4,
    2018
    </div>
  - [](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2018/10/05/magazine/instagram-cindy-sherman-ugly-beauty.html)
    <div class="promo-image">
    ![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)
    </div>
    <div class="promo-info">
    ### The Ugly Beauty of Cindy Sherman’s Instagram Selfies
    Oct. 5,
    2018
    </div>
  - [](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2018/10/05/magazine/culture-moments-2018.html)
    <div class="promo-image">
    ![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)
    </div>
    <div class="promo-info">
    ### Seven Boundary-Pushing Cultural Moments of 2018
    Oct. 5,
2018
    </div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div id="related-coverage" class="section related-coverage nocontent robots-nocontent">

<div class="nocontent robots-nocontent">

## More on NYTimes.com

</div>

</div>

<div id="BottomAd" class="ad bottom-ad nocontent robots-nocontent">

<div class="accessibility-ad-header">

Advertisement

</div>

</div>

</div>

## Site Information Navigation

  - [©
    <span itemprop="copyrightYear">2020</span><span itemprop="copyrightHolder provider sourceOrganization" itemscope="" itemtype="http://schema.org/Organization" itemid="http://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion"><span itemprop="name">
    The New York Times
    Company</span></span>](https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice)
  - [Home](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion)
  - [Search](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/search/)
  - Accessibility concerns? Email us at <accessibility@NYTimes.com>. We
    would love to hear from you.
  - [Contact
    Us](https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us)
  - [Work with us](https://www.nytco.com/careers/)
  - [Advertise](https://nytmediakit.com/)
  - [Your Ad
    Choices](https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014892108-Privacy-policy#pp)
  - [Privacy](https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014892108-Privacy-policy)
  - [Terms of
    Service](https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service)
  - [Terms of
    Sale](https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale)

## Site Information Navigation

  - [Site Map](https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion)
  - [Help](https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us)
  - [Site
    Feedback](https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us?redir=myacc)
  - [Subscriptions](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW)

</div>

</div>

<div id="Inv1" class="ad inv1-ad hidden">

</div>

<div id="Inv2" class="ad inv2-ad hidden">

</div>

<div id="Inv3" class="ad inv3-ad hidden">

</div>

<div id="ab1" class="ad ab1-ad hidden">

</div>

<div id="ab2" class="ad ab2-ad hidden">

</div>

<div id="ab3" class="ad ab3-ad hidden">

</div>

<div id="prop1" class="ad prop1-ad hidden">

</div>

<div id="prop2" class="ad prop2-ad hidden">

</div>

<div id="Anchor" class="ad anchor-ad hidden">

</div>

<div id="ADX_CLIENTSIDE" class="ad adx-clientside-ad hidden">

</div>
