Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}How Trump Draws on Campaign
Funds to Pay Legal Bills

\url{https://nyti.ms/31YiVCu}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/09/08/us/elections/results-new-hampshire-primary-elections.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{New
  Hampshire Results}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/08/us/trump-vs-biden?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Election
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/election-states-biden-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Paths
  to 270}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/31/us/politics/vote-by-mail-deadlines.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Voting
  by Mail}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/us/elections/2020-presidential-election-calendar.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Key
  Dates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Politics
  Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{how-trump-draws-on-campaign-funds-to-pay-legal-bills}{%
\section{How Trump Draws on Campaign Funds to Pay Legal
Bills}\label{how-trump-draws-on-campaign-funds-to-pay-legal-bills}}

As he has done with other aspects of the presidency, Donald J. Trump has
redefined the practice in ways that have unsettled even some
Republicans.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/09/05/us/politics/05dc-trump-legal1-sub/merlin_176308608_73f17538-97cc-4da8-907b-f2811b4a59e6-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/eric-lipton}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/12/06/multimedia/author-eric-lipton/author-eric-lipton-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/eric-lipton}{Eric Lipton}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Published Sept. 5, 2020Updated Sept. 6, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

WASHINGTON --- President Trump was proudly litigious before his victory
in 2016 and has remained so in the White House. But one big factor has
changed: He has drawn on campaign donations as a piggy bank for his
legal expenses to a degree far greater than any of his predecessors.

In New York, Mr. Trump dispatched a team of lawyers to
\href{https://int.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/data/documenttools/101616-2017-jessica-denson-v-jessica-denson-exhibit-s-17-arbitration-files/b5ecf44c5ac0c015/full.pdf}{seek
damages} of more than \$1 million from a former campaign worker after
she claimed she had been the target of sexual discrimination and
harassment by another aide. The lawyers have been paid \$1.5 million by
the Trump campaign for work on the case and others related to the
president.

In Washington, Mr. Trump and his campaign affiliates hired lawyers to
assist members of his staff and family --- including a onetime
bodyguard, his oldest son and his son-in-law --- as they were pulled
into investigations related to Russia and Ukraine. The Republican
National Committee has paid at least \$2.5 million in legal bills to the
firms that did this and other legal work.

In California, Mr. Trump sued to block a law that would have forced him
to release his taxes if he wanted to run for re-election. The Trump
campaign and the Republican National Committee have paid the law firm
handling this case, among others, \$1.8 million.

Mr. Trump's tendency to turn to the courts --- and the legal issues that
have stemmed from norm-breaking characteristics of his presidency ---
helps explain how he and his affiliated political entities have spent at
least \$58.4 million in donations on legal and compliance work since
2015, according to a tally by The New York Times and the nonpartisan
Campaign Finance Institute.

By comparison,
\href{https://www.fec.gov/data/disbursements/?data_type=processed\&committee_id=C00431445\&committee_id=C00451393\&committee_id=C00494740\&min_date=01\%2F01\%2F2007\&max_date=08\%2F30\%2F2012\&disbursement_description=compliance\&disbursement_description=legal}{President
Barack Obama} and the
\href{https://www.fec.gov/data/disbursements/?data_type=processed\&committee_id=C00010603\&two_year_transaction_period=2008\&two_year_transaction_period=2010\&two_year_transaction_period=2012\&two_year_transaction_period=2014\&min_date=07\%2F01\%2F2008\&max_date=12\%2F31\%2F2012\&disbursement_description=legal+\&disbursement_description=compliance}{Democratic
National Committee} spent \$10.7 million on legal and compliance
expenses during the equivalent period starting in 2007.
\href{https://transition.fec.gov/press/summaries/2000/tables/presidential/Pres2_2000_24m.pdf}{President
George W. Bush} also
\href{https://www.fec.gov/data/disbursements/?data_type=processed\&committee_id=C00343509\&committee_id=C00386987\&committee_id=C00388579\&committee_id=C00404343\&min_date=01\%2F01\%2F2001\&max_date=12\%2F31\%2F2004\&disbursement_description=compliance\&disbursement_description=legal}{spent
much less}, even taking into account
\href{http://www.politicalmoneyline.com/noaccess.aspx}{his legal
spending on the recount fight} that went to the Supreme Court, records
show.

The spending on behalf of Mr. Trump covers not only legal work that
would be relatively routine for any president or candidate and some of
the costs related to the Russia inquiry and his impeachment, but also
cases in which he has a personal stake, including attempts to enforce
nondisclosure agreements and protect his business interests.

Many of the bills being paid by donors to Mr. Trump and his party have
come from the Republican National Committee's ``recount account.'' It is
a
\href{https://www.fec.gov/help-candidates-and-committees/registering-political-party/national-party-accounts-certain-expenses/}{special
fund created after 2014} when Congress --- at the request of campaign
finance lawyers and leaders of both parties --- allowed
\href{https://www.fec.gov/resources/cms-content/documents/contribution_limits_chart_2019-2020.pdf}{much
larger contributions} by individuals to the political parties, totaling
\$106,500 per person, compared with the normal \$2,800 limit.

It is impossible to know based on Federal Election Commission filings
how much of the \$58.4 million in total legal bills went to routine
legal work. Payments from the political committees to lawyers and law
firms are not itemized by case, so the filings do not break down how
much donor money went to pay for specific legal actions. A spokesman for
the Trump family would not say how much Mr. Trump had paid out of his
own pocket or his company's in legal fights, including Mr. Trump's
attempt to block access to his personal financial records.

It is also hard to differentiate between legal clashes the president has
initiated and those in which he is the target of opponents. And a
growing portion of the overall legal spending has come recently as his
campaign has stepped up its efforts to battle Democratic actions to make
voting easier.

But an examination of spending by his various campaign arms documents
how the intermingling of his presidency, business interests, campaigns,
defense against the Russia investigation, impeachment and eagerness to
penalize rivals have led to millions of dollars in donor money going to
help bankroll litigation.

Drawing on donations to pay many legal expenses is permitted by campaign
finance law. But as he has done with other aspects of the presidency,
Mr. Trump has redefined the practice in ways that have unsettled even
some Republicans, who point in particular to examples like his efforts
to enforce nondisclosure agreements with former staff members.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/28/us/politics/00dc-trump-legal2-sub/merlin_176106129_09f52f7c-e098-4f89-890f-718b78bcb1d7-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

``Vindicating President Trump's personal interests is now so intertwined
with the interests of the Republican Party they are one and the same ---
and that includes the legal fights the party is paying for now,'' said
Matthew T. Sanderson, who
\href{https://www.law.virginia.edu/faculty/adjunct-profile/ms9fc/2517710}{has
served as a campaign finance lawyer} to presidential candidates
including Rand Paul, Rick Perry and John McCain.

A spokesman for Mr. Trump declined to comment. But a spokeswoman for the
Republican National Committee said it was Democrats and other liberals
who were driving this blitz of spending.

``The R.N.C. is more than happy to cover the costs of defending the
president from the Democrats' baseless litigation and partisan
impeachment sham,'' said the spokeswoman, Mandi Merritt.

The filings do not address the value of work for which he has not been
charged, like Rudolph W. Giuliani's unpaid position as his personal
lawyer. Nor do they account for the legal support Mr. Trump, as
president, receives from the Justice Department, which has helped defend
him on issues that blur the line between his public and private roles,
like the constitutional prohibition on a president receiving benefits
from other governments and efforts to obtain his tax returns and
financial records.

The advent of the special recount account for legal expenses has fueled
an explosion of available cash for both political parties. But because
the Federal Election Commission has given
\href{https://www.fec.gov/help-candidates-and-committees/registering-political-party/national-party-accounts-certain-expenses/}{little
guidance} over how money put into these accounts can be spent, the
political parties have used them on a variety of seemingly unrelated
purposes, including charter airplane flights,
\href{https://docquery.fec.gov/cgi-bin/fecimg/?201901319144412101}{records
show}.

Perkins Coie, a prominent firm that handles Democratic candidates, has
been
\href{https://www.fec.gov/data/disbursements/?data_type=processed\&committee_id=C00010603\&committee_id=C00571133\&committee_id=C00711069\&recipient_name=PERKINS+COIE\&recipient_name=perkins+coie\&min_date=07\%2F01\%2F2016\&disbursement_description=legal\&disbursement_description=compliance}{paid
\$17 million} just by the Democratic National Committee in the last four
years, benefiting as well from this new flow of large donations to the
party.

In Mr. Trump's case, the reliance on high-dollar donations had led to
questions about whether contributors from casinos, Wall Street, coal and
other industries expect something in return.

Republican donors
\href{https://www.fec.gov/data/receipts/individual-contributions/?committee_id=C00003418\&two_year_transaction_period=2020\&min_date=01\%2F01\%2F2019\&max_date=12\%2F31\%2F2020\&min_amount=106\%2C500\&max_amount=106\%2C500}{who
have sent large amounts of money} since 2019 to this special R.N.C.
legal account include Joseph Craft, who is the chief executive of a coal
mining company that has benefited from Mr. Trump's regulatory actions.
They also include
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/03/business/dealbook/trump-coronavirus-advisors.html}{Stephen
A. Schwarzman}, the chief executive of the Blackstone Group, and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/07/28/us/politics/thomas-barrack-foreign-lobbying.html}{Thomas
J. Barrack Jr.}, both private equity investors who have long been close
to the president, and members of
\href{https://www.forbes.com/profile/fertitta/\#755ed51d34b4}{the
Fertitta family} of Las Vegas, who own a casino there.

Ms. Merritt, the Republican committee spokeswoman, rejected any
suggestion that the donations were made to try to influence Mr. Trump.

``That is an absurd and unfounded allegation,'' she said. ``Our donors
are highly motivated by Democrats' radical attempts to try and take away
the voice of the American people by gaming the election through the
courts, and fully support our fight to uphold election integrity, fight
back against impeachment, and challenge Democrats' attacks on the
president.''

\hypertarget{seeking-to-silence-critics}{%
\subsection{Seeking to Silence
Critics}\label{seeking-to-silence-critics}}

Image

Supporters of Mr. Trump during a campaign event in August in Yuma, Ariz.
Campaign donations have been used to finance a range of legal
disputes.Credit...Doug Mills/The New York Times

All presidents are enmeshed in litigation related to their official
duties, and Mr. Trump's 2020 campaign and the Republican National
Committee are fighting an array of topics related to the election,
including
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/08/us/politics/voting-nov-3-election.html}{litigation
about mail-in ballot}s and voting rights.

But for Mr. Trump, who has always preferred to use other people's money
in his business ventures, the reliance on campaign funds as a legal
kitty extends to issues that are of concern to him personally.

The biggest payments have gone to the Jones Day law firm, which has
received a total of \$18.8 million from Mr. Trump's campaign, the
Republican National Committee and America First Action, a super PAC
closely affiliated with Mr. Trump. Most of that spending --- \$11.5
million --- came from Mr. Trump's campaign, reflecting the firm's heavy
load of campaign-related work as well as cases more personally tied to
Mr. Trump.

Among the 20 suits Jones Day has been involved in include one filed by
demonstrators who claimed they were beaten at
\href{https://law.justia.com/cases/federal/appellate-courts/ca6/17-6290/17-6290-2018-09-11.html}{a
Kentucky political rally}, a
\href{https://www.courtlistener.com/recap/gov.uscourts.dcd.187894.1.0.pdf}{filing
in federal court}claiming that Mr. Trump and his allies helped
distribute information obtained by Russian hackers during the 2016
election and one from a
\href{https://int.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/data/documenttools/rodney-brown-v/26436b775d5dfb03/full.pdf}{Missouri
man who claimed} he was arrested after he simply laughed while at a
Trump rally. A spokesman for the firm declined to comment.

Smaller amounts have gone to boutique law firms, such as that of
\href{https://sorrelshagood.com/danhagood/}{Daniel K. Hagood}, a Texas
lawyer whose website says he specializes in ``representing companies and
individual entangled in the criminal justice system.'' He
\href{https://www.fec.gov/data/disbursements/?data_type=processed\&recipient_name=DANIEL+K.+HAGOOD\&recipient_name=daniel+hagood}{has
been paid \$254,331} this year by America First Action, a super PAC
associated with Mr. Trump. Neither Mr. Hagood nor America First Action
would answer questions about the work he was doing.

Campaign funds also were used to fight a lawsuit filed by an aide to Mr.
Trump's 2016 presidential campaign
\href{https://www.courtlistener.com/docket/14567515/johnson-v-trump/}{who
claimed} that Mr. Trump had inappropriately kissed her, with
\href{https://www.fec.gov/data/disbursements/?data_type=processed\&committee_id=C00580100\&recipient_name=+HARRISON+LLP\&recipient_name=Ford+\&recipient_name=harrison\&max_date=04\%2F12\%2F2031\&disbursement_description=compliance\&disbursement_description=legal}{\$196,229}
paid to a Florida firm,
\href{https://www.courtlistener.com/docket/14567515/parties/johnson-v-trump/}{Ford
\& Harrison}, and to a Los Angeles-based lawyer, Charles J. Harder, who
has been paid a
\href{https://www.fec.gov/data/disbursements/?data_type=processed\&committee_id=C00580100\&recipient_name=Harder\&two_year_transaction_period=2020\&two_year_transaction_period=2018\&two_year_transaction_period=2016}{total
of \$3.4 million}. (Mr. Trump
\href{https://www.courtlistener.com/recap/gov.uscourts.flmd.360631/gov.uscourts.flmd.360631.96.0.pdf}{prevailed}
in \href{https://www.leagle.com/decision/infdco20190614c71}{this case}.)

One major area of spending, records show, has been an attempt to enforce
nondisclosure or nondisparagement agreements with former aides who have
accused Mr. Trump or members of his staff of wrongdoing.

Mr. Harder, who is frequently hired by Mr. Trump's campaign, is perhaps
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2016/05/30/business/media/gawker-case-calls-attention-to-a-go-to-hollywood-lawyer.html}{best
known} for his work on behalf of the professional wrestler Hulk Hogan
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2016/03/19/business/media/gawker-hulk-hogan-verdict.html}{in
a lawsuit filed in 2012} against the website Gawker, which ended up
causing its bankruptcy.

Another key lawyer in this effort is Lawrence S. Rosen, who works out of
Mr. Trump's 40 Wall Street office building in Manhattan and has handled
real estate legal disputes and other issues for Mr. Trump for decades.
Bills from Mr. Rosen's firm to the Trump campaign
\href{https://www.fec.gov/data/disbursements/?data_type=processed\&committee_id=C00580100\&recipient_name=hornik+rosen\&two_year_transaction_period=2020\&two_year_transaction_period=2018\&two_year_transaction_period=2016}{total
\$1.5 million}.

Together, they have taken up more than a dozen cases for Mr. Trump, many
of which have a particularly personal flavor.

Image

Omarosa Manigault Newman, a former White House aide, spoke publicly in a
way that Mr. Trump considered critical of him, leading to a legal
fight.Credit...Pablo Martinez Monsivais/Associated Press

They include legal actions involving
\href{https://int.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/data/documenttools/101616-2017-jessica-denson-v-jessica-denson-exhibit-s-17-arbitration-files/b5ecf44c5ac0c015/full.pdf}{Jessica
Denson}, a Los Angeles-based actress who took a job at Trump Tower in
New York as a supervisor of the campaign's national phone bank;
\href{https://int.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/data/documenttools/trump-v-omarosa-arbitration-claim/19adad0d6fe57d07/full.pdf}{Omarosa
Manigault Newman}, a former guest on ``The Apprentice'' reality show who
later became a White House aide, and
\href{https://int.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/data/documenttools/2019-02-sims-complaint2-11/5897bc7416fcc0ad/full.pdf}{Cliff
Sims}, a former White House communications aide. Each of them spoke
publicly in a way that Mr. Trump considered critical of him or his
campaign. In each case, the president asserted that they had violated
nondisclosure agreements.

Mr. Rosen also represented the campaign in a lawsuit that
\href{https://int.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/data/documenttools/delgado-v-trump-lawrence-rosen-representing-for-trump/50b8cb15faec3842/full.pdf}{involved
a 2016 campaign aide} who became pregnant during an affair with her
boss, Jason Miller, and was then dismissed after Mr. Miller reportedly
told her she could not be seen ``waddling around the White House
pregnant,''
\href{https://www.courtlistener.com/docket/16624382/delgado-v-donald-j-trump-for-president-inc/}{the
lawsuit says}.

Mr. Harder also worked on lawsuits on behalf of Mr. Trump's campaign
against news organizations including The Washington Post, The New York
Times and CNN, claiming they published
``\href{https://int.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/data/documenttools/draft-nyt-complaint-ny-state-court/5cc46831ddc43630/full.pdf}{false}
and
\href{https://int.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/data/documenttools/complaint-wash-post-final/9685ced9fb0761c5/full.pdf}{defamatory}
\href{https://int.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/data/documenttools/complaint-cnn/615d77f7192b4f85/full.pdf}{statements}''
about the president in opinion pieces.

Lawyers defending the former Trump aides said the use of campaign funds
to bankroll Mr. Trump's legal efforts is part of a long-running strategy
to intimidate and silence his critics.

``It is the weaponization of lawsuits that are frivolous.'' said John
Phillips, a Florida lawyer representing Ms. Manigault Newman. ``And they
are intended to suppress First Amendment speech. No other president in
this history of the United States has ever resorted to anything like
this.''

Defending himself against lawsuits by individuals who claim they were
assaulted at campaign events has also consumed a significant chunk of
campaign funds. Those include long-running lawsuits filed by
\href{https://rodwebber.wordpress.com/govt/}{a Massachusetts peace
activist, Rod Webber}, who
\href{https://www.courtlistener.com/docket/14587089/webber-v-deck/}{sued
Mr. Trump}'s campaign after he claimed he was thrown ``head first into a
table'' after he had tried to ask a question of Mr. Trump in 2015 during
an event in New Hampshire. The Trump campaign
\href{https://www.fec.gov/data/disbursements/?data_type=processed\&recipient_name=cleveland+waters\&two_year_transaction_period=2020\&two_year_transaction_period=2018\&two_year_transaction_period=2016}{has
paid} \$101,828 to a New Hampshire-based firm, Cleveland, Water and
Bass, that has been handling the case since last year.

Others include the lawsuit Mr. Trump and his campaign jointly filed in
California last summer in a
\href{https://int.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/data/documenttools/tax-return-law-california-supreme-court/fad5a640e70d5bc1/full.pdf}{successful
effort} to overturn the state's requirement that he release his income
tax return if he wanted to be on the presidential ballot in California.

\hypertarget{the-russia-and-impeachment-cases}{%
\subsection{The Russia and Impeachment
Cases}\label{the-russia-and-impeachment-cases}}

Image

Jay Sekulow, one of Mr. Trump's personal lawyers, leaving the Capitol in
February after closing arguments in the Senate impeachment trial. He
also seeks to influence the government on other matters, like abortion
policy.Credit...Erin Schaff/The New York Times

The investigations of Mr. Trump by the special counsel and congressional
Democrats have also generated large legal tabs that have been picked up
in part by the president's political operation. That includes paying for
lawyers to help represent members of his family who were targeted in
lawsuits or were called to testify,
\href{https://www.fec.gov/data/disbursements/?data_type=processed\&recipient_name=alan+futerfas\&two_year_transaction_period=2020\&two_year_transaction_period=2018\&two_year_transaction_period=2016}{including}
\href{https://www.judiciary.senate.gov/imo/media/doc/Trump\%20Jr\%20Transcript_redacted.pdf}{Donald
Trump Jr}., and
\href{https://cases.justia.com/federal/district-courts/new-york/nysdce/1:2018cv03501/492363/221/0.pdf}{Jared}
\href{https://www.fec.gov/data/disbursements/?data_type=processed\&committee_id=C00580100\&recipient_name=Winston+\%26+Strawn\&two_year_transaction_period=2020\&two_year_transaction_period=2018\&two_year_transaction_period=2016}{Kushner}.

Campaign donations have gone to pay legal bills for
\href{https://www.justsecurity.org/wp-content/uploads/2019/08/hope-hicks-response-chair-nadler-house-judiciary.pdf}{Hope
Hicks},
\href{https://www.fec.gov/data/disbursements/?data_type=processed\&committee_id=C00003418\&committee_id=C00580100\&recipient_name=TROUT+CACHERIS+\&two_year_transaction_period=2020\&two_year_transaction_period=2018\&two_year_transaction_period=2016}{a
White House adviser};
\href{https://www.dni.gov/files/HPSCI_Transcripts/2019-04-12-KeithS-MTR.pdf}{Keith
Schiller},
\href{https://www.fec.gov/data/disbursements/?data_type=processed\&committee_id=C00580100\&recipient_name=Schertler+Onorato\&two_year_transaction_period=2020\&two_year_transaction_period=2018\&two_year_transaction_period=2016}{the
former bodyguard} for Mr. Trump;
\href{https://www.dni.gov/files/HPSCI_Transcripts/2019-01-16-BorisE-MTR.pdf}{Boris
Epshteyn},
\href{https://www.fec.gov/data/disbursements/?data_type=processed\&committee_id=C00580100\&recipient_name=amolsch\&two_year_transaction_period=2020\&two_year_transaction_period=2018\&two_year_transaction_period=2016}{a
former Sinclair Broadcast Group commentator} who now serves as a Trump
campaign adviser and
\href{https://www.dni.gov/files/HPSCI_Transcripts/2019-03-26-CoreyL1803-MTR.pdf}{Corey
R. Lewandowski}, Mr. Trump's
\href{https://www.fec.gov/data/disbursements/?data_type=processed\&committee_id=C00580100\&recipient_name=mintz+levin\&two_year_transaction_period=2020\&two_year_transaction_period=2018\&two_year_transaction_period=2016}{former
campaign manager}.

The case of Michael D. Cohen, Mr. Trump's former personal lawyer, showed
the limits to the president's willingness to foot legal bills. When Mr.
Cohen was pulled into the investigation of Mr. Trump's ties to Russia,
the Trump campaign covered a large share of his legal tab.

But after federal investigators
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/04/09/us/politics/fbi-raids-office-of-trumps-longtime-lawyer-michael-cohen.html}{raided
Mr. Cohen's office}, questions began to emerge about whether Mr. Cohen
might turn on the president.

``Most people will flip if the Government lets them out of trouble, even
if it means lying or making up stories,'' Mr. Trump
\href{https://twitter.com/realdonaldtrump/status/987679852345135105?lang=en}{said
on Twitter}on April 21, 2018, four days after his campaign paid
\href{https://www.fec.gov/data/disbursements/?data_type=processed\&committee_id=C00580100\&recipient_name=McDermott+\&two_year_transaction_period=2020\&two_year_transaction_period=2018\&two_year_transaction_period=2016}{\$48,342}to
Mr. Cohen's lawyer, a small share of the remaining amount owed. ``Sorry,
I don't see Michael doing that despite the horrible Witch Hunt and the
dishonest media!''

But soon enough,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/02/27/us/politics/michael-cohen-trump.html}{Mr.
Cohen did flip}. The campaign then halted payments to his lawyer.

The impeachment effort produced substantial spending by Mr. Trump's
political entities. Mr. Trump's campaign and the Republican National
Committee, which has been raising and spending money in coordination
with Mr. Trump, have helped pay the legal bills from the firms of Jay
Sekulow, Marc E. Kasowitz, Jane Raskin and Alan Dershowitz.

It is not known how much they charged, or whether all the payments to
them stem from their work on impeachment. But Trump-affiliated campaign
entities have paid these lawyers and their firms \$2 million since 2018,
Federal Election Commission
\href{https://www.fec.gov/data/disbursements/?data_type=processed\&committee_id=C00003418\&committee_id=C00580100\&committee_id=C00637512\&recipient_name=CONSTITUTIONAL+LITIGATION\&recipient_name=Raskin\&recipient_name=alan+dershowitz\&recipient_name=kasowitz\&two_year_transaction_period=2020\&two_year_transaction_period=2018\&min_date=07\%2F01\%2F2018\&max_date=09\%2F02\%2F2020}{records
show.}

There is no record of payments to Mr. Giuliani, the former New York
mayor, who has been providing legal services free of charge to Mr. Trump
since 2018. In
\href{https://assets.documentcloud.org/documents/7011742/Trump-Donald-J-2020Annual-278.pdf}{his
financial disclosure report} filed in July, Mr. Trump said the value of
the work done by Mr. Giuliani ``is unascertainable.''

\hypertarget{potential-conflicts-of-interest}{%
\subsection{Potential Conflicts of
Interest}\label{potential-conflicts-of-interest}}

Image

Rudolph W. Giuliani, another of Mr. Trump's personal lawyers, has a
collection of clients whose agendas he has pushed while representing the
president.Credit...Doug Mills/The New York Times

Mr. Trump has sometimes used lawyers who also have intervened with the
federal government on behalf of other clients, including appeals made
directly to him.

Mr. Sekulow, for example,
\href{https://static.aclj.org/2019-ACLJ-AR.pdf}{has run a nonprofit
group} that pressed the government to stop abortion funding and
\href{https://aclj.org/religious-liberty/radio-recap-trump-admin-stop-government-discrimination-of-religion}{has
also urged}the Trump administration to exempt churches from certain
federal policies, such as hiring rules. Mr. Sekulow said the dual roles
did not represent a conflict because his work for Mr. Trump was done
through a
\href{https://www.supremecourt.gov/DocketPDF/19/19-635/127982/20200108154615118_Vance\%20Blanket\%20Consent.pdf}{separate
law firm}.

Mr. Giuliani also has
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/12/12/us/politics/giuliani-consulting-abroad.html}{a
collection of clients} whose agenda he has pushed including
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/11/26/us/politics/giuliani-venezuelan-businessman.html}{a
Venezuelan businessman under criminal investigation} in the United
States.

William S. Consovoy, a lawyer who has done extensive work for Mr. Trump
paid with campaign funds, including
\href{http://cdn.cnn.com/cnn/2019/images/08/06/1.-.complaint.pdf}{challenging
the California law} that tried to force Mr. Trump to release his tax
return before he could run for re-election, is also
\href{https://www.pacermonitor.com/public/case/23450681/UHAUL_INTERNATIONAL,_INC_et_al_v_US_DEPARTMENT_OF_JUSTICE_et_al}{suing
the Justice Department} on behalf of corporate clients such as U-Haul
International. Mr. Consovoy and Mr. Giuliani did not respond to requests
for comment.

The role of the Justice Department in litigation involving Mr. Trump has
also drawn attention.

The department automatically represents the president of the United
States when he is sued. But during Mr. Trump's tenure, it has supported
Mr. Trump's legal team in lawsuits filed on behalf of Mr. Trump against
other parties, litigation that is intended to protect Mr. Trump's
personal financial interests.

The Justice Department said it was obligated to protect the independence
of the office of the president, noting
\href{https://www.supremecourt.gov/DocketPDF/19/19-715/130825/20200203173620062_19-715tsacUnitedStates.pdf}{in
one legal filing} that Mr. Trump, as president, ``occupies a unique
position in the constitutional scheme'' and that he should be exempt
from subpoenas seeking his personal financial information.

At least 10 department lawyers
\href{https://www.supremecourt.gov/DocketPDF/19/19-715/130825/20200203173620062_19-715tsacUnitedStates.pdf}{were
named} on
\href{https://www.supremecourt.gov/opinions/19pdf/19-635_o7jq.pdf}{legal
briefs}
\href{http://cdn.cnn.com/cnn/2019/images/08/19/courtdocument0819.pdf}{filed}
as Mr. Trump has tried to block institutions including Deutsche Bank
from releasing his financial records. Another 10 department lawyers
\href{https://s3.amazonaws.com/storage.citizensforethics.org/wp-content/uploads/2017/01/25152311/2018-5-29-128-Trump-Brief.pdf}{were
listed} on
\href{http://oag.dc.gov/sites/default/files/2018-03/Defendants-Motion-to-Dismiss.pdf}{filings}
\href{https://www.courtlistener.com/recap/gov.uscourts.dcd.187220.15.0.pdf}{made
in lawsuits} as Mr. Trump had violated the Constitution's emoluments
clause by taking money from foreign governments at his hotels and clubs.

Justice Department lawyers have also been involved in cases in which the
president sought to restrain former aides who had written books about
him,
\href{https://int.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/data/documenthelper/7030-john-bolton-lawsuit/ce3b8c4bf5f6687fa454/optimized/full.pdf\#page=1}{including
one by John R. Bolton}, the former national security adviser.

Robert Weissman, the president of Public Citizen, a nonprofit group that
has tracked ethical issues during the Trump administration, said the use
of campaign and federal government funds to finance legal actions
captured a dizzying array of themes his group has sought to highlight.

The legal work, he said, is being used to defend violence at political
rallies, chill the free speech of former aides and fight allegations of
unethical actions by Mr. Trump himself. And it is being paid for in part
by large individual donors who could seek help from Mr. Trump in dealing
with government actions that affect their own interests at a time when
the Justice Department has moved from simply defending the president to
helping protect his personal finances, he said.

``It is an astounding nexus of corruption,'' Mr. Weissman said. ``And
the legal system in the United States is the one that is supposed to be
defending justice.''

Kitty Bennett contributed research.

\hypertarget{our-2020-election-guide}{%
\section{Our 2020 Election Guide}\label{our-2020-election-guide}}

Updated ~Sept. 8, 2020

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

\begin{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{the-latest}{%
  \subsection{The Latest}\label{the-latest}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    President Trump and his party are using a playbook that aims to
    alarm people about crime in their backyards. It didn't work in 2018,
    but
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/08/us/politics/trump-republicans-fear-strategy.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{both
    parties think it could resonate more this year}.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{how-to-win-270}{%
  \subsection{How to Win 270}\label{how-to-win-270}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Joe Biden and Donald Trump need 270 electoral votes to reach the
    White House. Try building
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/election-states-biden-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{your
    own coalition of battleground states}~to see potential outcomes.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{voting-by-mail}{%
  \subsection{Voting by Mail}\label{voting-by-mail}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Will you have enough time to vote by mail in your state? Yes, but
    it's risky to procrastinate.
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/31/us/politics/vote-by-mail-deadlines.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Check
    your state's deadline.}
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/joe-biden.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{}

    \hypertarget{joe-biden}{%
    \section{Joe Biden}\label{joe-biden}}

    \hypertarget{democrat}{%
    \subsection{Democrat}\label{democrat}}

    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/donald-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{}

    \hypertarget{donald-trump}{%
    \section{Donald Trump}\label{donald-trump}}

    \hypertarget{republican}{%
    \subsection{Republican}\label{republican}}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \hypertarget{keep-up-with-our-coverage}{%
  \subsection{Keep Up With Our
  Coverage}\label{keep-up-with-our-coverage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Get an
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{email}~recapping
    the day's news
  \item
    Download our mobile app on
    \href{https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nytimes/id284862083?ls=1\&mat_click_id=5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\&referrer=mat_click_id\%3D5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\%26link_click_id\%3D722930677036718082}{iOS}~and
    \href{http://a.localytics.com/android?id=com.nytimes.android\&referrer=utm_source\%3Dother_nyt_mobile_web\%26utm_medium\%3DWeb\%2520page\%26utm_term\%3DGeneral\%2520Mobile\%2520Page\%26utm_campaign\%3DNYT\%2520Mobile\%2520General\%2520Page}{Android}~and
    turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
