Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/09/08/us/elections/results-new-hampshire-primary-elections.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{New
  Hampshire Results}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/08/us/trump-vs-biden?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Election
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/election-states-biden-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Paths
  to 270}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/31/us/politics/vote-by-mail-deadlines.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Voting
  by Mail}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/us/elections/2020-presidential-election-calendar.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Key
  Dates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Politics
  Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{biden-and-trump-cast-2020-election-as-choice-between-darkness-and-light}{%
\section{Biden and Trump Cast 2020 Election as Choice Between Darkness
and
Light}\label{biden-and-trump-cast-2020-election-as-choice-between-darkness-and-light}}

Last Updated

Aug. 28, 2020, 8:30 a.m. ET

Aug. 28, 2020, 8:30 a.m. ET

Democrats were pleased with Joe Biden's speech at the Democratic
National Convention, as Republicans prepared for their own gathering.
The postmaster general said he was ``highly confident'' the Postal
Service could handle millions of ballots.

\emph{{[}This briefing has ended.}
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/22/us/trump-vs-biden}{\emph{Follow
our coverage of the 2020 election here}}\emph{.{]}}

\hypertarget{heres-what-you-need-to-know}{%
\subsubsection{Here's what you need to
know:}\label{heres-what-you-need-to-know}}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{biden-and-trump-use-stark-terms-to-describe-the-choice-between-them}{}

  Biden and Trump use stark terms to describe the choice between them.
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{the-postmaster-says-hes-highly-confident-ballots-mailed-close-to-election-day-will-be-delivered}{}

  The postmaster says he's `highly confident' ballots mailed close to
  Election Day will be delivered.
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{here-are-7-takeaways-from-the-democratic-national-convention}{}

  Here are 7 takeaways from the Democratic National Convention.
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{the-conventions-tv-ratings-fell-18-percent-from-2016-but-biden-won-the-week}{}

  The convention's TV ratings fell 18 percent from 2016, but Biden won
  the week.
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{facebook-makes-plans-in-case-trump-uses-it-to-delegitimize-the-vote}{}

  Facebook makes plans in case Trump uses it to delegitimize the vote.
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{the-rnc-chairwoman-tells-us-what-to-expect-at-the-republican-convention}{}

  The R.N.C. chairwoman tells us what to expect at the Republican
  convention.
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{democrats-plan-programs-to-grab-focus-from-the-gop-next-week}{}

  Democrats plan programs to grab focus from the G.O.P. next week.
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{biden-and-trump-use-stark-terms-to-describe-the-choice-between-them}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{biden-and-trump-use-stark-terms-to-describe-the-choice-between-them}{Biden
and Trump use stark terms to describe the choice between
them.}}{Biden and Trump use stark terms to describe the choice between them.}}\label{biden-and-trump-use-stark-terms-to-describe-the-choice-between-them}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/21/us/politics/21-live-bidentrump/merlin_175992840_d8738945-494c-4552-a8e4-41ef471715fa-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

A day after former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. accepted the
Democratic presidential nomination with an emotional speech in which he
pledged to restore American norms and ``overcome this season of darkness
in America,'' President Trump countered Friday that the Democratic
convention had been the ``darkest and angriest and gloomiest'' in
history.

The back-and-forth over darkness and light was a vivid illustration of
the near-Manichean terms in which the two parties have cast this year's
election.

Democrats, led by former President Barack Obama, warned urgently at
their convention that
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/20/us/politics/obama-trump-democratic-convention.html}{the
future of American democracy was at stake}, while Mr. Trump spent the
week painting an apocalyptic image of what will happen if he loses.

``I'm the only thing standing between the American dream and total
anarchy, madness and chaos, and that's what it is,'' Mr. Trump told a
conservative group, the Council for National Policy, on Friday. He said
he represented ``the bright future, not the dark future that you saw
last night and for the last four days.''

Mr. Biden made a case for his vision of a post-Trump America in his
convention speech on Thursday night, the most important in his career.

``Here and now I give you my word: If you entrust me with the
presidency, I will draw on the best of us, not the worst.'' Mr. Biden
said. ``I will be an ally of the light, not the darkness. It's time for
us, for we the people, to come together. And make no mistake: United, we
can and will overcome this season of darkness in America.''

He never mentioned Mr. Trump's name. But the former vice president
quickly made an appeal to voters who aren't predisposed to support him,
saying that he would try to win them over as president. He condemned
bigotry. He yoked the Trump administration's failures in its coronavirus
response to the economic crisis and the financial fragility that
millions of people are facing, months into the pandemic, with no end in
sight.

In remarks Friday, Mr. Trump continued his assault on the mail-in voting
that many people plan to use during the pandemic. He suggested sending
law-enforcement to monitor polling stations, and shared ``a theory''
that if the election results are not known by the end of the year, House
Speaker Nancy Pelosi, a Democrat from California, would become
president. (He appeared to be referring to Section One of the
Constitution, which says the House of Representatives picks a president
if electors do not vote by the inauguration.)

``Crazy Nancy Pelosi would become president, you know that,'' Mr. Trump
said. ``No. No. I don't know if it's a theory or a fact, but I said,
`That's not good. That's not good.' ''

Now, with the Democrats wrapping up a convention that was forced to go
remote by the coronavirus pandemic, in which speaker after speaker made
the case that Mr. Biden could heal the nation after the Trump era,
Republicans are preparing to make their own case for giving Mr. Trump
four more years when they gather at their own convention next week.

--- \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/michael-cooper}{Michael
Cooper},
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/michael-d-shear}{Michael D.
Shear} and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/maggie-haberman}{Maggie
Haberman}

\hypertarget{the-postmaster-says-hes-highly-confident-ballots-mailed-close-to-election-day-will-be-delivered}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{the-postmaster-says-hes-highly-confident-ballots-mailed-close-to-election-day-will-be-delivered}{The
postmaster says he's `highly confident' ballots mailed close to Election
Day will be
delivered.}}{The postmaster says he's `highly confident' ballots mailed close to Election Day will be delivered.}}\label{the-postmaster-says-hes-highly-confident-ballots-mailed-close-to-election-day-will-be-delivered}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/18/us/politics/18-live-electionsbrief-dejoy/18-live-electionsbrief-dejoy-videoSixteenByNine3000-v2.jpg}

Louis DeJoy, the embattled postmaster general,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/21/us/politics/dejoy-postal-service-senate-hearing.html}{defended
his first two months overseeing the Postal Service} to a Senate
committee on Friday and said he was ``extremely highly confident'' that
even mail-in ballots sent close to Election Day would be delivered on
time.

``We will scour every plant each night leading up to Election Day,'' Mr.
DeJoy said as he testified for over two hours before the Senate Homeland
Security and Governmental Affairs Committee.

Mr. DeJoy, whose cost-cutting and operational changes have prompted
widespread concern about mail-in voting, called suggestions that he
might intentionally slow ballot delivery to help President Trump
``outrageous.''

``There has been no changes to any policies with regard to election
mail,'' Mr. DeJoy told the lawmakers, adding, ``The Postal Service is
fully capable and committed to delivering the nation's election mail
fully and on time.''

Under questioning from Democrats, however, he refused to unwind other
steps, like removing hundreds of blue mailboxes and mail sorting
machines, that he said were initiated by his predecessors in response to
a steady decline in mail volume. He denied knowing about the machine
removal when it first began, telling senators it was ``not a critical
issue within the Postal Service.''

Mr. DeJoy, a major donor to the Trump campaign who took office in May,
is at the center of a firestorm as recent cost-cutting measures at the
Postal Service --- including
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/15/us/post-office-vote-by-mail.html}{reducing
overtime and removal of mail-sorting machines} --- have led to delivery
delays and fueled concerns that the post office might not be able to
handle a crush of mail-in ballots for the 2020 election in the midst of
a pandemic.

Mr. Trump has stoked those concerns by repeatedly questioning the
legitimacy of mail-in voting, which he baselessly claims is riddled with
fraud. ``The honorable thing to do is drop the Mail-In Scam before it is
too late!'' he
\href{https://twitter.com/realdonaldtrump/status/1294731591030378497}{wrote
on Twitter last week}.

Even as Mr. DeJoy testified on Friday, six state attorneys general
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/21/us/dnc-convention-election/states-file-a-joint-lawsuit-over-changes-to-post-office-operations}{sued
him and the Postal Service in federal court}, arguing that changes at
the service were an attempt to disenfranchise voters.

Though Mr. DeJoy
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/18/us/politics/postal-service-suspends-changes.html}{said
earlier this week} he would suspend some changes until after the
election, Josh Shapiro, the Pennsylvania attorney general, said in a
statement announcing the suit that Mr. DeJoy had not addressed some of
the suit's core concerns. He called for ``detailed information'' on how
the agency would reverse what he said were ``illegal changes.''

--- \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/emily-cochrane}{Emily
Cochrane},
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/nicholas-fandos}{Nicholas
Fandos} and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/matt-stevens}{Matt Stevens}

\hypertarget{advertisement}{%
\subsubsection{Advertisement}\label{advertisement}}

\protect\hyperlink{after-dfp-ad-mid1}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{here-are-7-takeaways-from-the-democratic-national-convention}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{here-are-7-takeaways-from-the-democratic-national-convention}{Here
are 7 takeaways from the Democratic National
Convention.}}{Here are 7 takeaways from the Democratic National Convention.}}\label{here-are-7-takeaways-from-the-democratic-national-convention}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/21/us/politics/21-live-takeaways/merlin_175970472_cd9665da-1170-4220-a674-58437a04453f-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

With the 2020 Democratic National Convention now in the history books,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/21/us/politics/dnc-takeaways-biden-obama.html}{here
are seven takeaways}from the gathering:

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \textbf{Joseph R. Biden Jr. delivered the performance he needed.} Mr.
  Biden is not his party's smoothest or most electrifying speaker, and
  President Trump and other Republicans have spent months mocking his
  record of verbal missteps (despite the president's own long record of
  falsehoods and gaffes). But on Thursday, Mr. Biden delivered his
  sharpest, most powerful address of the campaign --- and benefited from
  the low bar his opponents had set.
\item
  \textbf{Kamala Harris broke barriers.} Ms. Harris, a California
  senator and former state attorney general, made history Wednesday when
  she accepted the vice-presidential nomination, making her the first
  Black woman and first person of Indian descent to be nominated to a
  national ticket of a major party. Her prominent presence throughout
  the convention underscored the generational and racial diversity she
  brings to the ticket, two factors in her ability to energize Democrats
  as Mr. Biden's running mate.
\item
  \textbf{Former President Barack Obama's speech surprised, and revealed
  him as the moral conscience of the party.} Mr. Obama delivered an
  unusually passionate, caustic attack on his successor in the White
  House and described the stakes of the election in stark and chilling
  terms: the continuation of American democracy as we know it.
\item
  \textbf{Mr. Biden won the nomination --- and for now, the messaging
  battle in his party.} This week it was clear that even Mr. Biden's
  ideological opposites within the party --- including Senator Bernie
  Sanders, the avatar of the progressive movement --- had embraced Mr.
  Biden's case for building the biggest possible coalition to beat Mr.
  Trump, policy differences aside.
\item
  \textbf{Jill Biden helped the campaign emphasize an urgent issue for
  many Americans: education.} Dr. Biden, an English professor by trade,
  reintroduced herself as an educator who is intimately familiar with
  the grave fears many American parents are experiencing in this
  pandemic moment.
\item
  \textbf{Democrats have papered over their policy differences, at least
  for now.} Democrats hold sharply divergent views on policy questions
  including how to expand health insurance coverage, how to regulate
  Wall Street and Big Tech, and how much to value bipartisanship. But
  this week saw little policy debate beyond a broad embrace of matters
  such as combating climate change and gun violence, welcoming
  immigrants and improving access to health care.
\item
  \textbf{Democrats extended a hand to independent voters and
  Republicans. Were those voters listening?} Even as Democrats spent the
  week moving to unify the party around Mr. Biden and Ms. Harris, the
  convention plainly prioritized outreach to moderate voters who may not
  identify as Democrats but are disillusioned by Mr. Trump's stewardship
  of the Republican Party. The critical test for Mr. Biden coming out of
  the convention will be: How many undecided voters heard and warmed to
  that message?
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/21/us/politics/dnc-speakers-run-time.html}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/21/us/dnc-speakers-run-time-promo-1597992378118/dnc-speakers-run-time-promo-1597992378118-articleLarge.jpg}

\hypertarget{how-convention-speaking-times-reveal-democrats-pecking-order}{%
\subsection{How Convention Speaking Times Reveal Democrats' Pecking
Order}\label{how-convention-speaking-times-reveal-democrats-pecking-order}}

In the run-up to the four-day virtual event, speakers jockeyed for more
air time. Here's who had the most.

--- \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/katie-glueck}{Katie
Glueck}

\hypertarget{the-biden-campaign-says-it-raised-more-than-70-million-during-the-dnc}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{the-biden-campaign-says-it-raised-more-than-70-million-during-the-dnc}{The
Biden campaign says it raised more than \$70 million during the
D.N.C.}}{The Biden campaign says it raised more than \$70 million during the D.N.C.}}\label{the-biden-campaign-says-it-raised-more-than-70-million-during-the-dnc}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/21/us/politics/21-live-closson-1808/merlin_175925433_daeb07be-f180-4757-b428-002fb918c331-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Joseph R. Biden Jr.'s campaign and its joint committees raised more than
\$70 million during the four-day Democratic National Convention, the
campaign announced on Friday.

The campaign's fund-raising blitz continued Friday afternoon at a
virtual event that featured Mr. Biden and his running mate, Senator
Kamala Harris, along with their spouses.

During the event, Mr. Biden spoke of the need to urgently address what
he sees as President Trump's failures in office, calling out the
president's handling of the coronavirus pandemic and painting a grim
portrait of the future if he's re-elected in November.

``Things don't have to be this bad and they never had to be this bad to
begin with,'' Mr. Biden said during the fund-raiser. ``If this president
gets four more years, you know as well as I do it's only going to get
worse. Is this what we want for our families, for our children?''

Mr. Biden struck a similar note in an interview he and Ms. Harris did
with ABC News on Friday, saying he would shut down the country as
president to stop the spread of the virus if scientists recommended
doing so.

``I would shut it down; I would listen to the scientists,''
\href{https://twitter.com/JTHVerhovek/status/1296939969999667207}{Mr.
Biden said}. ``I will be prepared to do whatever it takes to save lives
because we cannot get the country moving until we control the virus.''

During the interview Ms. Harris also responded after
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/12/us/politics/trump-women-kamala-harris.html}{Mr.
Trump called her ``extraordinarily nasty''} last week, using ``nasty''
or some version of the word no fewer than four times to describe her.

Ms. Harris largely brushed off his comments in the interview, saying
they were ``designed to distract the American people from what he is
doing every day.''

\begin{quote}
EXCLUSIVE: Joe Biden to
\href{https://twitter.com/DavidMuir?ref_src=twsrc\%5Etfw}{@DavidMuir} on
Pres. Trump's attacks on Sen. Kamala Harris: ``No President has ever
used those words.'' \url{https://t.co/IQsUqg7QHp}
\href{https://t.co/13lnJMDNip}{pic.twitter.com/13lnJMDNip}

--- ABC News (@ABC)
\href{https://twitter.com/ABC/status/1296950347026571266?ref_src=twsrc\%5Etfw}{August
21, 2020}
\end{quote}

During the fund-raiser, Mr. Biden, Ms. Harris and their spouses spoke
highly of one another, outlining the origins of their relationships and
how they have gotten stronger since. Mr. Biden's wife, Jill Biden,
praised Ms. Harris' role as a ``pioneer'' for women of color, while Ms.
Harris spoke about the growing bond between her and Dr. Biden.

``Doug and I have been talking about our friendship, and what it means
to he and I to have and be with you and Joe,'' Ms. Harris said of her
and her husband, Douglas Emhoff.

Mr. Emhoff recalled Mr. Biden campaigning for Ms. Harris during her
Senate run in 2016, and how Mr. Biden swore her in the following year,
saying he would ``never forget it. Mr. Biden also poked fun at the new
title Mr. Emhoff,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/19/us/politics/second-gentleman-doug-emhoff.html}{who
would become the first-ever second gentleman}, would carry if the ticket
wins in November.

``Doug will break ground as an incredible second gentleman,'' Mr. Biden
said. ``You're just a plain gentleman, pal.''

--- \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/troy-closson}{Troy
Closson}

\hypertarget{the-conventions-tv-ratings-fell-18-percent-from-2016-but-biden-won-the-week}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{the-conventions-tv-ratings-fell-18-percent-from-2016-but-biden-won-the-week}{The
convention's TV ratings fell 18 percent from 2016, but Biden won the
week.}}{The convention's TV ratings fell 18 percent from 2016, but Biden won the week.}}\label{the-conventions-tv-ratings-fell-18-percent-from-2016-but-biden-won-the-week}}

The Democratic National Convention attracted an average nightly
television audience of 21.6 million viewers, a respectable number given
the many Americans who have turned away from traditional TV sets in
favor of online video and livestreams. The Thursday broadcast,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/20/us/politics/joe-biden-2020.html}{when
Joseph R. Biden Jr. accepted the nomination} from Wilmington, Del., drew
the convention's biggest crowd, 24.6 million Americans.

Overall though, live TV viewership fell 18 percent from the 2016 D.N.C.,
according to Nielsen.

Nielsen statistics do not include streaming views, which are difficult
to credibly measure.

MSNBC, home to liberal favorites like Rachel Maddow, had the
highest-rated prime-time week in its 24-year history. Its coverage
ranked ahead of every other TV network on every night of the convention.

Shortly before Mr. Biden spoke on Thursday, President Trump called into
``Hannity'' on Fox News for a live interview. About 4.6 million people
watched Mr. Trump's appearance; the Fox News audience then dropped by 36
percent when the network's 10 p.m. convention coverage began.

---
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/michael-m-grynbaum}{Michael
M. Grynbaum}

\hypertarget{advertisement-1}{%
\subsubsection{Advertisement}\label{advertisement-1}}

\protect\hyperlink{after-dfp-ad-mid2}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{our-critic-reviews-a-remote-convention-made-purely-for-tv}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{our-critic-reviews-a-remote-convention-made-purely-for-tv}{Our
critic reviews a remote convention made purely for
TV.}}{Our critic reviews a remote convention made purely for TV.}}\label{our-critic-reviews-a-remote-convention-made-purely-for-tv}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/21/us/politics/21live-biden-promo/merlin_175972629_07b2d2f0-a928-4d29-8381-85ed287ca78b-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

As the Democrats' first fully remote, virus-era convention wrapped up,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/21/arts/television/dnc-joe-biden.html}{our
chief television critic, James Poniewozik, assessed the strange
spectacle.} While ``incendiary applause lines don't work the same when
no one is there to clap,'' he wrote, the format does work for ``gravity
and heart,'' which Joseph R. Biden Jr. emphasized in his speech.

\begin{quote}
Mr. Biden had concrete criticisms and counterarguments to the president,
especially on fighting the coronavirus: ``It didn't have to be this
bad.''

But it was when Mr. Biden talked about \emph{feeling} the pandemic and
its devastation that you could feel the speech take off.

He asked to speak to those who had lost someone to Covid. He had lost
too, he said --- the convention had reminded us of this, and a
four-night character arc paid off in this moment. ``I know how mean,
cruel and unfair life can be sometimes,'' he said. ``Your loved one may
have left this Earth, but they'll never leave your heart.''

There have been over 170,000 Americans lost to the pandemic but no real
public mourning. Mr. Biden didn't say anything about the president who,
visiting the site of a mass shooting last year, posed with an orphaned
baby and
\href{https://www.cnn.com/videos/politics/2019/08/09/donald-melania-trump-el-paso-orphaned-baby-photo-newday-sot.cnn}{gave
a thumbs up}. He didn't say that the country might miss having a leader
who believes that feeling loss doesn't make you a loser. He didn't need
to.

The camera pushed in closer. Mr. Biden, like his running mate, Kamala
Harris, spoke from a podium in a near-empty hall, which gave Ms.
Harris's speech a haunting air
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/20/arts/television/dnc-barack-obama.html}{on
Wednesday}. This time, the camera held him tight in the frame, matching
his intimate speech. It wasn't written as if it were meant to rouse a
cheering crowd in the room. It was written to the camera, like a
presidential address, and reached through the screen to the other side.

The speech did end like Ms. Harris's, with music anticlimactically
playing in the desolate hall as Mr. Biden waved to supporters on a big
screen --- a substitution much pandemic-era TV has made for live
audiences that will never stop feeling uncanny.
\end{quote}

\hypertarget{facebook-makes-plans-in-case-trump-uses-it-to-delegitimize-the-vote}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{facebook-makes-plans-in-case-trump-uses-it-to-delegitimize-the-vote}{Facebook
makes plans in case Trump uses it to delegitimize the
vote.}}{Facebook makes plans in case Trump uses it to delegitimize the vote.}}\label{facebook-makes-plans-in-case-trump-uses-it-to-delegitimize-the-vote}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/21/us/politics/21live-facebook/merlin_174655146_4b51b1d1-b6bd-4ed3-a77b-2f972d386fe3-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Facebook spent years preparing to
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/29/technology/facebook-google-twitter-november-election.html}{ward
off any tampering} on its site ahead of November's presidential
election. Now the social network is
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/21/technology/facebook-trump-election.html}{getting
ready in case President Trump interferes once the vote is over}.

Employees at the company are laying out contingency plans and walking
through postelection scenarios that include attempts by Mr. Trump or his
campaign to use the platform to delegitimize the results, people with
knowledge of Facebook's plans said.

Facebook is preparing steps to take should Mr. Trump wrongly claim on
the site that he won another four-year term, said the people, who spoke
on the condition of anonymity. Facebook is also working through how it
might act if Mr. Trump tries to invalidate the results by declaring that
the Postal Service lost mail-in ballots or that other groups meddled
with the vote, the people said.

Mark Zuckerberg, Facebook's chief executive, and some of his lieutenants
have started holding daily meetings about minimizing how the platform
can be used to dispute the election, the people said. They have
discussed a ``kill switch'' to shut off political advertising after
Election Day since the ads, which
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/10/17/business/zuckerberg-facebook-free-speech.html}{Facebook
does not police for truthfulness}, could be used to spread
misinformation, the people said.

--- \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/mike-isaac}{Mike Isaac}
and \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/sheera-frenkel}{Sheera
Frenkel}

\hypertarget{the-rnc-chairwoman-tells-us-what-to-expect-at-the-republican-convention}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{the-rnc-chairwoman-tells-us-what-to-expect-at-the-republican-convention}{The
R.N.C. chairwoman tells us what to expect at the Republican
convention.}}{The R.N.C. chairwoman tells us what to expect at the Republican convention.}}\label{the-rnc-chairwoman-tells-us-what-to-expect-at-the-republican-convention}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/21/us/politics/21live-rnc/merlin_175075332_5cd9a30b-118d-4152-b853-29346dad2405-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

We spoke with Ronna McDaniel, the chairwoman of the Republican National
Committee, about her party's national convention, which starts Monday.
(This conversation has been edited and condensed.)

\hypertarget{tell-me-a-little-bit-about-what-americans-should-expect-from-the-republican-side-next-week}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\textbf{Tell me a little bit about what
Americans should expect from the Republican side next
week.}}{Tell me a little bit about what Americans should expect from the Republican side next week.}}\label{tell-me-a-little-bit-about-what-americans-should-expect-from-the-republican-side-next-week}}

You're going to see a lot more of real people and a policy-driven
discussion about the difference that the Trump administration has made
in people's lives and the things that they've done during the past four
years, and then a preview of what the president is going to do when he's
re-elected.

\hypertarget{so-whats-the-second-term-agenda}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\textbf{So, what's the second-term
agenda?}}{So, what's the second-term agenda?}}\label{so-whats-the-second-term-agenda}}

You're going to see a tribute to America as we talk about the greatness
of this country, a tribute to our history, our heroes, and it will be
very aspirational.

\hypertarget{is-there-a-central-message-republicans-want-voters-to-take-away-from-next-week}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\textbf{Is there a central message
Republicans want voters to take away from next
week?}}{Is there a central message Republicans want voters to take away from next week?}}\label{is-there-a-central-message-republicans-want-voters-to-take-away-from-next-week}}

Democrats are featuring Hollywood celebrities who play real people, and
the Republican convention will be about real people. We don't need to
hire actors to play real people. The Trump administration has always
been about average everyday working Americans and their story. We don't
need screenwriters. We don't need fiction. We'll talk about real America
and celebrate that.

\hypertarget{there-have-been-plenty-of-real-people-featured-on-the-democratic-stage-though}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\textbf{There have been plenty of real
people featured on the Democratic stage,
though.}}{There have been plenty of real people featured on the Democratic stage, though.}}\label{there-have-been-plenty-of-real-people-featured-on-the-democratic-stage-though}}

There's not a lot of interaction. It's all Zoom.

\hypertarget{a-notable-number-of-republicans-spoke-on-the-democratic-stage-what-do-you-make-of-that}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\textbf{A notable number of Republicans
spoke on the Democratic stage. What do you make of
that?}}{A notable number of Republicans spoke on the Democratic stage. What do you make of that?}}\label{a-notable-number-of-republicans-spoke-on-the-democratic-stage-what-do-you-make-of-that}}

Former Republicans.

\hypertarget{what-about-john-kasich-the-former-ohio-governor-who-ran-for-the-republican-nomination-in-2016}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\textbf{What about John Kasich, the
former Ohio governor who ran for the Republican nomination in
2016?}}{What about John Kasich, the former Ohio governor who ran for the Republican nomination in 2016?}}\label{what-about-john-kasich-the-former-ohio-governor-who-ran-for-the-republican-nomination-in-2016}}

Kasich has classic Trump derangement syndrome. He's not liked this
president since the minute he was the nominee, even to the degree of not
even coming onstage in his own state when it hosted the convention in
2016.

It's sad to watch them be part of a convention and a platform that is,
in fact, ushering in socialism and fundamentally transforming the United
States of America, as we know it.

\hypertarget{so-youre-saying-that-if-you-are-speaking-at-a-democratic-convention-youre-not-really-republican-anymore}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\textbf{So you're saying that if you are
speaking at a Democratic convention, you're not really Republican
anymore?}}{So you're saying that if you are speaking at a Democratic convention, you're not really Republican anymore?}}\label{so-youre-saying-that-if-you-are-speaking-at-a-democratic-convention-youre-not-really-republican-anymore}}

That's what I think.

--- \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/lisa-lerer}{Lisa Lerer}

\hypertarget{advertisement-2}{%
\subsubsection{Advertisement}\label{advertisement-2}}

\protect\hyperlink{after-dfp-ad-mid3}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{democrats-plan-programs-to-grab-focus-from-the-gop-next-week}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{democrats-plan-programs-to-grab-focus-from-the-gop-next-week}{Democrats
plan programs to grab focus from the G.O.P. next
week.}}{Democrats plan programs to grab focus from the G.O.P. next week.}}\label{democrats-plan-programs-to-grab-focus-from-the-gop-next-week}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/22/us/politics/21-live-counterprogramming/merlin_175972248_078b538d-2456-46d6-b952-d97fbde4bf44-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Democrats are planning a broad slate of programming next week to
coincide with the Republican National Convention and counter the shift
of attention to President Trump.

In an effort to paint Mr. Trump as an agent of ``chaos,'' the Democratic
National Committee is expected to run TV and digital ads nationally and
in battleground states that it said highlight ``the many ways Trump has
failed as president.''

The Democrats also plan to host virtual events with Americans who have
been affected negatively by the Trump presidency, and will circulate
information in direct response to events at the Republicans' convention.

``We're very interested in what will happen in their convention,'' said
Tom Perez, the Democratic National Committee chairman. ``We'll take
advantage of the haphazard nature of their convention to continue to
take our message to the American people.''

During the Democratic convention this week, President Trump hit the
campaign trail, holding rally-like events in swing states including
Minnesota, Wisconsin and near Joseph R. Biden Jr.'s hometown in
Pennsylvania, and tweeting attacks during the convention itself.

It was a stark departure from previous election cycles, when
presidential candidates have traditionally gone dark during the other
party's convention.

Mr. Biden's campaign has not said whether he or his running mate,
Senator Kamala Harris of California, would themselves hold events next
week.

The Democrats plans to assign themes, such as ``Economy in Crisis'' and
``Health Care in Crisis,'' to each day of the Republican convention.

Democratic leaders will host calls with the news media on each day of
the Republican convention. Representative Val Demings of Florida will
host on Monday; Gov. Gretchen Whitmer of Michigan and Senator Cory
Booker of New Jersey on Tuesday; Speaker Nancy Pelosi on Wednesday; and
the former Democratic presidential candidate Pete Buttigieg on Thursday.

--- \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/sydney-ember}{Sydney
Ember}

\hypertarget{a-kanye-west-ballot-drive-is-underway-in-arizona-aided-by-a-trump-supporter}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{a-kanye-west-ballot-drive-is-underway-in-arizona-aided-by-a-trump-supporter}{A
Kanye West ballot drive is underway in Arizona, aided by a Trump
supporter.}}{A Kanye West ballot drive is underway in Arizona, aided by a Trump supporter.}}\label{a-kanye-west-ballot-drive-is-underway-in-arizona-aided-by-a-trump-supporter}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/21/us/politics/21live-west/merlin_174790545_043946be-21a2-4f6c-8c8b-fb1c76522f10-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

A new drive to get Kanye West on the ballot in Arizona is underway after
similar efforts in the swing states of Ohio and Wisconsin were rejected
this week.

A signature-gathering campaign in Arizona is being led by Edee Baggett,
who is only the latest Trump supporter to aid Mr. West. In April, she
expressed support for the president's re-election on her Facebook page:
``He is my President \ldots{} he is our President and he should be
everyone's president as he is working for us,'' she wrote, while
allowing that ``he's crude and can be rude'' and ``should tweet less.''

In an interview, Ms. Baggett, who runs a signature-gathering firm called
National Ballot Access, stressed that she worked on both sides of the
aisle --- for ``probably more Democrats than Republicans.'' She said she
had done work for the campaigns of Tulsi Gabbard and Marianne
Williamson, adding that ``nobody that I know from any party has told me
I need you to do this on the sneak. I don't work that way.''

Mr. West was rejected by elections officials in Wisconsin on Thursday,
because
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/19/us/elections/kanye-west-should-be-kept-off-wisconsins-ballot-election-agency-staff-members-say.html}{his
signatures were submitted just after the deadline}, and on Friday in
Ohio because of problems with his nominating petition and statement of
candidacy.

Many Democrats view him as a spoiler, since
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/04/us/politics/kanye-west-president-republicans.html}{several
of the president's allies and supporters} have been linked to his
campaign, including a Trump campaign lawyer who delivered Mr. West's
signatures to Wisconsin elections officials. Mr. West also recently met
with the president's son-in-law, Jared Kushner, for what Mr. Kushner
described as a ``general discussion more about policy.''

Mr. West is still aiming to get on the ballot in Virginia, Idaho,
Wyoming, Kentucky and North Dakota, where another signature-gathering
group, Let the Voters Decide, is working on his behalf. Signatures must
be delivered in Arizona by Sept. 4.

``This is a very short deadline,'' said Ms. Baggett, who was hired about
a week ago. ``All we can do is try.''

--- \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/danny-hakim}{Danny
Hakim}

\hypertarget{our-2020-election-guide}{%
\section{Our 2020 Election Guide}\label{our-2020-election-guide}}

Updated ~Sept. 8, 2020

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

\begin{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{the-latest}{%
  \subsection{The Latest}\label{the-latest}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    President Trump and his party are using a playbook that aims to
    alarm people about crime in their backyards. It didn't work in 2018,
    but
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/08/us/politics/trump-republicans-fear-strategy.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{both
    parties think it could resonate more this year}.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{how-to-win-270}{%
  \subsection{How to Win 270}\label{how-to-win-270}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Joe Biden and Donald Trump need 270 electoral votes to reach the
    White House. Try building
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/election-states-biden-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{your
    own coalition of battleground states}~to see potential outcomes.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{voting-by-mail}{%
  \subsection{Voting by Mail}\label{voting-by-mail}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Will you have enough time to vote by mail in your state? Yes, but
    it's risky to procrastinate.
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/31/us/politics/vote-by-mail-deadlines.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Check
    your state's deadline.}
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/joe-biden.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{}

    \hypertarget{joe-biden}{%
    \section{Joe Biden}\label{joe-biden}}

    \hypertarget{democrat}{%
    \subsection{Democrat}\label{democrat}}

    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/donald-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{}

    \hypertarget{donald-trump}{%
    \section{Donald Trump}\label{donald-trump}}

    \hypertarget{republican}{%
    \subsection{Republican}\label{republican}}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \hypertarget{keep-up-with-our-coverage}{%
  \subsection{Keep Up With Our
  Coverage}\label{keep-up-with-our-coverage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Get an
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{email}~recapping
    the day's news
  \item
    Download our mobile app on
    \href{https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nytimes/id284862083?ls=1\&mat_click_id=5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\&referrer=mat_click_id\%3D5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\%26link_click_id\%3D722930677036718082}{iOS}~and
    \href{http://a.localytics.com/android?id=com.nytimes.android\&referrer=utm_source\%3Dother_nyt_mobile_web\%26utm_medium\%3DWeb\%2520page\%26utm_term\%3DGeneral\%2520Mobile\%2520Page\%26utm_campaign\%3DNYT\%2520Mobile\%2520General\%2520Page}{Android}~and
    turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
