Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/technology}{Technology}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/technology}{Technology}\textbar{}Airbnb, a `Sharing
Economy' Pioneer, Files to Go Public

\url{https://nyti.ms/3h7PGSZ}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{the-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus?name=styln-coronavirus-markets\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=fffd0600-e381-11ea-898b-95a22c820370}{The
Coronavirus
Outbreak}}{The Coronavirus Outbreak}}\label{the-coronavirus-outbreak}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  live\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/20/world/coronavirus-covid.html?name=styln-coronavirus-markets\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=fffd0601-e381-11ea-898b-95a22c820370}{Latest
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html?name=styln-coronavirus-markets\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=fffd0602-e381-11ea-898b-95a22c820370}{Maps
  and Cases}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html?name=styln-coronavirus-markets\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=fffd2d10-e381-11ea-898b-95a22c820370}{Vaccine
  Tracker}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/19/us/colleges-closing-covid.html?name=styln-coronavirus-markets\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=fffd2d11-e381-11ea-898b-95a22c820370}{Colleges
  Closing}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/20/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?name=styln-coronavirus-markets\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=fffd2d12-e381-11ea-898b-95a22c820370}{Economy}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{airbnb-a-sharing-economy-pioneer-files-to-go-public}{%
\section{Airbnb, a `Sharing Economy' Pioneer, Files to Go
Public}\label{airbnb-a-sharing-economy-pioneer-files-to-go-public}}

The home rental company, which was privately valued at \$31 billion, is
trying to go public after its business was crushed by the pandemic.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/18/business/00airbnb/merlin_111284672_7a0b4824-4bfc-4005-af96-9919ada3e28d-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/erin-griffith}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2019/06/18/reader-center/author-erin-griffith/author-erin-griffith-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/erin-griffith}{Erin
Griffith}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Aug. 19, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

SAN FRANCISCO --- Airbnb said on Wednesday that it had confidentially
filed to go public, taking a key step toward one of the largest public
market debuts in a generation of ``sharing economy'' start-ups.

A public offering by the company, which lets people rent out their spare
rooms or homes to travelers, would cap a volatile year in which its
business was devastated by the spread of the coronavirus. Airbnb had
been privately valued at \$31 billion before this year, and the company
must now convince investors that it can thrive and turn a profit in a
new era of limited travel.

Airbnb declined to comment beyond its brief
\href{https://news.airbnb.com/airbnb-announces-confidential-submission-of-draft-registration-statement/}{announcement}.

Airbnb's offering would signal the end of an era for the first wave of
highly valued start-up ``unicorns,'' many of which were founded in the
recession of 2008 and then rode a wave of growth fueled by smartphones,
gig work and copious amounts of venture capital. In recent years, many
of Airbnb's well-known ``sharing economy'' peers have gone public (Uber
and Lyft), sold themselves (Postmates), or unraveled spectacularly
(WeWork).

Its debut will most likely be helped by an ebullient stock market, which
has remained robust despite the economic destruction caused by the
pandemic. On Tuesday, the S\&P 500 hit
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/18/business/stock-market-record.html?action=click\&module=Top\%20Stories\&pgtype=Homepage}{a
new high} as investors focused on signs that the worst might be over,
and on Wednesday, Apple became the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/19/technology/apple-2-trillion.html?action=click\&module=Top\%20Stories\&pgtype=Homepage}{first
U.S. company to hit a \$2 trillion} market value.

Airbnb's initial public offering plan shows the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/19/technology/big-tech-business-domination.html?action=click\&module=Top\%20Stories\&pgtype=Homepage}{resilience
of the tech industry in the pandemic} and an investor appetite for tech
stocks, said Ted Smith, president of Union Square Advisors, a
tech-focused financial advisory firm.

``There's going to be some choppiness in the short term until we get
through the pandemic,'' he said. ``But I think it mirrors the overall
faith that the market seems to have in the long term.''

Start-ups have
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/17/technology/ipo-pandemic.html}{taken
advantage of the excitement for technology}. Tech companies including
Lemonade, an insurance provider, and ZoomInfo, a business database
company, watched their prices soar after listing over the summer.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-the-coronavirus-outbreak-and-the-economy}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/20/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: The Coronavirus Outbreak and the
Economy}}{Latest Updates: The Coronavirus Outbreak and the Economy}}\label{latest-updates-the-coronavirus-outbreak-and-the-economy}}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/20/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#the-producer-of-unhinged-makes-a-big-bet-on-audiences-returning-to-theaters}{9h
ago}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/20/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#the-producer-of-unhinged-makes-a-big-bet-on-audiences-returning-to-theaters}{The
producer of `Unhinged' makes a big bet on audiences returning to
theaters.}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/20/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#american-airlines-to-stop-flights-to-15-cities-after-government-aid-ends}{18h
ago}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/20/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#american-airlines-to-stop-flights-to-15-cities-after-government-aid-ends}{American
Airlines to stop flights to 15 cities after government aid ends.}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/20/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#without-school-plays-and-assemblies-a-technicians-livelihood-withers}{19h
ago}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/20/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#without-school-plays-and-assemblies-a-technicians-livelihood-withers}{Without
school plays and assemblies, a technician's livelihood withers.}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/20/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

More live coverage:
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/20/world/coronavirus-covid.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Global}

Other start-ups such as
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/06/technology/palantir-technologies-ipo.html}{Palantir},
a data company founded by Peter Thiel, and Asana, a collaboration
technology provider run by the Facebook co-founder Dustin Moskovitz, are
also planning to go public this year. Many are pushing to reach the
market before the November election, which typically creates volatility
in the stock market. Palantir and Asana declined to comment.

Airbnb was founded in 2008 by Brian Chesky, Nathan Blecharczyk and Joe
Gebbia as a way to help people make extra money renting out their spare
rooms. The platform has spread to almost every country, amassing seven
million listings and attracting \$3 billion in funding from venture
capital firms including Andreessen Horowitz, Founders Fund and Sequoia
Capital.

Airbnb takes a cut of the stays and activities that its rental operators
book. It has come closer to turning a profit than Uber or WeWork ---
until the coronavirus evaporated more than \$1 billion of bookings
almost overnight. In the spring, Airbnb projected its revenue for 2020
would drop to half of the \$4.8 billion it brought in last year. The
company quickly cut costs, raised
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/06/technology/airbnb-coronavirus-valuation.html}{emergency
funding}, laid off almost 2,000 employees and shelved its plans to go
public.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/18/business/00airbnb2/merlin_173400519_d898baf8-2005-4104-9809-18e962280f69-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

``It really did feel like a moment of truth, a bit of a test,'' Mr.
Chesky, Airbnb's chief executive, said in an interview this year.

In May, Airbnb's revenue began bouncing back as people took summer road
trips and sought to stay in private homes away from crowds. The
company's gross bookings --- which is its total revenue before it pays
commissions to hosts --- rose to last year's levels in June and July,
according an internal presentation attended by The New York Times.

Perennially an I.P.O. candidate, Airbnb has been officially preparing to
go public since last year when it
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/09/19/technology/airbnb-ipo-2020.html}{announced
plans to do so} in 2020. Pressure for the offering has mounted as some
of its early employees have sought a payday from the company shares that
they own, which begin
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/09/20/technology/airbnb-employees-ipo-payouts.html}{expiring
this fall}.

Last month, Mr. Chesky announced to employees that Airbnb had
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/15/technology/airbnb-ipo.html}{resumed
its plans to go public}, declaring that Airbnb ``was down but we were
not out.''

The company is likely to pitch investors on its fast rebound and ability
to adapt to the new reality, but some forms of travel --- like
international vacations, business travel or anything related to large
events --- are unlikely to return anytime soon.

Airbnb also aims to make its public market debut stand out by
highlighting its business philosophy, called
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/01/17/business/dealbook/airbnb-stakeholders-corporate-governance.html}{stakeholder
capitalism}. The philosophy focuses on what is good for society over
short-term profits.

Yet Airbnb has tussled with regulators and local communities. Local
regulators have battled the company over taxes and enforcement, while
community members have criticized the platform for turning neighborhoods
into tourist areas and contributing to housing shortages.

Safety has also been an issue. Last year, after a
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/11/01/us/orinda-shooting.html}{fatal
shooting at a party} at an Airbnb rental in Orinda, Calif., Airbnb
announced it would ban unauthorized parties and crack down on those
responsible. It also sought to verify all of its listings to prevent
bait-and-switch situations after a
\href{https://www.vice.com/en_us/article/43k7z3/nationwide-fake-host-scam-on-airbnb}{viral
article} about fraudulent listings.

The problem persists. In August, a fatal shooting at a party at an
Airbnb rental in Sacramento prompted Airbnb to pursue legal action
against the guest who threw the party, a first for the company.

Airbnb has also struggled with hosts who discriminate against nonwhite
guests. In June, the company teamed up with the racial justice group
Color of Change to try to measure and evaluate discrimination on its
site with the aim of preventing it.

Airbnb has also endured scrutiny from its own rental operators. When
travel shutdowns began in March, the company allowed customers to cancel
nonrefundable bookings, a move that prompted an outcry among its hosts,
who relied on the income. Mr. Chesky later apologized for how the
decision was communicated.

In the July staff meeting, Mr. Chesky said Airbnb planned to get back to
its ``roots'' by focusing more on its hosts.

``We realized it is just more pressing than ever that we have to get
back to what made Airbnb special,'' he said. The realization would not
have been so clear to him, he said, ``had our business not flashed
before our eyes a couple months ago.''

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
