Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/arts}{Arts}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/arts}{Arts}\textbar{}Restaurants

\url{https://nyti.ms/29yXHPW}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{restaurants}{%
\section{Restaurants}\label{restaurants}}

By Bryan Miller

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Sept. 29, 1989
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

\includegraphics{https://s1.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/timesmachine/pages/1/1989/09/29/260589_360W.png?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

See the article in its original context from\\
September 29, 1989, Section C, Page
22\href{https://store.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/collections/new-york-times-page-reprints?utm_source=nytimes\&utm_medium=article-page\&utm_campaign=reprints}{Buy
Reprints}

\href{http://timesmachine.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/timesmachine/1989/09/29/260589.html}{View
on timesmachine}

TimesMachine is an exclusive benefit for home delivery and digital
subscribers.

About the Archive

This is a digitized version of an article from The Times's print
archive, before the start of online publication in 1996. To preserve
these articles as they originally appeared, The Times does not alter,
edit or update them.

Occasionally the digitization process introduces transcription errors or
other problems; we are continuing to work to improve these archived
versions.

If stars were awarded for the food's altitude on the plate, Gotham Bar
and Grill would have no serious rivals. Alfred Portale, the I. M. Pei of
contemporary American cooking, brings new meaning to the term haute
cuisine with his skyscraper salads, towers of twirled pasta, high-rises
of french fries and soaring desserts. A lesser talent might use such
diversions to disguise substantive shortcomings, but for Mr. Portale,
one of the most accomplished young chefs on the American scene, this is
just his whimsical signature.

Five-and-a-half-year-old Gotham Bar and Grill remains one of the most
dynamic restaurants downtown. I might not have said that after a lunch
there two months ago on the first of four recent visits. Something was
out of sync in the kitchen: unseasoned seafood salad, overcooked lamb
chops, nearly raw vegetables. The follow-up meals were so splendid,
though, that I had to dismiss that lunch as an institutional hiccup
rather than a sign of any systemic malaise.

Food is not the only part of Gotham Bar and Grill that soars. The
5,000-square-foot post-modern setting in a former warehouse evokes this
bigger-than-life vertical city and there is even a Statue of Liberty
overseeing the hungry masses. The multi-level room, with its
Neo-Classical columns and parapets, is dramatically illuminated through
the use of billowy parachutelike fabrics that filter much of the
overhead light.

A high point, literally, among appetizers can be the seafood salad, a
gravity-defying stack of greens mixed with squid rings, lobster,
scallops, octopus slices and mussels, all tossed in a lemony
vinaigrette. (The bland one at my ill-fated lunch was redeemed by a
delightful one the following week.) Warm skate salad is a blissful
introduction to this underappreciated fish, its thin, tender flesh
sauteed to golden with a touch of salinity from capers, garnished with
mixed greens. Two excellent fall dishes are the pan-browned quail over
shiitake mushrooms with new potatoes in a sherry vinaigrette, and a foie
gras terrine encased in tender breast of guinea hen.

Smoked foods here in general are too intense for my taste, especially an
acrid linguica sausage served with a leek-and-goat-cheese tart. When Mr.
Portale tinkers with pasta, the results are usually as surprising as
they are delightful: penne with chorizo, clams and tomatoes is one such
combination that harmonizes unexpectedly.

Waiters in khakis, white shirts, silk ties and sneakers have an informal
demeanor but are sharp and knowledgeable. The pace of dinner here is
leisurely, so be prepared to spend two or more hours at the table.

Startlingly good entrees abound: crisp little squab on a bed of cubed
eggplant and red pepper alongside sweet parsnip-filled ravioli;
mustard-swabbed rack of lamb in a silky, rich lamb stock sauce with
flageolet and terrific garlic custard flan; extraordinarily tender loin
of rabbit with white beans, baby fennel, spinach and a marjoram-scented
sauce. Roasted red snapper benefits from its earthy accompaniment of
smoked tomatoes, braised leeks and saffron-shallot flan, and tuna steak
is invigorating in its peppery shellfish and red wine sauce, along with
a ziggurat of lemon-chive pasta. White peppercorns give a sharp edge to
the beefy sirloin, a stockpile of fried shallots and a sublime flan
enriched with beef marrow. Rosemary perfumed roasted chicken could not
be moister, with shoestring potatoes.

There is no shortage of pedigreed, pricey wines on the list here, but at
the same time good selections can be had for under \$25. A decent
variety of half bottles is available, too.

If I had to recommend a single dessert, it would be the warm nectarine
strudel made with crimped, brittle phyllo dough with toasted almond
cream. Warm chocolate cake with brandied cherry ice cream comes in a
close second, followed by the lush sorbets (cantaloupe, muscat grape)
and sky-high profiteroles. Plum tart was marred by an undercooked crust,
although the cinnamon ice cream with it was great.

The energy level at Gotham Bar and Grill remains undiminished as it
approaches its sixth anniversary. Mr. Portale's cooking is as
provocative and intelligent as ever, and at times scales new heights.
Gotham Bar and Grill *** 12 East 12th Street, 620-4020. Atmosphere:
Cavernous post-modern room that can be very loud. Service: Casually
dressed staff is exceptionally knowledgeable about food; pace can be
slow. Recommended dishes: Seafood salad, warm skate salad, quail with
new potatoes, foie gras and guinea hen terrine, roasted squab with
vegetable ravioli, mustard-coated rack of lamb with garlic custard flan,
loin of rabbit with white beans and marjoram, tuna steak in shellfish
and red wine sauce, sirloin steak with fried shallots, roasted chicken
with rosemary and shoestring potatoes, warm nectarine strudel, warm
chocolate cake with brandied cherry ice cream, fruit sorbets. Wine: Many
fine high-priced wines but also a decent selection under \$25. Price
range: Lunch: appetizers \$8.25 to \$11, main courses \$11.50 to \$18;
dinner: appetizers \$8.25 to \$14, main courses \$25 to \$29. Credit
cards: All major cards. Hours: Lunch: noon to 2:30 P.M. Monday to
Friday; dinner: 6:45 to 10:45 P.M. Monday to Thursday, 6 to 11:15 P.M.
Friday and Saturday, 5:30 to 9:30 P.M. Sunday. Reservations: Necessary.
Wheelchair accessibility: Stairs impede easy access to dining areas;
restrooms downstairs. What the stars mean: (None) ... oor to
satisfactory * ... Good ** ... Very good *** ... Excellent **** ...
Extraordinary

These ratings reflect the reviewer's reaction primarily to food, with
ambiance and service taken into consideration. Prices and menus are
subject to change.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{Â©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
