Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/world/asia}{Asia
Pacific}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/world/asia}{Asia Pacific}\textbar{}What China's New
National Security Law Means for Hong Kong

\url{https://nyti.ms/3dFBBJY}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{what-chinas-new-national-security-law-means-for-hong-kong}{%
\section{What China's New National Security Law Means for Hong
Kong}\label{what-chinas-new-national-security-law-means-for-hong-kong}}

Chinese lawmakers have approved the law, threatening to curb free speech
and protest in Hong Kong after a year of political tumult.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/07/28/world/28hk-explainer-top/merlin_174058371_441ec4cc-d12a-4498-8619-0cc1bd0021f3-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/chris-buckley}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/10/08/multimedia/author-chris-buckley/author-chris-buckley-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/chris-buckley}{Chris
Buckley}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Published June 28, 2020Updated June 30, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://cn.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/china/20200629/china-hong-kong-national-security-law/}{阅读简体中文版}\href{https://cn.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/china/20200629/china-hong-kong-national-security-law/zh-hant/}{閱讀繁體中文版}

Chinese lawmakers
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/29/world/asia/china-hong-kong-security-law-rules.html}{have
approved a national security law}, drastically curbing political
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/28/world/asia/china-hong-kong-national-security-law.html}{protest
and dissent in Hong Kong} and adding to Beijing's tensions with Western
powers.

The National People's Congress Standing Committee --- an arm of China's
Communist Party-run legislature ---
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/20/world/asia/china-hong-kong-security-law.html}{discussed
the draft law twice this month}, including a three-day session that
started on Sunday. But even as Hong Kong news media reported on Tuesday
that the law had passed, the city's residents were still waiting to see
its full text.

Here is what the move means for Hong Kong.

\hypertarget{a-law-to-curb-opposition-in-hong-kong}{%
\subsection{A law to curb opposition in Hong
Kong.}\label{a-law-to-curb-opposition-in-hong-kong}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/06/19/world/19security-explainer-2/merlin_172871835_8a4c6fa6-923e-4b42-a284-c81514d383cb-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

China's Communist Party leaders have long worried about opposition to
their rule in Hong Kong, which was a British colony until 1997. The
\href{https://www.basiclaw.gov.hk/en/basiclawtext/images/basiclaw_full_text_en.pdf}{Basic
Law}, which enshrines Hong Kong's special legal status, says the
semiautonomous territory should enact legislation that outlaws ``any act
of treason, secession, sedition, subversion.''

Full details have not been released, but the security law is expected to
deter speech, protests and news media critical of the Chinese
government, threatening the territory's independent press and democratic
opposition.

Many Hong Kong residents are proudly protective of their rights under
the territory's separate legal system and have opposed attempts to pass
such legislation. A previous push by Hong Kong's leaders to enact a
national security law foundered in 2003 after nearly 500,000 people
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2003/07/02/world/security-laws-target-of-huge-hong-kong-protest.html}{joined
a street protest} against it.

China's top leader, Xi Jinping, has been impatient to impose control
over Hong Kong. After the territory erupted in monthslong protests last
year over a proposed extradition law, a Communist Party meeting
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/10/31/world/asia/hong-kong-protests-china.html}{in
October demanded steps} to ``safeguard national security'' in Hong Kong.

The National People's Congress Standing Committee usually meets every
two months or so. This time, the committee met just a little over a week
\href{http://www.xinhuanet.com/english/2020-06/20/c_139153887.htm}{after
it first discussed the security legislation at its last session}. The
timing of the latest session suggested that Mr. Xi wanted the law passed
before July 1, the 23rd anniversary of Hong Kong's return to Chinese
sovereignty.

\hypertarget{beijing-imposes-security-agencies}{%
\subsection{Beijing imposes security
agencies.}\label{beijing-imposes-security-agencies}}

Image

Xi Jinping, the top leader of China, during the National People's
Congress in Beijing last month.Credit...Kevin Frayer/Getty Images

Legal experts had been uncertain how Mr. Xi could introduce a national
security law into Hong Kong without going through the city's Legislative
Council, a body stacked with pro-Beijing members who have, nonetheless,
hesitated to take such a contentious step.

But Mr. Xi made a bold move to break the impasse in May, when a full
session of the National People's Congress
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/28/world/asia/china-hong-kong-crackdown.html}{nearly
unanimously passed a resolution} empowering the Congress's Standing
Committee to bring state security legislation into the Basic Law.

The central government's decision to impose a law effectively
circumvents the Hong Kong legislature. Even Hong Kong politicians who
have endorsed the law, including the territory's top official, Carrie
Lam, have said they have
\href{https://sc.isd.gov.hk/TuniS/www.info.gov.hk/gia/general/202006/23/P2020062300464.htm}{not
been shown the full text} by Beijing, which will bring into Hong Kong
new crimes like inciting separatism and ``colluding with foreign
powers.''

The law will also establish a new security agency in the territory to
enforce the security restrictions, and Beijing will create its own
separate security arm in Hong Kong, empowered to investigate special
cases and collect intelligence, according to a summary issued by China's
legislature.

The legislation also gives the territory's chief official, who must
answer to Beijing, the power to decide which judges are empowered to
hear trials for state security charges, limiting the autonomy of the
city's judiciary.

\hypertarget{many-residents-fear-the-law}{%
\subsection{Many residents fear the
law.}\label{many-residents-fear-the-law}}

Image

Pan-democratic legislators in Hong Kong protesting the proposed national
security law during a meeting of the Legislative Council in
May.Credit...Lam Yik Fei for The New York Times

Carrie Lam, Hong Kong's local leader, has sought to reassure the public
that their ``legitimate rights and freedoms'' will be safeguarded. She
and other politicians who support the law have also said that it will
target only a tiny minority of lawbreakers.

Pro-democracy activists have denounced the proposed law, and the
\href{https://www.hkba.org/sites/default/files/20200525\%20-\%20Proposal\%20of\%20National\%20People\%27s\%20Congress\%20to\%20enact\%20National\%20Security\%20Law\%20in\%20Hong\%20Kong\%20\%28E\%29.pdf}{Hong
Kong Bar Association} has called it unconstitutional.

The Hong Kong police force has
\href{https://news.rthk.hk/rthk/en/component/k2/1534408-20200627.htm}{denied
applications} from three groups --- the League of Social Democrats, the
Civil Human Rights Front and pro-democracy district officials --- to
hold marches opposing the law on July 1, the politically sensitive
anniversary of Hong Kong's handover to Chinese rule, citing risks from
the coronavirus and dangers of violence. If the police decision survives
appeal, it would be the first time since 2003 that a march on July 1 has
been banned, **** the Civil Human Rights Front said. Some protesters may
ignore the order and march.

A survey by the Hong Kong Public Opinion Research Institute in mid-June
found that 49 percent of respondents ``very much oppose'' the security
legislation, while another 7 percent ``somewhat oppose'' it,
\href{https://www.reuters.com/article/us-hongkong-protests-poll-exclusive/exclusive-support-dips-for-hong-kong-democracy-protests-as-national-security-law-looms-poll-idUSKBN23W3KO}{Reuters
reported}. But the survey also indicated that public backing for street
demonstrations had softened: Support for protests fell to 51 percent,
down from 58 percent in a poll in March.

\hypertarget{western-governments-object}{%
\subsection{Western governments
object.}\label{western-governments-object}}

Image

Protesters celebrated in Hong Kong in November after President Trump
signed legislation aimed at curbing rights abuses in the
city.Credit...Lam Yik Fei for The New York Times

As China moved forward with plans to impose security laws in Hong Kong,
foreign governments criticized the decision. Foreign ministers from the
Group of 7 leading industrialized democracies
\href{https://www.scmp.com/news/china/article/3089494/group-seven-countries-urge-china-reconsider-hong-kong-national-security}{called
on China} this month to abandon the law, saying that it would undermine
the autonomy of the territory.

Secretary of State Mike Pompeo
\href{https://www.state.gov/u-s-department-of-state-imposes-visa-restrictions-on-chinese-communist-party-officials-for-undermining-hong-kongs-high-degree-of-autonomy-and-restricting-human-rights/}{said
on Friday} that the United States would impose visa restrictions on
Chinese officials, including retired ones ``believed to be responsible
for, or complicit in, undermining Hong Kong's high degree of autonomy.''
He did not name any officials or say how many might be barred.

Prime Minister Boris Johnson of Britain
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/03/world/europe/boris-johnson-uk-hong-kong-china.html}{has
promised} to allow nearly three million people from Hong Kong to live
and work in the country. Mr. Johnson, however, has left unanswered
questions about how those admitted might be able to obtain British
citizenship.

Taiwan said this month that it would expand efforts to provide refuge to
protesters and others who wish to leave Hong Kong. The government said
it could, in certain cases, provide work and study visas, as well as
assistance securing housing and jobs.

Elaine Yu contributed reporting from Hong Kong.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
