Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}Chris Dodd, an Insider From
Biden's Past, Is Helping Him Pick His Future

\href{https://nyti.ms/3gQRteQ}{https://nyti.ms/3gQRteQ}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/07/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Election
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/08/06/us/elections/results-tennessee-primary-elections.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Tennessee
  Results}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/biden-vice-president-2020.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Biden's
  V.P. Search}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2019/us/politics/2020-presidential-candidates.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{The
  Candidates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Politics
  Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{chris-dodd-an-insider-from-bidens-past-is-helping-him-pick-his-future}{%
\section{Chris Dodd, an Insider From Biden's Past, Is Helping Him Pick
His
Future}\label{chris-dodd-an-insider-from-bidens-past-is-helping-him-pick-his-future}}

As Biden works to win over progressive voters, he has empowered a
Washington uber-veteran long trailed by allegations of personal and
financial indiscretion.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/08/06/us/politics/00dodd1/merlin_36514615_dcf57ca5-d1c3-4ae1-b32d-a6c14fe5ca3c-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/matt-flegenheimer}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/10/02/multimedia/author-matt-flegenheimer/author-matt-flegenheimer-thumbLarge.png}}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/rebecca-r-ruiz}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/06/12/multimedia/author-rebecca-r-ruiz/author-rebecca-r-ruiz-thumbLarge.png}}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/sydney-ember}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/06/12/multimedia/author-sydney-ember/author-sydney-ember-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/matt-flegenheimer}{Matt
Flegenheimer}, \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/rebecca-r-ruiz}{Rebecca
R. Ruiz} and \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/sydney-ember}{Sydney
Ember}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Aug. 8, 2020, 5:00 a.m. ET
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. knew how to flatter an old friend.

He had been sitting in the Oval Office in May 2014, in his telling,
convening privately with Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany and
President Barack Obama when another commitment demanded his attention:
Christopher J. Dodd, the former Connecticut senator turned movie
industry lobbyist, was expecting Mr. Biden imminently at a trade
conference nearby.

The vice president said he bid the chancellor farewell.

``Angela Merkel looked at me like, `What in the hell is he talking
about?''' he
\href{https://www.c-span.org/video/?319155-1/vice-president-biden-addresses-mpaa}{recounted}
a short while later --- perhaps with characteristic exaggeration ---
talking up Mr. Dodd's clout before his colleagues at the Motion Picture
Association of America.

The vice president noted the ``rumors,'' dating to their time as
legislative peers, that Mr. Dodd ``controlled'' him despite Mr. Biden's
Senate seniority.

``I've given new life to those rumors,'' he joked.

Six years later, Mr. Biden would appear to be doing so again. With the
biggest decision of his long campaign life looming --- choosing a
running mate before accepting the Democratic presidential nomination in
less than two weeks --- he has tasked Mr. Dodd with helping to lead the
selection process.

The choice is about comfort and trust for Mr. Biden, his friends and
allies say: Mr. Dodd, a fellow septuagenarian Irish Catholic from the
Northeast, has known Mr. Biden for decades and is intimately familiar
with the capital's corridors of power. As a legislator, Mr. Dodd was
regarded as canny and effective by bipartisan consensus, traits that
could serve him, and the former vice president, well in a role that
necessarily entails seeking agreement from disparate groups.

Yet his involvement in 2020 has also struck some Democrats as curious,
at minimum, from the moment it was announced in April. As Mr. Biden
pledges to name a woman to the ticket and works to convince progressive
voters that he hears their calls for wide-scale change, he has elevated,
in Mr. Dodd, a Washington uber-veteran long trailed by allegations of
personal and financial indiscretion.

Criticisms of Mr. Dodd, lobbed quietly in some Democratic circles for
months, spilled into open view late last month after
\href{https://www.politico.com/news/2020/07/27/kamala-harris-biden-vp-381829}{Politico
reported} that Mr. Dodd had privately complained about a lack of
``remorse'' from Senator Kamala Harris of California, a top
vice-presidential contender, over her attacks on Mr. Biden when she ran
for president last year.

While former staff members have defended Mr. Dodd as a champion of women
and he issued a statement saying the remarks as reported ``do not
represent my view on Senator Harris,'' some younger Democratic women
have accused him of conveying a retrograde vision of female political
ambition. ``The 1980s called,''
\href{https://twitter.com/JessOConnell/status/1287749013077360642}{tweeted}
Jess O'Connell, a former top adviser to Pete Buttigieg's presidential
campaign, ``and wants Sen. Dodd back.''

But then, so did Mr. Biden, a fact as reflective of his political
instincts as any vice-presidential pick he might make.

In many ways, Mr. Biden, who is often publicly wistful about a bygone
era of Senate harmony, has identified in Mr. Dodd a kind of avatar of
the Washington he loved, when lawmakers got along and the chamber
retained a sheen of statesmanship. He
\href{https://www.courant.com/news/connecticut/hc-xpm-2009-10-06-biden-fairfield1006-art-story.html}{once
called} Mr. Dodd his ``single best friend'' in Congress.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/08/06/us/politics/00dodd2/merlin_175388097_9054fd8d-e53a-4791-9885-ea4a46ad2f42-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

``You look at Chris, and you think, man, there's a lot of tradition
there,'' said Bob Kerrey, a former Democratic senator from Nebraska who
served with both men, nodding at Mr. Dodd's legislative lineage as the
son of a senator.

``Chris Dodd, John Kerry --- the guys, right?'' Carol Moseley Braun, a
former Democratic senator from Illinois, said of Mr. Biden's friend
group in his Senate heyday. ``Being the Black girl, I was not part of
the old boys' network. I was not part of the circle of friends, and I
would never be. That was just the way things are. But they were all nice
to me.''

In an emailed statement, a Biden campaign spokesman, Andrew Bates, said
the former vice president was ``deeply grateful for Sen. Dodd's
friendship and his contributions to the selection process, alongside his
incredibly talented colleagues.''

But in naming Mr. Dodd one of four selection committee co-chairs, Mr.
Biden has also revived examinations of his friend's own checkered
résumé.

This includes a politically damaging controversy over whether Mr. Dodd
received preferential treatment on Countrywide loans. A Senate ethics
panel
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2009/08/08/us/politics/08ethics.html}{cleared
him} of serious wrongdoing in 2009 but scolded him for not taking
greater care to avoid the appearance of impropriety.

There was also a longstanding accusation that Mr. Dodd participated in
an episode of sexual misconduct involving a waitress and Senator Edward
M. Kennedy, his close friend, in the mid-1980s.

Tales of Mr. Dodd's womanizing as a then-unmarried senator were so
legion that veterans of Capitol Hill at times invoked his name in
private last spring after Mr. Biden faced his own accusation of sexual
assault.

Yes, there were lawmakers who had a reputation for lasciviousness, they
allowed. But Mr. Biden was not one of them. He was no Chris Dodd.

Image

Mr. Dodd was elected to the Senate from Connecticut in 1980 and served
five terms.Credit...Bob Child/Associated Press

\hypertarget{expecting-loyalty-and-returning-it}{%
\subsection{Expecting loyalty, and returning
it}\label{expecting-loyalty-and-returning-it}}

While Mr. Biden, a teetotaler who famously took the train home to
Delaware each night, did not share his friend's social appetites, their
dual political arcs seemed to bond them through the years.

Both men reached the Capitol in their early 30s --- Mr. Biden as a
senator, Mr. Dodd as a congressman until his promotion in 1981 ---
growing into caucus eminences and frequent collaborators.

And both men joined the historic Democratic presidential primary of
2008, when Mr. Obama outlasted Hillary Clinton for the nomination, and
saw their nonhistoric campaigns roundly rejected by voters, a parallel
setback that friends say drew them closer.

Like Mr. Biden, former aides say, Mr. Dodd valued loyalty as a principal
virtue early in his public life, holding close to favored confidantes.

``He's one of the rare politicians who not only expects loyalty but
returns it,'' said Marla Romash, who worked on Mr. Dodd's first Senate
campaign and later served as his press secretary in the 1980s.

Ms. Romash was among the women whom Mr. Dodd placed in senior positions
in his office and campaigns.

``That door opened for me through Chris Dodd,'' said Rosa DeLauro, his
former campaign manager and chief of staff who has been a Connecticut
congresswoman for nearly three decades.

Image

Mr. Dodd and then-Senator Tom Harkin of Iowa signed photos of themselves
after a hearing in 2009.Credit...Stephen Crowley/The New York Times

In some corners of the capital, though, Mr. Dodd's personal life could
occasionally overshadow his record.

He
\href{https://www.washingtonpost.com/archive/lifestyle/1983/07/13/christopher-dodd-his-fathers-son/a8fb2092-16c6-4b4a-923b-a534d980c7c7/}{dated
Bianca Jagger} and amassed prolific bar tabs with Mr. Kennedy, who had a
starring role in two prominent accounts of Mr. Dodd's hard-living years.

In one, captured in a 2011 book by the actress Carrie Fisher, she
\href{https://www.washingtonpost.com/blogs/reliable-source/post/carrie-fisher-on-her-blind-date-with-chris-dodd/2011/11/10/gIQAM94c9M_blog.html}{described}
a blind date with Mr. Dodd during a night out with the two senators.
``So, do you think you'll be having sex with Chris at the end of your
date?'' Mr. Kennedy asked, according to Ms. Fisher, who recalled Mr.
Dodd leering with ``an unusual grin hanging on his very flushed face.''

A \href{https://www.gq.com/story/kennedy-ted-senator-profile}{more
serious charge} circulated in
\href{https://www.gq.com/story/kennedy-ted-senator-profile}{media
reports} decades earlier: that Mr. Kennedy had sexually assaulted Carla
Gaviglio, a young waitress at a Capitol Hill restaurant, when he was
with Mr. Dodd in 1985. Ms. Gaviglio said in a recent interview that Mr.
Kennedy and Mr. Dodd had summoned her to a private dining room. When she
arrived, she recalled, ``I was thrown across the table and then picked
up and thrown on top of Senator Dodd by Senator Kennedy.'' Mr. Kennedy,
Ms. Gaviglio said, then rubbed his genitals on her.

Mr. Dodd did not try to stop Mr. Kennedy during the assault, she said,
but she did not consider Mr. Dodd the instigator.

A spokesman for Mr. Dodd declined to comment on Ms. Gaviglio's account.

Friends say Mr. Dodd's life took a dramatic turn after he remarried in
1999 and became a father. (His first marriage ended shortly after he
reached the Senate.) And at no point did his after-hours conduct appear
to dent his standing as a reliable Democrat who was well liked by his
colleagues.

For years, amid an extended stay on the Foreign Relations Committee and
legislative victories on children's issues, Mr. Dodd was perhaps best
known for working to pass the Family and Medical Leave Act, which
offered workers unpaid time off to care for a child or sick relative and
became law under President Bill Clinton.

Seeking the presidency himself in 2008, Mr. Dodd
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2007/09/24/us/politics/24dodd.html}{anchored
his bid} around ending the Iraq war, which he had voted to authorize,
and promising financial security to retirees. He
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2007/01/12/us/politics/12dodd.html}{offered
himself up} to Democrats with a less-than-stirring self-description: an
``unknown quantity with experience.''

Image

Mr. Dodd announced his retirement from the Senate in
2010.Credit...Richard Perry/The New York Times

\hypertarget{an-emissary-role}{%
\subsection{An emissary role}\label{an-emissary-role}}

The electorate did not reward this pitch.

And Mr. Dodd and Mr. Biden found themselves at last on divergent
professional paths after their twin 2008 campaign failures.

Mr. Biden became vice president. Mr. Dodd became a lame duck, though not
before co-writing what is now his most cited legislative legacy: the
Dodd-Frank regulatory overhaul of 2010,
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2010/07/16/business/16regulate.html}{expanding}
federal oversight of the financial system.

As chairman of the Senate Banking Committee, Mr. Dodd had
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2009/03/20/nyregion/20dodd.html}{fought
perceptions} that he had grown too close to special interests and
corporations he was charged with overseeing.

The senator's top campaign contributors included major insurance,
securities and investment firms, according to the Center for Responsive
Politics, and the pharmaceutical industry
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2009/07/28/us/politics/28dodd.html}{pushed}
for Mr. Dodd's re-election.

Image

Mr. Dodd anchored his 2008 presidential bid around ending the Iraq war,
which he had voted to authorize, and promising financial security to
retirees.Credit...Joshua Lott for The New York Times

But facing the prospect of a difficult race, Mr. Dodd resolved to leave
on his terms --- 40 years after seeing his father, Thomas J. Dodd,
driven from the Senate after being censured for
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/1971/05/25/archives/exsenator-dodd-is-dead-at-64-censured-in-1967-by-colleagues.html}{misappropriating
campaign funds}.

He
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2010/01/07/nyregion/07dodd.html}{announced}
in early 2010 that he would not seek re-election.

And in 2011, he took a job with the Motion Picture Association of
America, earning \$2.4 million that year --- more than double what his
predecessor had made --- as Hollywood's top lobbyist. For his full
six-and-a-half years with the nonprofit trade association, Mr. Dodd
received more than \$25 million, according to filings with the I.R.S.

In that post, he was credited with helping to increase the distribution
of American movies in China. He
\href{https://www.latimes.com/politics/story/2019-07-17/joe-biden-money-hollywood-studios-china}{referred
to Mr. Biden} as ``our champion inside the White House.''.

Mr. Dodd
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2017/04/28/business/media/chris-dodd-resign-mpaa.html}{stepped
down} in 2017,
\href{https://variety.com/2017/film/news/mpaa-shakeup-charles-rivkin-replacing-chris-dodd-1202403340/}{citing}
his age as a factor. But rather than retire from lobbying --- work that
in 2010 he
\href{https://ctmirror.org/2010/08/30/dodd-forswears-lobbying-career/}{had
said} he would never pursue --- he joined a white-shoe law firm in 2018.
In recent years, lobbying disclosure reports show, Mr. Dodd has focused
on the interests of victims of terrorist attacks in Israel, representing
the plaintiffs in a
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/19/us/politics/supreme-court-plo-trump-terrorism-case.html}{high-profile
case} brought by a group of American families against the Palestine
Liberation Organization.

His return to the political fore this year was both unexpected and
unsurprising to former colleagues, given the presumptive Democratic
nominee.

Of the four co-chairs on Mr. Biden's selection committee --- which also
includes Representative Lisa Blunt Rochester of Delaware, Mayor Eric
Garcetti of Los Angeles and Cynthia Hogan, a former Biden aide --- Mr.
Dodd is viewed by many in the party as a kind of first among equals.

People who have spoken to Mr. Dodd understand him to be occupying
something of an emissary role: collecting impressions (and sharing his
own).

``Chris's role is to try and bring them together and to report to Joe as
to what the consensus is,'' said Barbara Boxer, a former Democratic
senator from California who served with both men.

Image

Mr. Biden once called Mr. Dodd his ``single best friend'' in
Congress.Credit...J. Scott Applewhite/Associated Press

As the campaign nears its choice, Mr. Biden's faith in his judgment
would appear to be unswerving.

In 2018, when Mr. Dodd's new law firm, Arnold \& Porter, held a party to
honor its newest lobbyist, the former vice president stopped in for a
toast.

Mr. Biden complimented the firm partners on their ``incredibly good
judgment in convincing Chris to come on.''

He closed with a joke.

``Anyway, I just wanted to say congratulations,'' Mr. Biden said. ``And
I hope I don't need you.''

Kitty Bennett contributed research.

\hypertarget{our-2020-election-guide}{%
\section{Our 2020 Election Guide}\label{our-2020-election-guide}}

Updated Aug. 7, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{the-latest}{%
  \subsection{The Latest}\label{the-latest}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/07/us/politics/russia-china-trump-biden-election-interference.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Russia
    is using a range of techniques to denigrate Joe Biden}, American
    intelligence officials said, declaring that Moscow continues to try
    to interfere in the 2020 campaign to help President Trump.
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{bidens-vp-search}{%
  \subsection{Biden's V.P. Search}\label{bidens-vp-search}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/biden-vice-president-2020.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Here
    are 13 women} who have been under consideration to be Joe Biden's
    running mate, and why each might be chosen --- and might not be.
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{keep-up-with-our-coverage}{%
  \subsection{Keep Up With Our
  Coverage}\label{keep-up-with-our-coverage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Get an
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{email}
    recapping the day's news
  \end{itemize}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Download our mobile app on
    \href{https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nytimes/id284862083?ls=1\&mat_click_id=5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\&referrer=mat_click_id\%3D5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\%26link_click_id\%3D722930677036718082}{iOS}
    and
    \href{http://a.localytics.com/android?id=com.nytimes.android\&referrer=utm_source\%3Dother_nyt_mobile_web\%26utm_medium\%3DWeb\%2520page\%26utm_term\%3DGeneral\%2520Mobile\%2520Page\%26utm_campaign\%3DNYT\%2520Mobile\%2520General\%2520Page}{Android}
    and turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
