Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}How Kristi Noem, Mt.
Rushmore and Trump Fueled Speculation About Pence's Job

\href{https://nyti.ms/2DqtZiB}{https://nyti.ms/2DqtZiB}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/07/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Election
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/08/06/us/elections/results-tennessee-primary-elections.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Tennessee
  Results}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/biden-vice-president-2020.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Biden's
  V.P. Search}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2019/us/politics/2020-presidential-candidates.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{The
  Candidates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Politics
  Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{how-kristi-noem-mt-rushmore-and-trump-fueled-speculation-about-pences-job}{%
\section{How Kristi Noem, Mt. Rushmore and Trump Fueled Speculation
About Pence's
Job}\label{how-kristi-noem-mt-rushmore-and-trump-fueled-speculation-about-pences-job}}

After Ms. Noem, the South Dakota governor, flew to Washington on Air
Force One, rumors about her ambitions ensued. She made a second trip to
smooth things over with Mike Pence.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/08/08/us/politics/08trump-noem1/08trump-noem1-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/jonathan-martin}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/11/06/multimedia/author-jonathan-martin/author-jonathan-martin-thumbLarge.png}}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/maggie-haberman}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/07/12/multimedia/author-maggie-haberman/author-maggie-haberman-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/jonathan-martin}{Jonathan Martin}
and \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/maggie-haberman}{Maggie Haberman}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Aug. 8, 2020Updated 12:22 p.m. ET
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

WASHINGTON --- Since the first days after she was elected governor of
South Dakota in 2018, Kristi Noem had been working to ensure that
President Trump would come to Mount Rushmore for a fireworks-filled July
4 extravaganza.

After all, the president had
\href{https://www.argusleader.com/story/news/2018/04/24/president-donald-trump-mount-rushmore-trumpmore/544597002/}{told
her} in the Oval Office that he aspired to have his image etched on the
monument. And last year, a White House aide reached out to the
governor's office with a question, according to a Republican official
familiar with the conversation: What's the process to add additional
presidents to Mount Rushmore?

So last month, when the president arrived in the Black Hills for the
star-spangled spectacle he had pined for, Ms. Noem made the most of it.

Introducing Mr. Trump against the floodlit backdrop of his carved
predecessors, the governor played to the president's craving for
adulation by noting that in just three days more than 125,000 people had
signed up for only 7,500 seats; she likened him to Theodore Roosevelt, a
leader who ``braves the dangers of the arena''; and she mimicked the
president's rhetoric by scorning protesters who she said were seeking to
discredit the country's founders.

In private, the efforts to charm Mr. Trump were more pointed, according
to a person familiar with the episode: Ms. Noem greeted him with a
four-foot replica of Mount Rushmore that included a fifth presidential
likeness: his.

But less than three weeks later, Ms. Noem came to the White House with
far less fanfare --- to meet not with Mr. Trump, but with Vice President
Mike Pence. Word had circulated through the Trump administration that
she was ingratiating herself with the president, fueling suspicions that
there might have been a discussion about her serving as his running mate
in November. Ms. Noem assured Mr. Pence that she wanted to help the
ticket however she could, according to an official present.

She never stated it directly, but the vice president found her message
clear: She was not after his job.

There is no indication Mr. Trump wants to replace Mr. Pence. Mr. Trump
last month told Fox News that he's sticking with Mr. Pence, whom he
called a ``friend.''

Yet with polls showing the president trailing Joseph R. Biden Jr., the
presumptive Democratic nominee, and Republicans at risk of being shut
out of power in Congress, a host of party leaders have begun eyeing the
future, maneuvering around a mercurial president.

Senator Tom Cotton of Arkansas was in New Hampshire late last month,
Senator Rick Scott of Florida is angling to take over the Senate
Republican campaign arm to cultivate donors, and Representative Liz
Cheney of Wyoming is defending Dr. Anthony S. Fauci, the government's
leading expert on infectious disease, while separating herself from Mr.
Trump on some national security issues.

At the same time, Secretary of State Mike Pompeo is attempting to shore
up his conservative credentials by pushing a hard line on China, and
Senators Ted Cruz of Texas and Rand Paul of Kentucky are attempting to
reclaim their standing as fiscal hawks by loudly opposing additional
spending on coronavirus relief.

Drawing less attention, but working equally hard to burnish her national
profile, is Ms. Noem. The governor, 48, has installed a TV studio in her
state capitol, become a Fox News regular and started taking advice from
Mr. Trump's former 2016 campaign manager, Corey Lewandowski, who still
has the president's ear.

Next month, she'll address a county
\href{https://nonpareilonline.com/news/local/govt-and-politics/south-dakota-governor-to-headline-pottawattamie-county-gop-dinner/article_4c86d770-2297-5129-8746-2b2e3ccf40a3.html}{Republican
dinner in Iowa}.

``There seems like there might be some interest on her part --- it
certainly gets noticed,'' Jon Hansen, a Republican state representative
in South Dakota, said of Ms. Noem's positioning for national office.

Her efforts have paid off, as evidenced by the
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/03/us/politics/trump-coronavirus-mount-rushmore.html}{news-driving}
celebration at Mount Rushmore. Yet Ms. Noem's attempts to raise her
profile have not been without complications. And they illustrate the
risks in political maneuvering with a president who has little restraint
when it comes to confidentiality, and a White House that shares his
obsession about, and antenna for, palace intrigue.

To the surprise of some of her own advisers, Ms. Noem flew with Mr.
Trump to Washington on Air Force One late in the evening after his Mount
Rushmore speech. Joined by Mr. Lewandowski, she and the president spoke
for over an hour privately during the flight --- a fact that Mr. Trump
and some of his aides soon shared with other Republicans, according to
officials familiar with his disclosure.

An aide to Ms. Noem, Maggie Seidel, said she did not raise the vice
presidency with Mr. Trump. Mr. Lewandowski, who is a paid adviser to the
Pence-aligned Great America PAC, also denied that he or the governor
ever raised the subject of replacing Mr. Pence on the ticket.

Mr. Lewandowski, in a brief interview, described Ms. Noem as a star who
``has a huge future in Republican politics.''

A White House official laughed at the notion that Mr. Trump is open to
replacing Mr. Pence, a move that, among other things, would exude
desperation. And regarding the phone call about adding the president's
image to Mt. Rushmore, the official noted that it is a federal, not
state, monument.

Still, word of the Air Force One conversation quickly reached White
House officials, including those in Mr. Pence's office.

A short time later, Ms. Noem was jetting back to the capital, this time
in less grand fashion, after requesting a meeting with Mr. Pence.

White House aides kept Ms. Noem from meeting with Mr. Trump again, one
person familiar with the planning said. But Mr. Pence's office gladly
put his session with the governor on his public schedule and the vice
president
\href{https://twitter.com/mike_pence/status/1286061448897142784?lang=en}{tweeted}
about it afterward. Ms. Noem's aides, hoping to tamp down questions
about the second trip, emphasized that she had also met with officials
from the Department of Health and Human Services and other agencies
while she was in the capital.

One official close to the vice president said that Ms. Noem did not
discuss her Air Force One flight with Mr. Pence but used the
conversation to say she wanted to help the campaign however she could.
The official suggested that the vice president's team has an opportunity
for her in mind: helping Mr. Pence prepare to debate whichever woman Mr.
Biden selects as his running mate.

Yet one senior Trump adviser has recently lamented to others that Mr.
Trump could have boosted his re-election campaign had he replaced Mr.
Pence with a woman, according to people familiar with the conversations.
One potential candidate mentioned was Nikki Haley, the former United
Nations ambassador who is close to the president's daughter and
son-in-law, Ivanka Trump and Jared Kushner.

However, Mr. Pence has been an unstinting ally of Mr. Trump, and the
vice president retains a number of allies in the president's orbit.

``I think we'll win South Dakota either way,'' Brian Ballard, a lobbyist
close to Mr. Trump, said.

That these kinds of speculative conversations about a different running
mate have taken place at all, though, illustrates the depth of
frustration in Mr. Trump's inner circle over his political fortunes.With
early voting starting in less than two months in some states, the
president's ineffectual response to the coronavirus has alienated voters
and made the election primarily a referendum on him.

Speculation has long lingered in Republican circles that Mr. Trump could
swap out Mr. Pence for Ms. Haley, partly because of the president's own
musings about it.

For a time in 2018, Mr. Trump queried people about Mr. Pence's loyalty.
And officials in the administration, including some close to Mr. Pence,
said they believed that Mr. Kushner and Ms. Trump were angling to
replace him with Ms. Haley.

In his memoir, ``The Room Where It Happened,'' the former national
security adviser John R. Bolton recounts how, flying to Iraq on
Christmas night in 2018, the president asked him for his opinion on
jettisoning Mr. Pence*.*

Ms. Noem, the daughter of a rancher who took over her family's property
after her father died, has insisted that she has little appetite to
return to Washington, where she served as South Dakota's sole House
member for eight years before becoming governor.

``She's focused on being the governor of South Dakota,'' said Ms.
Seidel, her senior adviser.

The president's transition team contacted her about interviewing for a
cabinet post after the 2016 election, but she was already planning to
run for governor then. Some of her allies believe she'd also be open to
the interior or agricultural secretary roles in a second Trump term
ahead of the 2024 race.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/08/08/us/politics/08trump-noem3/merlin_163867125_33a1e450-da99-4ce7-9cb4-a31f0c45c68c-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Ms. Noem's poll numbers have increased after a difficult first year in
office. But to some of her aides, Mr. Lewandowski, a hard-charging New
Englander, has been a disruptive presence in Pierre, South Dakota's
small state capital. He appeared as a guest speaker at one luncheon with
cabinet officials and pressed the governor's appointees to make a more
aggressive case for her, irritating the state officials, according to a
person briefed on the events.

The governor is now on her third chief of staff because the last one,
Joshua Shields, left in part because of the increased role of Mr.
Lewandowski, according to South Dakota Republicans.

Mr. Lewandowski has sought opportunities that could benefit both Mr.
Trump and Ms. Noem. He recently discussed with the president's advisers
sending Mr. Trump to the
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/07/us/sturgis-motorcyle-rally.html}{annual
motorcycle rally} in Sturgis, S.D., where there would be a big crowd and
where the two might have appeared together again; Mr. Trump's aides did
not want him in the same politically safe state twice in two months.

Ms. Noem has been a steadfast ally of Mr. Trump and has mirrored his
handling of the virus.

She has pushed for schools to reopen for in-person classes, denounced
mask mandates and had South Dakota participate in a study on
hydroxychloroquine, the malaria treatment Mr. Trump has trumpeted.

It was her star turn at Mount Rushmore, though, that has gotten
Republicans talking and been a boon to South Dakota tourism, the state's
second-largest industry.

Recognizing the president's immense interest in the monument, Ms. Noem
worked with his Interior Department to ensure
\href{https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefings-statements/remarks-president-trump-signing-u-s-china-phase-one-trade-agreement-2/}{there
would be fireworks} for the celebration,
\href{https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/1125941300518432771}{a
longstanding priority} for Mr. Trump. There had been no fireworks there
for the previous decade because of environmental and fire-risk concerns.

In the weeks leading up to the event, Ms. Noem went on Laura Ingraham's
show on Fox News to make clear she was expecting to ``have a large
event'' for the president and would not require social distancing or
masks.

Then, as the president sat watching her remarks in a bunting-wrapped box
just offstage, she praised America as a place where someone who was
``just a farm kid'' could become ``the first female governor of South
Dakota.''

\hypertarget{our-2020-election-guide}{%
\section{Our 2020 Election Guide}\label{our-2020-election-guide}}

Updated Aug. 7, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{the-latest}{%
  \subsection{The Latest}\label{the-latest}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/07/us/politics/russia-china-trump-biden-election-interference.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Russia
    is using a range of techniques to denigrate Joe Biden}, American
    intelligence officials said, declaring that Moscow continues to try
    to interfere in the 2020 campaign to help President Trump.
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{bidens-vp-search}{%
  \subsection{Biden's V.P. Search}\label{bidens-vp-search}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/biden-vice-president-2020.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Here
    are 13 women} who have been under consideration to be Joe Biden's
    running mate, and why each might be chosen --- and might not be.
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{keep-up-with-our-coverage}{%
  \subsection{Keep Up With Our
  Coverage}\label{keep-up-with-our-coverage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Get an
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{email}
    recapping the day's news
  \end{itemize}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Download our mobile app on
    \href{https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nytimes/id284862083?ls=1\&mat_click_id=5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\&referrer=mat_click_id\%3D5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\%26link_click_id\%3D722930677036718082}{iOS}
    and
    \href{http://a.localytics.com/android?id=com.nytimes.android\&referrer=utm_source\%3Dother_nyt_mobile_web\%26utm_medium\%3DWeb\%2520page\%26utm_term\%3DGeneral\%2520Mobile\%2520Page\%26utm_campaign\%3DNYT\%2520Mobile\%2520General\%2520Page}{Android}
    and turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
