Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/books/review}{Book Review}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/books/review}{Book Review}\textbar{}These Celebrities Can
Change Your Life

\url{https://nyti.ms/2OZcwjl}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

Nonfiction

\hypertarget{these-celebrities-can-change-your-life}{%
\section{These Celebrities Can Change Your
Life}\label{these-celebrities-can-change-your-life}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/07/28/books/review/28Newman-HelpDesk/28Newman-HelpDesk-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Buy Book ▾

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.amazon.com/gp/search?index=books\&tag=NYTBSREV-20\&field-keywords=Hustle+Harder\%2C+Hustle+Smarter+Curtis+Jackson}{Amazon}
\item
  \href{https://du-gae-books-dot-nyt-du-prd.appspot.com/buy?title=Hustle+Harder\%2C+Hustle+Smarter\&author=Curtis+Jackson}{Apple
  Books}
\item
  \href{https://www.anrdoezrs.net/click-7990613-11819508?url=https\%3A\%2F\%2Fwww.barnesandnoble.com\%2Fw\%2F\%3Fean\%3D9780062953803}{Barnes
  and Noble}
\item
  \href{https://www.anrdoezrs.net/click-7990613-35140?url=https\%3A\%2F\%2Fwww.booksamillion.com\%2Fp\%2FHustle\%2BHarder\%252C\%2BHustle\%2BSmarter\%2FCurtis\%2BJackson\%2F9780062953803}{Books-A-Million}
\item
  \href{https://bookshop.org/a/3546/9780062953803}{Bookshop}
\item
  \href{https://www.indiebound.org/book/9780062953803?aff=NYT}{Indiebound}
\end{itemize}

When you purchase an independently reviewed book through our site, we
earn an affiliate commission.

By Judith Newman

\begin{itemize}
\item
  July 28, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/07/28/books/review/28Newman1/28Newman1-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

When considering self-help books by celebrities, I look first at what
expertise the author has that qualifies him or her to be dispensing
advice. So what to do with \textbf{HUSTLE HARDER, HUSTLE SMARTER
(Amistad, 304 pp., \$27.99), by Curtis Jackson}, the
rapper/producer/actor/entrepreneur known as 50 Cent? I don't need advice
on selling drugs (Fiddy at age 12), getting shot (nine times) or making
hit records (over 30 million albums sold). But it happens the man has
made several fortunes (and lost a couple too), which makes ``Hustle
Harder'' an inspirational, if at times alarming, read. Like Snoop Dogg,
Jackson's got his mind on his money, and his money on his mind.

``Hustle Harder'' is a business guide for the terminally cool, meaning
few of us could get away with this stuff. Can you be the one sober
person at every party, and elicit key information from everyone once
they're drunk? Fiddy can. Would your takeaway on the idea of being
betrayed sound like this: ``I'd rather be robbed at gunpoint than be
betrayed \ldots{} there's an undeniable rush when someone pulls out
their piece''? In the town I grew up in, Scarsdale, we'd be more likely
to threaten someone who wronged us with a lawsuit. And unlike Jackson I
wouldn't feel I was ``much stronger over all for having survived the
experience.'' A complicated discussion about stakes in a business deal
where Jackson and his crew ``expressed our concerns'' has a threatening
subtext. So this advice is not tailor-made for all business situations,
though it could come in handy next time I have to deal with my co-op
board.

Image

Much of the appeal of Al Roker's breezy \textbf{YOU LOOK SO MUCH BETTER
IN PERSON: True Stories of Absurdity and Success (Hachette Go, 224 pp.,
\$28)} is you get to spend time with Al Roker --- and who doesn't want
that? This book is not for the alpha guy. The ``Today'' show's
weatherman is like the anti-50 Cent, and he is here to gently remind you
that you can be a little bit nerdy and antisocial (he has suggested in
interviews that he may, like his son, be on the autism spectrum) and
still be a roaring success. His career advice, called ``ALtruisms'' (get
it?), is not exactly earth-shatteringly original --- there are chapters
advising you not to boast, whine or name-drop (what he calls
``goober-smooching''), and to work a little harder than the next guy.
But they are illustrated with great charm, and show that you don't have
to be the company chest-beater to be the winner.

Not surprisingly, dealing with injustice and racism is a recurring
theme: Black newsmen were still pretty rare when Roker was coming up,
and there were many moments that could spark outrage. When he was still
reporting the weather in Cleveland, the evening news anchor Doug Adair
was swatted on the head by an unbalanced African-American homeless man
outside the studio. During the broadcast the next day, Adair turned to
Roker and said, ``Al, I don't know if you heard, but last night after
the 11:00 news one of your people attacked me.'' Before anyone could
draw a shocked breath, Roker calmly turned to him and asked, ``Doug, why
would a weatherman attack you?'' And that, my friends, is how you become
one of the most beloved fixtures on network news.

Image

Loni Love, the comedian, actor and co-host of the TV chat show ``The
Real,'' has a gift: She can preach without being preachy. In \textbf{I
TRIED TO CHANGE SO YOU DON'T HAVE TO: True Life Lessons (Hachette Go,
241 pp., \$28),} Love tells her story about growing up in Detroit's
Brewster-Douglass projects at the height of the crack epidemic. Her
formative years were every bit as harrowing as 50 Cent's, with hunger a
constant theme and ketchup sandwiches a staple. When Love was tapped to
be a dealer's girlfriend --- an honor among her friends --- she
demurred. The French-horn-playing, math-loving teenager had other ideas.
She made her money delivering groceries, then got a job on the G.M. line
glue-gunning car carpet (all the while secretly living in her car ---
her mother had thrown her out to make room for her new boyfriend). With
help from an exec who saw her reading ``The Autobiography of Malcolm X''
--- who had himself made it out of the projects --- she turned in her
glue gun and went to college. In a few years she was working as an
engineer at Xerox by day, and trying out her comedy chops on the Chitlin
Circuit (the Black L.A. comedy clubs) at night. At various points in her
life she tried to make herself what she was not: skinny, corporate, a
``Black Stepford wife.'' Fortunately, none of it worked.

Much of Love's early life was, objectively, awful, but she mines it for
comedy and life lessons, not pity. When one Christmas her mother
couldn't afford presents for the kids, she watched as her brother's
father (she didn't know her own) brought him a bounty but nothing for
her. The upshot was, ``I learned two important life lessons that day:
Number one: Feeling let down by someone's bad behavior is a healthy sign
that you know your worth. And number two: If Santa shows up with a Jheri
curl, don't let him in.''

With her maniacal work ethic, incredible nerve, practical wisdom and
huge heart, it's no surprise that Love found love. She's a woman whose
romantic advice we should all listen to. On vacation with a new
boyfriend, she lost her wig while swimming. He'd never seen her without
it. Not only did he tell her she looked beautiful in her cornrows, he
dived into the water to retrieve it. ``Ladies, take my advice, if you
find yourself a man willing to brave an undertow to bring you back the
hair you paid good money for, he's a keeper.'' They're still together.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
