Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}Trump National Security
Adviser Called Russian Envoy Day Before Sanctions Were Imposed

\url{https://nyti.ms/2irBats}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

Transition Briefing

\hypertarget{trump-national-security-adviser-called-russian-envoy-day-before-sanctions-were-imposed}{%
\section{Trump National Security Adviser Called Russian Envoy Day Before
Sanctions Were
Imposed}\label{trump-national-security-adviser-called-russian-envoy-day-before-sanctions-were-imposed}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/julie-hirschfeld-davis}{Julie
Hirschfeld Davis},
\href{http://www.nytimes.com/by/christopher-drew}{Christopher Drew},
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/nicholas-fandos}{Nicholas Fandos} and
\href{http://www.nytimes.com/by/jeremy-w-peters}{Jeremy W. Peters}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Jan. 13, 2017
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

■ The national security adviser appointed by President-elect Donald J.
Trump called a Russian envoy the day before sanctions were imposed on
Russia for meddling in the election.

■ The ``conscience of the House'' --- the civil rights hero John Lewis
--- does not believe Mr. Trump will be a legitimate president. Not a
good start.

■ The great potty coverup on The Mall: does the president-elect not want
``Don's Johns'' visible on Inauguration Day?

■ And readers get a chance to say what they would ask Mr. Trump's E.P.A.
pick, Scott Pruitt.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2017/01/14/world/14Transitonbriefing-Ryan/14Transitonbriefing-Ryan-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\hypertarget{call-to-a-russian-envoy-before-sanctions-were-imposed}{%
\subsection{Call to a Russian envoy before sanctions were
imposed}\label{call-to-a-russian-envoy-before-sanctions-were-imposed}}

Lt. Gen. Michael T. Flynn, who will be Mr. Trump's national security
adviser, spoke with Sergei I. Kislyak, the Russian ambassador to the
United States, the day before President Obama imposed sanctions on
Russia for election hacking, to arrange a phone call between President
Vladimir V. Putin of Russia and Mr. Trump once he becomes president, a
Trump spokesman said Friday.

Mr. Flynn's secret call did not violate the law, Mr. Trump's spokesman
said.

But under the circumstances, it is bound to raise eyebrows.

``The call centered around the logistics of setting up a call with the
president of Russia and the president-elect after he was sworn in, and
they exchanged logistical information,'' Sean Spicer, Mr. Trump's
spokesman, told reporters on a conference call on Friday. ``That was it,
plain and simple.''

Several news organizations reported on Thursday on the calls between the
two men. David Ignatius of The Washington Post
\href{https://www.washingtonpost.com/opinions/why-did-obama-dawdle-on-russias-hacking/2017/01/12/75f878a0-d90c-11e6-9a36-1d296534b31e_story.html?utm_term=.492828c97762}{suggested}
it could have violated the Logan Act, a 218-year-old law that bars
American citizens from negotiating without authorization with foreign
governments that have a dispute with the United States.

Mr. Spicer said General Flynn had initially reached out to Mr. Kislyak
via text message on Christmas Day to wish him a happy holiday and to say
that he looked forward to working with him in the coming administration.
The ambassador sent a text back returning the sentiment, he added. The
Russian envoy followed up on Dec. 28 with another text that asked if he
could call General Flynn, and the two spoke, Mr. Spicer said.

The call, which came the day before Mr. Obama announced penalties for
Russia, including the expulsion from the United States of 35 Russian
diplomats, never touched on the sanctions, Mr. Spicer said.

\hypertarget{the-delegitimizing-of-a-president}{%
\subsection{The delegitimizing of a
president}\label{the-delegitimizing-of-a-president}}

It was bad enough that
\href{http://www.gallup.com/poll/201833/approval-trump-transition-low-inauguration-nears.aspx?utm_source=twitterbutton\&utm_medium=twitter\&utm_campaign=sharing}{a
new Gallup poll on Friday morning found that only 44 percent} of
Americans approve of the way Mr. Trump has handled his transition ---
compared with 83 percent who approved of President Obama's transition
and 61 percent who approved of George W. Bush's. That followed
\href{https://poll.qu.edu/national/release-detail?ReleaseID=2415}{a
Quinnipiac University poll this week that put Mr. Trump's approval
rating at 37 percent}.

But now, Representative John Lewis, Democrat of Georgia and a hero of
the civil rights movement, is flat out saying he doesn't see Mr. Trump
``as a legitimate president.''

Elected Democrats are not only boasting of skipping the inauguration but
are pledging to join the massive protest march that will follow on Jan.
21.

Needless to say, this is not a good way to start a presidency.

\hypertarget{potty-gate-on-the-mall}{%
\subsection{Potty-gate on The Mall}\label{potty-gate-on-the-mall}}

They are calling it the potty cover-up of the 2017 inauguration.

The Associated Press
\href{https://www.apnews.com/b2159d51ff7b47cc97a03c10d0954994}{reported}
on Friday that workers preparing the Capitol grounds and National Mall
for the inauguration of Mr. Trump have altered the portable toilets
being set up to accommodate attendees, apparently to spare the ego of
the president-elect.

The toilets are provided by the equipment rental company Don's Johns.
But on Friday, a Capitol employee was photographed covering the
company's logo with blue masking tape, and later, dozens of the
porta-johns appeared to have been altered that way.

The company's chief executive said he had no idea why his logo had been
covered, telling the AP ``we're proud to have our name on the units.''

It appears, however, that a certain somebody else is not.

\hypertarget{are-we-tired-of-winning-yet}{%
\subsection{Are we tired of winning
yet?}\label{are-we-tired-of-winning-yet}}

On the campaign trail, Mr. Trump promised that with his deal-making
skills, we'd be winning so much, we'd get tired of winning. Marillyn
Hewson, the chief executive of Lockheed Martin, which makes the F-35
fighter jet, delivered the latest victory: the cost will come down, as
Mr. Trump has demanded.

After meeting with the president-elect, she told reporters at Trump
Tower, ``I'm glad I had the opportunity to tell him that we are close to
a deal that will bring the cost down significantly from the previous lot
of aircraft to the next lot of aircraft, and moreover it's going to
bring a lot of jobs to the United States.'' She added:

\begin{quote}
In fact we are going to increase our jobs in Fort Worth by 1,800 jobs,
and when you think about the supply chain across 45 states in the U.S.,
it's going to be thousands and thousands of jobs. And I also had the
opportunity to give him some ideas on things we think we can do to
continue to drive the cost down on the F-35 program, so it was a great
meeting.
\end{quote}

This is a bit of corporate spin for the incoming commander in chief's
benefit. Shortly before the election in November, the Pentagon had
imposed a price cut on the last group of F-35s because Lockheed wouldn't
budge.

Then the Defense Department began negotiating the price for the next
lot, and Lockheed understood that if it tried to fight another price
cut, the Pentagon would have imposed it again.

\hypertarget{questions-for-epa-pick-scott-pruitt}{%
\subsection{Questions for E.P.A. pick Scott
Pruitt}\label{questions-for-epa-pick-scott-pruitt}}

Attorney General Scott Pruitt of Oklahoma, who spent years suing the
Environmental Protection Agency to thwart its regulations, especially
those that combat climate change, will appear before the Senate
Environment and Public Works Committee on Wednesday for a hearing to
confirm him as head of the agency.

The hearing promises to be among the most contentious of all the
confirmation grillings, so The New York Times is reaching out to
readers:
\href{http://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2017/01/13/science/epa-scott-pruitt-questions.html}{What
should senators ask Mr. Pruitt?}

\hypertarget{trump-attacks-hillary-clinton-over-emails--again}{%
\subsection{Trump attacks Hillary Clinton over emails ---
again}\label{trump-attacks-hillary-clinton-over-emails--again}}

The election was more than two months ago, the Electoral College ballots
have been certified and the inauguration is a week away, but the
president-elect has not gone beyond campaign mode when it comes to
Hillary Clinton.

After the decision by the Justice Department inspector general
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2017/01/12/us/politics/james-comey-fbi-inspector-general-hillary-clinton.html}{to
investigate James B. Comey}, the F.B.I. director, over his actions in
the final days of the campaign, Mr. Trump went on a tirade.

The leap to ``guilty as hell'' was a big one. The investigation will
center on
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2017/01/12/us/politics/james-comey-fbi-inspector-general-hillary-clinton.html}{why
Mr. Comey sent a public letter} to Congress in the last days of the
campaign announcing that the F.B.I. was reopening the Clinton emails
investigation after discovering other messages on the laptop of Anthony
D. Weiner, the estranged husband of Huma Abedin, a top Clinton aide.
Days later, Mr. Comey announced that the computer held no incriminating
evidence.

\hypertarget{a-dossier-has-gotten-under-trumps-skin}{%
\subsection{A dossier has gotten under Trump's
skin}\label{a-dossier-has-gotten-under-trumps-skin}}

On Twitter on Friday morning, Mr. Trump again brought up the
unsubstantiated, explosive dossier that a retired British intelligence
agent compiled from information that he said Russia possesses.

Mr. Trump likes to dismiss the ``failing New York Times,'' but he
clearly reads it closely. The Times published
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2017/01/11/us/politics/donald-trump-russia-intelligence.html?_r=0}{a
lengthy history of the dossier} in question that traces it to Republican
and Democratic operatives who helped bankroll it to stop Mr. Trump's
election. Left unsaid are the respectable credentials of the British
spy, Christopher Steele, or the fact that
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2017/01/12/world/europe/christopher-steele-trump-russia-dossier.html}{he
is now in hiding}, fearing retribution.

\hypertarget{the-pre-inaugural-concert-is-set}{%
\subsection{The pre-inaugural concert is
set}\label{the-pre-inaugural-concert-is-set}}

By now, Mr. Trump's pre-inaugural concert has become a kind of reality
show unto itself, marked by rumors of stars, leaks to the press, and
occasional promises of an unforgettable show on the eve of the
president-elect's swearing in.

The final details are in and the affair looks to be --- well, you
decide.

The concert is actually two. The first portion of the evening, ``Voices
of the People,'' will feature performances by small groups from across
the country. Think more D.C. Fire Department Emerald Society Pipes and
Drums and Webelos Troop 177 than Beyoncé.

The A-listers have been reserved for the second part, which will be
televised across the country and feature remarks by Mr. Trump himself.
This part of the evening, ``Make America Great Again! Welcome
Celebration,'' looks to be heavy on country music --- Toby Keith, Lee
Greenwood, and a group calling itself the Frontmen of Country --- with
some 1980s Broadway (Jennifer Holliday), rock (3 Doors Down) and a D.J.
(RaviDrums) mixed in.

Jon Voight, the 78-year-old actor who narrated a video for Mr. Trump
during the campaign, will serve as M.C. And a fireworks show by Grucci
will close out the evening.

And in case you were wondering, a news release announcing the details
boasted that the show ``is produced and directed by Emmy Award winners
and nominees.'' That would include Mark Burnett, the acclaimed reality
television producer who worked with Mr. Trump on ``The Apprentice'' and
has helped plan the inaugural festivities.

\hypertarget{an-a-lister-strikes-back}{%
\subsection{An A-lister strikes back}\label{an-a-lister-strikes-back}}

One of Mr. Trump's most provocative and persistent antagonists, Cher, is
leading a new boycott of the president-elect that aims to hit him where
he will most certainly feel it: his Nielsen ratings.

Under the Twitter hashtag ``TURNHIMOFF,'' Cher began Thursday night
circulating her plea for people who oppose Mr. Trump to turn off their
televisions when his inaugural festivities begin next Friday.

``Ratings are what he understands,'' the singer and actress said in a
phone interview.

Cher's Twitter feed became one of
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2016/09/04/fashion/cher-hillary-clinton-donald-trump-twitter.html}{the
most animated and popular sources} of anti-Trump sentiment during the
election. And the ferocity that she --- a 70-year-old megacelebrity with
nearly 3.2 million Twitter followers --- used to go after Mr. Trump
seemed to perfectly capture what a surreal turn American politics took
in 2016.

\hypertarget{in-white-house-war-games-maybe-a-lesson-for-trumps-promised-arms-race}{%
\subsection{In White House war games, maybe a lesson for Trump's
promised arms
race}\label{in-white-house-war-games-maybe-a-lesson-for-trumps-promised-arms-race}}

Senior national security officials for President Obama are hosting their
counterparts on President-elect Trump's team on Friday for a war-gaming
exercise at the White House intended to practice the response to a major
domestic or international emergency.

The session, similar to one that George W. Bush's staff held in the
restricted Situation Room for Mr. Obama's team just days before he was
inaugurated in 2009, aims to familiarize the incoming president's team
with the protocols and practices the federal government uses in a
crisis.

Josh Earnest, the White House press secretary, said it would simulate
what happens during ``major domestic incidents,'' including natural
disasters.

In the exercise in 2009, top Bush administration officials walked Mr.
Obama's aides through what would happen in the event of an attack
involving a series of explosions detonating in a number of American
cities simultaneously.

Maybe the new White House will conclude what ``WarGames,'' that 1980s
movie, said about fighting a nuclear war: ``The only winning move is not
to play.''

\hypertarget{if-you-dont-have-something-nice-to-say}{%
\subsection{If you don't have something nice to
say}\label{if-you-dont-have-something-nice-to-say}}

Mr. Trump's foray onto social media Friday morning wasn't all anger and
spittle. He praised his cabinet picks' performances before the Senate
--- which have gone well, on the whole --- and the progress Congress is
making toward gutting the Affordable Care Act.

And:

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2017/01/12/us/politics/congress-affordable-care-act.html?hp\&action=click\&pgtype=Homepage\&clickSource=story-heading\&module=first-column-region\&region=top-news\&WT.nav=top-news}{The
House is likely to give final approval on Friday} to parliamentary
language that would allow Congress to eviscerate President Obama's
signature domestic achievement with a simple Senate majority this
spring, and without fear of a Democratic filibuster.

What comes next is uncertain, and of
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2017/01/11/upshot/trumps-obamacare-plan-still-optimistic-still-vague.html?hp\&action=click\&pgtype=Homepage\&clickSource=story-heading\&module=first-column-region\&region=top-news\&WT.nav=top-news}{grave
concern to the 20 million Americans now covered by the health law} and
the millions more protected by its prohibitions on discrimination for
pre-existing medical conditions and lifetime coverage caps.

\hypertarget{paul-ryan-says-no-to-deportation-force}{%
\subsection{Paul Ryan says no to deportation
force}\label{paul-ryan-says-no-to-deportation-force}}

From the department of mixed messages: The House speaker said on
Thursday that the United States would not send out a large force to
remove thousands of unauthorized immigrants any time soon.

``It's not happening,'' Mr. Ryan said during a
\href{http://www.cnn.com/2017/01/12/politics/paul-ryan-town-hall/index.html}{CNN
town hall-style meeting} in Washington, where a woman whose parents
brought her to the United States at age 11 --- a category of people
often referred to as ``dreamers'' --- asked him, ``Do you think that I
should be deported?''

Mr. Ryan said that Mr. Trump's promise of a deportation force would not
come to fruition. ``I can see that you love your daughter and you're a
nice person who has a great future ahead of you,'' he said, ``and I hope
your future's here.''

When the moderator, Jake Tapper, reminded Mr. Ryan of the
president-elect's campaign promise to create a ``deportation force,''
Mr. Ryan said, ``I know, I know.'' He continued, ``But I'm here to tell
you, in Congress, it's not happening.''

Mr. Ryan has long supported an immigration plan that would mix new
border security measures with protections for some unauthorized
immigrants, but he has had little luck getting other Republican members
of the House to join him.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
