\href{/section/style}{Style}\textbar{}Elon Musk, Blasting Off in
Domestic Bliss

\url{https://nyti.ms/2WUjwCm}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{spacexs-astronaut-trip}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/02/science/spacex-astronauts-splashdown.html?name=styln-nasa-spacex\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=45fd9bc0-f2cc-11ea-9650-8b5c976985f6\&variant=undefined}{SpaceX's
Astronaut
Trip}}{SpaceX's Astronaut Trip}}\label{spacexs-astronaut-trip}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/02/science/spacex-astronauts-splashdown.html?name=styln-nasa-spacex\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=45fd9bc0-f2cc-11ea-9650-8b5c976985f6\&variant=undefined}{`Thanks
  for Flying SpaceX'}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/26/science/spacex-launch-nasa.html?name=styln-nasa-spacex\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=45fdc2d0-f2cc-11ea-9650-8b5c976985f6\&variant=undefined}{Why
  NASA Picked SpaceX}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/05/26/science/spacex-nasa.html?name=styln-nasa-spacex\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=45fdc2d1-f2cc-11ea-9650-8b5c976985f6\&variant=undefined}{Inside
  the Capsule}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/27/science/bob-behnken-doug-hurley.html?name=styln-nasa-spacex\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=45fdc2d2-f2cc-11ea-9650-8b5c976985f6\&variant=undefined}{Meet
  the Astronauts}
\end{itemize}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/07/25/autossell/xx-test-elon-still/xx-test-elon-still-superJumbo.png}

Illustration by Tracy Ma/The New York Times; AP (3), Shutterstock (2),
Getty Images (4)

Sections

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

with \ldots{}

\hypertarget{elon-musk-blasting-off-in-domestic-bliss}{%
\section{Elon Musk, Blasting Off in Domestic
Bliss}\label{elon-musk-blasting-off-in-domestic-bliss}}

The billionaire space oddity on life with Grimes and Baby X, Trump,
Tesla, tunnels, short shorts, stock surges, Facebook fumbles and
everything else under the sun.

Illustration by Tracy Ma/The New York Times; AP (3), Shutterstock (2),
Getty Images (4)Credit...

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/maureen-dowd}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/04/02/opinion/maureen-dowd/maureen-dowd-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/maureen-dowd}{Maureen
Dowd}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Published July 25, 2020Updated July 27, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

So how do the King of Mars, his Galactic Princess and their newborn son,
X Æ A-Xii, spend a Saturday night holed up in their Los Angeles pad?

A little anime --- lately it's been ``Death Note'' and ``Evangelion.''
Lots of late-night debates about the potential and danger of artificial
intelligence. And many audiobooks and podcasts, particularly ones about
history.

**``**Right now, we're going back to Genghis Khan for like the third
time, and the Mongols, I guess,'' said the Galactic Princess, otherwise
known as Grimes, otherwise known as Claire Boucher, otherwise known as
``c,'' her initial and the symbol for the speed of light.

``You seem to be obsessed with that,'' she teased her boyfriend about
Genghis Khan.

Grimes, the singer and artist, and Elon Musk, the rocket man and Tesla
magnate, have an otherworldly romance. Which works out well since Mr.
Musk wants to occupy Mars, in case malevolent robots or an engineered
virus threaten Earth, and then die on Mars, just not on impact.

The couple has a baby with the most unusual name, which they shorten to
``X.'' Mr. Musk said it's pronounced ``just like the letter X. AE is
pronounced `ash', as in Old English. A-12 is also pronounced just like
it reads. Refers to the Archangel-12 C.I.A. reconnaissance plane.''

At the mention of his status as the prince of the internet, with memes
about how he cries in old-school A.O.L. dial-up tones, X begins crying.
(From what I could hear, it sounded pretty human.)

``Oh, X," c said sweetly, when the baby wailed. She said she calls her
son ``Little X,'' and Mr. Musk chimed in, ``Lil Nas X.'' (``Who is
actually the greatest memer,'' Grimes said of the rapper.) Mr. Musk, a
digital prankster who loves mixing it up with his fans, has tweeted a
picture with a tattoo filter on his son's face,
\href{https://twitter.com/elonmusk/status/1257552183601422337}{responding
to}one admirer, ``Never too young for some ink haha.''

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/07/26/fashion/25WITH-ELONMUSK1/merlin_172245243_c594a635-edec-46ef-8365-4fd09fedcfb6-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

I had an hourlong phone interview with Mr. Musk, 49, who has been
bouncing around in the Top 10 list of richest Earthlings, and for a few
moments he drew in Grimes for a cameo.

His personal life has been as vertiginous as his professional life:
married three times, twice to the same woman, Talulah Riley, an actress
who played a lethal sexbot on ``Westworld.'' He has six children. And he
had a high-profile romance with Amber Heard, leading to his name being
dragged through the sensational London libel trial pitting Ms. Heard
against her former husband, Johnny Depp --- a legal morass that makes
the attenuated ``Bleak House'' case of ``Jarndyce and Jarndyce'' seem
short and sweet.

``I definitely was not having an affair with Amber while she was married
to Johnny, this is totally false,'' Mr. Musk said, disputing Mr. Depp's
claim.

About the contention that he had a threesome with Ms. Heard and her
friend Cara Delevingne, Mr. Musk said, laughing, ``We did not have the
threesome, you know. So I think people think these things are generally
more salacious than they are.''

He has some advice for Mr. Depp and Ms. Heard: ``For the two of them, I
would just recommend that they bury the hatchet and move on.''

Asked about Mr. Depp's deprecation of him as ``Mollusk," Mr. Musk
chuckled again, saying: ``Well, yeah, I hope he recovers from this
situation.''

I noted that the actor employed some smack talk worthy of a pirate in a
text message to Ms. Heard that was read in court, threatening to slice
off a sensitive part of Mr. Musk's anatomy.

``If Johnny wants a cage fight, just let me know,'' Mr. Musk said
mischievously, breaking into his famous giggle.

\hypertarget{crazy-in-love}{%
\subsection{Crazy in Love}\label{crazy-in-love}}

Now comes an intriguing romance with Grimes, 32, who when she was
pregnant floated in ethereal cyber-goth images by Charlotte Rutherford
for a
\href{https://www.rollingstone.com/music/music-features/grimes-rolling-stone-digital-cover-960843/}{Rolling
Stone digital cover}. (The story, by Brian Hiatt, described Grimes's
Targaryen blanket and her description of herself and the baby as
nocturnal creatures.)

A fan on her Reddit page described her as a hybrid of a fairy, a witch
and a cyborg --- pretty much Mr. Musk's dream girl --- and she has
talked about going through a Wiccan phase in seventh grade.

``Yeah, she's pretty special, that's for sure,'' Mr. Musk said, with his
lilting South African accent. ``She's one of the most unusual people
I've ever met.''

I wonder how it works with two such exotic birds.

``We've had this debate of `Are you more crazy than me or am I more
crazy than you?''' Mr. Musk said.

Certainly, the titan can be a romantic. He courted Ms. Riley by
lavishing her with
\href{https://www.standard.co.uk/lifestyle/talulah-riley-how-to-marry-a-billionaire-6540732.html}{500
roses} and a gospel choir to serenade her. Visibly distraught over his
breakup with Ms. Heard in 2017, he told Neil Strauss in a
\href{https://www.rollingstone.com/culture/culture-features/elon-musk-the-architect-of-tomorrow-120850/}{Rolling
Stone cover story}: ``If I'm not in love, if I'm not with a long-term
companion, I cannot be happy.'' He added that he needed a soul mate
because he hates ``being in a big empty house, and the footsteps echoing
through the hallway, no one there --- and no one on the pillow next to
you.''

Grimes and Mr. Musk made their public debut at the Met Gala in 2018,
which had a Catholic
\href{https://www.vogue.com/article/met-gala-2018-heavenly-bodies-fashion-and-the-catholic-imagination-vogue-may-2018-issue}{theme}.

``She was wearing a head piece made of
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2014/11/06/garden/what-you-can-do-with-vantablack-the-darkest-material-ever-made.html}{Vantablack},
the blackest black that anything could be,'' he recalled to me. ``There
was only one person who noticed and that was Stephen Colbert. On the
back of my tuxedo jacket --- which was sort of like an inverted priest
jacket with the jacket being white and the collar being black --- I had
in big, black, gothic script, ``Novus ordo seclorum.'' (Often translated
as ``New secular order,'' the maxim on the dollar bill.)

I love how-people-met stories, but this was the wildest one I'd ever
heard: Two famous people who thought they were crazy when they were
little because there were so many off-the-wall ideas bursting out of
their heads somehow found each other.

Mr. Musk, who spent years warning that his friends in Silicon Valley,
like Google's Larry Page, may inadvertently be ``summoning the demon''
and creating killer robots or an invisible evil A.I. that would wipe out
humanity, was about to tweet a pun about a thought experiment called
Roko's Basilisk, about a wicked A.I. who tortures those who didn't help
it become our overlord.

Intending to make a pun about Rococo Basilisk, he was Googling for an
image of a basilisk with a rococo flair when he came across a 2015 music
video for ``Flesh Without Blood,'' in which Grimes dresses as a rococo
basilisk.

``And then it's like, whoa, someone's done a music video of this?'' Mr.
Musk recalled.

``It wasn't a joke to me, actually,'' Grimes weighed in.

Mr. Musk laughed, agreeing, ``Rococo basilisk is no joke!''

``I just thought it sounded prettier than Roko's Basilisk, like adding a
rococo element just elevates it,'' she said.

``I would like to make it less terrifying by making fun of it because
you just can't be terrifying if you're rococo,'' he said. ``It's this
oddly ornate sort of French 1800s, 1700s, architecture. It's just like
rococo is party flair.''

Grimes, who put a Marie Antoinette spin on her costume for that video,
begged to differ. ``Rococo is kind of terrifying because it does
represent the ultimate sort of like bourgeois-like, elite-like --- it's
literally the point of being rococo is like art for the sake of sheer,
ornamental and useless as possible. I believe that's actually like a
philosophical aspect of the art form so, I mean. \ldots{}''

``It's festive,'' he agreed.

``It's super-festive but there's a darkness to it,'' she continued.
``It's the ultimate sort of bourgeois.''

Her boyfriend bantered back: ``I think your use of the term `bourgeois'
is fundamentally bourgeois.''

Mr. Musk said that ``c has gotten quite worried about A.I. in the last
few weeks. I think GPT-3'' --- the latest A.I. tool that has Silicon
Valley buzzing --- ``has caused her to become quite concerned. And I'm
like, `Welcome to me circa 10 years ago.'''

They also have Canada in common. Grimes was raised there, and Mr. Musk
immigrated there from South Africa at 17. He jokes that if X isn't the
prince of the internet, he can be ``the prince of Canada.''

What is it like being a father again at this age?

``I think babies are supercool and really people need to have more
babies because, it sounds obvious, but if people don't have enough
babies, humanity will disappear,'' he said.

But how does he have any time to spend with his children, given his
insane work schedule?

``Well, babies are just eating and pooping machines, you know?'' he
said. ``Right now there's not much I can do. Grimes has a much bigger
role than me right now. When the kid gets older, there will be more of a
role for me. I think just doing what I've done with my other kids. If I
have a trip for Tesla to China, for example, I'll bring the kids with me
and we'll go see the Great Wall or we took the bullet train from Beijing
to Xian and saw the Terracotta Warriors.'' He created an online school
for his older kids, which he said has ``actually worked out pretty
well.''

I asked Mr. Musk, who has given money to both Democratic and Republican
candidates, if Grimes, who supported Bernie Sanders, had an influence on
his recent decision to disencumber himself of his houses, including a
quirky one once owned by Gene Wilder.

``Well," he said, ``she thinks I should hold on to at least one house.''

So he's ready to be a homeless billionaire?

Laughing, he mused, ``I guess we'll just rent a place somewhere? And
yeah, in some ways, possessions weigh you down. And also, I just have
all these houses but nobody is using them. I use them infrequently. In
the Bay Area, for example from 2002 to 2017, I never owned a house and I
was there half the week so I would either sleep at the factory or in a
friend's spare bedroom or on a couch or in a hotel. I did that for 15
years.'' He said he could always crash with his fellow billionaires Mr.
Page and Sergey Brin.

``It was actually, in retrospect, kind of good because you end up
rotating through friends' houses and you catch up with them and stay in
contact, whereas these days, I have been staying in this strange
Gatsby-like house, what I call the haunted mansion, and it's a bit
bleak, to be totally frank,'' he said. ``The house itself is beautiful
but, you know, it's like Wayne Manor without Alfred.''

He had thought about designing his own ``aspirational masterpiece of a
house,'' but decided that it would take bandwidth away from his work
``getting people to Mars and environmental sustainability and
accelerating stable energy.''

When I mention the nickname that Kara Swisher, a New York Times tech
columnist, has bestowed on him, King of Mars, he slyly gives himself a
promotion: ``Sure, I mean, emperor, come on.''

\hypertarget{big-dreams-hates-seams}{%
\subsection{Big Dreams; Hates Seams}\label{big-dreams-hates-seams}}

The billionaire laughs a lot during the interview. He has come out on
the other side of two of the most painful, lachrymose years that any
entrepreneur could imagine, with self-inflicted wounds and schadenfreude
galore.

``I think I'm a little scathed, yeah,'' Mr. Musk said, adding: ``I mean,
basically, there was a period from end of 2017 to about, I guess, the
middle of last year, that was excruciating.''

Peter Thiel, who helped build the company that became PayPal with Mr.
Musk, told me, ``He's on top of the world. All of the people who have
been shorting Tesla stock, who constitute a kind of `hate factory'
against the company, have been totally crushed. And that makes him very
happy.'' (Blowing a raspberry to his hedge fund foes, Mr. Musk produced
a sold-out line of Tesla short shorts on his website for \$69.420
apiece.)

Mr. Musk is so transparent that he seems heedless at times, in ways that
make his investors nervous and his fan boys thrilled.

``The people who love him and the people who hate him are equally
irrational,'' said Ashlee Vance, Mr. Musk's biographer. ``It reminds me
of Steve Jobs. It's way beyond business or celebrity. It strikes me as
religious, more than anything. His fans are acolytes.'' (Mr. Musk is
also like Mr. Jobs in his obsession with sleek design; he hates seams.)

Image

Rocket man: Mr. Musk meets the media in front of the SpaceX Falcon Heavy
in Cape Canaveral, Fla.Credit...Todd Anderson for The New York Times

Critics called him reckless in
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/08/business/economy/tesla-coronavirus-factory-alameda.html}{reopening}
his Tesla factory in Alameda County, Calif., in early May, after it had
been closed since March 23 because of the coronavirus; he dared local
officials to arrest him and threatened to move the factory to Texas or
Nevada.

But his friends think it's all part of the ride. They describe his
internal narrative as going something like this: ``I'm going to take
over the world. That's going to be a super-crazy process. And therefore,
if the roller coaster ride isn't incredibly scary, I'm doing something
wrong.'' And after Mr. Jobs, boards learned their lesson about pushing
out visionaries in favor of gray-haired corporate suits.

Tesla stock has tripled in the last several months. Mr. Musk is the
first person in almost a century to come out of nowhere and create a car
company with that much volume, showing other plodding car companies how
electric cars can be cool, sexy and incredibly efficient.

And with SpaceX, Mr. Musk provided a moment so bold and brimming with
American razzmatazz that it lifted us briefly out of our
pandemic-induced funk. When his Crew Dragon spacecraft launched two NASA
astronauts in May from the legendary Florida pad that once served Apollo
missions, it was a reminder of when America was first and fast and made
things, coming at a dark time when even masks and ventilators seemed
beyond our manufacturing reach and when our government appears so
incapable of getting coronavirus under control that the European Union
has banned Americans from coming in.

As a boy, Elon loved ``The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy,'' and now
he shoots astronauts into the Milky Way. How did that moment feel?
``It's amazing,'' he said. ``I mean, I'm sort of seeing everything
that's wrong or could go wrong.''

He has called Jeff Bezos, who has acquired a self-driving start-up and
founded the space travel company, Blue Origin, a copycat,
\href{https://twitter.com/elonmusk/status/1115764921482919937}{tweeting
a cat emoji}.

``The rate of progress is too slow and the amount of years he has left
is not enough, but I'm still glad he's doing what he's doing with Blue
Origin," Mr. Musk said.

Congress is bringing the four top tech C.E.O.s to Washington next week
for an antitrust inquiry. How does Mr. Musk think Mark Zuckerberg and
Sheryl Sandberg have handled fears about Facebook hurting democracy?

``I am not super-confident,'' he said. ``I'm, like, not pro-Facebook. I
don't have a Facebook page. SpaceX and Tesla deleted their Facebook
pages. SpaceX and Tesla do have an Instagram but I think it's relatively
harmless. So I think Zuckerberg and Sheryl Sandberg still have a lot of
work to do to restore public trust in Facebook itself.''

\hypertarget{chipmunk-cheeks}{%
\subsection{`Chipmunk Cheeks'}\label{chipmunk-cheeks}}

In his spare time, Mr. Musk is working on tunnels that would alleviate
urban traffic jams, an idea he dreamed up while stuck in L.A. traffic;
spaceports that could catapult you from New York to Shanghai in 39
minutes; a hyperloop that would let you scoot between D.C. and New York
in half an hour; a neural net that would be sewn or lasered into brains
to fuse us with computers, which would potentially allow us to compete
with superintelligent rogue A.I. and could also restore the ability to
walk, hear, speak or see; and solar initiatives and lightweight lithium
batteries to make mitigating climate change cheaper and more accessible.

``I have lots of ideas, more ideas than I can act upon,'' said the man
who insists he is an engineer, not a businessman or investor. ``I tend
to bite off more than I can chew and then just sit there with chipmunk
cheeks.''

Indeed, Mr. Musk is a rare product of Silicon Valley who actually enjoys
biting and chewing. Many people there, obsessed with living longer, chug
Soylent or practice intermittent fasting, like Jack Dorsey, the chief
executive of Twitter.

``I love going to a restaurant that's doing something special with
food,'' Mr. Musk said, ``and I think really if you are not appreciating
this, then you are not appreciating one of the finest things about
living.''

The view of Silicon Valley has grown darker in recent years, as
Americans realized that the lords of the cloud who were supposed to
improve our lives were carelessly harvesting our data and allowing
themselves to be disinformation factories.

Mr. Musk's peers may mock him for his grandiosity and say that his
worldview of good battling evil is just a smart business stance to lure
the best people. And he is certainly a grandmaster at marketing and
self-promotion. But he also really does want to save the world and make
products that bring joy. A few years back, he deserted Silicon Valley
for ``Silicone Valley,'' as he calls L os Angeles.

Mr. Musk was painted as a Luddite, ``hysterical'' in the estimation of
Mr. Zuckerberg, for what his friends called ``Elon's crusade,'' his
proselytizing that we should figure out safety features for A.I. before
it gets smarter than us.

He may not be as fortissimo about it, but he still feels passionately
about ``the A.I. warning drama game,'' as he dryly put it. In the past,
talking about A.I. turning on us, he has used the Monty Python line,
``Nobody expects the Spanish Inquisition.''

``My assessment about why A.I. is overlooked by very smart people is
that very smart people do not think a computer can ever be as smart as
they are,'' he told me. ``And this is hubris and obviously false.''

He adds that working with A.I. at Tesla lets him say with confidence
``that we're headed toward a situation where A.I. is vastly smarter than
humans and I think that time frame is less than five years from now. But
that doesn't mean that everything goes to hell in five years. It just
means that things get unstable or weird.''

He said his ``top concern'' is DeepMind, the secretive London A.I. lab
run by Demis Hassabis and owned by Google. ``Just the nature of the A.I.
that they're building is one that crushes all humans at all games,'' he
said. ``I mean, it's basically the plotline in `War Games.'''

In Rolling Stone, Neil Strauss posited that the billionaire's vehemence
on dangerous A.I. was inspired by his estrangement from his father:
``This is the good son's second chance against the remorseless father he
couldn't change.''

When I ask Mr. Musk about it, he murmured, ``Um. Well, I don't know if
it's daddy issues, to be totally frank. I mean, independent of whether
my father --- who does have a lot of issues --- this is very separate
from that. This is just that objectively, things will be weird when the
computers are way smarter than humans.''

The hack last week of the Twitter accounts of Mr. Musk, Joe Biden,
Barack Obama, Kanye West, Bill Gates and other celebrities in a bitcoin
scam reinforced the idea that everyone's information is at risk.

``Within a few minutes of the post coming up, I immediately got texts
from a bunch of people I know, then I immediately called Jack so
probably within less than five minutes my account was locked,'' Mr. Musk
said, referring to Mr. Dorsey.

Image

Move over Mack, it's the Cybertruck, Tesla's electric pickup
model.Credit...Tesla/Via Reuters

Was he concerned that the hack would allow people to see his direct
messages?

Chortling, he said. ``I'm not that concerned about my DMs being made
public. I mean, we can probably cherry pick some section of my DMs that
sound bad out of context but overall my DMs mostly consist of swapping
memes.''

What was it like for the guy who dabbled in hacking as a teenager and
who lives out loud on Twitter with 37 million followers to have his
favorite megaphone hijacked?

``Well, I was quite ill,'' he said. ``I think I had food poisoning or
something, so you throw up incredibly violently with food poisoning. So
I was kind of ill during a lot of it, the Twitter takeover. But I think
it's good anyway to take a few breaks from Twitter and not be on there
24 hours a day. Twitter can mess with your mind.''

He added: ``If you're going down a negative rabbit hole on Twitter, it
can make you miserable, that's for sure.'' (As Mr. Musk learned again
when he got
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/12/06/business/elon-musk-defamation-verdict.html}{sued
for defamation}, unsuccessfully, for the ``pedo guy'' tweet by a British
cave explorer helping with the rescue of children trapped in a cave in
Thailand.)

His shoot-from-the-hip style on Twitter played a prominent role in what
he calls the most painful period of his career. Working 120 hours a week
to get out his Model 3, including 24 hours on his birthday, and feeling
enormous stress from the short sellers he felt were trying to destroy
Tesla, he sent out a tweet that he had ``funding secured'' to take his
company private at \$420 a share, even though it was premature.

He said he rounded that number up from \$419 in part to amuse Grimes ---
4/20 is the
\href{https://www.vox.com/policy-and-politics/2019/4/19/18484698/what-is-420-meaning-marijuana-legalization\#:~:text=It's\%204\%2F20\%2C\%20the\%20day,and\%20massive\%20crowds\%20each\%20year.}{stoner's
holiday.} But it caused more trouble. (Even though he sparked up on Joe
Rogan's podcast, Mr. Musk said he's not a big pot smoker because it
makes you too logy.)

Mr. Musk's mad energy and tendency to dream big and overpromise were
reflected in that tweet, which blew up in his face spectacularly. The
S.E.C. fined him and his company \$20 million apiece, and he had to
forfeit his chairman title for three years.

The scandal hit warp speed when Azealia Banks, the rapper who relishes
tangling with celebrities and who happened to be at Mr. Musk's house
then to work on music with Grimes, posted an unflattering Instagram
story about what she described as a meltdown inside his house.

Grimes told Rolling Stone that the contretemps was ``a sad, dark thing.
I just, like, forgive her, and forgiving her is really, really hard.''
She recalled that she lost it. ``I felt I had caused the downfall of
everything I care about and everyone I care about,'' she said, adding
that Mr. Musk calmed her down by snapping his fingers in front of her
face and telling her to snap out of it because ``You have to be in a
battle right now.''

How did Mr. Musk stop the unraveling?

He poured himself even more into his work, staying on ``the front lines
with a sword and shield.'' The herculean nature of turning Tesla into a
well-oiled machine, he said, has not been ``well appreciated.''

``The logistics are mind-boggling, trying to deliver 7,000 cars per week
in 40 different countries," he said. ``There were just a bunch of
mistakes that we made in creating the production system.''

Image

``I'll take the compliment,'' Mr. Musk said of President Trump's
praise.Credit...Alex Brandon/Associated Press

For many of the coastal elites for whom a Tesla is a status symbol, Mr.
Musk's laissez-faire approach to the pandemic was disappointing, and
sounded way too Trumpian. In the spring, when his California factory was
shut down, he called stay-at-home orders ``fascist'' and tweeted, ``FREE
AMERICA NOW.''

``I think the reality of Covid is that it is dangerous if you're elderly
and have pre-existing conditions,'' he said, adding: ``It absolutely
makes sense to have a lockdown if you're vulnerable, but I do not think
it makes sense to have a lockdown if you're not vulnerable.'' He said he
may have had Covid in January and he wears a mask on the factory floor.

The Tesla-loving liberals were
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/19/technology/elon-musk-tesla-red-pill.html}{horrified
again} by a May tweet, ``Take the red pill," an allusion to the pill
Keanu Reeves takes in ``The Matrix'' that lets him see the truth.

The red-pill image has become linked with the fringe right and men's
rights activism. It blew up when Ivanka Trump retweeted it and said
``Taken!'' and when Lilly Wachowski, a creator of ``The Matrix,'' then
cursed out both Mr. Musk and Ms. Trump. (Even Grimes's mother, a
Canadian journalist, tweeted her
\href{https://www.buzzfeed.com/stephenlaconte/elon-musk-was-just-called-out-by-grimes-mom-for-his}{dissatisfaction}.)

Mr. Musk said he did not have a political message. ``No, it's just:
Accept reality as it is as opposed to what you wish it were.'' Of
Ivanka, he said, ``I think she was interpreting it through more of a
political lens than it was intended.''

Mr. Musk sat on business advisory councils for President Trump early in
his administration but bounced once Mr. Trump ripped up the Paris
climate accord. Still, Mr. Trump was there for Mr. Musk's rocket launch.

``We did not talk privately, but he did comment to congratulate the
SpaceX team,'' he said. The president has called Mr. Musk ``one of our
great geniuses,'' likening him to Thomas Edison.

Does he blanch at being clasped in the MAGA embrace?

``I'll take the compliment," said Mr. Musk, who has also said that the
idea of the Space Force is ``cool.''

``You know, I'm not sure that everything is so political,'' he said.
``To be totally frank, you may be interpreting this through a lens where
you think everything is totally political because you're political. But
I think the general public does not see everything through a political
lens. I would say the amount of thought that the general public puts
into politics is quite low. They're mostly thinking about their day and
their direct relationships and their work.''

OK, he might have a point. But what does he think about Biden?

``I just haven't had much interaction with Biden," he said. ``I talked
to Obama much more than Biden.'' He notes that he was such a fervent
Obama supporter that he once waited in line for six hours to shake
Obama's hand when he was running, adding, ``the poor guy was so tired at
the end of the night.''

Mr. Musk continued, ``Obama was great. Biden, I just don't know. It's
hard to see through the noise. But is he --- are all his mental
faculties there or not? I can't quite tell. It would be helpful to see
him in a debate scenario or something like that. Does he have his stuff
together or not? I can't tell.''

Despite the fact that he wants someone in the White House who has his
stuff together, he encouraged Kanye West's bid for the presidency.

``I've known him for at least 10 years, maybe longer,'' he said, noting
that while they see each other about once every six months, they text
``fairly often.'' Mr. West recently tweeted a picture of the pair ---
both wearing Yeezy sneakers --- with Mr. Musk's Sorayama sculpture of an
android woman looking at a one-way mirror. Grimes, who took the picture,
is reflected in the frame.

``I've done my best to convince him that 2024 would be better than
2020,'' Mr. Musk said, so that Mr. West wouldn't be accused of splitting
the Black vote with Mr. Biden.

After a news conference at a campaign event in South Carolina, in which
Mr. West sobbed talking about his children, and in a bizarre Twitter
thread in which he contended that his life was like the horror movie
``Get Out,'' Kim Kardashian put out a statement talking about her
husband's struggles with bipolar disorder.

I called Mr. Musk back to see if the two men have talked. He said he
reached out to his friend mid-breakdown and they connected on Tuesday.

``When he was about a third of the way through the tweet rampage, just
to see if he was doing OK, I sent him a text saying, you know, just
checking on you, a lot of people are worried, just wondering if you're
OK," he said. ``And he called me back and he actually seemed fine. He
video FaceTimed me and he was in Wyoming with a bunch of friends. He
seemed fine on the call. But it sounds like things are, you know, not
fine. There seem to be a lot of issues.''

Mr. Musk has to go. There's an earnings call. Tesla's fortunes are
soaring that day and he announces a new Tesla gigafactory in Austin,
Texas, promising it will be ``an ecological paradise'' on the Colorado
River with hiking and biking, open to the public. (``Great job!'' Mr.
Trump
\href{https://twitter.com/realdonaldtrump/status/1286662316717744128?s=11}{tweets}.
``MADE IN THE USA!'' and Mr. Musk
\href{https://twitter.com/elonmusk/status/1286665488957878273}{lobs
back}his thanks.)

On the call, he can't resist ``banging the A.I. drum'' again, as he puts
it, flatly stating about those who can't imagine that a computer could
be smarter than a human: ``They're just way dumber than they think they
are.''

But for now, until A.I. makes its move, things are good in Elonworld.
And there are a lot of galaxies out there to conquer.

Image

Rolling up his sleeves: The hard-working Mr. Musk celebrates his
launch.Credit...Steve Nesius/Reuters

{[}\emph{And now, a warp-drive round of Confirm or Deny.} {]}

\textbf{Maureen Dowd:} ** \textbf{Earlier this month, on the day you
found out you were richer than Warren Buffett, you sent him the YouTube}
\textbf{\href{https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=s_hFTR6qyEo}{clip}}
\textbf{from ``There Will Be Blood'' of Daniel Day-Lewis saying, ``I
Drink Your Milkshake.''}

Elon Musk: I did that?! Deny!

\textbf{Grand Theft Auto Vice City is the best G.T.A.}

I've actually never played any of the G.T.A.s. It seemed funny that
somebody could play G.T.A. on a Tesla, while
\href{https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8xYcOHNH8-Y}{stealing a Tesla}.

\textbf{Princess Mononoke is the best Hayao Miyazaki movie.}

Yes,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/1999/09/27/movies/film-review-waging-a-mythic-battle-to-preserve-a-pristine-forest.html}{agreed}.

\textbf{``\href{https://twitter.com/elonmusk/status/1054501056229588992?lang=en}{i}\textbf{❤}\href{https://twitter.com/elonmusk/status/1054501056229588992?lang=en}{anime}''
is your most popular tweet.}

It's definitely one of them. I think for a long time the most popular
tweet was that I'm going to buy Fortnite and delete it to save these
kids from eternal virginity.

\textbf{You got the idea to trademark}
\textbf{\href{https://www.teslarati.com/tesla-teslaquila-elon-musk-booze-release-date-short-shorts/}{Teslaquila}}
\textbf{while binge-watching ``Entourage.''}

Deny.

\textbf{You have a secret Parler account}

I don't even know what Parler is.

\textbf{You fear your own fanboys.}

Deny.

\textbf{You're still in mourning over Harambe.}

\href{https://www.rollingstone.com/music/music-news/elon-musk-rap-song-rip-harambe-815813/}{True}.

\textbf{Your favorite fictional character is Samwise Gamgee.}

Yeah.

\textbf{Gandalf the Grey was cooler than Gandalf the White.}

Hmm, that's a tough one. I think in some ways he was cooler, but he kind
of needed to \href{https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Y2fwe0rnHak}{defeat
the Balrog} in order to become a better wizard, I guess, and play a
bigger role in defeating Sauron. But he was definitely more chill as
Gandalf the Grey and had a better sense of humor.

\textbf{Mars will be gentrified in 20 years and then become really
boring and all the cool people will have to move to Jupiter.}

Yes, gentrification is arguably the most powerful force in the universe.
Even Mordor could not resist gentrification.

\textbf{The No. 1 Musk family rule is the one from ``The Hitchhiker's
Guide to the Galaxy: ``Don't panic.'' The third rule is ``Safety
third.'' And there is no second rule.}

Yes! This is true.

\textbf{You have a secret Instagram account.}

I deleted my Instagram. Technically, I have a secret account. It's only
to see links of things that people send me.

\textbf{When you were little, your nickname was ``Encyclopedia'' because
you read the entire Encyclopaedia Britannica and Collier's
Encyclopedia.}

I had a lot of nicknames. Many of them were not flattering. Usually
involving some version of my name, like Muskrat.

\textbf{You have a group text with the three Emanuel brothers.}

That's actually true, yeah.

\textbf{Your favorite Roman emperor was Crassus.}

Oh, no! And he wasn't an emperor. He was one of the triumvirate.

\textbf{Microdosing can be productive.}

(Laughs.) I don't
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/08/23/opinion/elon-musk-burning-man-drugs-lsd.html}{microdose}.

\textbf{Short sellers should wear short shorts.}

Absolutely.

\textbf{You like to relax by watching ``Property Brothers'' and drinking
a glass of rosé.}

(Bursts out laughing.) Definitely not. I don't know that show and I
prefer red wine over rosé.

\textbf{Warren Buffett is overrated.}

Hahaha. Um, I think he has managed to create a great image for himself
as a kindly grandfather, which is maybe overstating the case.

\textbf{You're hoping that Donald Trump volunteers for the first neural
net.}

Deny.

\textbf{When Grimes put a}
\textbf{\href{https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2020-05-28/grimes-art-project-pop-star-sells-a-piece-of-her-soul}{piece
of her soul}} \textbf{up for auction for 10 million, you bought it.}

I did not, no.

\textbf{At the University of Pennsylvania, you rented a 10-bedroom frat
house and turned it into a nightclub.}

There wasn't a frat involved. It was just myself and my housemate and a
third roommate. We did basically rent big houses and pay for the rent by
throwing parties. You had to pay to come to our parties because ours
were much better than the frat parties.

\textbf{Mark Zuckerberg is a sociopath.}

*(*Laughs.) Ah, oh, man. (Laughs some more.) Ehhh, Mark Zuckerberg has
some issues, we all have some issues. My concern with Facebook is that
he just has absolute control over Facebook with the way the voting
shares are structured. And it's also structured such that the Zuckerberg
dynasty will have control over Facebook and his great-grandkids will
control the thing. So I think we ought to be careful of creating
dynastic wealth in the U.S. Just generally, an aristocracy of wealth is
a cause for concern.

\textbf{It was irritating when Bill Ackman, the hedge fund manager, told
CNBC this week that he bought a Tesla and loves it but was going to send
you some ideas for improvements.}

Well, no. Generally when somebody has ordered a Tesla, the first thing I
ask them is what can we do to make it better.

\textbf{You'd rather be a meme lord than a billionaire.}

Probably true. You know, you need resources in order to make life
multiplanetary. That's the reason I'm accumulating resources. But I
don't otherwise care about resources.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
