Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}The Democrats Are Downsizing
Their Convention to Almost Nothing

\url{https://nyti.ms/30nYTPO}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/04/us/elections/primary-election-michigan-arizona-kansas.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Election
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/biden-vice-president-2020.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Biden's
  V.P. Search}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/07/24/us/politics/trump-biden-campaign-donors.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Map
  of Donations}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/delegate-count-primary-results.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Delegate
  Count}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/us/politics/2020-presidential-candidates.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{The
  Candidates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Politics
  Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{the-democrats-are-downsizing-their-convention-to-almost-nothing}{%
\section{The Democrats Are Downsizing Their Convention to Almost
Nothing}\label{the-democrats-are-downsizing-their-convention-to-almost-nothing}}

An event that was once expected to draw 50,000 people to Milwaukee may
now involve just 300, with plans still far from settled a month before
the convention.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/07/18/us/politics/17demconvention/17demconvention-articleLarge-v2.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/reid-j-epstein}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2019/06/25/reader-center/author-reid-epstein/9e877853d8234217b58e5762253aa771-thumbLarge.png}}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/lisa-lerer}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/09/11/us/politics/author-lisa-lerer/lisa-lerer-headshot-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/reid-j-epstein}{Reid J.
Epstein} and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/lisa-lerer}{Lisa Lerer}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  July 17, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

When Democrats awarded their 2020 convention to Milwaukee, plans called
for a crowd of more than 50,000 delegates, journalists, party officials
and V.I.P.s. But as the coronavirus spread this spring and the
convention
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/02/us/politics/milwaukee-democratic-convention-delayed.html}{was
pushed back to August}, the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/24/us/politics/democratic-convention-milwaukee-coronavirus.html}{number
dwindled}.

First to 5,000 attendees. Then, a mere 1,000.

Now, one month before the party is set to gather at a convention site
smaller than the one originally selected, officials are expecting the
quadrennial event to include as few as 300 people --- a number that
includes not only attendees but members of the news media, security
personnel, medical consultants and party workers.

Every aspect of the four-day Democratic National Convention, scheduled
to begin Aug. 17, has been scaled back from the ambitions set when
Milwaukee was named the host city in March 2019. A program of five to
six hours of daily speeches, engineered to entertain delegates in the
arena and draw heavy television coverage and headlines for
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/joe-biden.html}{Joseph
R. Biden Jr.} and his vice-presidential nominee, will be cut down closer
to three hours each night. Much of the program is likely to be pretaped
videos, according to people familiar with the planning.

On Thursday evening, convention planners sent an email
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/16/us/politics/democratic-convention-milwaukee.html?action=click\&module=Top\%20Stories\&pgtype=Homepage}{directing
all members of Congress and delegates to stay away from the convention},
announcing that all party business meetings would be conducted
virtually.

None of the Democratic presidential candidates who appeared on a primary
debate stage this year have plans to travel to Milwaukee, according to
aides, nor do former President Bill Clinton or Hillary Clinton, though
all said they would do whatever the campaign and party requested.

As of this week, only Mr. Biden and Tom Perez, the Democratic National
Committee chairman, are committed to come to Milwaukee, although party
officials said the program was still being written. They've even given
the event a new slogan to reflect the change: ``Convention Across
America.''

The event is ``anchored'' in Milwaukee but much remains uncertain,
convention aides said, depending on the spread of the virus and the
advice of public health officials. What is clear is that the convention
is unlikely to resemble any in political history.

The image of Mr. Biden's primary rivals standing behind him may take
place in Zoom boxes on a screen, if it happens at all. The classic photo
of the nominee, the running mate and their spouses embracing is certain
to be forbidden by social distancing requirements, while schmoozing
delegates who would have packed the raucous convention floor will
instead be spread out across the country, watching video streams.

Any buddy comedy-like banter between former President Barack Obama and
Mr. Biden, beloved by Democratic voters, will have to take place at a
six-foot distance --- or through the magic of television.

``Obviously this isn't what we anticipated,'' said Alex Lasry, who led
Milwaukee's convention bid in 2018 and whose family controls the
downtown arena where the event was to take place. ``On the bright side,
we'll have hosted the most unique and consequential convention in
history.''

\hypertarget{latest-updates-2020-election}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/04/us/elections/primary-election-michigan-arizona-kansas.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: 2020
Election}}{Latest Updates: 2020 Election}}\label{latest-updates-2020-election}}

Updated 2020-08-04T21:23:31.499Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/04/us/elections/primary-election-michigan-arizona-kansas.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-3924dd44}{Two
  G.O.P. Senate primaries offer --- what else? --- a test of loyalty to
  Trump.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/04/us/elections/primary-election-michigan-arizona-kansas.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-32b39e33}{President
  Trump is suddenly a big supporter of mail-in voting --- in Florida.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/04/us/elections/primary-election-michigan-arizona-kansas.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-ab1004d}{Michigan's
  primary election sees a surge in absentee voting.}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/04/us/elections/primary-election-michigan-arizona-kansas.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

The best-case scenario, Democrats familiar with convention planning say
now, is a polished program that's a mix of live speeches, pretaped
videos and small events held at satellite locations in battleground
states and at landmarks across the country. Several officials mentioned
this year's National Football League draft, in which coaches, college
stars and the league commissioner appeared live from their homes, as a
model.

``We're hoping for small things like, can we get the delegate
credentials sent to us so people can have them as souvenirs,'' said Jane
Kleeb, the Nebraska Democratic Party chairwoman. ``Can we get some of
those signs so delegates can wave them at home?''

Democratic officials cautioned that virtually all aspects of the
convention remained in flux. Convention planners are consulting
regularly with public health officials in Milwaukee and with
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/24/us/politics/democratic-convention-milwaukee-coronavirus.html}{two
epidemiologists brought on staff last month}. Stephanie Cutter, a
veteran of the 2004, 2008 and 2012 Democratic campaigns, is tasked with
writing the program of speakers but is still weeks away from finalizing
the schedule.

``I will appear if summoned,'' said Stacey Abrams, the party star who
narrowly lost the 2018 race for Georgia governor.

But Democrats familiar with convention planning say there is a serious
likelihood that other high-wattage speakers --- a group likely to
include Mr. Obama and Michelle Obama, Mr. and Mrs. Clinton, former
President Jimmy Carter and Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont --- will
address delegates and the nation from satellite locations.

The limited nature of the program will eliminate some of the spontaneous
moments that make conventions compelling political events with
appearances that can make or break a candidacy --- and a political
career.

``There's not going to be the balloons and all the yelling and cheering
that goes on at a convention,'' said Terry McAuliffe, a former
Democratic National Committee chairman who oversaw the party's 2000 and
2004 conventions.

Fewer speaking slots means fewer opportunities for up-and-coming
politicians to get a breakout moment, as Mr. Obama did with his 2004
keynote speech in Boston. Socially distanced addresses make it harder to
telegraph scenes of party unity. And television producers won't have the
usual scenes of local party chairs announcing their votes or delegates
wearing state-appropriate clothing.

``Obviously when we are together in one space and physically together,
it is empowering,'' said Senator Kamala Harris of California, a top
contender for the vice-presidential spot on Mr. Biden's ticket, who
attended her first Democratic convention in 2000. ``But we're going to
have to find other ways to collectively empower and remind each other
that we're in it together.''

Ms. Harris, like other former presidential candidates contacted for this
article, said she planned to do whatever the campaign asked, including
appearing in person if needed.

``Not planning to go and to my knowledge no one's been in touch with us
about participating remotely or in person,'' former Representative Beto
O'Rourke of Texas wrote in an email.

Unique on the general election calendar, conventions are the only time
when a party can choreograph a multiday event with broad viewership and
expect a week of all-but-one-sided media coverage to follow. With the
virus spreading, it's unclear how the event will resonate with voters,
even as viewership could be higher with people stuck in quarantine at
home.

The typical goals of a national convention --- fund-raising and
motivating the party faithful --- have been met long ago by antipathy
toward
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/donald-trump.html}{President
Trump}. Mr. Biden's standing has only increased as he has campaigned
largely from his Delaware home, leading Democratic officials to wonder
whether it's not a bad thing for the convention to be less noticed than
usual.

For committed Democratic volunteers, a ticket to the convention is both
a reward and promissory note for continued engagement in the kind of
grass-roots organizing that powers campaigns. Without that, the event
becomes entirely for television, but lacking the drama that can make
conventions compelling to watch.

``I don't think you'll see four days of continuous coverage,'' said Jay
Jacobs, the New York Democratic Party chairman. ``I expect that
everybody and their mother who likes to speak will not have the
opportunity to get the coverage that they wanted.''

Democrats said the contrast between Mr. Trump's event and their more
modest --- and in their view more responsible --- showing will be
energizing for their supporters and persuasive for undecided voters
worried about their futures and the rapid spread of the deadly virus.

Their decision comes as Mr. Trump has made clear he wants the Republican
convention to go on. Party officials moved it to Jacksonville, Fla.,
from Charlotte, N.C., because North Carolina state officials said they
would have to abide by social distancing rules. Many top Republicans are
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/13/us/politics/florida-virus-republican-convention.html}{skipping
the event}, flouting Mr. Trump's desire for an elaborate gathering
attended by large crowds.

On Thursday, the Republican National Committee announced new details
about the convention,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/14/us/politics/republican-convention-jacksonville-virus-outdoors.html}{confirming
a New York Times report this week} that the party was planning to shift
some events outdoors.

``What you will see is thousands of unmasked people gathered together to
hear a speech versus the Democratic side where you have much smaller
numbers taking all the precautions,'' said Leah Daughtry, who headed up
the Democratic conventions in 2016 and 2008. ``Which side do you think
better represents you and is concerned about your health?''

Democrats long ago began scaling back their plans, eventually moving the
convention across downtown Milwaukee from Fiserv Forum, the city's
professional basketball arena, to the Wisconsin Center, a modest
convention center that typically hosts events like the
\href{http://autoshowmilwaukee.com/}{city's car show}. The last national
political event to take place there was the 2004 Green Party convention.

Last week, the convention committee informed delegates that they would
be issued ballots via email. Voting will take place over a two-week
period in early August.

The City of Milwaukee has for now limited public gatherings to 250
people in one place. An ordinance
\href{https://city.milwaukee.gov/Coronavirus/Prevention\#masks}{requiring
the wearing of masks in indoor and outdoor public places} went into
effect Thursday.

The extraordinary nature of the public health crisis combined with Mr.
Biden's widening lead over Mr. Trump
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/16/upshot/polls-biden-trump-how-accurate.html}{in
the polls} has led top Democratic officials --- usually a skittish bunch
still stung by the 2016 election --- to exude some confidence in their
smaller convention.

State parties are trying to find ways to energize their volunteers and
reward delegates, with plans in the works for drive-in events and
outdoor parties with the convention feed projected onto large screens.
Delegations are working together to replace the usual state party
breakfasts with regional Zoom events that can draw higher-wattage
speakers than small states would have been able to attract on their own.

``I think everybody is very cognizant that there are more important
things to worry about than the nature of the convention,'' said Gilberto
Hinojosa, the Texas Democratic Party chairman. ``We know who our nominee
is and we recognize that it is too dangerous to get together. We're not
going to risk anybody's life for a rah-rah convention that can be
conducted virtually.''

\hypertarget{our-2020-election-guide}{%
\section{Our 2020 Election Guide}\label{our-2020-election-guide}}

Updated Aug. 4, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{the-latest}{%
  \subsection{The Latest}\label{the-latest}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Five states are holding primary elections Tuesday, with voters in
    Arizona, Kansas, Michigan, Missouri and Washington State choosing
    nominees for Congress and local offices.
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/04/us/elections/primary-election-michigan-arizona-kansas.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Follow
    live election updates here.}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{bidens-vp-search}{%
  \subsection{Biden's V.P. Search}\label{bidens-vp-search}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/biden-vice-president-2020.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Here
    are 13 women} who have been under consideration to be Joe Biden's
    running mate, and why each might be chosen --- and might not be.
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{keep-up-with-our-coverage}{%
  \subsection{Keep Up With Our
  Coverage}\label{keep-up-with-our-coverage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Get an
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{email}
    recapping the day's news
  \end{itemize}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Download our mobile app on
    \href{https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nytimes/id284862083?ls=1\&mat_click_id=5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\&referrer=mat_click_id\%3D5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\%26link_click_id\%3D722930677036718082}{iOS}
    and
    \href{http://a.localytics.com/android?id=com.nytimes.android\&referrer=utm_source\%3Dother_nyt_mobile_web\%26utm_medium\%3DWeb\%2520page\%26utm_term\%3DGeneral\%2520Mobile\%2520Page\%26utm_campaign\%3DNYT\%2520Mobile\%2520General\%2520Page}{Android}
    and turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
