Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}Seth Moulton Ends 2020
Presidential Campaign With a Warning

\url{https://nyti.ms/30pJNbo}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Election
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/biden-vice-president-2020.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Biden's
  V.P. Search}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/07/24/us/politics/trump-biden-campaign-donors.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Map
  of Donations}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/elections/delegate-count-primary-results.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Delegate
  Count}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2019/us/politics/2020-presidential-candidates.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{The
  Candidates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Politics
  Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{seth-moulton-ends-2020-presidential-campaign-with-a-warning}{%
\section{Seth Moulton Ends 2020 Presidential Campaign With a
Warning}\label{seth-moulton-ends-2020-presidential-campaign-with-a-warning}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2019/07/31/us/politics/00moulton-out/merlin_158039637_540bdb32-8d3f-408b-b863-1f460df46bcb-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/alexander-burns}{Alexander Burns}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Aug. 23, 2019
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Representative Seth Moulton of Massachusetts has dropped out of the
presidential race, ending a candidacy that emphasized Mr. Moulton's
centrist politics and military service but gained no traction with
Democratic primary voters.

Mr. Moulton, 40, said in an interview that he had no immediate plans to
endorse another candidate, but he warmly praised former Vice President
Joseph R. Biden Jr. Mr. Moulton announced the end of his campaign in a
formal speech before the Democratic National Committee on Friday.

Mr. Moulton suggested that most of the other Democratic candidates were
also laboring in vain at this point, with only a tiny few --- Mr. Biden
and Senators Elizabeth Warren and Bernie Sanders --- remaining as real
competitors for the nomination. He warned in the interview that if
Democrats were to embrace an overly liberal platform, it could make it
harder for the party to defeat President Trump.

``I think it's evident that this is now a three-way race between Biden,
Warren and Sanders, and really it's a debate about how far left the
party should go,'' Mr. Moulton said.

\emph{{[}A lot happened on the campaign trail this week.}
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/08/24/us/politics/2020-democratic-presidential-candidates.html}{\emph{Here's
a recap}}\emph{.{]}}

Mr. Moulton said he would run for re-election to the House, representing
a coastal district to the north and east of Boston. Several other
Democrats filed to run for his seat while Mr. Moulton was a presidential
candidate, and he is likely to face a contested primary.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-2020-election}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: 2020
Election}}{Latest Updates: 2020 Election}}\label{latest-updates-2020-election}}

Updated 2020-08-01T01:26:45.732Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-29fdff45}{Kamala
  Harris, a top vice-presidential contender, confronts double
  standards.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-13ec3d9c}{Karen
  Bass and Susan Rice are rising on Biden's vice-presidential
  shortlist.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-49e9a016}{Trump
  says Russian bounties to kill U.S. troops `never took place.'}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

Mr. Moulton said he would also relaunch his political action committee,
Serve America, to promote issues related to veterans and the military.
Those issues, he said, were not ``getting the attention they deserve''
in the presidential race.

With Mr. Moulton's departure, the sprawling Democratic field shrank to
21 candidates.

He is the fourth Democrat to leave the presidential race this summer,
following
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/08/21/us/politics/jay-inslee-2020-campaign.html}{Gov.
Jay Inslee} of Washington, former
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/08/15/us/politics/john-hickenlooper-drop-out-senate.html}{Gov.
John Hickenlooper} of Colorado and
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/07/08/us/politics/steyer-swalwell-2020.html}{Representative
Eric Swalwell} of California. Mr. Hickenlooper announced on Thursday
that he would
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/08/22/us/politics/john-hickenlooper-senate-2020.html}{run
for Senate}, while
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/08/23/us/politics/jay-inslee.html}{Mr.
Inslee} and Mr. Swalwell are running for re-election to their current
posts.

A combat veteran who served in the Iraq War, Mr. Moulton campaigned on
themes of strengthening national defense and promoting public service,
and criticizing Mr. Trump for damaging the country's most vital
alliances. In May, he revealed that he struggled with post-traumatic
stress disorder after returning from war, and called for new policies to
attend to the mental health issues of soldiers and veterans. Stanley
McChrystal, the retired general who led American forces in Afghanistan,
endorsed Mr. Moulton's campaign.

But Mr. Moulton entered the race late, in a strategic choice he now
concedes was a mistake. He announced his candidacy in late April, days
before Mr. Biden became a candidate and overshadowed much of the rest of
the Democratic field.

Failing to attract any substantial support in polls, Mr. Moulton did not
qualify for inclusion in any of the televised debates, which required
candidates to meet certain benchmarks in polling and financial support.

``Candidly, getting in the race late was a mistake,'' Mr. Moulton said.
``It was a bigger handicap than I expected.''

While Mr. Moulton said he would not ``cry about the D.N.C. rules being
unfair,'' he said the party's debate setup was not ``a smart system to
choose the best nominee to take on Donald Trump.''

\emph{{[}}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/08/23/us/politics/jay-inslee.html}{\emph{Jay
Inslee finally achieved national recognition}} \emph{--- after dropping
out of the race.{]}}

He mentioned Gov. Steve Bullock of Montana, a fellow moderate who has
also strained to reach the debate stage, as another candidate
disadvantaged by the debate restrictions.

``I've always said that veering too far left could result in us losing
this election, and that Trump will be harder to beat than most people
think,'' Mr. Moulton said.

He pointed to health care as an issue where some Democrats were at risk
of alienating voters with calls to eliminate private insurance. Voters,
he said, were ``on the side of strengthening Obamacare'' rather than
implementing a single-payer system.

Asked if that made him a Biden supporter, Mr. Moulton did not exactly
say no.

``I'm not going to endorse anyone right away, but the vice president is
a mentor and a friend and I think he'd make a great president,'' Mr.
Moulton said, adding, ``Anybody in this race will be better than Donald
Trump and I will enthusiastically support whoever the nominee is.''

\emph{{[}}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/08/23/nyregion/de-blasio-town-hall-cnn.html}{\emph{Bill
de Blasio is trailing in the polls}}\emph{. Will he be next to drop
out?{]}}

First elected to the House in 2014, Mr. Moulton made a name for himself
as an insurgent in and outside of the chamber. He won his seat by
defeating an incumbent Democrat, John F. Tierney, in a primary election,
and played a rebellious role in the Democratic caucus as a scathing
critic of Speaker Nancy Pelosi, alienating senior lawmakers and
influential Democratic women in the process.

His appetite for rebellion stirred speculation that he would consider a
2020 primary challenge to Senator Edward J. Markey, a fellow Democrat.
Mr. Moulton opted to run for president instead and said this week that a
Senate candidacy was off the table.

Mr. Markey is facing
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/08/17/us/politics/joseph-kennedy-edward-markey-senate.html}{a
potential challenge from Representative Joseph Kennedy III}.

``I haven't, honestly, been paying attention to that debate,'' Mr.
Moulton said of
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/08/23/us/politics/kennedy-markey-senate-2020.html}{the
brewing rivalry}, ``but I'm the product of a primary. I think primaries
are healthy.''

Mr. Moulton,
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/06/16/us/politics/democratic-candidates-fathers-day.html}{who
became a father last fall}, said he had no regrets about the campaign
except his late entry, and said he hoped his infant daughter would one
day see him as having done ``everything I could to defeat Donald
Trump.''

For now, Mr. Moulton said, ``she'll just see her dad around a lot
more.''

\hypertarget{our-2020-election-guide}{%
\section{Our 2020 Election Guide}\label{our-2020-election-guide}}

Updated July 31, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{the-latest}{%
  \subsection{The Latest}\label{the-latest}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    President Trump's assault on the Postal Service is intersecting with
    his attacks on mail-in voting.
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/politics/trump-usps-mail-delays.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Voting
    rights groups say it is a recipe for disaster.}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{bidens-vp-search}{%
  \subsection{Biden's V.P. Search}\label{bidens-vp-search}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/biden-vice-president-2020.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Here
    are 13 women} who have been under consideration to be Joe Biden's
    running mate, and why each might be chosen --- and might not be.
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{keep-up-with-our-coverage}{%
  \subsection{Keep Up With Our
  Coverage}\label{keep-up-with-our-coverage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Get an
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{email}
    recapping the day's news
  \end{itemize}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Download our mobile app on
    \href{https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nytimes/id284862083?ls=1\&mat_click_id=5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\&referrer=mat_click_id\%3D5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\%26link_click_id\%3D722930677036718082}{iOS}
    and
    \href{http://a.localytics.com/android?id=com.nytimes.android\&referrer=utm_source\%3Dother_nyt_mobile_web\%26utm_medium\%3DWeb\%2520page\%26utm_term\%3DGeneral\%2520Mobile\%2520Page\%26utm_campaign\%3DNYT\%2520Mobile\%2520General\%2520Page}{Android}
    and turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
