Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/style}{Style}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/style}{Style}\textbar{}Max Greenfield of `The
Neighborhood' Takes His Daughter Out for Ice Cream

\href{https://nyti.ms/2VHELVl}{https://nyti.ms/2VHELVl}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

Encounters

\hypertarget{max-greenfield-of-the-neighborhood-takes-his-daughter-out-for-ice-cream}{%
\section{Max Greenfield of `The Neighborhood' Takes His Daughter Out for
Ice
Cream}\label{max-greenfield-of-the-neighborhood-takes-his-daughter-out-for-ice-cream}}

The actor also stars in the new ``Veronica Mars.'' ``I'll have a career
forever, just doing reboots,'' he said.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2019/04/22/fashion/22encounters1/merlin_150188829_ad181832-19db-400d-9998-5b3b09c9bb25-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/max-berlinger}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/11/05/multimedia/author-max-berlinger/author-max-berlinger-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/max-berlinger}{Max Berlinger}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  April 12, 2019
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

The temperature hovered just above zero, but that didn't stop Max
Greenfield from heading to \href{https://serendipity3.com/}{Serendipity
3}, the old-fashioned cafe and general store on East 60th Street known
for its indulgent ice cream desserts and
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/1994/12/14/garden/pssst-serendipity-s-chocolate-secret.html}{frozen
hot chocolate}.

Actually, he blamed it on his daughter, Lilly, who just turned 10. As
part of her birthday present, Mr. Greenfield took her to New York City
(her 3-year-old brother, Ozzie, and mother, Tess, were back home in Los
Angeles). The trip included a visit to the Museum of Illusions, and that
night they were going to see ``Wicked.'' But right now they were feeling
a bit peckish.

``We were thinking of tea at the Plaza,'' said Mr. Greenfield, who wore
trim navy jacket with shearling collar. ``But this is much more our
speed.''

The two arrived shortly after noon and barely glanced up at the kitschy
décor because they were so cold.

``Daddy, have we ever been this cold before?'' Lilly said.

``Oh God, no,'' he sad. ``Never.''

On the sitcom
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/09/28/arts/television/cedric-the-entertainer-max-greenfield-the-neighborhood.html?module=inline}{``The
Neighborhood,''} the 38-year-old actor plays Dave, an affable embodiment
of gentrification who moves his wife and son into a traditionally black
community. Culture clashes arise, and are played for laughs, as he tries
to befriend the family next door, played by Cedric the Entertainer and
Tichina Arnold.

The show was recently renewed for a second season. ``When my dad found
out they got a second season, he started crying,'' Lilly said, giggling.

``That's not funny,'' Mr. Greenfield said, feigning embarrassment.
``That's private, I told you that!'' He flashed her a smile.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2019/04/14/fashion/22encounters2/merlin_150188802_c54b2bca-7f1e-4e8e-afc5-e658fa2db128-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Image

Lilly often visits her father on the set of ``The Neighborhood,'' a
sitcom.Credit...George Etheredge for The New York Times

After taking a seat in a corner table under vintage Tiffany lamps, ****
Mr. Greenfield ordered a cheeseburger, medium well, and fries for Lilly.
And a frozen hot chocolate. She commandeered his iPhone to show off
pictures of herself visiting the ``Neighborhood'' set.

Lilly often visits her father there. ``It's fun,'' he said. ``People
actually do this for a living. And I don't want to be like, `You can't
come around this,' and create some negative connotation.''

Indeed, Lilly seemed to have caught the performing bug herself. She has
starred as Mary Poppins in a local production for young performers, and
as the Pharaoh in ``Joseph and the Amazing Technicolor Dreamcoat.''

``An amazing performance,'' her father said. ``We worked really hard on
it, didn't we?''

She nodded vigorously.

Mr. Greenfield's big breakout was as Schmidt on the comedy series ``New
Girl,'' about a single woman and her male roommates navigating early
adulthood.

On it, he perfected a sort of well-meaning but clueless privileged white
male archetype, which won him many fans. At the time he was living a bit
of a double life, playing a single Lothario on screen while tending to
his wife and children at home.

``It's funny to play that and then on the weekend you're going to a
2-year-old's birthday party,'' he said.

He has since diversified his portfolio. He starred opposite Sally Field
in the awkward romantic film
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2016/03/11/movies/sally-field-hello-my-name-is-doris-review.html}{``Hello,
My Name Is Doris,''} had a cameo as a possible love interest to Will on
the reboot of ``Will \& Grace,'' played a drug addicted tenant of a
haunted inn in Ryan Murphy's
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2015/10/07/arts/television/review-american-horror-story-hotel-as-depraved-as-ever.html}{``American
Horror Story: Hotel''} and, most recently, had a supporting role in
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/02/07/movies/what-men-want-review.html}{``What
Men Want,''} a film starring Taraji P. Henson as a woman who can read
men's minds.

After the long days required on a single-camera show like ``New Girl,''
Mr. Greenfield was wary of rushing into another project. ``I certainly
wasn't going to take a show unless I really believed in it,'' he said.

In fact, he initially passed on ``The Neighborhood.'' But he was granted
a second chance when the producers were looking to replace the lead role
in the pilot. ``I got to watch the pilot, which you never get to do,''
he said. ``So all of these unknowns when you read a script, which is
terrifying, those were gone. I was like, `Oh, this is like a real show.
There's so many places this could go.'''

The burger arrived, and Mr. Greenfield cut it in half for his daughter.

``I'd always wanted to do a multicam, but they're so hard to get
right,'' he said, referring to the classic sitcom format filmed in front
of a live audience, which has recently fallen out of favor. ``The
minority used to be the cool indie show --- now there's like, seven
thousand cool indie shows and we're the minority. You want to be part of
the thing you can't find anywhere else.''

Halfway through her burger, Lilly was ready for her next course**.**
``Can I please be done,'' she said.

``One more big bite and I'll order dessert,'' he said. She called his
bluff, reminding him that the order for the frozen hot chocolate had
already been placed. ``She's smarter than me,'' he said, sighing. ``Not
that that's saying much.''

Ten minutes later the dessert arrived with great fanfare, and she wasted
no time diving in. ``It tastes like melted ice cream,'' she said.

``You're in heaven, I can see it.'' Mr. Greenfield said.

Image

Credit...George Etheredge for The New York Times

Up next for the actor, other than the second season of ``The
Neighborhood,'' is the reboot of ``Veronica Mars,'' a noirish mystery
that first aired on UPN and the CW, in which he played Leo D'Amato, a
police officer. With a couple of hit shows under his belt, Mr.
Greenfield sees the possibility of eternal employment, thanks to the
entertainment industry's
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/09/05/arts/television/fall-tv-revivals-reboots.html}{preoccupation
with reviving old shows}.

``I was joking recently, saying, maybe I'll finish `Veronica Mars,' and
then `The Neighborhood' will run five years and then we'll do a reboot
of `New Girl' and then a new `Veronica Mars' iteration and then `The
Neighborhood' revival,'' he said. ``I'll have a career forever, just
doing reboots.''

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
