Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/world/europe}{Europe}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/world/europe}{Europe}\textbar{}Italy's Politics Go to the
Beach

\url{https://nyti.ms/2ZE9rvZ}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{italys-politics-go-to-the-beach}{%
\section{Italy's Politics Go to the
Beach}\label{italys-politics-go-to-the-beach}}

For decades, immigrant peddlers have been part of the familiar fabric of
the Italian summer vacation. It's no longer so simple.

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/jason-horowitz}{Jason
Horowitz}

Photographs by Andrew Testa

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Published Sept. 1, 2019Updated Sept. 3, 2019
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2019/08/10/world/xxitaly-migrants1/merlin_158967066_257ae1c5-d782-4d45-98fe-3d64f87e9a09-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

ORBETELLO, Italy --- The girls, tanning their arms and tattooed ankles,
looked up from their phones to sift through the caftans hanging from the
Moroccan peddler's cart. The fathers and sons kicking around orange
balls paused to check out the sun hats that a Bangladeshi had balanced
on his head. Mothers, fresh from cooling their legs in the sea, were
implored by their children to consider the plastic sand buckets and
inflatable flamingos that a Senegalese had spread at their feet.

For decades, migrant beach peddlers --- disparagingly called vu cumprà
or ``wanna-buys''--- **** have sidestepped cat-walking musclemen to
march right into the familiar fabric of the Italian beach holiday. Heat
waves and economic downturns made their jobs harder. Now, so do
politics.

Exasperation in Italy over the migrant crisis prompted the rise of a
hard-right, populist government, and the crackdown it imposed took many
forms, from
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/02/01/world/europe/italy-mayors-migrants-salvini-security-decree.html}{blocking
aid ships carrying rescued asylum seekers} to a much-lesser-known
program called Operation Safe Beaches.

Introduced by **** the anti-migrant Interior Minister
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/08/08/world/europe/matteo-salvini-italy-beach.html}{Matteo
Salvini}, the operation earmarked millions of euros for seaside
communities to patrol the beaches for unlicensed peddlers, especially
those trafficking in counterfeit goods.

``At last,'' Mr. Salvini said at a rally at a Sabaudia beach. ``We will
make sure that Italians can spend a quiet week under the beach umbrella,
after having worked a whole year, without having a vu cumprà annoy
them.''

Image

A woman discussed prices with two sellers from
Bangladesh.Credit...Andrew Testa for The New York Times

Image

Fatima Diop, a 33-year-old Senegalese, displaying her craft near
Orbetello.Credit...Andrew Testa for The New York Times

Image

Bags and sneakers on sale on the beach in Follonica.Credit...Andrew
Testa for The New York Times

Mr. Salvini may be gone, a casualty of political overreach that caused
him to stumble out of power
and\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/08/28/world/europe/italy-government-salvini.html}{trigger
the formation of a new, more liberal government}, but many of his
hard-line policies remain in place, including Operation Safe Beaches.

Up and down the shore, the peddlers still lug their stores of dresses,
bathing suits, blankets, charm bracelets, umbrellas, necklaces, fishing
rods, fake tattoos, inflatable toys, counterfeit bags and sneakers, and
whatever else they can fit in their carryalls. But now they need to look
over their shoulder.

``It's really hard,'' said Gueye Diayua, 29, who arrived from Senegal
five years ago and was walking the Giannella, a strip of soft beach
bordered by pine woods in southern Tuscany, selling African-themed books
for a few euros.

Peddlers like Mr. Diayua are among the few African and South Asian
immigrants that many Italians interact with in a country where
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/02/20/world/europe/italy-tuscany-migration-elections.html}{integration
lags far behind other Western countries}. The rise of hard-right
politics in Italy has added a strange layer to an already odd
relationship in which migrants, often fully dressed in pants and long
sleeves and hats, spend the day pitching scantily clad Italians on the
beach.

The Italians mostly ignore them.

Image

For many Italians, the vendors are among the few African and South Asian
immigrants they interact with.Credit...Andrew Testa for The New York
Times

Image

Kabir Zemron, a Moroccan, watching a customer, Carlotta Robbiano, try on
a pareo.Credit...Andrew Testa for The New York Times

Image

Vendors boarding a train at the end of the day.Credit...Andrew Testa for
The New York Times

For some, the peddlers are part of the scenery, as incessant and
harmless as the waves lapping on the shore. For others, they are a
painful reminder that Italians, who migrated en masse in search of
economic opportunity a century ago, have failed to welcome and find
legal work for the immigrants. And for those more in line with Mr.
Salvini, the peddlers represent lawlessness and an insidious connection
between migration and the mafia, as well as annoyances to shoo away.

Many peddlers seem to have noticed the change. They have become
particularly wary of the police. Some turned on a dime at the sight of a
camera to melt away into the canopy of beach umbrellas. Others ducked
into the dunes.

``This year is tougher than last, because there are more and more
crackdowns from police,'' Fatima Diop, 33, said on the Giannella beach
as she earned €5 to adorn a girl's blonde hair with pink, turquoise and
blue braids.

Orbetello, which includes the Giannella beach, received €40,000 from the
Safe Beaches funds. The police put up fliers warning sunbathers not to
buy goods from unlicensed peddlers, confiscated about 1,000 items and
cruised the beaches in small dune buggies. They warned that Italians who
bought illegal goods faced fines as high as €7,000.

Yet the peddlers keep coming.

Mr. Diayua said he found the sand lighter and easier to walk on at
Giannella, and so he had taken a two-and-a-half-hour train south from
Pisa that morning with scores of other peddlers. Together with more
migrants traveling north from Rome, they walked the familiar path past
abandoned buildings and camper lots, by the Simply supermarket and to
the pine woods shading the beaches.

Image

``Sales are bad,'' said Usman Dianj, a 30-year-old father of three boys
from Senegal on the beach in Follonica.Credit...Andrew Testa for The New
York Times

Image

Books for sale on a beach near Orbetello.Credit...Andrew Testa for The
New York Times

Image

A beach in Ostia.Credit...Andrew Testa for The New York Times

Some wondered whether, in the face of the crackdown, it was worth it.

On Ansedonia, a popular beach north of Rome, Kabir Zemron, 49, stood
next to his cart, its umbrellas hanging with floral and monochrome
sundresses, watching Carlotta Robbiano, 26, a district manager for the
lingerie chain Calzedonia try on a purple pareo.

``Are you sure it's only in this color?'' she asked.

A few days earlier, Mr. Zemron had more options, but the police had
confiscated an entire cart of goods in a sweep, and he said he could not
afford to pay the €5,000 fine to get them back.

``I've stayed put here for years,'' said Mr. Zemron, who came to Italy
from Morocco nearly 30 years ago. ''I don't go around bothering
anybody.''

Farther south, on the beach of Capalbio, a redoubt of the left-wing
leadership and liberals whom Mr. Salvini
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/04/13/world/europe/italy-do-gooders-buonisti-matteo-salvini.html}{excoriated
as do-gooders}, sympathized with the peddlers' plight.

``Every year, we buy a little something,'' Sara Francescangeli, 66, from
Terni, said as she greeted a Senegalese man known as Jimmy Jim. ``He's
our friend since forever.''

This is the sort of thing that drives some right-wing lawmakers crazy.

``It's a problem,'' said Senator Daniela Santanchè, a member of the
right-wing Brothers of Italy who owns a beach club in Tuscany. ``It's an
open market. The problem is that people also buy things, which is
illegal because they don't pay taxes. At our club, we hired two security
guards to make sure they don't bother people.''

In 2017, Ms. Santanchè was photographed looking unbothered at her club,
Twiga Beach, as she lounged on a beach bed and inspected the merchandise
of three African peddlers.

``I look, but I don't buy,'' she
\href{https://iltirreno.gelocal.it/versilia/cronaca/2017/08/10/news/daniela-santanche-e-la-venditrice-sulla-spiaggia-guardo-ma-non-compro-1.15718229?refresh_ce}{told
the newspaper Il Tirreno} at the time. ``Clear?''

Image

Vendors from Bangladesh with their stall at the beach at
Orbetello.Credit...Andrew Testa for The New York Times

Image

``It's not that we want this work, walking up and down the beach every
day,'' said~Mustafa Nguer, 30, who is from Senegal.Credit...Andrew Testa
for The New York Times

Image

To many Italians the peddlers remained part of the scenery, as incessant
and harmless as the waves lapping on the shore.Credit...Andrew Testa for
The New York Times

Francesca Trevisan, the mayor of Scarlino, said her town, which has
about five miles of beaches, some of them secluded nature reserves and
others densely crowded, badly needed the Safe Beaches funds.

In late July, she said, about ten Senegalese peddlers pushed around two
police officers who were loading confiscated counterfeit goods into
their patrol car. Tourists intervened and called more police officers,
who arrested three men.

``We cannot go on like this,'' Ms. Trevisan said.

Yet it seems that is exactly what is happening.

Col. Antonio Del Gaizo, an official for the financial police, said that
while some of the peddlers were independent, seeking to save money and
enter the legal job market, many trafficked in counterfeit goods and
operated under the control of organized crime and the Italian Mafia.

``These are people in a state of need,'' Colonel Del Gaizo said. ``And
so they are exploited.''

On Ostia beach outside Rome, Mustafa Nguer, 30, who arrived in Italy a
few years ago from Senegal, said he did not understand why politicians
and the police were cracking down so hard.

``It's better to do this than to rob and steal,'' he said as he carried
a bag full of apparently counterfeit sneakers, a pair of which dangled
by the laces around his neck. ``It's not that we want this work, walking
up and down the beach every day.''

\emph{Anna Momigliano contributed reporting from Rome.}

Image

A seller from Bangladesh packed his things in the dunes behind the beach
in Capalbio.Credit...Andrew Testa for The New York Times

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
