Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/sports/soccer}{Soccer}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/sports/soccer}{Soccer}\textbar{}English Premier League
Terminates China TV Agreement Amid Dispute

\url{https://nyti.ms/2Z2NO76}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{english-premier-league-terminates-china-tv-agreement-amid-dispute}{%
\section{English Premier League Terminates China TV Agreement Amid
Dispute}\label{english-premier-league-terminates-china-tv-agreement-amid-dispute}}

The world's most-watched sports league said it had canceled its biggest
overseas broadcast deal, worth over \$700 million. It was already facing
heavy costs from coronavirus disruption.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/09/04/sports/03soccer-print/merlin_174972525_2fa4a68e-a51f-42af-8e14-fc4662937257-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/tariq-panja}{Tariq Panja}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Sept. 3, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://cn.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/sports/20200904/premier-league-china-contract-television/}{阅读简体中文版}\href{https://cn.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/sports/20200904/premier-league-china-contract-television/zh-hant/}{閱讀繁體中文版}

LONDON --- The English Premier League, already facing mounting losses
because of the continued impact of the coronavirus crisis on soccer and
other sporting events, announced on Thursday that it had canceled its
most lucrative overseas broadcast contract after it was unable to
resolve a dispute with its Chinese partner.

The league and its Chinese broadcast partner, Suning Holdings, a closely
held company controlled by one of China's richest men, had been locked
in talks for months after Suning failed to pay the league \$200 million
in fees due in March, in the first year of a record three-year agreement
worth more than \$700 million.

The termination of the contract with Suning Holdings adds to the woes of
the Premier League, the most-watched sports league in the world. The
league was already required to repay millions to television companies in
Britain and overseas because of the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/26/sports/soccer/premier-league-decision-day.html}{disruption
caused by the coronavirus} to the 2019-20 season championship. Further
financial damage has been caused by the league being forced
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/19/sports/soccer/premier-league-tottenham-manchester-united.html}{to
play without spectators}, cutting off a lucrative revenue stream that is
unlikely to return to precoronavirus levels until at least next year.

``The Premier League confirms that it has today terminated its
agreements for Premier League coverage in China with its licensee in
that territory,'' the league said in a short statement confirming its
decision.

PPTV, the Suning Holdings subsidiary that broadcast the matches, said in
a statement that ``after rounds of meetings, PPLive Sports and the
Premier League'' had been unable to reach an agreement on the cost of
broadcasting rights.

``Covid-19 has brought many challenges, and it is especially notable
during broadcasting rights negotiations,'' the statement said.

Even though Suning cast the decision as purely business, it comes at a
time when China's relationship with the United Kingdom has deteriorated.
Britain angered China in July when it banned the Chinese technology
giant Huawei from the country's high-speed mobile network, reversing an
earlier decision.

That came a month after Britain stoked Beijing's ire when Prime Minister
Boris Johnson
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/03/world/europe/boris-johnson-uk-hong-kong-china.html}{promised
to allow nearly three million people} from Hong Kong to live and work in
Britain if China passed a new national security law in the former
British colony.

The Premier League, with its matches broadcast in more than 200
territories around the world, has grown to become Britain's best-known
export since it began in 1992. Its longtime former chief executive,
Richard Scudamore, was regularly invited to join government trade
missions to strategically important markets.

China had long been a particular focus for the league's growth, with the
Premier League's Asia Trophy --- a branding exercise as much as an
off-season tuneup event --- frequently being held in Hong Kong and
mainland China.

\hypertarget{the-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\subsubsection{The Coronavirus
Outbreak}\label{the-coronavirus-outbreak}}

\hypertarget{sports-and-the-virus}{%
\paragraph{Sports and the Virus}\label{sports-and-the-virus}}

Updated Sept. 11, 2020

Here's what's happening as the world of sports slowly comes back to
life:

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Baseball plans to
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/10/sports/baseball/mlb-postseason-neutral-sites.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_2\&context=storylines_keepup}{hold
    its playoff games}~at four stadiums in Southern California and
    Texas, with the World Series held at the Texas Rangers' new
    ballpark.
  \item
    N.F.L. teams have spent years trying to create over-the-top
    entertainment for fans inside stadiums. This year, they'll just be
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/10/sports/football/what-will-nfl-games-sound-like.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_2\&context=storylines_keepup}{trying
    to cover up echoes}~from empty seats.
  \item
    September Saturdays at Penn State are usually the apex of a week of
    hype. Now, as at other college football destinations, the approach
    of autumn has been
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/09/sports/penn-state-college-football-canceled.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_2\&context=storylines_keepup}{unusually
    quiet}~there.
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

The termination of the broadcast contract comes just months after a
politically charged episode involving Premier League broadcasts in
China.

In December, matches involving one London-based Premier League team,
Arsenal, were summarily
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/12/15/world/asia/mesut-ozil-muslims.html}{taken
off the air} after a post on Twitter by its German star Mesut Özil that
denounced China's treatment of the Uighurs, a largely Muslim minority in
northwestern China. While Arsenal matches eventually returned to
screens, Özil was essentially erased from coverage in China, with
commentators not mentioning his name and internet searches for him
ending in error messages.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/09/03/sports/03soccer-2/merlin_169658784_923127ce-8a05-44f2-b1c8-bca041a08309-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

The N.B.A.'s Houston Rockets found themselves in a similar imbroglio
last October, when the club's general manager
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/10/06/sports/daryl-morey-rockets-china.html}{expressed
support for protests in Hong Kong}, setting off a wave of anger in
China.

The Premier League struck its deal with Suning, which owns the Italian
soccer giant Inter Milan, at the peak of a spending spree on soccer
assets by Chinese companies. Dozens of teams across Europe were acquired
and millions were being lavished on broadcast rights, capped by the
agreement with the Premier League --- a deal worth 12 times more than
the league's existing Chinese contract.

The Premier League has become by far the world's most lucrative domestic
competition, thanks in large part to overseas broadcasters, which
accounted for almost half of the league's \$11.7 billion in rights
agreements for its current 2019-2022 cycle.

That influx of cash has fueled spending on some of the world's most
talented players on salaries that only a handful of teams in other
leagues can match.

But in the player transfer window before a new season starts this month,
the continued uncertainty from the coronavirus pandemic has led all but
a few teams --- like the billionaire-backed Manchester City and Chelsea
--- to show restraint in changing their rosters. The loss of millions
from the terminated Suning contract might also put a damper on major
deals this year.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
