Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/world/middleeast}{Middle East}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/world/middleeast}{Middle East}\textbar{}Dozens Suffocate
in Syria as Government Is Accused of Chemical Attack

\href{https://nyti.ms/2v2YRAL}{https://nyti.ms/2v2YRAL}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{dozens-suffocate-in-syria-as-government-is-accused-of-chemical-attack}{%
\section{Dozens Suffocate in Syria as Government Is Accused of Chemical
Attack}\label{dozens-suffocate-in-syria-as-government-is-accused-of-chemical-attack}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/04/09/world/09Damascus1/merlin_136555428_7439ba87-4dca-4559-902b-cfab0f5b22af-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/ben-hubbard}{Ben Hubbard}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  April 8, 2018
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

BEIRUT, Lebanon --- Dozens of Syrians choked to death after a suspected
chemical attack struck the rebel-held suburb of Douma, east of Damascus,
with aid groups on Sunday blaming President Bashar al-Assad's government
for the assault and
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/04/08/world/middleeast/syria-trump-assad.html}{Western
governments expressing outrage}.

Rescue workers in Syria reported finding at least 42 people dead in
their homes from apparent suffocation, and antigovernment activists
circulated videos of lifeless men, women and children sprawled out on
floors and in stairwells, many with white foam coming from their mouths
and nostrils.

A stream of patients with burning eyes and breathing problems were
rushed to clinics after the attack at dusk on Saturday, medical and
rescue groups said.

The attack appeared to break the will of Douma's rebels, who agreed on
Sunday to a deal with the government to hand the area over and be bused
to another area outside government control in the country's north.
Thousands of fighters and tens of thousands of their relatives are
expected to leave soon.

The latest atrocity in Syria's agonizing seven-year civil war drew
immediate condemnation from the United States and the European Union,
but Mr. Assad's allies in Moscow and Tehran dismissed allegations of a
chemical attack as ``bogus.''

The British Foreign Office called for an urgent investigation and said
that if the use of chemical weapons proved to be true, ``it is further
proof of Assad's brutality.''

The United States government said it was working to verify whether
chemical weapons had been used. A new, confirmed chemical attack in
Syria would pose
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/04/08/world/middleeast/syria-trump-assad.html}{a
dilemma} for President Trump, who ordered
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2017/04/06/world/middleeast/us-said-to-weigh-military-responses-to-syrian-chemical-attack.html}{military
strikes on a Syrian air base} after a chemical attack last year to
punish Mr. Assad but has more recently said
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/04/04/world/middleeast/trump-syria-troops.html}{he
wanted to get the United States out of Syria}.

In posts on Twitter on Sunday, Mr. Trump condemned the attack, blaming
Iran and President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia for supporting the Syrian
government and warning of consequences. White House officials did not
rule out a military response.

Mr. Trump also took a jab at former President Barack Obama, who declined
to respond militarily to evidence that the Syrian government had gassed
its own people in 2013.

``If President Obama had crossed his stated Red Line In The Sand, the
Syrian disaster would have ended long ago! Animal Assad would have been
history!''
\href{https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/982969547283161090}{Mr.
Trump tweeted.}

(\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/04/08/world/middleeast/syria-chemical-attacks-assad.html}{Burning
eyes, foaming mouths: Here is a look at the major episodes of suspected
chemical attacks in Syria in recent years}.)

State news media in Syria denied that government forces had used
chemical weapons and accused the Islamist rebel group that controls
Douma, the Army of Islam, of fabricating the videos to solicit
international support as defeat loomed.

The Russian Foreign and Defense Ministries also denied that chemical
weapons had been used.

It was not possible to independently verify the reports because Douma is
surrounded by Syrian government forces, which prevent access by
journalists, aid workers and investigators.

The attack occurred near the end of a monthslong push by the Syrian
government to retake a group of towns east of Damascus known as Eastern
Ghouta. The towns have been held by rebels seeking to topple Mr. Assad
since the early years of the Syrian war, and the rebels have often
shelled Damascus, killing civilians.

The Syrian government and its allies --- the Russian military and
militias backed by Iran --- have surrounded and bombarded the area,
killing more than 1,600 people and forcing tens of thousands to flee,
according to the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights, which monitors the
conflict from Britain through contacts in Syria.

Douma is the last remaining town in the area still controlled by rebels,
and the Syrian government has vowed to retake it.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/04/09/world/09Damascus3/merlin_136558434_b3e7b6d1-ee85-470e-8b24-5fd119ffd9ca-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

A day earlier, after the government began a new offensive against the
area, Hussein Mortada, a Lebanese reporter who supports the Syrian
government, released a video of himself on a hill near Douma as columns
of smoke from government attacks rose in the background.

``These are appetizers,'' he said. ``The story is bigger than a ground
invasion. There is something they will see today if the story continues.
They will feel something very strong.''

The intensity of the shelling and airstrikes caused many residents to
seek safety in basements, which could have made them more vulnerable to
poisonous gases.

On Saturday afternoon, 15 people, including women and children, reported
breathing problems after an airstrike in their area, Mahmoud Aadam, a
spokesman for the Syrian Civil Defense, the so-called White Helmets, who
rescue people in the wake of airstrikes, said via
\href{https://www.facebook.com/SCDrifdimashq/videos/2186279348064029/}{Facebook
Live} on Sunday.

Then, after dark, a government helicopter dropped exploding barrels that
dispersed an unknown chemical substance that affected many more people,
Mr. Aadam said. The continued assaults made it hard for rescue workers
to look for victims, he said, meaning that it was difficult to establish
a comprehensive death toll.

As of Sunday morning, rescue workers were ``going into homes and finding
people dead,'' he said.

In
\href{https://www.sams-usa.net/press_release/sams-syrian-civil-defense-condemn-chemical-attack-douma/}{a
joint statement}, the Syrian Civil Defense and the Syrian American
Medical Society, which supports clinics in opposition areas of Syria,
said that more than 500 people had gone to medical centers after the
assault ``with symptoms indicative of exposure to a chemical agent.''
Those symptoms included trouble breathing, foaming at the mouth, burning
eyes and the ``emission of a chlorine-like odor.''

One person was dead on arrival at a clinic, six others died after they
got there, and rescue workers reported finding more than 42 dead in
their homes, the statement said. The bodies could not be evacuated
because of strong odors and a lack of protective equipment.

``The reported symptoms indicate that the victims suffocated from the
exposure to toxic chemicals,'' the statement said.

Image

Pro-Syrian government forces advancing toward Douma on
Saturday.Credit...Agence France-Presse --- Getty Images

The Syrian Observatory for Human Rights, which did not confirm the use
of chemical agents, said that 56 people, including women and children,
had been killed in the past 24 hours, including 21 who suffocated in the
basements of buildings that had collapsed on them. About 500 others were
wounded in the bombardment, and 70 had breathing troubles, the group
said.

``The Assad regime and its backers must be held accountable, and any
further attacks prevented immediately,'' a State Department spokeswoman,
Heather Nauert, said in a statement. Ms. Nauert noted
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2017/04/04/world/middleeast/syria-gas-attack.html}{a
sarin gas attack in April 2017} in northwestern Syria that the United
States and the United Nations blamed on the Syrian government.

``The United States calls on Russia to end this unmitigated support
immediately and work with the international community to prevent
further, barbaric chemical weapons attacks,'' Ms. Nauert said.

Foreign Minister Jean-Yves Le Drian of France on Sunday said reports of
the chemical attack were extremely worrying and called for the United
Nations Security Council to meet quickly to examine the situation.

The Russian Foreign Ministry dismissed the reports as fake.

``The spread of bogus stories about the use of chlorine and other
poisonous substances by government forces continues,'' the ministry said
in a statement. ``The aim of such deceitful speculation, lacking any
kind of grounding, is to shield terrorists,'' it added, ``and to attempt
to justify possible external uses of force.''

Bahram Qasemi, the spokesman for Iran's Foreign Ministry, said on Sunday
that reports of the gas attack were not based on facts and were an ``an
excuse'' by the United States and Western countries to take military
action against Damascus, the official Iranian news agency IRNA reported.

Mr. Obama struggled with how to respond to such attacks in Syria. After
declaring the use of chemical weapons a ``red line,'' he declined to
respond militarily when
\href{http://www.nytimes.com/2013/08/27/world/middleeast/blasts-in-the-night-a-smell-and-a-flood-of-syrian-victims.html}{a
chemical attack} by the Syrian government in 2013 killed more than 1,400
people near Damascus, according to a United States assessment.

Instead, the United States and Russia reached an agreement to have Syria
surrender its chemical weapons stockpiles and dismantle its capabilities
to make new ones.

The agreement was celebrated at the time, but multiple chemical attacks
since then have been blamed on the Syrian government, raising questions
about how effective the agreement was.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
