Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/business/dealbook}{DealBook}\textbar{}Airbnb Imagines a
`Stakeholder' World

\url{https://nyti.ms/2NuNhFd}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

DealBook Business and Policy

\hypertarget{airbnb-imagines-a-stakeholder-world}{%
\section{Airbnb Imagines a `Stakeholder'
World}\label{airbnb-imagines-a-stakeholder-world}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/01/17/business/17db-newsletter-airbnb/merlin_166841385_af5fa90f-4cfb-4acd-a55f-d6f16bffa61a-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Jan. 17, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\emph{Want this in your inbox each morning?}
\href{http://p.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/email/re?location=hdaNaYedr2/IomeWRKt0nffrak8aSGLbQgZx2X6d46QTPfqP1YU5VFs7ogbYiA6geS/dWohdr/Cx4ICfruKKr2xWO3SrRrXz/UnL21ee4RfTsG6Iu6Pi4Vkjv2FNF/lShp8PWKHi4Hr3K9P4/20g1T7hdv9TGo4mWrWdQtjWltpAYrgkCWi4BUsjOsCggHxLuH78WvYURHt22PZDz5BTHU4Eoe8mhdVMdiIkF990xuDQn5eAZPep+/pyFTL/tvm10WIUAo7GiLm9BxSf48VWkcf32z4mKIynkgqkqPLcwrXrPfY6X6/90c1ST1rGGrmJnRt6JgODhB2PXERgSBxx0HiQjPczGK0FdRZfUpCZnJM3hkVVWY5pBphIWP4l17u/+7gnJoDxda0LOMJqbKXNrv72oJVMfG+5UYYab3+1pzaVxdgaCxNityNQ46NiCJL5UelWrB2wIT53X4SLL93iP/AfyDtqFhF2dL2Q47tnvHslU1eZCU05+P4/1mWonIWQ5nZ6aKGnW42FfyL2sEuvM9pqFUwGCW86ZeoCmEOm619h7Iq+egrxxNmh3gt3ZmpVQnOFMTCq2g929XZGwgQ/2dhV26lso+m/\&campaign_id=0\&instance_id=0\&segment_id=0\&user_id=f4577a56bcf773214e9a1d55b5fe9d24\&regi_id=0nl=dealbook\&emc=edit_dk_20180529}{\emph{Sign
up here}}\emph{.}

\hypertarget{airbnb-moves-beyond-shareholders}{%
\subsection{Airbnb moves beyond
shareholders}\label{airbnb-moves-beyond-shareholders}}

Brian Chesky, Airbnb's co-founder and C.E.O., spoke exclusively to
Andrew last night about
\href{https://news.airbnb.com/serving-all-stakeholders}{the company's
announcement today} that it will think about all ``stakeholders'' when
it comes to corporate governance, not just investors.

\textbf{The move is Mr. Chesky's take} on the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/08/19/business/business-roundtable-ceos-corporations.html}{Business
Roundtable's recommendations} last year that companies consider
employees, the environment and more in their business decisions.

• Airbnb is planning to hold a ``Stakeholder Day.'' It would be like a
traditional annual shareholder meeting --- except that everyone from
customers to ``hosts'' to employees and others will be invited.

• It will also change its compensation program, with factors important
to stakeholders like progress on guest safety taken into account when
bonuses are calculated.

\textbf{``I don't want to be one of those C.E.O.s} to say we're trying
to do all this great stuff, but then we treat board meetings exactly
like every other board meeting,'' Mr. Chesky told Andrew. He added that
he doesn't think this is particularly radical: ``I think this is where
the world is going.''

\textbf{The big picture:}

• Airbnb remains under fire on a number of fronts, including battles
with regulators over housing laws, concerns over the safety of its
customers and claims of discrimination by hosts. They're among the
struggles that surround the company's
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/09/19/technology/airbnb-ipo-2020.html}{plans
to go public} this year.

• It's unclear whether investors, as one of many groups of stakeholders,
will embrace their diminished stature within Airbnb's universe.

• And it remains to be seen whether the new goals will increase the
company's valuation in its market debut.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/01/17/business/17db-newsletter-nadella/merlin_167234985_6504cf93-b1be-4d4c-bf86-683ff9599af8-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\hypertarget{microsofts-ambitious-climate-goal-going-carbon-negative}{%
\subsection{Microsoft's ambitious climate goal: going ``carbon
negative''}\label{microsofts-ambitious-climate-goal-going-carbon-negative}}

The tech giant unveiled a response to climate change yesterday that goes
beyond offsetting carbon emissions. It wants to erase its entire
historical carbon footprint by 2050, a target that no other major
company has set before.

\textbf{\href{https://blogs.microsoft.com/blog/2020/01/16/microsoft-will-be-carbon-negative-by-2030/}{What
the plan involves}:}

• Becoming ``carbon negative'' by 2030, which means not only ending the
emission of carbon into the atmosphere, but also removing it.

• Creating a Climate Innovation Fund that will invest \$1 billion over
the next four years into developing carbon-removal technology, which
currently isn't commercially viable.

\textbf{It goes further than other environmental pledges} by Fortune 500
companies. Amazon said last year that it aimed to be carbon neutral by
2040. And PepsiCo announced this week that it wanted to
\href{https://www.fastcompany.com/90451782/pepsicos-u-s-operations-will-be-powered-by-100-renewable-electricity-this-year}{cut
its carbon emissions by 20 percent} over the next decade. Climate
activists hope that such moves will spur other corporations to think
just as big.

\textbf{But there's reason to be skeptical} of Microsoft's pledge. Sue
Reid of the environmental nonprofit group Ceres told Reuters that the
economics of carbon removal
\href{https://www.reuters.com/article/us-climate-change-microsoft/in-climate-push-microsoft-to-erase-its-carbon-footprint-from-atmosphere-idUSKBN1ZF2CG}{remained
murky}: ``That math is all facing some new uncertainty and
vulnerabilities tied to exacerbated climate change impact,'' such as
more wildfires, she said.

\textbf{Expect this to be a huge topic at the World Economic Forum} in
Davos, Switzerland, next week. Andrew will be on the ground to give you
the inside scoop.

Image

Credit...Bloomberg Businessweek

\hypertarget{inside-leon-blacks-moneymaking-machine}{%
\subsection{Inside Leon Black's moneymaking
machine}\label{inside-leon-blacks-moneymaking-machine}}

Apollo Global Management is one of Wall Street's biggest private equity
firms, managing over \$320 billion in assets. Apollo's success is due in
large part to the strategies of its founder, Leon Black, who gets his
close-up in this week's
\href{https://www.bloomberg.com/news/features/2020-01-16/nobody-makes-money-like-apollo-s-ruthless-founder-leon-black?srnd=businessweek-v2}{Bloomberg
Businessweek cover story}.

\textbf{``Black's aggressive approach} --- involving layoffs and
slashing benefits --- is also among the most profitable,'' Caleb Melby
and Heather Perlberg of Businessweek write. ``Apollo's flagship private
equity fund, which it opened to investors in 2001, has delivered annual
returns of 44 percent.''

\textbf{Highlights from Mr. Black's career} include:

• Working with Mike Milken on junk bonds, a term Mr. Black still hates
because competitors came up with it: ``We were never accepted by the
Goldmans and the Morgans and the Kidder Peabodys and the First
Bostons.''

• Investing where others wouldn't dare. ``Everybody else is running for
the doors, and we're backing up the trucks,'' Mr. Black told
Businessweek.

\textbf{But his biggest problem right now} might be his association with
Jeffrey Epstein:

• The depths of Mr. Black's financial ties to the late financier are
unknown, but he is known to have given \$10 million to Mr. Epstein's
charity and persuaded the financier to invest in a friend's muffler
company.

• ``After Epstein was found dead in his Manhattan jail cell a month
later, former Apollo employees joked darkly that his death had made
Black's life easier.''

\hypertarget{why-banks-should-give-thanks-to-trump}{%
\subsection{Why banks should give thanks to
Trump}\label{why-banks-should-give-thanks-to-trump}}

President Trump ribbed a top JPMorgan Chase executive this week when he
said her bank should
\href{https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2020-01-15/trump-tells-jpmorgan-executive-to-say-thank-you-mr-president}{thank
him for its stellar earnings}. He
\href{https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2020-01-16/trump-tax-cut-hands-32-billion-windfall-to-america-s-top-banks}{may
have had a point}, at least when it comes to his tax cuts, writes Yalman
Onaran of Bloomberg.

• Savings for America's top six banks --- JPMorgan Chase, Bank of
America, Wells Fargo, Citigroup, Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley ---
from the 2017 tax overhaul have now surpassed \$32 billion.

• The banks ``posted earnings this week showing they saved \$18 billion
in 2019, more than the prior year, as their average effective tax rate
fell to 18 percent from 20 percent,'' Mr. Onaran writes.

• ``The six firms posted \$120 billion in net income for 2019, inching
past 2018's mark. They had never surpassed \$100 billion before the tax
cuts.''

Image

Credit...The New York Times

\hypertarget{can-alphabet-stay-in-the-1-trillion-club}{%
\subsection{Can Alphabet stay in the \$1 trillion
club?}\label{can-alphabet-stay-in-the-1-trillion-club}}

The parent company of the search giant Google hit \$1 trillion in market
value yesterday, the fourth tech company to do so. But Alphabet faces
challenges to stay at that level:

• \textbf{Regulation.}
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/01/16/technology/google-trillion-dollar-market-cap.html}{Dai
Wakabayashi of the NYT notes} that ``it faces investigations from
Congress, state attorneys general and the Department of Justice,'' as
well as pressure from other regulators around the world.

• \textbf{New leadership.} Alphabet's co-founders, Larry Page and Sergey
Brin, have taken a step back, leaving the company in the hands of Sundar
Pichai, who has been criticized as lacking vision.

• \textbf{Shareholder sentiment.} Investors are ``debating whether the
largest internet stocks have gotten too pricey,''
\href{https://www.wsj.com/articles/alphabet-becomes-fourth-u-s-company-to-ever-reach-1-trillion-market-value-11579208802}{Amrith
Ramkumar of the WSJ writes}.

\textbf{And here's why it could keep climbing}, Mr. Wakabayashi points
out: ``Google search is the on-ramp to much of the internet.''

\hypertarget{revolving-door}{%
\subsection{Revolving door}\label{revolving-door}}

\textbf{Chris Young} is
\href{https://www.wsj.com/articles/mcafee-ceo-chris-young-to-depart-11579217891}{stepping
down as the chief} of the cybersecurity company McAfee to become a
senior adviser to TPG, the investment firm. He will be replaced by
\textbf{Peter Leav} of BMC Software.

\textbf{George Cheeks}, the vice chairman of NBCUniversal Content
Studios,
\href{https://www.wsj.com/articles/nbcuniversal-executive-george-cheeks-heading-to-cbs-in-senior-role-11579049840}{reportedly
resigned} to take a senior role at CBS.

\textbf{James Debney}
\href{https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2020-01-15/smith-wesson-maker-replaces-ceo-after-non-financial-misconduct}{stepped
down as the C.E.O.} of the parent company of the gun maker Smith \&
Wesson after the board discovered what it said was nonfinancial
misconduct.

\hypertarget{the-speed-read}{%
\subsection{The speed read}\label{the-speed-read}}

\textbf{Deals}

• The Gap called off plans to spin off its most successful division, Old
Navy, and investors cheered.
(\href{https://www.cnn.com/2020/01/16/business/gap-old-navy-split/index.html}{CNN})

• Ant Financial, the corporate sibling of the Alibaba Group of China, is
reportedly working with banks to revive its I.P.O. plans.
(\href{https://www.ft.com/content/6f6aa894-3856-11ea-a6d3-9a26f8c3cba4}{FT})

• M.\&A. advisory fees for five of Wall Street's top banks dropped 5
percent last year, or \$558 million.
(\href{https://www.ft.com/content/3729d406-3878-11ea-a6d3-9a26f8c3cba4}{FT})

\textbf{Politics and policy}

• President Trump said he would formally nominate Judy Shelton, a
longtime critic of the Fed, to the central bank's board of governors.
(\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/01/16/business/economy/trump-nominee-federal-reserve.html}{NYT})

• How the U.S.-China trade deal could change the way international
disputes are settled.
(\href{https://www.wsj.com/articles/u-s-china-deal-could-upend-the-way-nations-settle-disputes-11579211598}{WSJ})

• The Senate approved the revised North American trade deal known as
U.S.M.C.A. by a vote of 89 to 10.
(\href{https://www.wsj.com/articles/senate-expected-to-pass-usmca-new-north-american-trade-pact-11579185138}{WSJ})

• Several Democratic lawmakers said that JPMorgan Chase had not provided
enough detail about its efforts to improve diversity and to address
complaints about discrimination.
(\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/01/16/business/jpmorgan-chase-racism-congress.html}{NYT})

\textbf{Tech}

• Facebook has reportedly called off plans to sell ads in WhatsApp, at
least for now.
(\href{https://www.wsj.com/articles/whatsapp-backs-off-controversial-plan-to-sell-ads-11579207682}{WSJ})

• Fiat Chrysler is teaming up with Foxconn to develop electric vehicles.
(\href{https://techcrunch.com/2020/01/16/foxconn-and-fiat-chrysler-partner-to-develop-evs-and-an-internet-of-vehicles-business/}{TechCrunch})

• Pinterest has surpassed Snapchat as the third-most popular social
network in the U.S., a new study found.
(\href{https://www.searchenginejournal.com/pinterest-overtakes-snapchat-in-popularity-among-us-users/343517/}{Search
Engine Journal})

• Do you really need a smart toilet?
(\href{https://www.wsj.com/articles/are-consumers-ready-for-a-toilet-equipped-with-alexa-11579170603}{WSJ})

\textbf{Best of the rest}

• Employees at Barneys are angry that the fashion retailer, now in
liquidation, fell short of \$4 million in severance payout obligations.
(\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/01/16/business/barneys-new-york-employees-severance.html}{NYT})

• The German authorities raided the homes and offices of three people
suspected of spying for China.
(\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/01/16/world/europe/germany-china-spying.html}{NYT})

• Brace yourself: Here comes Build-a-Bear's Baby Yoda.
(\href{https://www.businessinsider.com/build-a-bear-baby-yoda-stuffed-animal-2020-1}{Business
Insider})

\emph{We'd love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to}
\href{mailto:business@NYTimes.com?subject=Newsletter\%20Feedback}{\emph{business@NYTimes.com}}\emph{.}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
