Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/us}{U.S.}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/us}{U.S.}\textbar{}In His Last Hours, Portland Murder
Suspect Said He Feared Arrest

\url{https://nyti.ms/3lUX2vN}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{race-and-america}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/george-floyd-protests-minneapolis-new-york-los-angeles?name=styln-george-floyd\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=6761aa90-f4c5-11ea-8618-eb506373a11e\&variant=undefined}{Race
and America}}{Race and America}}\label{race-and-america}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/11/us/black-police-chiefs-reform.html?name=styln-george-floyd\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=6761aa91-f4c5-11ea-8618-eb506373a11e\&variant=undefined}{Black
  Police Chiefs}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/04/nyregion/rochester-police-daniel-prude.html?name=styln-george-floyd\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=6761d1a0-f4c5-11ea-8618-eb506373a11e\&variant=undefined}{What
  Happened in Rochester, N.Y.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/30/us/portland-shooting-explained.html?name=styln-george-floyd\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=6761d1a1-f4c5-11ea-8618-eb506373a11e\&variant=undefined}{Portland
  Shooting}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/30/us/breonna-taylor-police-killing.html?name=styln-george-floyd\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=6761d1a2-f4c5-11ea-8618-eb506373a11e\&variant=undefined}{Breonna
  Taylor's Life and Death}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{in-his-last-hours-portland-murder-suspect-said-he-feared-arrest}{%
\section{In His Last Hours, Portland Murder Suspect Said He Feared
Arrest}\label{in-his-last-hours-portland-murder-suspect-said-he-feared-arrest}}

Law enforcement agents killed Michael Forest Reinoehl while trying to
arrest him for the shooting death of a supporter of a far-right group.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/09/04/us/04PORTLAND-SUSPECT-street/04PORTLAND-SUSPECT-street-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/neil-macfarquhar}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/10/15/multimedia/author-neil-macfarquhar/author-neil-macfarquhar-thumbLarge.png}}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/mike-baker}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/05/19/reader-center/author-mike-baker/author-mike-baker-thumbLarge.png}}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/adam-goldman}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/07/12/multimedia/author-adam-goldman/author-adam-goldman-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/neil-macfarquhar}{Neil
MacFarquhar},
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/mike-baker}{Mike Baker} and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/adam-goldman}{Adam Goldman}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Sept. 4, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Inside an apartment on a quiet suburban street near Lacey, Wash., on
Thursday evening, Michael Forest Reinoehl fretted about his future. He
talked about his children in a telephone call to a friend, wondering how
to keep them safe should anything happen to him.

Outside, the F.B.I. kept watch. Moments later, U.S. Marshals and local
law enforcement agents, with an arrest affidavit that accused Mr.
Reinoehl of the shooting death last week of a far-right activist, raced
toward the brick apartment building in two S.U.V.s.

Mr. Reinoehl, 48, a self-identified proponent of Antifa and a regular
presence at the long-running protests against racial injustice in
Portland, had seemed to confess to the killing in an interview with a
journalist released hours earlier. He also said that he feared being
killed in custody.

Soon after he emerged from the apartment, he was dead, shot and killed
by law enforcement agents.

The U.S. Marshals Service said in a statement that Mr. Reinoehl was
armed with a handgun when they arrived and threatened the lives of
officers. But many details remain unknown, including whether Mr.
Reinoehl fired any shots before or after several law enforcement
officers opened fire.

Lt. Ray Brady of the Thurston County Sheriff's Office said he was not
aware of any video footage of the shooting, including from body cameras.

On Thursday evening, as Mr. Reinoehl lay dead in the street, police
radios crackled with reports that shots had been fired. ``Someone, the
caller, hysterical saying someone opened fire and a female is
screaming,'' said one dispatcher, according to a transcript of the
police transmissions.

Jashon Spencer, who lives nearby, said he went outside after hearing
gunshots and saw a bloodied man in the street. A video he filmed showed
a law enforcement officer attempting first aid.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/09/04/us/04PORTLAND-SUSPECT-bystanders/merlin_176556234_eb9c4d90-8cd9-453c-adc6-f5dece863ea3-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Portland police had issued an arrest warrant for Mr. Reinoehl in the
killing of Aaron J. Danielson, a supporter of a far-right group who was
shot dead last Saturday after participating in a pro-Trump caravan and
then taking to the streets of downtown Portland, where members of the
caravan and their opponents clashed.

In an affidavit from Mr. Reinoehl's arrest warrant, released Friday,
authorities describe surveillance footage showing Mr. Reinoehl and Mr.
Danielson first walking along a sidewalk, apparently without
confrontation. Mr. Danielson was already carrying a can in one hand ---
possibly mace --- and what appears to be an expandable baton in the
other.

The footage shows Mr. Reinoehl turned into a parking garage, reached
into a pouch or waistband, and waited for Mr. Danielson and a friend to
pass, according to the documents. Authorities said Mr. Reinoehl followed
the two men as they crossed the street in the seconds before the
shooting.

Both Mr. Reinoehl and Mr. Danielson had been stalwarts in the
long-running street battles there pitting leftist demonstrators against
various far-right groups.

In a news conference on Friday, Mr. Trump thanked the U.S. Marshals
Service for their ``strength'' and ``bravery,'' saying that Mr. Reinoehl
was killed after drawing a weapon when officers attempted to take him
into custody.

Mr. Trump has deployed federal officers to the city and has threatened
to do so again, while the city's Democratic leaders have said the
federal agents are aggravating the violence.

``You have this kind of culture where the right-wing vigilantes, though
much smaller in number, are better armed and are calling for violence,''
said Joseph Lowndes, a professor of political science at the University
of Oregon. Whenever they appear, they are inevitably confronted by
Antifa or other anti-fascist movements in Portland, and, he said, ``you
end up with this cycle of continuing confrontations.''

After the killing of George Floyd in police custody sparked protests and
unrest across the country this summer, U.S. Attorney General William P.
Barr formed a task force to investigate violent anti-government
extremists. The F.B.I. has opened hundreds of investigations related to
extremist activity, but has predominantly charged those on the far
right.

Yet in his public statements, Mr. Barr has pinned the violence on
leftist groups and movements, particularly Antifa, and echoed assertions
by President Trump that people on the left are inciting violent riots.
On Friday, in a statement, he characterized Mr. Reinoehl as a
``dangerous fugitive'' and a ``violent agitator.''

Friends and relatives described Mr. Reinoehl, a former professional
snowboarder and father of two, as someone who had strongly held
political beliefs. He relished his allegiance to Antifa, a loose
alliance of activists, some of whom clashed with police during volatile
street demonstrations throughout the summer.

``I am 100\% ANTIFA all the way!'' he wrote in a June Instagram post.
His sister suggested the cause may have given him a sense of purpose,
after his snowboarding career dwindled and he grew estranged from his
family. ``It made him feel like his existence meant something again,''
she said.

Mr. Reinoehl found work as a construction contractor, according to his
sister, who said escalating family conflicts brought a complete rupture
three years ago.

``He was not very stable,'' said the sister, an Oregon resident who
declined to be identified by name because her family has received death
threats.

Oregon State Police arrested Mr. Reinoehl in June after the authorities
said he raced against his 17-year-old son on Interstate 84, with the
Cadillac he was driving careening down the highway at 111 miles per
hour. His 11-year-old daughter was in his car, according to the police
report, and the police found a Glock pistol for which Mr. Reinoehl did
not have a permit.

On July 5, during the protests, Mr. Reinoehl was charged with resisting
arrest and the possession of a loaded firearm in a case that was later
dropped.

Teal Lindseth, one of the main organizers of the Portland protests,
called Mr. Reinoehl a ``guardian angel'' who had been by her side nearly
every night. ``He didn't care who you were,'' Ms. Lindseth said. ``He
would protect you no matter what.''

Tiffanie Wickwire, a friend who met him at protests earlier this summer,
described him as a member of a security team that stood guard at the
demonstrations.

Image

Mr. Reinoehl, an antifa supporter, was being investigated in the killing
of Aaron J. Danielson, a right-wing activist.Credit...Beth Nakamura/The
Oregonian

Roughly an hour before his fatal encounter with law enforcement, Mr.
Reinoehl called Ms. Wickwire and told her he was worried about the
safety of his children and his family, she said.

``We were talking about his kids,'' she said, ``and what to do for them
if anything happened to him.''

At 6:27 p.m., she said, she sent him a final text message: A screenshot
of a Cash App fund-raiser she established for his children.

At 6:54 p.m., the first reports of shots fired were made, dispatch calls
showed.

In an interview broadcast by
\href{https://www.vice.com/en_us/article/v7g8vb/man-linked-to-killing-at-a-portland-protest-says-he-acted-in-self-defense}{Vice
News on Thursday,} Mr. Reinoehl appeared to admit to
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/30/us/portland-trump-rally-shooting.html}{the
Aug. 29 shooting} death of Mr. Danielson, the right-wing protester in
Portland, saying, ``I had no choice.'' Mr. Reinoehl said he had acted in
self-defense, believing that he and a friend were about to be stabbed.
``I could have sat there and watched them kill a friend of mine of
color, but I wasn't going to do that.''

Donovan Farley, the freelance journalist who conducted the interview,
said that Mr. Reinoehl had expressed unease about surrendering to law
enforcement and feared he would die in custody.

In the interview with Mr. Farley, Mr. Reinoehl appeared to acknowledge
shooting Mr. Danielson --- the owner of a moving business who would have
turned 40 on Friday --- after clashes between rival demonstrators.

When he was killed, Mr. Danielson was wearing a Patriot Prayer hat. Joey
Gibson, the founder of Patriot Prayer, said that Mr. Danielson started
attending the far-right group's rallies regularly about three years ago.
The group, based in the Portland area, has repeatedly engaged in
physical conflicts with activists in the city, including a brawl that
led to criminal charges against Mr. Gibson and others last year. The
Southern Poverty Law Center has reported that some Patriot Prayer events
have drawn white supremacists.

On Friday, Facebook said that it had deleted the pages linked to Patriot
Prayer as part of its effort to remove ``violent social militias'' from
its platform.

``He was not a monster, but what he did was still wrong,'' said Mr.
Reinoehl's sister, noting that she did not condone the killing of either
Mr. Danielson or her brother.

``I just declare it yet another tragedy in the growing list of
tragedies,'' she said. ``The man that my brother killed should not have
had to die. Things never should have gotten this out of control.''

Sarah Mervosh, Serge F. Kovaleski, Katie Benner Stella Cooper, and
Thomas Fuller contributed reporting. Susan Beachy contributed research.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
