Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}`This Is About Justice':
Biden Ties Economic Revival to Racial Equity

\url{https://nyti.ms/30bNeFb}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Election
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/biden-vice-president-2020.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Biden's
  V.P. Search}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/07/24/us/politics/trump-biden-campaign-donors.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Map
  of Donations}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/elections/delegate-count-primary-results.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Delegate
  Count}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2019/us/politics/2020-presidential-candidates.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{The
  Candidates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Politics
  Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{this-is-about-justice-biden-ties-economic-revival-to-racial-equity}{%
\section{`This Is About Justice': Biden Ties Economic Revival to Racial
Equity}\label{this-is-about-justice-biden-ties-economic-revival-to-racial-equity}}

In the last of four proposals laying out his vision for economic
recovery, Joseph R. Biden Jr. pledged to lift up minority-owned
businesses and to award them more federal contracts.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/07/28/us/politics/28biden-race/merlin_175045689_d12df2df-bd21-4d39-ad45-bb3675617cf5-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/thomas-kaplan}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2019/08/28/reader-center/author-thomas-kaplan/author-thomas-kaplan-thumbLarge-v2.png}}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/katie-glueck}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/01/29/reader-center/author-katie-glueck/author-katie-glueck-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/thomas-kaplan}{Thomas Kaplan} and
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/katie-glueck}{Katie Glueck}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Published July 28, 2020Updated July 29, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

WILMINGTON, Del. ---
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/elections/joe-biden.html}{Joseph
R. Biden Jr.} unveiled wide-ranging plans on Tuesday to address systemic
racism in the nation's economy, saying this year's election was about
``understanding people's struggles'' and pledging to tear down barriers
for minority-owned businesses.

In an address near his home in Wilmington, Mr. Biden made the argument
that racial justice is central to his overall policy vision in areas
like housing, infrastructure and support for small businesses, while
aiming to draw a stark contrast with a president who has regularly
inflamed racial tensions.

``This election is not just about voting against Donald Trump,'' Mr.
Biden said, standing before four American flags in a community center
gym. ``It's about rising to this moment of crisis, understanding
people's struggles and building a future worthy of their courage and
their ambition to overcome.''

\href{https://joebiden.com/racial-economic-equity/}{Mr. Biden's plan} is
the fourth piece of his ``Build Back Better'' proposal, an economic
agenda that also encompasses
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/09/us/politics/biden-buy-american.html}{manufacturing},
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/14/us/politics/biden-climate-plan.html?smid=tw-share}{climate
and infrastructure}, and
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/21/us/politics/biden-workplace-childcare.html}{caregiving
plans}. It takes aim at Mr. Trump's stewardship of the economy and his
impact on working families, a potential vulnerability that has emerged
during the coronavirus crisis.

The speech on Tuesday came with just under 100 days until Election Day,
amid a searing national debate over racism in American society. Mr.
Biden continues to hold a substantial lead over
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/elections/donald-trump.html}{President
Trump} in national polls, and with each successive economic rollout, he
has been trying to counter one of Mr. Trump's enduring sources of voter
support.

The plan fell short of some of the most ambitious proposals promoted by
the left wing of the Democratic Party. Mr. Biden, for instance, did not
embrace reparations for slavery or endorse
``\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/04/06/us/politics/cory-booker-2020-baby-bonds.html}{baby
bonds},'' a government-run savings program for children championed
during the primary by Senator Cory Booker of New Jersey. Campaign
officials said Mr. Biden had not ruled out eventually accepting such a
plan, and that he was not opposed to a study of reparations.

But the proposal he released on Tuesday did emphasize the importance of
closing the racial wealth gap, and outlined multiple prescriptions for
doing so. Mr. Biden laid out plans for a small-business opportunity fund
to help make capital available to minority business owners, and he
proposed to triple the goal for awarding federal contracts to small
disadvantaged businesses, to at least 15 percent of the money doled out
from 5 percent. The plan also seeks to improve the
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/08/31/business/tax-opportunity-zones.html}{opportunity
zone program} that was created as part of the 2017 tax overhaul.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-2020-election}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: 2020
Election}}{Latest Updates: 2020 Election}}\label{latest-updates-2020-election}}

Updated 2020-08-01T01:26:45.732Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-29fdff45}{Kamala
  Harris, a top vice-presidential contender, confronts double
  standards.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-13ec3d9c}{Karen
  Bass and Susan Rice are rising on Biden's vice-presidential
  shortlist.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-49e9a016}{Trump
  says Russian bounties to kill U.S. troops `never took place.'}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

``In good times, communities of color still lag,'' Mr. Biden said. ``In
bad times, they get hit first, and the hardest. And in recovery, they
take the longest to bounce back. This is about justice.''

In recent months, as the country has grappled with devastating public
health and economic problems and a growing outcry over racial injustice,
Mr. Biden, the presumptive Democratic nominee, has increasingly called
for ambitious measures to address the nation's challenges. He has
sometimes gone far beyond the instincts toward relatively incremental
change that guided him in the primary campaign, at least compared with
many of his Democratic opponents.

As he seeks to unite and energize his party around his candidacy, he has
sought input from a broad range of experts and officials, including from
a series of task forces assembled with Senator Bernie Sanders of
Vermont, his liberal primary rival.

But Mr. Biden, the former vice president, continues to confront a lack
of enthusiasm from some progressive voters, and while he won the primary
with strong support from African-American voters --- in particular,
older ones --- he faces challenges generating excitement among some
younger voters of color. In the primary campaign, he was not the choice
of many liberal activists of color, and he still faces skepticism from
some of them about whether he can sufficiently address their concerns.

Mr. Trump, for his part, has sought to portray Mr. Biden as hostage to
an extreme left wing of the Democratic Party, whose extravagant spending
would wreck the nation's economy.

The plan Mr. Biden unveiled touched on a wide range of economic issues.
It emphasizes support for small-business owners of color, promising that
he will ``leverage more than \$150 billion in new capital and
opportunities for small businesses that have been structurally excluded
for generations,'' including by increasing access to venture capital and
low-interest business loans.

Mr. Biden, who has long faced anger from some voters over
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/06/25/us/joe-biden-crime-laws.html}{his
leading role in the 1994 crime bill}, which many experts link to mass
incarceration, also addressed some criminal justice matters in the plan.
He would aim to help states improve their criminal justice data
infrastructure so they can automatically seal criminal records for
certain nonviolent offenders.

The plan also said that he would try to amend the Federal Reserve Act
``to require the Fed to regularly report on current data and trends in
racial economic gaps --- and what actions the Fed is taking through its
monetary and regulatory policies to close these gaps.''

The Fed, which influences the speed of economic growth and the
unemployment rate with its interest rate policies, already regularly
discusses racial and ethnic economic outcomes in its reports and
testimonies. It has shied away from targeting any specific group's
unemployment rate when setting monetary policy, despite a growing chorus
suggesting that it ought to consider targeting the Black jobless rate,
which has historically remained higher for longer.

The Rev. Al Sharpton, the civil rights leader, called Mr. Biden's
overarching proposal promising, but said he wanted to see Mr. Biden call
for more far-reaching proposals to ensure that Black Americans
frequently do business with the government.

``It's the right direction,'' he said. ``I just want to see more, and I
intend to push for more.''

Aimee Allison, the founder of She the People, a political advocacy group
focused on women of color, said that the Biden campaign was taking
encouraging steps on issues of economic, racial and gender ``justice,''
as she put it.

``Progressives, we had other candidates in the primary that we would
look at as carrying some of these messages,'' said Ms. Allison, who was
often a Biden critic in the primary and said there are still issues he
must address. ``Now, the Biden campaign has showed an openness and
willingness.''

A number of the policies highlighted in Mr. Biden's proposal were
already announced as part of other plans, like a housing proposal that
would provide a tax credit of up to \$15,000 for first-time home buyers,
and a goal that disadvantaged communities receive 40 percent of the
benefits of spending on clean energy infrastructure.

In contrast to the previous economic plans Mr. Biden outlined, which
focused on major, transformational changes to certain sectors of the
American economy, the proposal he unveiled on Tuesday was a broader
effort seeking to emphasize the idea that racial justice is integral to
his policy vision.

He began his address by invoking two icons of the civil rights era who
recently died, Representative John Lewis and the Rev. C.T. Vivian,
recounting the time he walked over the Edmund Pettus Bridge in Selma,
Ala., with Mr. Lewis, and a conversation the two men had before Mr.
Lewis died.

``He asked that we stay focused on the work left undone to heal this
nation,'' Mr. Biden said. ``To remain undaunted by the public health
crisis and the economic crisis that's taken the blinders off in this
crisis and showed the systemic **** racism for what it is that plagues
this nation.''

In his speech and in a subsequent question-and-answer session with
reporters, Mr. Biden repeatedly lashed out at his opponent's stewardship
of the crises facing the country.

He also forcefully rebuffed Mr. Trump's attempts to cast him as soft on
law enforcement, as protesters clash with federal agents in Portland,
Ore. ``Peaceful protesters should be protected, and arsonists and
anarchists should be prosecuted, and local law enforcement can do
that,'' Mr. Biden said.

And Mr. Biden accused Mr. Trump of ``trying to scare the hell out of the
suburbs'' by suggesting that Obama-era policies were ``causing you to
end up, by implication, having those Black neighbors next to you.''

``That's supposed to scare people,'' Mr. Biden said.

Asked about his vice-presidential selection process, Mr. Biden revealed
little, saying he would make a decision next week.

But handwritten notes that Mr. Biden held at the event --- which were
\href{https://apnews.com/d3fc8b88cde56bac9f1e7b5e494fb019}{captured by
photographers} --- touched on the subject in more detail. They included
talking points about Senator Kamala Harris of California, who is
considered a top-tier vice-presidential contender.

``Do not hold grudges,'' the notes said. A few lines down, they read,
``Great respect for her.''

Thomas Kaplan reported from Wilmington, and Katie Glueck from Chicago.
Jeanna Smialek contributed reporting from Washington.

\hypertarget{our-2020-election-guide}{%
\section{Our 2020 Election Guide}\label{our-2020-election-guide}}

Updated July 31, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{the-latest}{%
  \subsection{The Latest}\label{the-latest}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    President Trump's assault on the Postal Service is intersecting with
    his attacks on mail-in voting.
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/politics/trump-usps-mail-delays.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Voting
    rights groups say it is a recipe for disaster.}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{bidens-vp-search}{%
  \subsection{Biden's V.P. Search}\label{bidens-vp-search}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/biden-vice-president-2020.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Here
    are 13 women} who have been under consideration to be Joe Biden's
    running mate, and why each might be chosen --- and might not be.
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{keep-up-with-our-coverage}{%
  \subsection{Keep Up With Our
  Coverage}\label{keep-up-with-our-coverage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Get an
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{email}
    recapping the day's news
  \end{itemize}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Download our mobile app on
    \href{https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nytimes/id284862083?ls=1\&mat_click_id=5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\&referrer=mat_click_id\%3D5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\%26link_click_id\%3D722930677036718082}{iOS}
    and
    \href{http://a.localytics.com/android?id=com.nytimes.android\&referrer=utm_source\%3Dother_nyt_mobile_web\%26utm_medium\%3DWeb\%2520page\%26utm_term\%3DGeneral\%2520Mobile\%2520Page\%26utm_campaign\%3DNYT\%2520Mobile\%2520General\%2520Page}{Android}
    and turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
