Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}Russian Intelligence
Agencies Push Disinformation on Pandemic

\url{https://nyti.ms/2P3o70H}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Election
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/biden-vice-president-2020.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Biden's
  V.P. Search}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/07/24/us/politics/trump-biden-campaign-donors.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Map
  of Donations}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/elections/delegate-count-primary-results.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Delegate
  Count}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2019/us/politics/2020-presidential-candidates.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{The
  Candidates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Politics
  Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{russian-intelligence-agencies-push-disinformation-on-pandemic}{%
\section{Russian Intelligence Agencies Push Disinformation on
Pandemic}\label{russian-intelligence-agencies-push-disinformation-on-pandemic}}

Declassified U.S. intelligence accuses Moscow of pushing propaganda
through alternative websites as Russia refines techniques used in 2016.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/07/28/us/politics/28dc-cyber/merlin_175041498_1f1eb411-f965-4cc7-8e67-c2986b9afad4-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/julian-e-barnes}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2019/12/13/reader-center/author-julian-barnes/author-julian-barnes-thumbLarge.png}}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/david-e-sanger}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/10/03/multimedia/author-david-e-sanger/author-david-e-sanger-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/julian-e-barnes}{Julian E. Barnes}
and \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/david-e-sanger}{David E. Sanger}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  July 28, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

WASHINGTON --- Russian intelligence services have been spreading
disinformation about the
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/news-event/coronavirus}{coronavirus
pandemic}, according to newly declassified intelligence, material that
demonstrates how Moscow is continuing to try to influence Americans as
the election draws closer.

Russian military intelligence, known as the G.R.U., has used its ties
with a Russian government information center, InfoRos, and other
websites to push out English-language disinformation and propaganda
about the pandemic, such as amplifying false Chinese arguments that the
virus was created by the United States military and articles that said
Russia's medical assistance could bring a new d√©tente with Washington.

The disinformation efforts are a refinement of what Russia tried to do
in 2016. The fake social media accounts and bots used by the Internet
Research Agency and other Russia-backed groups to amplify false articles
have proved relatively easy to stamp out. But it is far more difficult
to stop the dissemination of such articles that appear on websites that
seem legitimate, according to outside experts.

``Russian intelligence agencies are taking a more central role in
disinformation efforts that Russia is pushing now,'' said Laura
Rosenberger, the director of the Alliance for Securing Democracy. ``It
is not the blunt force'' of the operations mounted by the Internet
Research Agency.

Two American officials described the newly declassified intelligence but
would not provide the underlying reports about the activities of the
G.R.U. and the S.V.R., Moscow's equivalent of the C.I.A. They discussed
the information on the condition of anonymity.

Last week, intelligence officials
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/24/us/politics/election-interference-russia-china-iran.html}{warned
about Russian, Chinese and Iranian efforts} to interfere with the
election. While Democrats criticized the warning for a lack of
specifics, officials promised to release more information.

While the disinformation efforts outlined on Tuesday by American
officials were focused on the pandemic, security researchers said Russia
continued to push disinformation on a variety of topics.

The government's accusations came as Mandiant Threat Intelligence, part
of the FireEye cybersecurity firm, reported that it had detected a
parallel influence campaign in Eastern Europe intended to discredit the
North Atlantic Treaty Organization, including disinformation about the
coronavirus. While the Mandiant report did not specifically name Russia
and its intelligence agencies, it noted that the campaign was ``aligned
with Russian security interests'' in an effort to undermine NATO
activities.

Facebook has begun labeling stories that appear on state-sponsored news
sites like RT and Sputnik. But it is harder for the social media
companies to identify and label news articles that are posted on
conspiracy-minded sites, according to experts.

Many of the pieces created by Russian intelligence were published on
InfoRos, a site controlled by the Russian government, and
OneWorld.Press, a nominally independent site that United States
officials said had ties to the G.R.U. American officials said other
sites, such as GlobalResearch.ca, regularly amplify G.R.U. propaganda,
but officials have not directly linked it to Russian intelligence.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-2020-election}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: 2020
Election}}{Latest Updates: 2020 Election}}\label{latest-updates-2020-election}}

Updated 2020-08-01T01:26:45.732Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-29fdff45}{Kamala
  Harris, a top vice-presidential contender, confronts double
  standards.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-13ec3d9c}{Karen
  Bass and Susan Rice are rising on Biden's vice-presidential
  shortlist.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-49e9a016}{Trump
  says Russian bounties to kill U.S. troops `never took place.'}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

United States government officials mostly described disinformation
focused on the pandemic, but they also outlined ties between Russian
intelligence and a think tank that had published articles on politics.

The Strategic Culture Foundation is directed by another Russian
intelligence agency, the S.V.R., according to two American officials.
The foundation and its ties to Russian intelligence are also being
investigated by the F.B.I., according to another official.

In May, the foundation published
\href{https://www.strategic-culture.org/news/2020/05/24/what-evelyn-fakas-trey-gowdy-and-some-others-dubiously-have-in-common/}{an
article critical of Evelyn Farkas,} a former Obama administration
official who lost a primary race in June in New York for a seat in
Congress.

Dr. Farkas said the Russians were continuing to repeat their efforts
from 2016 to try to influence the election.

``They want to sow dissent and reduce confidence among Americans in our
democracy and make democracy look bad worldwide,'' she said. ``They want
to prevent people who are tough on Russia from coming into power.''

Michael Averko, a contributor to the foundation, did not return a
request for comment, but he said in a recent mass email to reporters
that he had been visited by the F.B.I. Mr. Averko said he told the
F.B.I. that he did not know about any ties between the foundation and
Russian intelligence, but that he doubted they existed.

After the publication of this article, OneWorld.Press
\href{http://oneworld.press/?module=articles\&action=view\&id=1603}{issued
a statement} saying any accusation that it worked for Russian
intelligence was ``categorically false.'' ``To the best of our
knowledge,'' its contributors have not been charged with crimes for
cooperating with any foreign intelligence agency, the statement said.

Without evidence, OneWorld.Press claimed that the accusations about
Russian intelligence's propaganda efforts were being spread by officials
who aimed to hurt President Trump's re-election chances. ``Everybody
across the world knows that some members of the `deep state' have their
daggers out for Trump, and the president himself has even said as much
on countless occasions,'' it said.

American intelligence officials said the G.R.U.'s psychological warfare
unit, known as Unit 54777 or the 72nd Special Service Center, was behind
the propaganda campaigns that were often devised to obscure Moscow's
role in creating them.
\href{https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/europe/how-russias-military-intelligence-agency-became-the-covert-muscle-in-putins-duels-with-the-west/2018/12/27/2736bbe2-fb2d-11e8-8c9a-860ce2a8148f_story.html}{A
2018 report in The Washington Post} linked InfoRos to the G.R.U.'s Unit
54777.

United States intelligence reports have identified two Russians, Denis
V. Tyurin and Aleksandr G. Starunskiy, with ties to the G.R.U. and who
make sure the messaging and disinformation drafted by the intelligence
officials are pushed by InfoRos and on InfoBrics.org and OneWorld.Press.

Russian officials did not immediately return a request for comment.

Mr. Tyurin and Mr. Starunskiy, the American officials said, were in
essence involved in a kind of information laundering, akin to money
laundering. They take the messages from Russian intelligence and spread
them on InfoRos, OnePress or another website.

The material created by the G.R.U. is then picked up by other websites
that further spread it. Those websites are often on the fringes of the
web, while some, like Global Research, have a significant following,
American officials said.

The stories pushed by Russian intelligence appear to be written by
native English speakers and do not stand out as products of a foreign
influence campaign, American officials said.

From late May to early July, about 150 articles on the pandemic were
published by the Russian intelligence-backed effort, American officials
said.

OneWorld published pieces about how the pandemic was an
\href{https://oneworld.press/?module=articles\&action=view\&id=1521}{experiment
in manipulating the world}. InfoRos, as well as the Tass news agency,
published an article that said the United States
was\href{http://inforos.ru/en/?module=news\&action=view\&id=108952}{using
the pandemic to impose its view of the world}, according to American
officials. InfoBrics.org published reports about Beijing's contention
that the coronavirus was
\href{http://infobrics.org/post/30541/}{originally an American
biological weapon.}

While the specific sites may not receive much traffic, American
officials believe the disinformation written by Russian military
intelligence is amplified, sometimes intentionally, sometimes
unwittingly.

Tracking the influence of Russian disinformation is difficult. While
documents stolen and published by Russian intelligence agencies had an
important effect on the 2016 presidential campaign in the United States,
the social media posts do not seem to have been as consequential.

But propaganda and disinformation published on alternative news sites,
like OneWorld or Global Research, may have more traction, some
researchers believe.

``What we have seen from G.R.U. operations is oftentimes the social
media component is a flop, but the narrative content that they write is
shared more broadly through the niche media ecosystem,'' said Renee
DiResta, a research manager at the Stanford Internet Observatory, who
has studied the G.R.U. and InfoRos ties and propaganda work.

The EU DisinfoLab, an independent nonprofit organization, has previously
\href{https://www.disinfo.eu/publications/how-two-information-portals-hide-their-ties-to-the-russian-news-agency-inforos/}{linked}
OneWorld, InfoRos and a French-language site to Russian propaganda
efforts. Some of that disinformation centered on allied troops spreading
the coronavirus, allegations similar to those in the new Mandiant
report.

Mandiant called the threat group it found ``Ghostwriter,'' since it
relied on false news articles or made-up letters and quotations that
appeared to originate with local politicians or military officials. It
relied on articles written by what it called ``at least 14 inauthentic
personas,'' meaning reporters or blog writers who were invented by the
creators of the influence campaign. The articles were published by
pro-Russian sites like TheDuran.com, which American intelligence
officials have also been examining.

In one example, a fabricated letter presented as being written by the
secretary general of NATO, Jens Stoltenberg, perpetuated the false claim
that the alliance was planning to leave Lithuania as the pandemic
spread. Another episode involved a local Lithuanian news site that was
hacked, and attackers posted an article that falsely claimed German
troops had desecrated a Jewish cemetery in Kaunas, a city in central
Lithuania.

\hypertarget{our-2020-election-guide}{%
\section{Our 2020 Election Guide}\label{our-2020-election-guide}}

Updated July 31, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{the-latest}{%
  \subsection{The Latest}\label{the-latest}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    President Trump's assault on the Postal Service is intersecting with
    his attacks on mail-in voting.
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/politics/trump-usps-mail-delays.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Voting
    rights groups say it is a recipe for disaster.}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{bidens-vp-search}{%
  \subsection{Biden's V.P. Search}\label{bidens-vp-search}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/biden-vice-president-2020.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Here
    are 13 women} who have been under consideration to be Joe Biden's
    running mate, and why each might be chosen --- and might not be.
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{keep-up-with-our-coverage}{%
  \subsection{Keep Up With Our
  Coverage}\label{keep-up-with-our-coverage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Get an
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{email}
    recapping the day's news
  \end{itemize}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Download our mobile app on
    \href{https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nytimes/id284862083?ls=1\&mat_click_id=5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\&referrer=mat_click_id\%3D5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\%26link_click_id\%3D722930677036718082}{iOS}
    and
    \href{http://a.localytics.com/android?id=com.nytimes.android\&referrer=utm_source\%3Dother_nyt_mobile_web\%26utm_medium\%3DWeb\%2520page\%26utm_term\%3DGeneral\%2520Mobile\%2520Page\%26utm_campaign\%3DNYT\%2520Mobile\%2520General\%2520Page}{Android}
    and turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{¬©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
