Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}Biden Steps Up Warnings of
Possible Trump Disruption of Election

\url{https://nyti.ms/2Y2gDAT}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/09/08/us/elections/results-new-hampshire-primary-elections.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{New
  Hampshire Results}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/08/us/trump-vs-biden?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Election
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/election-states-biden-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Paths
  to 270}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/31/us/politics/vote-by-mail-deadlines.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Voting
  by Mail}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/us/elections/2020-presidential-election-calendar.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Key
  Dates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Politics
  Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

Political memo

\hypertarget{biden-steps-up-warnings-of-possible-trump-disruption-of-election}{%
\section{Biden Steps Up Warnings of Possible Trump Disruption of
Election}\label{biden-steps-up-warnings-of-possible-trump-disruption-of-election}}

Joseph R. Biden Jr. has increasingly speculated that President Trump may
try to delay or disrupt the election in some way, sending a warning
signal that attempts to frame the president as desperate.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/04/24/us/politics/24biden-election1/merlin_171898539_1df8e473-9d4e-42fe-a3c6-57d80cd34c3e-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/katie-glueck}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/01/29/reader-center/author-katie-glueck/author-katie-glueck-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/katie-glueck}{Katie
Glueck}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Published April 24, 2020Updated May 13, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

For months, Joseph R. Biden Jr. has argued that under pressure and
political duress, President Trump may pursue increasingly extreme
measures to stay in power.

In November, Mr. Biden said he feared that ``as the walls close in on
him he becomes more erratic. And I'm genuinely concerned about what he
may do in order to try to hold on to the office.''

In January, Mr. Biden fretted: ``He still has another nine or 10 months.
God knows what can happen.''

And on Thursday, he added some urgency to his warnings, suggesting that
Mr. Trump might try to delay or otherwise disrupt the election.

``Mark my words, I think he is going to try to kick back the election
somehow, come up with some rationale why it can't be held,'' Mr. Biden
said at a fund-raiser, according to a news media pool report. Mr. Trump,
he suggested, is ``trying to let the word out that he's going to do all
he can to make it very hard for people to vote. That's the only way he
thinks he can possibly win.''

It was an extraordinary claim for the presumptive Democratic nominee to
make about an opponent, especially for Mr. Biden, a former vice
president and Washington veteran who prides himself on civility and
respect for American institutions, including and especially the
presidency.

But as
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/24/us/politics/biden-trump-swing-state-polls.html}{early
polls} show that Mr. Trump is vulnerable in several key battleground
states, and as the president dispenses conflicting and often misleading
information at his daily briefings on the coronavirus, Mr. Biden's
remarks amounted to a warning shot that attempts to frame for the public
--- to his advantage --- what may be the ugliest election in recent
American history.

``It very much is reflecting the fear that a lot of people have about
how President Trump is going to respond later in the year to this
election, especially if he continues to see his polls drop, and if he
continues to flail and lash out,'' said Chuck Hagel, who served as
defense secretary in the Obama administration and before that as a
Republican senator from Nebraska, and who hosted Mr. Biden at a
fund-raiser this month.

Mr. Hagel said he had heard widespread concerns ``about what President
Trump may pull, especially if he sees he's losing.''

Mr. Trump has not moved to delay the election, and Mr. Biden, who once
taught constitutional law, most likely knows as well as the voting
experts do that it would
be\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/14/us/politics/election-postponed-canceled.html}{exceedingly
difficult} to postpone the election and that the president does not have
the authority to unilaterally take such action.

Mr. Biden's campaign declined to comment further on his comments from
Thursday night.

Mr. Biden's escalating remarks about Mr. Trump's approach to the
election come as a number of polls have shown that many Americans
disapprove of the president's stewardship of the crisis, and that he
badly trails the nation's governors and his own medical experts in terms
of whom Americans trust most for guidance.

Mr. Biden is a passionate critic of Mr. Trump's character, and his
latest remarks appeared to be another effort to convince voters that the
president is desperate for victory at any cost.

Of course, character attacks on Mr. Trump are not enough to win the
presidency --- in 2016, Hillary Clinton and her campaign spent months
lashing Mr. Trump's integrity to no avail. Mr. Biden is also aware of
the need for a broader, more tangible message this cycle, especially at
a moment of economic disaster for many Americans.

And despite the current health and financial problems facing the nation,
Republicans say there is still time for Mr. Trump to push a recovery
narrative before November.

Mr. Trump's re-election campaign dismissed Mr. Biden's election comments
on Friday. ``Those are the incoherent, conspiracy theory ramblings of a
lost candidate who is out of touch with reality,'' Tim Murtaugh,
communications director for Mr. Trump's re-election campaign, said in a
statement.

And a Republican National Committee spokesman, Steve Guest, called Mr.
Biden's comments ``an irresponsible allegation,'' adding that
``President Trump has made it clear that the general election will
happen on November 3rd.''

Mr. Biden has repeatedly pointed out that America has voted through
crises including the Civil War and World War II, and has been adamant
that the nation will hold an election this November, too. As the
coronavirus outbreak unfolded this spring, forcing many states to
postpone their presidential primaries, Mr. Biden routinely and
vehemently dismissed the prospect of a delayed presidential election as
``out of the question.''

``I know there's a lot of rumors and speculation as to, `is the other
guy going to try to postpone the election in November' and all that,''
Mr. Biden said at a fund-raiser last month. ``There's no need to do
that.''

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/04/24/us/politics/24biden-election2/merlin_171495381_625c40b0-44a2-4fe4-b11a-fd60d1ef8170-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Mr. Biden has also signaled that he is acutely aware of the roadblocks
to voting that Americans may face as an election unfolds amid a pandemic
--- and has sought to call attention to those challenges early.

``It's a wake-up call, so the American people can understand the depths
to which this president will go to maintain power,'' said Representative
Cedric Richmond, Democrat of Louisiana and a co-chairman of Mr. Biden's
campaign, when asked about Mr. Biden's suggestion that Mr. Trump would
try to delay the election. ``And there's a need to prepare.''

Mr. Trump has
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/mail-in-voting-explained.html}{inaccurately
claimed} that voting by mail is closely associated with fraud. He has
bashed the United States Postal Service. (``And why is that? Because he
is already trying to undermine the election with false claims of voter
fraud,'' Mr. Biden said on Thursday, according to the pool report, as he
detailed a suite of proposals to bolster voting protection.)

Russia
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2018/09/20/us/politics/russia-trump-election-timeline.html}{did
interfere} in the American election in 2016, something Mr. Biden
suggested on Thursday would be repeated --- ``I guarantee you they are
doing it again with two other major actors,'' he said, without naming
those actors.

And Jon Meacham, an author and historian whom Mr. Biden respects,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/20/opinion/sunday/coronavirus-election-primary-postpone.html}{wrote}
in a New York Times Op-Ed recently about ``the possibility that
President Trump might take advantage of the unfolding health crisis to
delay the November election. Alarmist? Not for anyone who's paid even
glancing attention to the president's will to power and contempt for
constitutional convention.''

Taken together, there is a real concern among many Democrats that Mr.
Trump, who recently claimed
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/14/us/politics/trump-total-authority-claim.html}{``total''
authority} as president during the crisis before ceding some authority
to the governors, will pursue re-election ruthlessly and with no regard
for traditional norms.

``He thinks that all the power is in the presidency, and so I think it's
a very valid concern,'' Mr. Richmond said.

David Pepper, the chairman of the Ohio Democratic Party, still expects
the election next fall, stressing that there are constitutional
guardrails protecting the contest. But in his presidential battleground
state, Mr. Pepper said, Democrats are deeply concerned by the
president's criticisms of voting by mail --- a practice defended by the
state's Republican governor.

Mr. Pepper said he agreed with Mr. Biden that ``Trump, I think, will be
tempted to do pretty much anything if he feels he might lose.''

\hypertarget{our-2020-election-guide}{%
\section{Our 2020 Election Guide}\label{our-2020-election-guide}}

Updated ~Sept. 8, 2020

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

\begin{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{the-latest}{%
  \subsection{The Latest}\label{the-latest}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    President Trump and his party are using a playbook that aims to
    alarm people about crime in their backyards. It didn't work in 2018,
    but
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/08/us/politics/trump-republicans-fear-strategy.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{both
    parties think it could resonate more this year}.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{how-to-win-270}{%
  \subsection{How to Win 270}\label{how-to-win-270}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Joe Biden and Donald Trump need 270 electoral votes to reach the
    White House. Try building
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/election-states-biden-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{your
    own coalition of battleground states}~to see potential outcomes.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{voting-by-mail}{%
  \subsection{Voting by Mail}\label{voting-by-mail}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Will you have enough time to vote by mail in your state? Yes, but
    it's risky to procrastinate.
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/31/us/politics/vote-by-mail-deadlines.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Check
    your state's deadline.}
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/joe-biden.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{}

    \hypertarget{joe-biden}{%
    \section{Joe Biden}\label{joe-biden}}

    \hypertarget{democrat}{%
    \subsection{Democrat}\label{democrat}}

    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/donald-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{}

    \hypertarget{donald-trump}{%
    \section{Donald Trump}\label{donald-trump}}

    \hypertarget{republican}{%
    \subsection{Republican}\label{republican}}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \hypertarget{keep-up-with-our-coverage}{%
  \subsection{Keep Up With Our
  Coverage}\label{keep-up-with-our-coverage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Get an
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{email}~recapping
    the day's news
  \item
    Download our mobile app on
    \href{https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nytimes/id284862083?ls=1\&mat_click_id=5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\&referrer=mat_click_id\%3D5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\%26link_click_id\%3D722930677036718082}{iOS}~and
    \href{http://a.localytics.com/android?id=com.nytimes.android\&referrer=utm_source\%3Dother_nyt_mobile_web\%26utm_medium\%3DWeb\%2520page\%26utm_term\%3DGeneral\%2520Mobile\%2520Page\%26utm_campaign\%3DNYT\%2520Mobile\%2520General\%2520Page}{Android}~and
    turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
