Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}Barr Repeats Trump
Falsehoods in Congressional Testimony

\url{https://nyti.ms/2D18tjV}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/george-floyd-protests-minneapolis-new-york-los-angeles?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Race
and America}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/26/us/protests-portland-seattle-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Protesters
  Return to Other Cities}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/24/us/portland-oregon-protests-white-race.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Portland
  at the Center}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/23/podcasts/the-daily/portland-protests.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Podcast:
  Showdown in Portland}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/07/16/us/black-lives-matter-protests-louisville-breonna-taylor.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{45
  Days in Louisville}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

Fact Check

\hypertarget{barr-repeats-trump-falsehoods-in-congressional-testimony}{%
\section{Barr Repeats Trump Falsehoods in Congressional
Testimony}\label{barr-repeats-trump-falsehoods-in-congressional-testimony}}

The attorney general echoed many of the president's inaccurate claims on
nationwide protests, police shootings and the coronavirus.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/07/29/us/politics/29dc-factcheck/merlin_175047399_b3585e8c-15fa-42ae-8114-3e728edcce27-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/linda-qiu}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/06/12/multimedia/author-linda-qiu/author-linda-qiu-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/linda-qiu}{Linda Qiu}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  July 29, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Attorney General William P. Barr, in
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/28/us/politics/barr-testimony.html}{a
contentious congressional hearing on Tuesday}, defended President Trump
and the Justice Department on a variety of matters. Here is a
fact-check.

What Mr. Barr SAID

\emph{``The president has not attempted to interfere in these decisions.
On the contrary, he has told me from the start that he expects me to
exercise my independent judgment to make whatever call I think is right,
and that is precisely what I've done.''}

\textbf{This is misleading.} In posts on Twitter and in other public
statements, Mr. Trump has repeatedly disparaged the Justice Department's
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/02/19/us/politics/trump-attacks-obstruction-investigation.html}{investigations}
and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/02/20/us/politics/trump-attacks-justice-system.html}{employees}
and made his feelings clear in high-profile cases, including those of
allies like Roger J. Stone Jr. and Michael T. Flynn. Mr. Barr has
expressed frustration with Mr. Trump's attacks,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/02/13/us/politics/william-barr-trump.html}{saying
in February} that the president's attacks ``make it impossible for me to
do my job and to assure the courts and the prosecutors in the department
that we're doing our work with integrity.''

What Mr. Barr SAID

\emph{``According to statistics compiled by The Washington Post, the
number of unarmed Black men killed by police so far this year is eight.
The number of unarmed white men killed by police over the same time
period is 11. And the overall numbers of police shootings has been
decreasing.''}

\textbf{This is misleading.} Mr. Barr accurately cited a
\href{https://www.washingtonpost.com/graphics/investigations/police-shootings-database/}{database
of police shootings} compiled by The Washington Post. But the raw
numbers obscure the pronounced racial disparity in such shootings. (The
statement was also an echo of Mr. Trump's technically accurate, but
misleading
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/14/us/politics/trump-fact-check-biden-police-coronavirus-china.html}{claim}
that ``more white'' Americans are killed by the police than Black
Americans.)

When factoring in population size, Black Americans are killed by the
police at more than twice the rate as white Americans, according to the
database.
\href{https://journals.plos.org/plosone/article?id=10.1371/journal.pone.0141854}{Research}
has also shown that in the United States, on average, the probability of
being shot by a police officer for someone who is Black and unarmed is
higher than for someone who is white and armed.

Nationwide, the number of police shootings has remained steady since
\href{https://mappingpoliceviolence.org/}{independent researchers} began
tracking them --- declining in major cities, but increasing in suburbs
and rural areas.

When Representative Cedric L. Richmond, Democrat of Louisiana, took
issue with Mr. Barr's presentation of the data, Mr. Barr responded,
``You have to adjust it by, you know, the race of the criminal.'' But
some
\href{https://policingequity.org/images/pdfs-doc/CPE_SoJ_Race-Arrests-UoF_2016-07-08-1130.pdf}{research}
has shown that even when controlling for the demographics of those
arrested, there are still racial disparities in the use of police force.

What Mr. Barr SAID

\emph{``The vast majority of them, around 90 percent, are killed by
other Blacks, mainly by gunfire.''}

\textbf{This is misleading.} Mr. Barr cited this statistic to argue that
``the threat to Black lives posed by crime on the streets is massively
greater than any threat posed by police misconduct.''

He is correct that about
\href{https://ucr.fbi.gov/crime-in-the-u.s/2018/crime-in-the-u.s.-2018/tables/expanded-homicide-data-table-6.xls}{88.9
percent} of Black murder victims were killed by Black perpetrators in
2018. But left unsaid was the fact that murder victims and their
perpetrators are overwhelmingly of the same race or ethnicity: 80.7
percent of white murder victims were killed by white perpetrators, and
68.4 percent of Latino murder victims by other Latinos.

The U.S. Commission on Civil Rights,
\href{https://www.usccr.gov/pubs/2018/11-15-Police-Force.pdf}{in a 2018
report on police shootings}, identified claims like Mr. Barr's about
intraracial crime among Black Americans as part of an ``inevitability
argument.''

``The `Black on Black' crime narrative as an explanation for police
excessive use of force disregards the structural and historical issues
that formed these neighborhoods, as well as the social and economic
factors that currently sustain them,'' the commission wrote.

Mr. Trump cited several inaccurate statistics to make
\href{https://www.politifact.com/factchecks/2015/nov/23/donald-trump/trump-tweet-blacks-white-homicide-victims/}{a
similar version}of this argument on Twitter during his 2016 presidential
campaign.

What Mr. Barr SAID

\emph{``In the wake of George Floyd's death, violent rioters and
anarchists have hijacked legitimate protest to wreak senseless havoc and
destruction on innocent victims. The current situation in Portland is a
telling example. Every night for the past two months, hundreds of
rioters have laid siege to the federal courthouse and other nearby
federal property.''}

\textbf{This is exaggerated.} While some protesters in Portland have
been violent,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/19/us/portland-protests.html}{many
others}
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/27/us/protests-divisions-blm.html}{have
been peaceful} and have included high school students, military
veterans, off-duty lawyers and lines of women who call themselves the
``Wall of Moms.''

Videos show that federal agents, who arrived in the city on July 4, have
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/21/us/portland-protests.html}{responded
aggressively} and sometimes with disproportionate force through the use
of tear gas, flash bangs and pepper balls. In some cases, they attacked
protesters when there was
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/video/us/100000007243995/portland-protests-federal-government.html?action=click\&gtype=vhs\&version=vhs-heading\&module=vhs\&region=title-area\&cview=true\&t=4}{no
apparent threat}, including the case of
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/20/us/portland-protests-navy-christopher-david.html}{a
Navy veteran whose hands} were smashed by officers.

Mr. Barr's timeline of two months of nonstop riots in Portland is also
hyperbolic. Protests
\href{https://pamplinmedia.com/pt/9-news/474579-383427-a-timeline-of-the-portland-protests-and-police-clashes}{have
ranged} in size and violence levels, and the police have not
\href{https://twitter.com/search?q=riot\%20from\%3A\%40PortlandPolice\&src=typed_query\&f=live}{declared
the situation a riot} every night. The Oregonian also
\href{https://www.oregonlive.com/politics/2020/07/fact-checking-barrs-testimony-before-congress-on-portland-protests.html}{reported}
that the courthouse was not a target of protests until July, when
federal agents were dispatched to the city.

What Mr. Barr SAID

\emph{``The problem with the testing system was a function of President
Obama's mishandling of the C.D.C. and his efforts to centralize
everything in the C.D.C.''}

\textbf{False.} Mr. Barr,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/13/us/politics/fact-check-trump-coronavirus.html}{like
Mr. Trump}, was most likely referring to a ``draft guidance'' issued in
2014 by the Obama administration to regulate laboratory-developed tests
necessary to track a pandemic. But the policy was never made final or
enforced, undermining the argument that it was to blame for the
scattered and insufficient delivery of coronavirus tests this year. The
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/28/us/testing-coronavirus-pandemic.html}{botched
the development of its own tests}, leaving the United States initially
blind to the virus's spread and behind other nations. (The Justice
Department plays no role in procuring or distributing coronavirus
tests.)

What Mr. Barr SAID

\emph{``The historical building on Lafayette Park was burned down. St.
John's was set on fire.''}

\textbf{This is exaggerated.} When protesters gathered on June 1 in
Lafayette Square, near the White House, as part of demonstrations in
response to the killing of George Floyd while in police custody in
Minneapolis,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/02/us/politics/trump-walk-lafayette-square.html}{the
authorities used tear gas and rubber bullets} to clear the area of
peaceful protesters. Mr. Trump then walked across the park for a photo
opportunity in front of St. John's Church. A day earlier, a small fire
had been set in the basement of the church, but it was contained.

A spokesman for Washington's Fire and Emergency Medical Services
Department said that damage from the fires was largely negligible
throughout the protests and that no buildings were permanently destroyed
as many had sprinkler systems installed.

Mr. Barr may have been referring to a utility and bathroom facility in
Lafayette Square that was badly damaged, but not ``burned down.'' But
other than its location in the park, the spokesman said, it had no
historical significance.

What Mr. Barr Said

\emph{``Well, first, it is my understanding that no tear gas was used on
Monday, June 1.''}

\textbf{This is misleading.} The United States Park Police has said it
\href{https://www.factcheck.org/2020/06/the-semantics-of-tear-gas-versus-pepper-spray/}{did
not use}chloroacetophenone, or CN, gas, one of the most common types of
tear gas. But it did use
``\href{https://www.nps.gov/subjects/uspp/6_2_20_statement_from_acting_chief_monahan.htm}{smoke
canisters and pepper balls}'' --- and specifically products made by the
PepperBall company --- on protesters in Lafayette Square that day.

The C.D.C.
\href{https://emergency.cdc.gov/agent/riotcontrol/factsheet.asp}{defines}
the term ``tear gas'' as riot control agents made of chemical compounds
that ``temporarily make people unable to function by causing irritation
to the eyes, mouth, throat, lungs and skin'' --- symptoms that
protesters and reporters described experiencing in Lafayette Square.

Mr. Barr's denial was also disputed by an Army National Guard officer
who was present during the protests and who also testified to Congress
on Tuesday.

``I could feel irritation in my eyes and nose, and based on my previous
exposure to tear gas in my training at West Point and later in my Army
training, I recognized that irritation as effects consistent with CS or
tear gas,'' Maj. Adam DeMarco wrote in
\href{https://naturalresources.house.gov/imo/media/doc/Mr.\%20Adam\%20DeMarco\%20-\%20Written\%20Testimony_.pdf?ftag=MSF0951a18}{his
opening statement}. ``And later that evening, I found spent tear gas
canisters on the street nearby.''

A \href{https://fas.org/irp/agency/doj/oig/lesslethal.pdf\#page=7}{2009
Justice Department review} on its use of less-lethal weapons classified
the PepperBall system as a chemical agent and noted that it contains a
``highly irritating pepper powder.''

A 2014 Justice Department
\href{https://cops.usdoj.gov/RIC/Publications/cops-p317-pub.pdf}{assessment}
of the police response to the protests in Ferguson, Mo., similarly
observed that PepperBalls ``would likely cause a burning sensation'' if
the content touches the skin. Last year, Mr. Trump signed
\href{https://www.congress.gov/116/plaws/publ77/PLAW-116publ77.pdf}{a
law} banning the export of certain munitions to Hong Kong police. That
list included both tear gas and pepper balls.

What Mr. Barr Said

\emph{Representative Mary Scanlon, Democrat of Pennsylvania: ``OK. But
in fact, you have no evidence that foreign countries can successfully
sway our elections with counterfeit ballots, do you?''}

\emph{Mr. Barr: ``No, I don't, but I have common sense.''}

\textbf{This lacks evidence.} Election officials and experts have
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/mail-in-vote-fraud-ballot.html}{widely
rejected} this idea as nearly impossible, noting that ballots are
printed on very specific stock and often have specific tracking systems
like bar codes.

``It's so much more difficult than a cyberattack,'' said Lawrence
Norden, the director of the election reform program at the Brennan
Center. ``You'd not only have to attack the printer, you'd have to get
information from the jurisdiction and get voter registration
information. You'd have to have some way of mailing the ballots from an
address and get the signature of the voter. It would be an exceptionally
difficult attack.''

\emph{Curious about the accuracy of a claim? Email
\href{mailto:factcheck@NYTimes.com}{\nolinkurl{factcheck@NYTimes.com}}.}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
