Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}Anti-Mask Louie Gohmert
Tests Positive, Sending Shudders Through Congress

\url{https://nyti.ms/2P5YSed}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{The
Coronavirus Outbreak}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  live\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/02/world/coronavirus-updates.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Latest
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Maps
  and Cases}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Vaccine
  Tracker}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/07/29/us/schools-reopening-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{What
  School May Look Like}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/07/31/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Economy}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{anti-mask-louie-gohmert-tests-positive-sending-shudders-through-congress}{%
\section{Anti-Mask Louie Gohmert Tests Positive, Sending Shudders
Through
Congress}\label{anti-mask-louie-gohmert-tests-positive-sending-shudders-through-congress}}

The Texas congressman, who frequently refused to wear a mask, said he
had probably contracted the coronavirus because he did so. His diagnosis
raised questions about the spread of the virus on Capitol Hill.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/07/29/us/politics/29dc-gohmert/merlin_175044774_c643567b-ff3d-4732-b195-a4fccd7883d9-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/nicholas-fandos}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/11/06/multimedia/author-nicholas-fandos/author-nicholas-fandos-thumbLarge-v2.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/nicholas-fandos}{Nicholas
Fandos}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  July 29, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Representative Louie Gohmert, a Texas Republican who has frequently
refused to don a face covering in the Capitol, confirmed on Wednesday
that he had tested positive for the coronavirus before a planned trip
with President Trump on Air Force One, and he blamed his diagnosis on
wearing a mask.

The results immediately sent a shudder through the Capitol, where this
week Mr. Gohmert has been voting and actively participating in
congressional hearings, including a
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/28/us/politics/barr-testimony.html}{Judiciary
Committee session on Tuesday with Attorney General William P. Barr} and
another held by the Natural Resources Committee.

Speaker Nancy Pelosi announced Wednesday a new mandate requiring
lawmakers and staff to wear masks on the House floor and in House office
buildings, on penalty of removal. And at least three colleagues and
several aides who had contact with Mr. Gohmert announced they would
quarantine, while Mr. Barr planned to be tested.

Mr. Gohmert, 66, said he was not experiencing symptoms but had notified
colleagues with whom he may have come into contact.

Smiling in a
\href{https://twitter.com/replouiegohmert/status/1288522631000489985?s=20}{video
recorded in his Capitol Hill office}, he declared he had probably gotten
the ``Wuhan virus'' because he had started wearing a mask over the past
week or two --- not despite it.

Mr. Gohmert's use of the term flew in the face of
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/18/us/politics/china-virus.html}{warnings
from medical historians and public health experts} that associating a
pandemic with a particular ethnic group can lead to discrimination. And
his theory for how he contracted the virus contradicted the overwhelming
consensus of medical experts that wearing a mask is one of the most
effective ways to limit the spread of the disease.

His diagnosis also revived urgent questions about whether it was safe
for Congress --- with its 100 senators and 435 representatives,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/11/upshot/coronavirus-older-lawmakers-congress-risk.html}{many
of them over 65} and thus at higher risk for the virus --- to continue
to meet amid the pandemic, and whether lawmakers were taking sufficient
precautions. Members have adopted unevenly enforced safety protocols and
allowed themselves to bounce each week between the capital and their
home states, some of which are experiencing surges of the virus, without
getting tested.

House and Senate leaders turned down an offer from the White House in
May for rapid-testing ability, saying that they would prefer that
resources be sent to front-line workers. On Wednesday, their top
deputies said the time had come to reconsider.

``For members of Congress who are going back and forth, they represent
sort of the perfect petri dish for how you spread a disease,'' said
Senator Roy Blunt, Republican of Missouri and the chairman of the Rules
Committee. ``Send 535 people out to 535 different locations on about
1,000 different airplanes, and bring them back and see what happens. It
seems to me there's a better path forward.''

\hypertarget{latest-updates-global-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/01/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: Global Coronavirus
Outbreak}}{Latest Updates: Global Coronavirus Outbreak}}\label{latest-updates-global-coronavirus-outbreak}}

Updated 2020-08-02T17:52:35.962Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/01/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-34047410}{The
  U.S. reels as July cases more than double the total of any other
  month.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/01/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-780ec966}{Top
  U.S. officials work to break an impasse over the federal jobless
  benefit.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/01/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-2bc8948}{Its
  outbreak untamed, Melbourne goes into even greater lockdown.}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/01/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

More live coverage:
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/07/31/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Markets}

Representative Steny H. Hoyer, Democrat of Maryland and the majority
leader, said he planned to press Ms. Pelosi and the House Republican
leader, Kevin McCarthy of California, on the matter. Mr. McCarthy urged
his members to wear their masks and renewed previous calls for lawmakers
to be tested regularly.

To date, Ms. Pelosi had required masks be used in House hearings and
encouraged --- but not required --- their use on the floor. She said
Wednesday that she considered doing so ``a sign of respect'' and that
failing to wear a facial covering on the House floor going forward would
be treated as ``a serious breach of decorum'' that could lead to a
member's removal from the floor.

Mr. Gohmert is far from the first member of Congress to contract the
coronavirus. \href{https://www.govtrack.us/covid-19\#legislators}{A
tally maintained by GovTrack} puts that number at 10, with dozens more
having isolated for a period of time after coming into contact with
someone carrying it. But not since
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/22/us/politics/coronavirus-rand-paul.html}{Senator
Rand Paul of Kentucky tested positive in late March} as senators were
trying to cinch a coronavirus relief deal has Congress been so shaken by
signs of the virus circulating among its ranks.

By midafternoon, lawmakers, support staff and journalists were racing to
isolate themselves after possible exposure, as health officials were
left to try to retrace Mr. Gohmert's steps. It was a daunting task
because Mr. Gohmert is a frequent schmoozer who could have come into
close contact with dozens of fellow lawmakers and aides this week alone.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/16/us/politics/congress-doctor-virus-brian-monahan.html}{Dr.
Brian P. Monahan, Congress's attending physician}, advised members of
the Judiciary Committee that they could be at elevated risk if they sat
near Mr. Gohmert or used the same equipment, but said Democrats, at
least, did not need to quarantine.

Representative Raúl M. Grijalva, Democrat of Arizona and the chairman of
the Natural Resources Committee, said in a statement that he would
isolate himself until he could get test results because of extended
contact with Mr. Gohmert in his committee's hearing.

``In the meantime, my work schedule and the lives of my employees are
disrupted,'' said Mr. Grijalva, 72. ``This stems from a selfish act by
Mr. Gohmert, who is just one member of Congress.''

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{}

\hypertarget{the-coronavirus-outbreak-}{%
\subsubsection{The Coronavirus Outbreak
›}\label{the-coronavirus-outbreak-}}

\hypertarget{frequently-asked-questions}{%
\paragraph{Frequently Asked
Questions}\label{frequently-asked-questions}}

Updated July 27, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{should-i-refinance-my-mortgage}{%
  \paragraph{Should I refinance my
  mortgage?}\label{should-i-refinance-my-mortgage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/coronavirus-money-unemployment.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{It
    could be a good idea,} because mortgage rates have
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/16/business/mortgage-rates-below-3-percent.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{never
    been lower.} Refinancing requests have pushed mortgage applications
    to some of the highest levels since 2008, so be prepared to get in
    line. But defaults are also up, so if you're thinking about buying a
    home, be aware that some lenders have tightened their standards.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{what-is-school-going-to-look-like-in-september}{%
  \paragraph{What is school going to look like in
  September?}\label{what-is-school-going-to-look-like-in-september}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    It is unlikely that many schools will return to a normal schedule
    this fall, requiring the grind of
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/05/us/coronavirus-education-lost-learning.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{online
    learning},
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/29/us/coronavirus-child-care-centers.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{makeshift
    child care} and
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/03/business/economy/coronavirus-working-women.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{stunted
    workdays} to continue. California's two largest public school
    districts --- Los Angeles and San Diego --- said on July 13, that
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/13/us/lausd-san-diego-school-reopening.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{instruction
    will be remote-only in the fall}, citing concerns that surging
    coronavirus infections in their areas pose too dire a risk for
    students and teachers. Together, the two districts enroll some
    825,000 students. They are the largest in the country so far to
    abandon plans for even a partial physical return to classrooms when
    they reopen in August. For other districts, the solution won't be an
    all-or-nothing approach.
    \href{https://bioethics.jhu.edu/research-and-outreach/projects/eschool-initiative/school-policy-tracker/}{Many
    systems}, including the nation's largest, New York City, are
    devising
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/26/us/coronavirus-schools-reopen-fall.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{hybrid
    plans} that involve spending some days in classrooms and other days
    online. There's no national policy on this yet, so check with your
    municipal school system regularly to see what is happening in your
    community.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{is-the-coronavirus-airborne}{%
  \paragraph{Is the coronavirus
  airborne?}\label{is-the-coronavirus-airborne}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    The coronavirus
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/04/health/239-experts-with-one-big-claim-the-coronavirus-is-airborne.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{can
    stay aloft for hours in tiny droplets in stagnant air}, infecting
    people as they inhale, mounting scientific evidence suggests. This
    risk is highest in crowded indoor spaces with poor ventilation, and
    may help explain super-spreading events reported in meatpacking
    plants, churches and restaurants.
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/06/health/coronavirus-airborne-aerosols.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{It's
    unclear how often the virus is spread} via these tiny droplets, or
    aerosols, compared with larger droplets that are expelled when a
    sick person coughs or sneezes, or transmitted through contact with
    contaminated surfaces, said Linsey Marr, an aerosol expert at
    Virginia Tech. Aerosols are released even when a person without
    symptoms exhales, talks or sings, according to Dr. Marr and more
    than 200 other experts, who
    \href{https://academic.oup.com/cid/article/doi/10.1093/cid/ciaa939/5867798}{have
    outlined the evidence in an open letter to the World Health
    Organization}.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{what-are-the-symptoms-of-coronavirus}{%
  \paragraph{What are the symptoms of
  coronavirus?}\label{what-are-the-symptoms-of-coronavirus}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Common symptoms
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/symptoms-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{include
    fever, a dry cough, fatigue and difficulty breathing or shortness of
    breath.} Some of these symptoms overlap with those of the flu,
    making detection difficult, but runny noses and stuffy sinuses are
    less common.
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/27/health/coronavirus-symptoms-cdc.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{The
    C.D.C. has also} added chills, muscle pain, sore throat, headache
    and a new loss of the sense of taste or smell as symptoms to look
    out for. Most people fall ill five to seven days after exposure, but
    symptoms may appear in as few as two days or as many as 14 days.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{does-asymptomatic-transmission-of-covid-19-happen}{%
  \paragraph{Does asymptomatic transmission of Covid-19
  happen?}\label{does-asymptomatic-transmission-of-covid-19-happen}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    So far, the evidence seems to show it does. A widely cited
    \href{https://www.nature.com/articles/s41591-020-0869-5}{paper}
    published in April suggests that people are most infectious about
    two days before the onset of coronavirus symptoms and estimated that
    44 percent of new infections were a result of transmission from
    people who were not yet showing symptoms. Recently, a top expert at
    the World Health Organization stated that transmission of the
    coronavirus by people who did not have symptoms was ``very rare,''
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/09/world/coronavirus-updates.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq\#link-1f302e21}{but
    she later walked back that statement.}
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

A spokeswoman for Representative Kay Granger, 77, a fellow Texas
Republican who sat beside Mr. Gohmert on Sunday evening on a flight from
Texas, said she would quarantine at Dr. Monahan's direction, ``and out
of an abundance of caution.'' Representative Mike Johnson, Republican of
Louisiana,
\href{https://twitter.com/RepMikeJohnson/status/1288655872953024512?s=20}{said
he would do the same after dining} with Mr. Gohmert on Monday. Several
Republican staff aides for the natural resources panel also planned to
quarantine,
\href{https://twitter.com/CapitolHacker/status/1288590480121487360?s=20}{a
spokesman said}.

Lawmakers and Mr. Barr were seated more than six feet apart during his
hearing, but reporters spotted a maskless Mr. Gohmert outside the
hearing room exchanging words with Mr. Barr, whose face was also
uncovered. A Justice Department spokeswoman, Kerri Kupec, said that the
attorney general would be tested on Wednesday.

Mr. Gohmert's spokeswoman and chief of staff did not respond to requests
for comment.

Democrats, in particular, were furious at the news. Mr. Gohmert is among
a group of House Republicans, many of whom form the conservative Freedom
Caucus, who have frequently refused to wear masks on the House floor and
in the halls of the Capitol complex, despite warnings from public health
experts and an outbreak in his home state.

``I'm concerned about the irresponsible behavior of many of the
Republicans who have chosen to consistently flout well-established
public health guidance,'' said Representative Hakeem Jeffries, Democrat
of New York and a member of the Judiciary Committee. He pleaded with
Republicans like Mr. Gohmert to put on masks or go home.

Mr. Hoyer urged him to vote by proxy under
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/15/us/politics/remote-voting-house-coronavirus.html}{new
rules pushed through by Democrats} to allow lawmakers to skip traveling
to Washington during the pandemic and instead deputize a colleague to
cast votes on their behalf. Republicans bitterly opposed the change and
have sued in federal court to have it declared unconstitutional.

Mr. Gohmert said he only found out that he had the virus when he went to
the White House at 7 a.m. Wednesday and was screened in line with the
White House policy of testing anyone who would be near Mr. Trump. Mr.
Gohmert tested positive twice.

In an interview from his office later Wednesday, he told KETK TV, a
Texas Fox affiliate, that he would isolate for 10 days on the advice of
doctors and would wear a mask ``religiously'' until he was cleared. But
he said his diagnosis had vindicated his skepticism about wearing facial
coverings to guard against the spread of the virus.

``There are an awful lot of people who think it's the great thing to do
all the time, but I can't help but think if I hadn't been wearing a mask
so much in the last 10 days or so, I really wonder if I would have
gotten it,'' Mr. Gohmert said. ``Moving the mask around, getting it
sitting just right, I am bound to have put some virus on the mask that I
sucked in. That is most likely what happened.''

Mr. Gohmert, who has represented a deeply conservative portion of East
Texas in Congress since 2005, is known for his attention-grabbing,
high-volume invectives against Democrats and for his leveling of
conspiratorial charges toward the F.B.I. and other career government
officials.

An aide to Mr. Gohmert
\href{https://twitter.com/JakeSherman/status/1288524502649966592?s=20}{sent
an extraordinary email to Politico} after it
\href{https://www.politico.com/news/2020/07/29/louis-gohmert-who-refused-to-wear-a-mask-tests-positive-for-coronavirus-386076}{broke
the news of Mr. Gohmert's diagnosis} suggesting that the congressman's
entire staff had been ordered to continue going to work amid the
pandemic in order to be an example of how the nation could safely
reopen, and that those who wore masks had been berated for doing so.
Many lawmakers have directed staff aides to work from home, and have
instructed those who come in person to wear a mask at all times.

Emily Cochrane and Charlie Savage contributed reporting.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
