Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/books}{Books}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/books}{Books}\textbar{}In Bob Woodward's `Rage,' a
Reporter and a President From Different Universes

\url{https://nyti.ms/3hmByVq}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/12/us/politics/biden-trump-poll-wisconsin-minnesota.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{New
  York Times Poll}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/election-states-biden-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Paths
  to 270}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/us/elections/2020-presidential-election-calendar.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Voting
  Deadlines}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/31/us/politics/vote-by-mail-deadlines.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Voting
  by Mail}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Politics
  Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\href{/column/books-of-the-times}{Books of The Times}

\hypertarget{in-bob-woodwards-rage-a-reporter-and-a-president-from-different-universes}{%
\section{In Bob Woodward's `Rage,' a Reporter and a President From
Different
Universes}\label{in-bob-woodwards-rage-a-reporter-and-a-president-from-different-universes}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/10/09/books/09bookwoodward-sub/09bookwoodward-sub-articleLarge-v4.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Buy Book â–¾

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.amazon.com/gp/search?index=books\&tag=NYTBSREV-20\&field-keywords=Rage+Bob+Woodward}{Amazon}
\item
  \href{https://du-gae-books-dot-nyt-du-prd.appspot.com/buy?title=Rage\&author=Bob+Woodward}{Apple
  Books}
\item
  \href{https://www.anrdoezrs.net/click-7990613-11819508?url=https\%3A\%2F\%2Fwww.barnesandnoble.com\%2Fw\%2F\%3Fean\%3D9781982131739}{Barnes
  and Noble}
\item
  \href{https://www.anrdoezrs.net/click-7990613-35140?url=https\%3A\%2F\%2Fwww.booksamillion.com\%2Fp\%2FRage\%2FBob\%2BWoodward\%2F9781982131739}{Books-A-Million}
\item
  \href{https://bookshop.org/a/3546/9781982131739}{Bookshop}
\item
  \href{https://www.indiebound.org/book/9781982131739?aff=NYT}{Indiebound}
\end{itemize}

When you purchase an independently reviewed book through our site, we
earn an affiliate commission.

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/jennifer-szalai}{Jennifer
Szalai}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Published Sept. 9, 2020Updated Sept. 10, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

What would it take at this point, amid the crush of books about the
Trump White House --- after the Mueller report and an impeachment trial
and now the coronavirus pandemic --- for a revelation about the
president to be truly surprising? Would it be to learn that he hates
money and harbors dreams of retiring to an ascetic, monk-like existence?
That he loves to read and is intimately familiar with the works of Elena
Ferrante? Readers who pick up
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/10/us/politics/trump-woodward.html}{Bob
Woodward's} new book, ``Rage,'' and are tantalized by the promise on its
dust jacket of ``an utterly vivid window into Trump's mind,'' will
quickly get schooled in a lesson that apartment hunters in New York
often have to learn: A window can be only so vivid if it looks out onto
an air shaft.

Yes, Trump explicitly told Woodward back in March that in public he was
deliberately understating (or, to put it more bluntly, lying about) what
he had learned about the pandemic: that the coronavirus was, as he told
Woodward the month before, ``more deadly than even your strenuous flus''
but he preferred ``to always play it down.'' Yet the discrepancy between
what Trump knew (the virus was bad) and what he said (it's all good) was
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/11/us/politics/coronavirus-trump-response.html}{already
reported in April}. Trump had loudly refused to let American passengers
disembark from a cruise ship in March ``because I like the numbers being
where they are.''

The Trump that emerges in ``Rage'' is impetuous and self-aggrandizing
--- in other words, immediately recognizable to anyone paying even the
minimal amount of attention. Woodward reminds us at several points that
he diligently conducted 17 on-the-record interviews with the president.
``In one case,'' Woodward explains, for anyone fascinated by his
methodology, ``I took handwritten notes and the other 16 were recorded
with his permission.'' The interviews took place over a seven-month
period from December 2019 to July 2020. After his first book on Trump,
``Fear,'' was
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/09/05/books/review-fear-trump-in-white-house-bob-woodward.html}{published
two years ago}, Woodward says, he started this follow-up intending ``to
look again and more deeply at the national security team he recruited
and built in the first months after his election in 2016.''

One half of ``Rage'' reads like that original project, a typical
Woodwardian narrative of very serious men soberly doing their duty,
trying their darnedest to keep the president focused and on message.
Woodward is predictably coy about his sources, saying only that he drew
from ``hundreds of hours of interviews with firsthand participants and
witnesses to these events,'' nearly all of whom spoke to him on ``deep
background.''

Image

Bob Woodward at Trump Tower in New York City, in 2017.Credit...Andrew
Harnik/Associated Press

Still, it's not hard to guess who some of the principal sources might be
based on how closely the book seems to hew to their preferred versions
of events. The former defense secretary Jim Mattis has ``a stoic Marine
exterior and attention-getting ramrod posture, but his bright, open and
inviting smile softened his presence.'' The former director of national
intelligence Dan Coats is ``soft on the outside but with a spine of
steel on the inside.'' (A sign of someone's unassailable decency to
Woodward seems to be this combination of hard and soft.) Along with
former secretary of state Rex Tillerson (``a Texan with a smooth voice
and an easy laugh''), Woodward deems them ``all conservatives or
apolitical people who wanted to help him and the country,'' singling
them out in his epilogue for their impeccable intentions. ``Imperfect
men who answered the call to public service.''

So far, so tedious. Enter Trump, who in his first interview with
Woodward dropped hints about a ``secret new weapons system,'' and
confirmed what Woodward calls a ``hard question'' about the United
States coming ``really close to war with North Korea.'' Woodward makes
much ado about obtaining 25 previously unreported letters between Trump
and the North Korean leader Kim Jong-un, relating the contents of a
number of them in minute detail. But even he seems hard-pressed to
explain their lasting significance, strenuously depicting them as
``declarations of personal fealty that might be uttered by the Knights
of the Round Table.'' Despite all this, North Korea continues to develop
``both nuclear and conventional weapons.''

For the most part, Trump turned the 17 interviews into opportunities for
his rambling monologues, using Woodward as an audience, inevitably
steering the conversations back to his favorite talking points: ``fake
news,'' James Comey, the Mueller report. Woodward tried to get Trump to
talk about policy and governing --- ``This is all for the serious
history, Mr. President,'' he coaxed --- but Trump would have none of it.
In April, as the pandemic raged, Woodward went to Trump with a prepared
``list of 14 critical areas where my sources said major action was
needed'' to stop the mass death; what's puzzling isn't so much Trump's
refusal to engage with this earnest list as Woodward's expectation that
he would. ``We were speaking past each other,'' a plaintive Woodward
writes, ``almost from different universes.''

The universe that Woodward comes from is where the old-school
establishment is still venerated, and where Woodward thinks he can ask a
president windy, high-minded questions like ``What are your
priorities?'' and ``What's in your heart?'' in the hopes that he'll get
some profound material for his book.

It's also a universe where Woodward can un-self-consciously regurgitate
the theory, peddled by the China hawks in the administration, that
``China had a sinister goal'' and purposefully allowed the coronavirus
to turn into a global pandemic. ``If they engineered this and
intentionally let it out into the world ---'' Woodward begins saying to
Trump, in what reads like an inadvertently comic scene in which Trump is
so undisciplined that he can't even take the bait.

Woodward ends ``Rage'' by delivering his grave verdict. ``When his
performance as president is taken in its entirety,'' he intones, ``I can
only reach one conclusion: Trump is the wrong man for the job.'' It's an
anticlimactic declaration that could surprise no one other than maybe
Bob Woodward. In ``The Choice,'' his book about the 1996 presidential
campaign, he explained something that still seems a core belief of his:
``When all is said and sifted, character is what matters most.'' But if
the roiling and ultimately empty palace intrigues documented in ``Rage''
and ``Fear'' are any indications, this lofty view comes up woefully
short. What if the real story about the Trump era is less about Trump
and more about the people who surround and protect him, standing by him
in public even as they denounce him (or talk to Woodward) in private ---
a tale not of character but of complicity?

\hypertarget{our-2020-election-guide}{%
\section{Our 2020 Election Guide}\label{our-2020-election-guide}}

Updated ~Sept. 12, 2020

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

\begin{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{the-latest}{%
  \subsection{The Latest}\label{the-latest}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    President Trump has failed to erase Joseph R. Biden Jr.'s lead
    across a set of key swing states,
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/12/us/politics/biden-trump-poll-wisconsin-minnesota.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{according
    to a poll}~conducted by The Times and Siena College.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{paths-to-270}{%
  \subsection{Paths to 270}\label{paths-to-270}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Joe Biden and Donald Trump need 270 electoral votes to reach the
    White House. Try building
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/election-states-biden-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{your
    own coalition of battleground states}~to see potential outcomes.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{voting-deadlines}{%
  \subsection{Voting Deadlines}\label{voting-deadlines}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Early voting for the presidential election starts in September~in
    some states. Take a look at
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/us/elections/2020-presidential-election-calendar.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{key
    dates}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/us/elections/2020-presidential-election-calendar.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{where
    you
    liv}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/us/elections/2020-presidential-election-calendar.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{e}.
    If you're voting by
    mail,~\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/31/us/politics/vote-by-mail-deadlines.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{it's
    risky to procrastinate}.
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/joe-biden.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{}

    \hypertarget{joe-biden}{%
    \section{Joe Biden}\label{joe-biden}}

    \hypertarget{democrat}{%
    \subsection{Democrat}\label{democrat}}

    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/donald-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{}

    \hypertarget{donald-trump}{%
    \section{Donald Trump}\label{donald-trump}}

    \hypertarget{republican}{%
    \subsection{Republican}\label{republican}}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \hypertarget{keep-up-with-our-coverage}{%
  \subsection{Keep Up With Our
  Coverage}\label{keep-up-with-our-coverage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Get an
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{email}~recapping
    the day's news
  \item
    Download our mobile app on
    \href{https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nytimes/id284862083?ls=1\&mat_click_id=5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\&referrer=mat_click_id\%3D5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\%26link_click_id\%3D722930677036718082}{iOS}~and
    \href{http://a.localytics.com/android?id=com.nytimes.android\&referrer=utm_source\%3Dother_nyt_mobile_web\%26utm_medium\%3DWeb\%2520page\%26utm_term\%3DGeneral\%2520Mobile\%2520Page\%26utm_campaign\%3DNYT\%2520Mobile\%2520General\%2520Page}{Android}~and
    turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{Â©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
