Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/travel}{Travel}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/travel}{Travel}\textbar{}Christmas (on the Cheap) in
January

\url{https://nyti.ms/2ED2bEE}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

Frugal traveler

\hypertarget{christmas-on-the-cheap-in-january}{%
\section{Christmas (on the Cheap) in
January}\label{christmas-on-the-cheap-in-january}}

Looking for seasonal cheer without inflated prices? Then take your
holiday spirit on the road --- after Christmas.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2019/12/22/travel/20frugal-xmas-in-january-5/oakImage-1576008885966-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By Elaine Glusac

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Published Dec. 20, 2019Updated Dec. 22, 2019
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

It's the season of lights, holiday markets and caroling. And it's also a
time of crowds and inflated hotel rates.

But many cities keep the seasonal lights on in January, when the throngs
and prices ease. Many also add events to entice travelers, including
food and arts celebrations.

The following cities make a thrifty financial case for celebrating the
holidays in January.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2019/12/06/travel/20Frugal-Christmas-in-January-3/20Frugal-Christmas-in-January-3-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\hypertarget{chicago}{%
\subsection{Chicago}\label{chicago}}

Most of the seasonal displays in Chicago are up through Jan. 5,
including the
\href{https://www.lpzoo.org/zoolights-presented-comed-and-invesco-qqq}{ZooLights}
at the Lincoln Park Zoo (free admission);
\href{https://www.chicagobotanic.org/lightscape}{Lightscape}, a
mile-long illuminated path with a tunnel and singing trees, at the
Chicago Botanic Garden (from \$17); ``Christmas Around the World'' at
the
\href{https://www.msichicago.org/explore/whats-here/exhibits/christmas-around-the-world/}{Museum
of Science and Industry}, featuring more than 50 lighted trees (from
\$19.95); and heli-holiday light tours with
\href{https://www.chicagohelicopterexperience.com/product/holiday-lights-experience/}{Chicago
Helicopter Experience} (\$159.99 a passenger).

The family-friendly Fifth Third Bank
\href{https://navypier.org/event/fifth-third-bank-winter-wonderfest-2019/}{Winter
Wonderfest} at Navy Pier continues through Jan. 12 with an indoor
holiday playground, inflatable slides, aerialist shows and carnival
rides (from \$20).

A Chicago resident, I start every New Year's Day at the
\href{https://maggiedaleypark.com/things-to-do-see/skating-ribbon/}{Skating
Ribbon} at Maggie Daley Park, an outdoor ice path (free; skate rentals
from \$13). There's also free skating at nearby
\href{https://www.chicago.gov/city/en/depts/dca/supp_info/millennium_park10.html}{Millennium
Park} (through March 8).

It may be freezing, but as far as crowds go, January is an uncongested
month to visit Chicago, with added attractions that include the
\href{https://www.stage773.com/cscf-lineup-2020}{Chicago Sketch Comedy
Festival} (tickets from \$15; Jan. 9 to 19) and
\href{https://www.choosechicago.com/chicago-restaurant-week/}{Chicago
Restaurant Week} (Jan. 24 to Feb. 9).

As the temperatures drop, so do hotel rates. The first weekend in
January, Expedia recently had rates at the
\href{https://www.acehotel.com/chicago/}{Ace Hotel Chicago} at \$131,
about \$100 less than in mid-December.

Image

The Plaza Lights display in Kansas City.Credit...Visit KC

\hypertarget{kansas-city}{%
\subsection{Kansas City}\label{kansas-city}}

For 90 years, the
\href{https://www.visitkc.com/visitors/things-do/kansas-city-plaza-lights}{Plaza
Lights} have brightened 15 blocks of buildings on
\href{https://countryclubplaza.com/}{Country Club Plaza}, a
Spanish-inspired shopping district built in 1922. Strings of lights
outline rooflines, corners and windows though Jan. 12.

``Kansas City is a Sister City with Seville, Spain, and much of the
architecture of the plaza looks like Seville,'' said Diana Lambdin
Meyer, a Kansas City-based freelance writer who has written travel
guides to Kansas. ``It has beautiful Moorish architecture you don't
expect to see in the Midwest and if you go late at night, when there are
no cars and a little snow on the ground, it's magical.''

At downtown's Crown Center, the Mayor's Christmas Tree --- this year a
100-foot-tall conifer decorated in 10,600 white bulbs --- will remain in
place through Jan. 5. But ice skating at the adjacent
\href{https://www.crowncenter.com/business/crown-center-ice-terrace}{Crown
Center Ice Terrace} will continue through March 8 (admission \$7;
rentals \$4).

In recent searches, the
\href{https://www.marriott.com/hotels/travel/mcicr-sheraton-kansas-city-hotel-at-crown-center/}{Sheraton
Kansas City Hotel at Crown Center} didn't show much fluctuation in rates
between December and January, starting at around \$134 on Orbitz. But a
stay at the art-filled \href{https://www.21cmuseumhotels.com/}{21c
Museum Hotel Kansas City} dropped by about \$100 a night in January to
around \$225.

Post-holiday, visitors can also take advantage of
\href{http://www.kcrestaurantweek.com/}{Kansas City Restaurant Week},
which runs Jan. 10 to 19, featuring menus at \$15 and \$35 at more than
200 restaurants.

Image

In New York, the Hello Panda Festival at Citi Field in Queens features
seasonal light displays, art exhibitions and interactive games through
Jan. 26Credit...Hello Panda Festival

\hypertarget{new-york-city}{%
\subsection{New York City}\label{new-york-city}}

The epicenter of Manhattan holiday d√©cor,
\href{https://www.rockefellercenter.com/holidays/}{Rockefeller Center},
will keep its 77-foot-tall Norway spruce tree, strung with five miles of
wire and 50,000 lights, illuminated until mid-January.

There are more displays in other boroughs, including Queens, where the
\href{http://www.hellopandafest.com/}{Hello Panda Festival} at Citi
Field features seasonal light displays, contemporary art exhibitions and
interactive games through Jan. 26 (adult admission from \$25). Staten
Island's \href{https://www.nycwinterlanternfestival.com/}{Winter Lantern
Festival} runs to Jan. 12 (from \$23). In the Bronx, the
\href{https://www.nybg.org/event/holiday-train-show/}{New York Botanical
Garden} runs its Holiday Train Show through Jan. 26 (from \$23) and the
\href{https://bronxzoo.com/holiday-lights}{Bronx Zoo} turns on its
holiday lights Jan. 3 to 5 (from \$22.95).

Hotel savings are significant: In early January, rates at the
\href{https://www.whotelsnewyork.com/property/w-new-york-times-square/}{W
New York - Times Square} could be found on Google for \$156 a night,
hundreds of dollars cheaper than on a mid-December weekend.

``Travel in January is just so much more astoundingly affordable in New
York,'' said Pauline Frommer, the editorial director of Frommer's and
author of ``Frommer's EasyGuide to New York City 2020.'' For continued
festivities, she highlighted the
\href{https://improveverywhere.com/2019/12/02/save-the-date-no-pants-subway-ride-2020/}{No
Pants Subway Ride} (Jan. 12),
\href{https://www.winterjazzfest.com/}{Winter Jazzfest} (Jan. 9 to 18)
and \href{https://www.nycgo.com/restaurant-week/}{NYC Restaurant Week},
which offers discounts (Jan. 21 to Feb. 9).

Winter, she added, ``is risky weather-wise, but so much of the action in
New York is inside that it really doesn't matter as much.''

Image

Many of the lights along the Riverwalk in San Antonio, Tex., will stay
in place through Jan. 13.Credit...Al Rendon

\hypertarget{san-antonio}{%
\subsection{San Antonio}\label{san-antonio}}

During the holidays in San Antonio, more than 2,200 strings of lights
drape the bald cypress trees that line the riverside public walkway
known as
\href{https://www.thesanantonioriverwalk.com/events/holiday-lights-on-the-river-walk1}{the
Riverwalk} and stay in place through Jan. 13. Nearby, a new
\href{http://rotaryicerink.com/}{outdoor ice rink} joins the 50-foot
Christmas tree in downtown Travis Park, open for skating through Jan. 31
(admission \$10; skate rentals \$4). About three miles north,
\href{https://lightthewaysa.com/about/}{Light the Way}, an installation
illuminating the \href{https://lightthewaysa.com/about/}{University of
the Incarnate Word}, runs through Jan. 6.

Reflecting its Latin American culture, San Antonio widely celebrates
Three Kings Day, the day the three wise men presented Jesus with gifts,
according to the Bible. The
\href{http://www.sociedadherenciaprsa.org/}{Puerto Rican Heritage
Society Fiesta de los Tres Reyes} takes place Jan. 5 and includes music
and a telling of the story at downtown's San Fernando Cathedral (free).
In addition to its display of nine million lights,
\href{http://sanantonio.culturemap.com/eventdetail/seaworld-san-antonio-presents-three-kings-day-cele/}{SeaWorld
San Antonio} will stage appearances by the kings from Jan. 1 to 5
(admission from \$54.99).

David Gonzalez, the spokesman for Visit San Antonio, said hotel rates
ran 5 percent lower last January versus December 2018. This year,
several hotels are offering holiday packages, including the
\href{https://www3.hilton.com/en/hotels/texas/hilton-san-antonio-hill-country-SATHCHF/index.html}{Hilton
San Antonio Hill Country} where rates start at \$89 and include
complimentary s'mores kits, outdoor movies and shuttles to SeaWorld
through Jan. 13.

Image

At the Canary Wharf light show in London this January, installations
include ``Affinity,'' by amigo \& amigo.Credit...David Watson

\hypertarget{london}{%
\subsection{London}\label{london}}

Many of the lights of London switch off after Jan. 5, including the LED
curtain lights on \href{https://www.oxfordstreet.co.uk/}{Oxford Street}
and \href{https://hydeparkwinterwonderland.com/}{Hyde Park Winter
Wonderland}'s ice rink, roller coasters and an ice bar (free admission).
But some remain on longer, including
``\href{http://mayfairandbelgravia.com/eccleston-yards/news-and-events/chromotherapy-christmas}{Chromotherapy
Christmas}'' at Eccleston Yards, featuring 500 suspended orbs in colors
said to energize, calm or evoke happiness (free; through Jan. 11).

Others switch on in January, such as the
\href{https://canarywharf.com/arts-events/events/winter-lights-jan-2020/?instance_id=}{Winter
Lights installation at Canary Wharf}, promising more than 25
installations that include grids of dangling light strings, illuminated
fountains and projected images (free; Jan. 16 to 25).
\href{http://chiswickhouseandgardens.org.uk/event/lightopia/}{Lightopia}
comes to Chiswick House and Gardens Jan. 22 to March 1 (from 20 pounds,
or about \$26.25).

In addition to being free, many London museums, including the Tate
Britain and Tate Modern, are less crowded.

``While January is one of the colder months in the capital, I'd argue
that this provides the perfect opportunity to buy a new sweater in the
famous January sales,'' Laura Citron, the chief executive of London \&
Partners, the city's tourism agency, wrote in an email. Most sales,
often the only sale of the year, run through the month.

It's also sale season at hotels. Google recently showed rates from \$184
at the
\href{https://doubletree3.hilton.com/en/hotels/united-kingdom/doubletree-by-hilton-hotel-london-tower-of-london-LONTLDI/index.html}{DoubleTree
by Hilton Hotel London -- Tower of London} on a mid-December weekend
versus \$119 in early January.

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

\textbf{52 PLACES AND MUCH, MUCH MORE} \emph{Follow our}
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/travel/places-to-visit.html?action=click\&module=inline\&pgtype=Article}{\emph{52
Places}} \emph{traveler, Sebastian Modak, on}
\textbf{\href{https://www.instagram.com/nytimestravel/}{\emph{Instagram}}}
****** \emph{as he travels the world}***,*** \emph{and discover more
Travel coverage by following us on}
\href{https://twitter.com/nytimestravel}{\emph{Twitter}} \emph{and}
\href{https://www.facebookcorewwwi.onion/nytimestravel/}{\emph{Facebook}}\emph{.
And}
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/traveldispatch?action=click\&module=inline\&pgtype=Article}{\emph{sign
up for our}} **
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/traveldispatch?module=inline}{\emph{Travel
Dispatch newsletter}}\emph{: Each week you'll receive tips on traveling
smarter, stories on hot destinations and access to photos from all over
the world.}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{¬©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
