Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/style}{Style}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/style}{Style}\textbar{}Capri, a Getaway for the Rich and
Famous, Misses Its Americans

\url{https://nyti.ms/2Fa3v5f}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{the-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=bae62ef0-f27e-11ea-b230-435ddf4f92b6\&variant=undefined}{The
Coronavirus
Outbreak}}{The Coronavirus Outbreak}}\label{the-coronavirus-outbreak}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  live\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/08/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=bae65600-f27e-11ea-b230-435ddf4f92b6\&variant=undefined}{Latest
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=bae65601-f27e-11ea-b230-435ddf4f92b6\&variant=undefined}{Maps
  and Cases}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=bae67d10-f27e-11ea-b230-435ddf4f92b6\&variant=undefined}{Vaccine
  Tracker}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/02/your-money/eviction-moratorium-covid.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=bae67d11-f27e-11ea-b230-435ddf4f92b6\&variant=undefined}{Eviction
  Moratorium}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/09/02/magazine/food-insecurity-hunger-us.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=bae67d12-f27e-11ea-b230-435ddf4f92b6\&variant=undefined}{American
  Hunger}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

The Great Read

\hypertarget{capri-a-getaway-for-the-rich-and-famous-misses-its-americans}{%
\section{Capri, a Getaway for the Rich and Famous, Misses Its
Americans}\label{capri-a-getaway-for-the-rich-and-famous-misses-its-americans}}

Visitors from the United States make up the largest share of foreign
tourists on the Italian island, and this year their absence is denting
local businesses.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/09/01/fashion/VIRUS-CAPRI01/merlin_171887103_86640278-991a-4000-aa01-06cf59bd96cc-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/valeriya-safronova}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/06/14/multimedia/author-valeriya-safronova/author-valeriya-safronova-thumbLarge.jpg}}

By
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/valeriya-safronova}{Valeriya
Safronova}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Sept. 8, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

CAPRI, Italy --- On a sweltering Monday morning in August, half an hour
before a ferry to Capri was scheduled to depart from a harbor in Naples,
dozens of sweating people crowded on the dock, their face masks in
various states of ineffectiveness.

The ferry ride to Capri, an island off the coast of southern Italy,
lasts about an hour. Once on the island, many of those on board spent
the rest of the day lining up for the funicular, for buses, for taxis
and for boats.

After a strict lockdown this spring, during which most people were
barred from entering the island, Capri reopened to tourists in June**,**
a few months later than usual. Like other parts of Italy, the region
that Capri is in, Campania, has seen a
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/10/world/europe/italy-coronavirus-tourism.html}{large
drop in international tourists} this summer --- 85 to 90 percent less
than last year, according to Gianni Terminiello, who is in charge of
statistics at Campania's tourism agency.

Capri made up some of the difference last month with Italian tourists;
the mayor of Capri estimated that thousands of people **** were arriving
daily in August.

The visitors carry a health risk, but Capri's 14,000 or so residents
rely on tourism, so the stores, hotels and beach clubs have reopened,
with some operating at full or near-full capacity. On a recent weekday,
beach coves were dotted with towels and bright, colored umbrellas,
restaurants like the popular Da Paolino were booked solid (weeks in
advance), and the cafes in the ``piazzetta'' --- the square at the
center of Capri --- were filled from morning to night.

According to health authorities in Campania, the island had zero cases
of Covid-19 in June and July. Sixteen were recorded in the second half
of August.

The dreaminess of Capri's rugged landscape and jewel-toned sea has long
attracted the wealthy, famous and powerful, beginning about 2,000 years
ago with the Roman emperor Tiberius, who built 12 villas on the island
and is said to have thrown people who displeased him off Capri's cliffs.

Toward the end of the 19th century, Axel Munthe, the physician and
companion of Queen Victoria of Sweden, built a holiday
\href{http://www.villasanmichele.eu/}{getaway in Capri}, and several
decades later, in the early 1900s, the writer Maxim Gorky
\href{https://www.idfa.nl/en/film/d931478e-6c95-42a5-910b-1d960452536e/the-other-revolution-gorkij-and-lenin-on-capri/docs-for-sale}{hosted
his friend Vladimir Lenin} at his Capri home. (Gorky was one of the
island's famous exiles; another was
\href{https://www.sothebys.com/en/buy/auction/2020/music-continental-books-and-medieval-manuscripts/pablo-neruda-16-letters-together-with-documents}{the
poet Pablo Neruda}.)

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/09/03/fashion/VIRUS-CAPRI-neruda/VIRUS-CAPRI-neruda-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

``People come for three things: the sun and the sea, the food and the
shopping,'' said Federico Alvarez de Toledo, 56, who has lived on Capri
for nine years and whose family has owned a house in the town center
since 1860.

Giovanna Gentile Ferragamo, who serves on the board of directors at
Salvatore Ferragamo S.p.A., the luxury goods company, grew up visiting
Capri with her parents. She recalls riding donkeys around the island as
a child.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-the-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/08/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: The Coronavirus
Outbreak}}{Latest Updates: The Coronavirus Outbreak}}\label{latest-updates-the-coronavirus-outbreak}}

Updated 2020-09-09T08:22:37.235Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/08/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-313b443d}{AstraZeneca
  halts a vaccine trial to investigate a participant's illness.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/08/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-4438dd7}{Facing
  a surge in cases, Britain plans to limit most gatherings to six
  people.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/08/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-679303d7}{Nine
  drugmakers pledge to thoroughly vet any coronavirus vaccine.}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/08/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

More live coverage:
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/08/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Markets}

``If they wanted to stop, there was no way you could get them to go,''
Mrs. Gentile Ferragamo said of the animals. ``You had to wait until they
had their lunch. But we were not in a hurry.'' Now, Mrs. Gentile
Ferragamo, 77, visits her villa on the island two or three times a year
and spends most of her time on her
``\href{https://www.capri.com/en/b/rent-a-gozzo-boat-on-capri}{gozzo},''
a traditional local boat, lounging in the sun during the day and
catching squid in the evening.

``Everything is good in Capri,'' she said.

Still, the pandemic has touched the island in many ways.

In early August, Marino Lembo, the mayor of Capri, fearful of the
effects that the crush of visitors could have on the island's zero
infections, made masks mandatory in the busiest parts of the island,
like the center square and its adjoining streets.

On a recent couple of days, tourists seemed to be following the rule ---
at least during the afternoons. Their faces covered, they strolled past
display cases lined with limoncello, past Chanel and Gucci and Fendi,
and past the artisanal boutiques selling sandals and perfumes.

But at night, as the hours ticked by and the coffee cups in the
piazzetta were replaced by bottles of wine, the little cloth barriers
slipped off, revealing more and more skin.

``Wearing masks doesn't allow you to feel like you're on vacation,''
said Mariano Della Corte, 37, a journalist and social anthropologist who
grew up in Capri and lives there now. ``Capri is a place that's exotic.
You don't care about your problems, your everyday life. But now, you
cannot have the place as an escape.''

Image

Though Capri had plenty of Italian tourists this summer, they do not
have the spending capacity of foreigners, said Gianni Terminiello, who
is in charge of statistics at Campania's tourism agency.Credit...Ciro De
Luca/Reuters

Fewer people on the island has meant a resurgence of nature, with
cleaner waters and more space for the island's fauna, but Caprese
business owners lament the lack of one particular species this year: the
Americans. Locals say that the island looks and feels very different
without the summer set that migrates across the ocean and makes up the
largest share of Capri's foreign tourists.

``Life in Capri is connected to the presence of these people,'' said Mr.
Della Corte. ``It's kind of a second home for them. We see them as a
part of the island.'' Without the usual summer crowds, he said, ``it
seems like another place.''

Dinner is later, for one. ``The Americans eat at 7 p.m.,'' said Carmine
De Martino, 39, the owner of
\href{https://www.bagnitiberio.com/en/index}{Bagni Tiberio}, a beach
club opened in 1926 by Mr. De Martino's great-grandfather among the
ruins of a Roman villa. ``The Italians eat at 10 p.m.'' The general
volume has increased, he added. ``Americans are quieter. Now it's a very
loud place because we are noisy.''

Mr. Lembo, the mayor, said that Americans who are used to staying in
Capri every summer in the same rooms in the same hotels have been
calling to ask if they can come this year. ``Obviously it is not
possible,'' he said.

Michela De Martino, 44, who with her sister and uncle owns
\href{https://paolinocapri.com/en/}{Da Paolino}, a former farm and bocce
court that became a restaurant in the 1970s, said that about 80 percent
of their customers are from the United States. Over the decades, those
customers have included Bruce Willis and Demi Moore, Leonardo DiCaprio,
Will Smith and Uma Thurman.

Since travel restrictions were announced, she said, many Americans have
been writing and calling, already making plans to eat at the
lemon-tree-shaded restaurant in the summer of 2021.

\hypertarget{a-symbol-of-the-dolce-vita}{%
\subsection{A Symbol of the `Dolce
Vita'}\label{a-symbol-of-the-dolce-vita}}

Americans, particularly famous ones, have been a dependable presence in
Capri since the end of the Second World War. Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis,
an oft-photographed visitor, made famous both a
\href{https://footwearnews.com/2016/fashion/designers/canfaro-capri-sandals-jackie-kennedy-onassis-style-shoes-207293/}{local
style of sandal} and a length of pants named after the island.

Frank Sinatra, Gracie Fields, and Bing Crosby and Rosemary Clooney
recorded the same
\href{https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vzD8YHhdv3w}{song} about the
island for their albums. Elizabeth Taylor and Richard Burton
\href{https://www.dailymail.co.uk/tvshowbiz/article-1277881/Dame-Gracie-Field-auction-Unseen-picture-Elizabeth-Taylor-Richard-Burton.html}{visited}
the island's popular beach club, the Canzone del Mare, in the early days
of their relationship, when it was still somewhat of a secret.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{}

\hypertarget{the-coronavirus-outbreak-}{%
\subsubsection{The Coronavirus Outbreak
›}\label{the-coronavirus-outbreak-}}

\hypertarget{frequently-asked-questions}{%
\paragraph{Frequently Asked
Questions}\label{frequently-asked-questions}}

Updated September 4, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{what-are-the-symptoms-of-coronavirus}{%
  \paragraph{What are the symptoms of
  coronavirus?}\label{what-are-the-symptoms-of-coronavirus}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    In the beginning, the coronavirus
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/coronavirus-facts-history.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq\#link-6817bab5}{seemed
    like it was primarily a respiratory illness}~--- many patients had
    fever and chills, were weak and tired, and coughed a lot, though
    some people don't show many symptoms at all. Those who seemed
    sickest had pneumonia or acute respiratory distress syndrome and
    received supplemental oxygen. By now, doctors have identified many
    more symptoms and syndromes. In April,
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/27/health/coronavirus-symptoms-cdc.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{the
    C.D.C. added to the list of early signs}~sore throat, fever, chills
    and muscle aches. Gastrointestinal upset, such as diarrhea and
    nausea, has also been observed. Another telltale sign of infection
    may be a sudden, profound diminution of one's
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/22/health/coronavirus-symptoms-smell-taste.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{sense
    of smell and taste.}~Teenagers and young adults in some cases have
    developed painful red and purple lesions on their fingers and toes
    --- nicknamed ``Covid toe'' --- but few other serious symptoms.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{why-is-it-safer-to-spend-time-together-outside}{%
  \paragraph{Why is it safer to spend time together
  outside?}\label{why-is-it-safer-to-spend-time-together-outside}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/15/us/coronavirus-what-to-do-outside.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{Outdoor
    gatherings}~lower risk because wind disperses viral droplets, and
    sunlight can kill some of the virus. Open spaces prevent the virus
    from building up in concentrated amounts and being inhaled, which
    can happen when infected people exhale in a confined space for long
    stretches of time, said Dr. Julian W. Tang, a virologist at the
    University of Leicester.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{why-does-standing-six-feet-away-from-others-help}{%
  \paragraph{Why does standing six feet away from others
  help?}\label{why-does-standing-six-feet-away-from-others-help}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    The coronavirus spreads primarily through droplets from your mouth
    and nose, especially when you cough or sneeze. The C.D.C., one of
    the organizations using that measure,
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/14/health/coronavirus-six-feet.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{bases
    its recommendation of six feet}~on the idea that most large droplets
    that people expel when they cough or sneeze will fall to the ground
    within six feet. But six feet has never been a magic number that
    guarantees complete protection. Sneezes, for instance, can launch
    droplets a lot farther than six feet,
    \href{https://jamanetwork.com/journals/jama/fullarticle/2763852}{according
    to a recent study}. It's a rule of thumb: You should be safest
    standing six feet apart outside, especially when it's windy. But
    keep a mask on at all times, even when you think you're far enough
    apart.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{i-have-antibodies-am-i-now-immune}{%
  \paragraph{I have antibodies. Am I now
  immune?}\label{i-have-antibodies-am-i-now-immune}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    As of right
    now,\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/22/health/covid-antibodies-herd-immunity.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{~that
    seems likely, for at least several months.}~There have been
    frightening accounts of people suffering what seems to be a second
    bout of Covid-19. But experts say these patients may have a
    drawn-out course of infection, with the virus taking a slow toll
    weeks to months after initial exposure.~People infected with the
    coronavirus typically
    \href{https://www.nature.com/articles/s41586-020-2456-9}{produce}~immune
    molecules called antibodies, which are
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/07/health/coronavirus-antibody-prevalence.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{protective
    proteins made in response to an
    infection}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/07/health/coronavirus-antibody-prevalence.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{.
    These antibodies may}~last in the body
    \href{https://www.nature.com/articles/s41591-020-0965-6}{only two to
    three months}, which may seem worrisome, but that's~perfectly normal
    after an acute infection subsides, said Dr. Michael Mina, an
    immunologist at Harvard University. It may be possible to get the
    coronavirus again, but it's highly unlikely that it would be
    possible in a short window of time from initial infection or make
    people sicker the second time.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{what-are-my-rights-if-i-am-worried-about-going-back-to-work}{%
  \paragraph{What are my rights if I am worried about going back to
  work?}\label{what-are-my-rights-if-i-am-worried-about-going-back-to-work}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Employers have to provide
    \href{https://www.osha.gov/SLTC/covid-19/standards.html}{a safe
    workplace}~with policies that protect everyone equally.
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/coronavirus-money-unemployment.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{And
    if one of your co-workers tests positive for the coronavirus, the
    C.D.C.}~has said that
    \href{https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/community/guidance-business-response.html}{employers
    should tell their employees}~-\/- without giving you the sick
    employee's name -\/- that they may have been exposed to the virus.
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

More recently, Kylie Jenner
\href{https://www.theguardian.com/business/2019/aug/09/reality-tv-star-kylie-jenner-celebrates-birthday-on-1m-a-week-superyacht}{celebrated}
her 22nd birthday on the waters surrounding Capri on a yacht that was
\href{https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2019-04-03/genting-to-buy-1mdb-linked-yacht-from-malaysia-for-126-million}{sold
for \$126 million}, Jay-Z and Beyoncé
\href{https://www.tmz.com/2018/07/23/jay-z-beyonce-standing-ovation-leaving-restaurant-capri/}{received
a standing ovation} when leaving a local restaurant, and Jennifer Lopez
\href{https://www.instagram.com/p/BmPSFnPA7zd/?utm_source=ig_embed}{hopped
onto a table} to spontaneously perform ``Let's Get Loud'' at Taverna
Anema e Core, the island's can't-miss nightclub.

``Capri, in the imagination, is still linked to the `dolce vita,''' said
Michela Giovinetti, 46, a location manager who has lived on the island
for 20 years. ``Historically, Capri was a symbol of freedom and
simplicity and hedonism.''

Ms. Giovinetti, who has worked on projects like Dolce \& Gabbana's Light
Blue perfume
\href{https://www.dolcegabbanabeauty.com/perfumes/light-blue/}{ad
campaigns} and Louis Vuitton's arty
\href{https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fFv5smPPuZo}{perfume commercial
featuring Emma Stone}, is feeling the pain of travel restrictions.
Nearly all of her projects involve working with people from abroad,
especially from the United States. So far this year, she has had only
one request for her scouting services.

Americans who visit Capri have a different approach to shopping than
Europeans, Mr. Alvarez de Toledo said. He runs
\href{https://www.ecocapri.com/}{Eco Capri}, a boutique that sells
scarves, caftans, bags, plates and other decorative items printed with
designs created by his grandmother, Laetitia Cerio, an artist whose
prints featured in Emilio Pucci's first collection.

``The Americans, if they like two or three scarves, they're like, `You
know what, I'll just take the three because I'll figure out what to do
with them later,''' Mr. Alvarez de Toledo said. ``Europeans are much
more, `Tomorrow I'll come back and get it down to two, and then I'll
choose one.' We've all been spoiled with that sort of optimism.''

Image

``We miss the American tourists,'' said~Mr. Alvarez de Toledo. ``We miss
the interaction, the energy, the optimism, the shopping
style.''Credit... Eco Capri

Mr. Alvarez de Toledo said his store, like the island, has regulars, who
vacation in Capri every year. ``The Capri lovers,'' he calls them. This
season, with the Capri lovers stuck across the ocean, Eco Capri has seen
a bump in online traffic, in response to which Mr. Alvarez de Toledo and
his partners created a weekly newsletter to keep up with 500 of their
customers from afar.

Other businesses offering luxury services also miss the American
visitors, and their deep pockets. Vincenzo Murolo, 40, the owner and
chief executive of \href{https://www.caprionboard.com/}{Capri On Board},
a yacht management company, said that this year, his business has
decreased by 87 percent. Though Americans are not his only customers,
they are his top customers, spending, on average, about 3,000 euros
(\$3,500).

``There's a war between boat owners to have the American tourists
because they're the ones who spend the most money,'' said Danilo
Palumbo, 33, of \href{https://www.capriboatservice.com/}{Capri Boat
Service}, which offers tours around the area, with prices starting at 80
euros (\$95) for the one-hour selfie tour to 4,000 euros (\$4,750) for a
half-day on a private yacht.

Despite all the nostalgia for the Americans, some residents noted that
there are benefits to the much-reduced tourist traffic. ``You can walk
everywhere on the island, even during rush hour,'' Mr. Della Corte said.

Others said the difference between the tourist season this year and last
has hardly been noticeable.

Ersilia Buonocore, 63, one of the owners of a family-run
\href{https://www.facebookcorewwwi.onion/capri.gelateriabuonocore/}{gelato
and pastry shop} that her father opened in the center of town nearly
five decades ago, found a couple of minutes to talk on a late afternoon.
``It's basically the same,'' she said, before rushing back to serving a
long line of customers eager for that most universal of luxuries: a
cold, sweet treat.

Gaia Pianigiani contributed reporting.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
