Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/climate}{Climate}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/climate}{Climate}\textbar{}Andrew Wheeler, New E.P.A.
Chief, Details His Energy Lobbying Past

\url{https://nyti.ms/2O2jH7L}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/climate?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Climate
and Environment}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/30/climate/sea-level-inland-floods.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Rising
  Seas}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/climate/trump-environment-rollbacks.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Trump's
  Changes}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/04/19/climate/climate-crash-course-1.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Climate
  101}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2018/08/30/climate/how-much-hotter-is-your-hometown.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Is
  Your Hometown Hotter?}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/climate-change?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{andrew-wheeler-new-epa-chief-details-his-energy-lobbying-past}{%
\section{Andrew Wheeler, New E.P.A. Chief, Details His Energy Lobbying
Past}\label{andrew-wheeler-new-epa-chief-details-his-energy-lobbying-past}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/08/02/climate/02CLI-WHEELER-print/01CLI-WHEELER1-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/lisa-friedman}{Lisa Friedman}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Aug. 1, 2018
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

\emph{Want the latest climate news in your inbox? You can}
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/climate-change}{\emph{sign up
here}} \emph{to receive} \emph{\textbf{Climate Fwd:}}\emph{, our email
newsletter.}

WASHINGTON --- The acting chief of the Environmental Protection Agency,
Andrew Wheeler, has come under scrutiny for his years spent as a
powerful energy lobbyist. He has represented an electric utility, a
uranium producer, and, most significantly, a coal magnate who paid Mr.
Wheeler's former lobbying firm more than \$2.7 million over eight years.

Mr. Wheeler is now in a position to act upon issues he once raised on
behalf of his clients. And he is expected to be grilled on his
relationships in the Senate on Wednesday, when he makes a regular
appearance before the Committee on Environment and Public Works. It will
be his first testimony in Congress since assuming leadership of the
agency in July, when Scott Pruitt
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/07/05/climate/scott-pruitt-epa-trump.html}{resigned
as E.P.A. administrator}.

In an interview, Mr. Wheeler provided fresh details about his lobbying
activities, including specifics not included in his government-required
disclosure forms, which have been criticized for their lack of detail.
Mr. Wheeler also said that, well before
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/04/18/climate/scott-pruitt-epa-investigations-guide.html}{Mr.
Pruitt's ethics scandals} hit the E.P.A., he had begun stepping away
from lobbying activities related to the E.P.A., on the chance he might
serve at the agency.

His recent activity as a coal lobbyist, he said, was pushing to kill a
rule before the Interior Department that would have restricted coal
companies from dumping waste into streams. He also advocated for the
Miners Protection Act, he said, a bill that would have used funds
earmarked to clean up abandoned mines to bolster mine workers' health
care and pension plans.

Mr. Wheeler acknowledged working with Robert Murray, the head of Murray
Energy, a coal company, to fight former President Obama's signature
climate change regulation, the Clean Power Plan. But he distanced
himself from
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/01/09/climate/coal-murray-trump-memo.html}{a
series of memos that Mr. Murray earlier had presented to top Trump
administration officials} --- including Energy Secretary Rick Perry and
Mr. Pruitt --- involving direct E.P.A. issues like eliminating a major
regulation on smog and reversing a scientific finding that global
warming harms human health.

``I did not reach out to the Pruitt E.P.A. at all. I did not lobby them.
That was purposeful,'' Mr. Wheeler said. After the election, I cut off
all ties with E.P.A. and I did not take on any new E.P.A. issues.''

Yet while his most recent work did not involve lobbying the E.P.A.
directly, his activities --- particularly on behalf of the coal
industry, which is subject to E.P.A. regulations on fossil-fuel
emissions --- have drawn sharp questions from Democrats and
environmental groups.

Mr. Wheeler faces at least one
\href{https://www.citizen.org/sites/default/files/30_lobbying_ethics_complaints.pdf}{formal
complaint}, by the nonpartisan government watchdog group Public Citizen,
alleging that he ``appears to be working on the same specific issue
areas he had lobbied on within the last two years.'' That is a potential
violation of President Trump's ethics rules limiting the influence of
former lobbyists on the government, the group asserts.

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/climate?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_keepup}{}

\hypertarget{climate-and-environment-}{%
\subsubsection{Climate and Environment
â€º}\label{climate-and-environment-}}

\hypertarget{keep-up-on-the-latest-climate-news}{%
\paragraph{Keep Up on the Latest Climate
News}\label{keep-up-on-the-latest-climate-news}}

Updated July 30, 2020

Here's what you need to know about the latest climate change news this
week:

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/30/climate/bangladesh-floods.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_keepup}{Floods
    in}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/30/climate/bangladesh-floods.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_keepup}{Bangladesh}
    are punishing the people least responsible for climate change.
  \item
    As climate change raises sea levels,
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/30/climate/sea-level-inland-floods.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_keepup}{storm
    surges and high tides} are likely to push farther inland.
  \item
    The E.P.A. inspector general plans to investigate whether a rollback
    of fuel efficiency standards
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/27/climate/trump-fuel-efficiency-rule.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_keepup}{violated
    government rules}.
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Mr. Wheeler's critics point in particular to his lobbying disclosure
filings, which describe his lobbying activities only in general terms
that they say fail to adequately reveal what he actually worked on the
past eight years. ``If I had it to do over again, I would have been more
specific,'' Mr. Wheeler said. ``But when I started lobbying I didn't
really anticipate ever going back into the government.''

However, by the time the 2016 election came around, Mr. Wheeler said he
began shedding his E.P.A.-related lobbying, anticipating that he might
be called on to join the Trump administration. ``I knew it was a
possibility, so after the election I stopped lobbying any new E.P.A.
issues,'' Mr. Wheeler said.

One of Mr. Trump's earliest executive orders, aimed at fulfilling his
promise to ``drain the swamp'' in Washington, permitted former lobbyists
like Mr. Wheeler to join the administration as long as they did not meet
one-on-one with former clients or work on any specific matters they had
handled in private practice in the previous two years.

Mr. Wheeler, along with Justina Fugh, the E.P.A.'s senior counsel for
ethics, said he had not sought or received any ethics waivers. Such
special dispensations have been granted to
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2017/06/07/us/politics/lobbyists-ethics-waivers-trump-administration.html}{dozens
of people throughout the administration to bypass Mr. Trump's executive
order} and allow them to work on the matters on which they lobbied.

``I think that's an ethical cloud if you have a waiver. I personally
didn't want to do that,'' Mr. Wheeler said. ``Because I was a lobbyist,
and that was made a big deal during my confirmation process, I just
wanted to be on safe ground there.''

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/08/01/climate/01CLI-WHEELER2/merlin_138886551_16bf355d-e8a6-4acc-bf75-0dabe0022133-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Mr. Wheeler and Ms. Fugh said he had recused himself from meeting with
Mr. Murray and seven other former clients for whom he worked during the
two-year period covered under Mr. Trump's ethics rule. He also has
declared one E.P.A. issue hands-off for him: a program called Energy
Star that is overseen by the agency and that provides E.P.A. labeling so
consumers can compare the efficiency of washing machines,
air-conditioners and other appliances.

Mr. Wheeler had lobbied Congress on behalf of Underwriters Laboratories,
a company that does safety testing, which objected to some provisions in
a bill related to Energy Star.

Mr. Wheeler said he also had gone beyond Mr. Trump's ethics rules to set
up a process within E.P.A. to make sure he is not involved in decisions
about any of the approximately 45 toxic cleanup areas, known as
Superfund sites, owned by former lobbying or consulting clients. ``I
don't see anything having to do with any of those sites,'' he said.

Jan W. Baran, a leading Republican ethics lawyer, said Mr. Wheeler's
lobbying past may not sit well with environmentalists but it appears to
meet the legal requirements laid out under federal lobbying rules.
``Whether a coal lobbyist leading E.P.A. is ethical, that's different.
You can have a discussion about that,'' Mr. Baran said. And, he added,
``Just because Murray is involved in the E.P.A. doesn't necessarily
require Wheeler to recuse himself from everything.''

In his first detailed discussion of his lobbying, Mr. Wheeler explained
the bulk of his private-practice work over the past two years:

â€¢ Representing Sargento Foods, a Wisconsin-based cheese giant, he
lobbied for legislation related to genetically modified food that would
define the difference between natural and processed cheese, an issue the
Food and Drug Administration is considering.

â€¢ For Xcel Energy, a utility company based in Minneapolis, he lobbied to
help the company obtain a charitable deduction and backed legislation
that would have protected its ability to remove dead wood around
transmission lines in national forests, an issue that the United States
Forest Service deals with.

â€¢ For the uranium mining company Energy Fuels Resources, Mr. Wheeler
helped the company's bid to persuade the Interior Department to adjust
the boundaries
of\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/02/climate/bears-ears-national-monument.html}{Bears
Ears National Monument}, emails released under public records laws show.

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2017/climate/what-is-climate-change.html}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2017/09/19/climate/climate-qandq-promo/climate-qandq-promo-articleLarge.png}

\hypertarget{climate-change-is-complex-weve-got-answers-to-your-questions}{%
\subsection{Climate Change Is Complex. We've Got Answers to Your
Questions.}\label{climate-change-is-complex-weve-got-answers-to-your-questions}}

We know. Global warming is daunting. So here's a place to start: 17
often-asked questions with some straightforward answers.

His work with Mr. Murray began in 2009 with a successful effort to kill
congressional plans to curtail and put a price on carbon emissions. His
disclosure forms after those early years, though, described his work for
Murray only in broader terms, calling it ``general energy and
environment issues.''

Critics like Norman L. Eisen, the chairman of Citizens for
Responsibility and Ethics in Washington, argue that, based on Mr.
Wheeler's own official descriptions of his lobbying activities, Mr.
Wheeler is obligated to not work on ``general energy and environment
issues,'' which would cripple his ability to serve as leader of the
E.P.A.

``That is an exact description of what he does all day now at E.P.A.,''
said Mr. Eisen said. He served as Mr. Obama's special counsel for ethics
and helped write the
\href{https://oge.gov/Web/OGE.nsf/Executive\%20Orders/A70F962587DAC28F85257E96006A90F2/$FILE/23a5e4eeaffd4e14b4387b40b0eae5963.pdf?open}{2009
executive order} upon which Mr. Trump based his 2017 order that set down
rules for administration officials who have worked as lobbyists.

Mr. Wheeler acknowledged helping Mr. Murray oppose the Obama-era Clean
Power Plan, which the coal industry disliked because it required states
to cut carbon emissions by shifting from coal power to natural gas and
renewables over 15 years. He maintained, however that he is not
obligated to recuse himself from working on
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/07/05/climate/clean-power-plan-replacement.html}{a
plan to replace that regulation}.

Mr. Wheeler also said, as he did in Congress during his confirmation
hearing to be deputy administrator, that he had no direct involvement in
crafting a series of controversial memos that Mr. Murray wrote. He
acknowledged arranging and attending a March 2017 meeting with Secretary
Perry at which Mr. Murray delivered his proposals, but said his only
substantive involvement was looking at an early version.

``I had no role in the writing or drafting of that memo,'' Mr. Wheeler
said. ``Murray is a pretty sophisticated lobbyist and they drafted their
own memo and delivered it themselves.''

Mr. Murray also drafted a number of proposed executive orders for Mr.
Trump, almost all of which deal directly with E.P.A. issues like
eliminating a smog rule and rolling back requirements that states reduce
the smokestack pollution that is carried by wind and fouls the air in
other states.

``I didn't work on those,'' Mr. Wheeler said.

Mr. Murray declined interview requests to discuss Mr. Wheeler's work. At
a recent public panel discussion in Washington, he said he believed Mr.
Wheeler would do an ``outstanding'' job as E.P.A. administrator. ``I
didn't want to lose him, but the country has him,'' Mr. Murray said.
``He's an honorable man.''

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{Â©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
