Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/world/europe}{Europe}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/world/europe}{Europe}\textbar{}Throngs Enticed by `Game
of Thrones' Threaten a Magical City

\url{https://nyti.ms/2OKTIC8}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

Croatia Dispatch

\hypertarget{throngs-enticed-by-game-of-thrones-threaten-a-magical-city}{%
\section{Throngs Enticed by `Game of Thrones' Threaten a Magical
City}\label{throngs-enticed-by-game-of-thrones-threaten-a-magical-city}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/08/20/world/10croatia1/merlin_141847329_45d0461b-4530-4df1-99e5-e1a0aab45d6a-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/marc-santora}{Marc
Santora}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Aug. 19, 2018
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/es/2018/08/21/juego-tronos-dubrovnik-turismo/}{Leer
en espa√±ol}

DUBROVNIK, Croatia --- Winter is coming.

But Katja Seref feels neither dread nor fear when she hears those words,
uttered as a warning in
``\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/column/game-of-thrones-tv-recaps}{Game
of Thrones}.''

``I feel relief,'' Ms. Seref said, still wearing her blue khaleesi
dress, the costume of one of the characters vying to rule the Seven
Kingdoms, after a grueling day leading yet another ``Game of Thrones''
tour. ``It means I can get a break.''

Every summer, the hordes descend upon Dubrovnik, a gem of a Croatian
city nestled on the Adriatic Sea. The crowds are drawn by the same
magical beauty that has long appealed to Hollywood location scouts, like
those who chose the city as the setting for the fictional King's Landing
on ``Game of Thrones,'' a hit show on HBO.

But the annual invading army of tourists toting selfie sticks threatens
what attracted them in the first place. After all, it is hard to feel
the sublime majesty of this place when crammed in an interminable line
simply to gain entry into the city.

In recent years, the crowds have grown so bad that Dubrovnik in July has
become synonymous with
``\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2015/07/19/opinion/sunday/the-revolt-against-tourism.html}{over-tourism},''
a plight shared by many of the world's most beautiful places.

From the
\href{https://www.cntraveler.com/story/barcelona-approves-new-law-to-limit-tourist-numbers}{boulevards
of Barcelona}, Spain, to the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2017/08/02/world/europe/venice-italy-tourist-invasion.html}{canals
of Venice}, local officials have been struggling to deal with a similar
problem: being loved too much, almost to death.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/08/01/world/xxcroatia2/merlin_141847113_28df4754-d4af-4795-a55a-0870a07f7b7a-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Image

``Game of Thrones'' fans dressed in costume during a tour on the Karaka,
a painstakingly restored wooden ship used in the HBO
show.Credit...Dmitry Kostyukov for The New York Times

In addition to the crowds, the complaints of residents in tourist hot
spots include the effect on the local property market and concerns about
loutish, disrespectful visitors.

Local anger is likely to grow apace with the number of travelers. The
United Nations' World Tourism Organization estimates there will be 1.8
billion international tourist-related trips by 2030, up from 1.2 billion
in 2016.

Officials in Dubrovnik have started to push back against the throngs.

This summer, they have cracked down on street vendors, limited the
number of outdoor restaurant tables crowding the ancient alleyways and
--- most important --- have sought more control over the cruise ships
that send thousands of passengers flooding into the old town,
\href{https://whc.unesco.org/en/list/95}{a Unesco World Heritage site}.

This year, the city has limited the number of people who can disembark
from the cruise ships at a given time. Next summer, for the first time
since they started pulling into port nearly two decades ago, cruise
ships will face restrictions on when they will be allowed to dock.

It is an attempt to find
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2017/06/29/nyregion/how-much-tourism-is-too-much.html}{the
right balance} of welcoming tourists --- and their money --- without
being overwhelmed.

``There is no unique solution for every destination,'' said Dubrovnik's
mayor, Mato Frankovic. ``But it has to start with recognizing the
problem.''

Just as there is no single solution, there is no single kind of tourist
in Dubrovnik. You can find day-trippers, families on holiday, people on
cruise ship excursions, history buffs, party people and, in a relatively
new phenomenon, ``set-jetters.''

Image

City officials have started to fight the throngs by cracking down on
street vendors and limiting the number of outdoor restaurant
tables.Credit...Dmitry Kostyukov for The New York Times

Image

Crowds are drawn to Dubrovnik by the same magical beauty that has long
appealed to Hollywood location scouts.Credit...Dmitry Kostyukov for The
New York Times

These are people who travel the world in search of the real-life
location of their favorite fictional universe. In recent years, there
has been no more powerful lure than the sites used as the Seven Kingdoms
on ``Game of Thrones.''

In 2015 in Dubrovnik, there were some 300 show-related tours. In 2017,
there were 4,500. This year, that number is already up 180 percent,
according to tourism officials.

Ms. Seref, who led historical tours of the city before the ``Game of
Thrones'' boom, is always amazed at the questions she's asked.

For instance, she can't count how many people have asked how long it
took HBO to build the city's walls. She politely informs the show's fans
that the defenses date from the 13th century.

She makes it a point to not just lead people to the sites of the show's
famous scenes --- like the ``shame'' steps where Cersei Lannister, a
queen portrayed by Lena Headey, was
\href{https://artsbeat.blogs.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2015/06/14/game-of-thrones-season-5-finale-jon-snow/}{paraded
naked} before an angry public in Season 5 --- but to offer a peek behind
the curtain, a funny and observant take on what it feels like to live in
a place turned into a stage set.

As passengers aboard the
\href{http://karaka.info/excursions-dubrovnik/game-of-thrones/}{Karaka}
--- a painstakingly restored wooden ship used in the show --- took turns
dressing up as their favorite characters as they sailed around the city,
Ms. Seref relayed how one actress asked that ``all the pretty Croatian
girls be replaced with uglier ones,'' so as not to upstage her.

She made frequent references to the astounding amounts of money spent to
film what would eventually be a minute or two of footage. She diverted
the discussion from the HBO show to marvel at how the crew of the latest
``Star Wars'' film spent a reported \$10 million to shoot a scene in
Dubrovnik that lasted 15 seconds onscreen.

Image

Katja Seref, who leads ``Game of Thrones'' tours dressed in costume,
looks forward to the winter. ``It means I can get a break,'' she
said.Credit...Dmitry Kostyukov for The New York Times

Image

Dubrovnik has sought more control over the cruise ships that send
thousands of passengers flooding into the city.Credit...Dmitry Kostyukov
for The New York Times

Later, after the day's tour was done, she described the city's
relationship with Hollywood as complicated but good. She complimented
HBO for the respect the crew showed the people and the city.

And she noted that for some six years, the show had provided a needed
lift during the winter, when the crowds are long gone.

But while the winter's empty streets present their own problems to city
officials, it is the summer crush that is the immediate, pressing
problem --- and it is the cruise ship industry that is a focus of much
of the frustration.

Soon after winning election in June 2017, Mr. Frankovic took steps to
reduce the number of daily cruise passengers sent to the old city to
4,000 a day by next summer --- half the 8,000 recommended by Unesco and
a steep drop from the more than 10,000 who might show up on an average
day this July.

Sitting in his office in the old city, Mr. Frankovic recalled a time
when it seemed Dubrovnik might not survive, let alone become a global
tourism magnet.

Image

A ``Games of Thrones'' exhibition near Dubrovnik. The city draws many
``set-jetters,'' who seek out the locations of their favorite television
shows and films.Credit...Dmitry Kostyukov for The New York Times

Image

A night club in Dubrovnik. There is no single kind of tourist in the
city.Credit...Dmitry Kostyukov for The New York Times

During the Balkan wars, Croatia was an early battleground as it sought
independence from Yugoslavia, and in 1991 Dubrovnik was besieged by the
Serb-dominated Yugoslav People's Army.

For months, residents who did not flee
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/1991/11/16/world/dubrovnik-diary-shelling-sniper-fire-chaos-and-for-a-few-escape-by-sea.html}{hunkered
down} as the old city came under
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/1992/07/15/world/the-walls-and-the-will-of-dubrovnik.html}{sustained
artillery bombardment}. More than half the buildings were damaged, and
hundreds of people died.

It was not until 1997 that tourism started to pick up, the mayor said.
In 2000, the cruise ships started to arrive, and their numbers have
continued to grow unabated since.

``The crucial problem was that tourism was not managed,'' the mayor
said. ``It just happened.''

After taking office, he sent a letter to the Cruise Lines International
Association, which represents some 60 lines, including Carnival and
Royal Caribbean, expressing the need to cut the number of ships docking
at the same time. He said that the cruise industry needed time to
readjust schedules, but that by next summer, the city could expect to
see a dramatic difference in the number of visitors swarming its
streets.

Still, for each problem officials are trying to address, a new one crops
up.

For instance, just as Dubrovnik was making headway in battling
overcrowding from cruises, Croatian lawmakers liberalized the country's
taxi laws, and the number of Uber drivers spiked, especially along the
country's scenic coast.

Image

In recent years, the crowds have grown so bad that Dubrovnik in July has
become synonymous with ``over-tourism.''Credit...Dmitry Kostyukov for
The New York Times

Image

Like many other cities, Dubrovnik is trying to find the right balance of
welcoming tourists without being overwhelmed.Credit...Dmitry Kostyukov
for The New York Times

Last year, there were 250 taxi drivers in Dubrovnik. This summer,
according to the mayor, there are more than 1,200. The roads simply
cannot handle the traffic.

For local business owners like Gerda Metkovic, who runs the
\href{https://www.facebookcorewwwi.onion/MalvasijaDubrovnik/?timeline_context_item_type=intro_card_work\&timeline_context_item_source=100001080456956}{Malvasija
Wine bar} in the old city, in addition to limiting tourists, more could
be done to promote quality local products.

While there are no chain stores like McDonald's or Subway in the old
city, the streets are still dominated by markets selling cheap trinkets
and T-shirts.

The wine Ms. Metkovic serves is from the vineyard of her father, Bozo
Metkovic. She also produces her own olive oil.

Among the bustle of the summer crowds, her bar feels like a refuge.

``It's a special place,'' she said of her home city, the kind of place
where visitors should take away a memory that will last longer than any
T-shirt.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{¬©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
