Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/world/americas}{Americas}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/world/americas}{Americas}\textbar{}Brazil, Once a Leader,
Struggles to Contain Virus Amid Political Turmoil

\url{https://nyti.ms/2TdDeHl}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{the-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=8b367dc0-e3a3-11ea-94af-ff08e013db7e}{The
Coronavirus
Outbreak}}{The Coronavirus Outbreak}}\label{the-coronavirus-outbreak}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  live\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/21/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=8b367dc1-e3a3-11ea-94af-ff08e013db7e}{Latest
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=8b367dc2-e3a3-11ea-94af-ff08e013db7e}{Maps
  and Cases}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=8b367dc3-e3a3-11ea-94af-ff08e013db7e}{Vaccine
  Tracker}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/19/us/colleges-closing-covid.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=8b367dc4-e3a3-11ea-94af-ff08e013db7e}{Colleges
  Closing}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/20/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=8b367dc5-e3a3-11ea-94af-ff08e013db7e}{Economy}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{brazil-once-a-leader-struggles-to-contain-virus-amid-political-turmoil}{%
\section{Brazil, Once a Leader, Struggles to Contain Virus Amid
Political
Turmoil}\label{brazil-once-a-leader-struggles-to-contain-virus-amid-political-turmoil}}

The nation's pioneering responses to past health crises, including AIDS
and Zika, won global praise. But the government's chaotic response to
the virus has undercut the country's ability to cope.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/05/15/world/00Virus-Brazil/00Virus-Brazil-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/ernesto-londono}{Ernesto
Londoño}, Manuela Andreoni and Letícia Casado

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Published May 16, 2020Updated June 18, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/es/2020/05/18/espanol/america-latina/covid-brasil.html}{Leer
en español}

\emph{{[}Read more on}
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/brazil-coronavirus-cases.html}{\emph{Brazil's
Coronavirus cases and deaths}}\emph{.{]}}

Thronged banks. Packed subway cars. Buses full of President
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/10/world/americas/bolsonaro-coup-coronavirus-brazil.html}{Jair
Bolsonaro's} fervent supporters, heading to rallies that call on
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/10/world/americas/bolsonaro-coup-coronavirus-brazil.html}{Brazilians}
to brush aside stay-at-home orders from mayors and governors and instead
follow the president's directive to get back to work.

Scenes like these are a reflection of Brazil's contradictory and chaotic
response to the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/10/world/americas/bolsonaro-coup-coronavirus-brazil.html}{coronavirus}
pandemic, which was on glaring display on Friday when the health
minister resigned --- just weeks after his predecessor was abruptly
fired following clashes with Mr. Bolsonaro.

The national confusion has helped fuel the spread of the disease and
contributed to making
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/08/world/americas/brazil-coronavirus-statistics.html}{Brazil
an emerging center of the pandemic}, with a daily death rate second only
to that of the United States.

Public health experts say the disorderly approach has further saturated
intensive care units and morgues and contributed to the deaths of scores
of medical professionals as Latin America's largest economy plunges into
what may be its steepest recession in history.

The crisis facing the country stands in stark contrast to Brazil's track
record for innovative and nimble responses to health care challenges
that made it a model in the developing world in decades past.

``Brazil's could have been one of the best responses to this pandemic,''
said \href{https://www.hsph.harvard.edu/marcia-castro/}{Marcia Castro},
a professor at Harvard University who is from Brazil and specializes in
global health. ``But right now everything is completely disorganized and
no one is working toward joint solutions. This has a cost, and the cost
is human lives.''

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/05/15/world/00Virus-Brazil-02/00Virus-Brazil-02-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Brazil had months to study the errors and successes of the first
countries struck by the virus. Its robust public health care system
could have been deployed to conduct mass testing and trace the movements
of newly infected patients.

Its failure to act early and aggressively is at odds with the country's
ingenious approaches to past medical crises, health experts said.

After a surge in H.I.V. infections in the 1990s, Brazil offered free and
universal treatment and pushed the pharmaceutical industry to lower
\href{https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC2094169/}{costs.} It
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2001/08/23/business/brazil-will-defy-patent-on-aids-drug-made-by-roche.html}{threatened
to disregard a Swiss drugmaker's patent} for an H.I.V. drug in 2001, and
\href{https://www.ft.com/content/c7d3f1f4-fa78-11db-8bd0-000b5df10621}{did
so} in 2007, manufacturing its own generic version and greatly reducing
the prevalence of H.I.V.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-the-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/21/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: The Coronavirus
Outbreak}}{Latest Updates: The Coronavirus Outbreak}}\label{latest-updates-the-coronavirus-outbreak}}

Updated 2020-08-21T11:05:09.310Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/21/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-4690b6aa}{Shutdowns,
  warnings and scoldings follow gatherings on college campuses.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/21/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-324af071}{As
  he accepts the Democratic nomination, Biden knocks Trump's pandemic
  response.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/21/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-35890b73}{Hundreds
  of doctors in Kenya go on strike over their pay and protective gear.}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/21/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

More live coverage:
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/20/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Markets}

In 2013, Brazil vastly expanded access to preventive health care in poor
areas by hiring thousands of foreign doctors, most of them Cuban. And to
combat the Zika outbreak in 2014, Brazil
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2016/01/31/business/new-weapon-to-fight-zika-the-mosquito.html}{created
genetically modified mosquitoes} that helped decrease the insect's
population, a tactic that
\href{https://www.sciencetimes.com/articles/25601/20200506/genetically-engineered-male-mosquitos-released-florida-parts-country-curb-zika.htm}{will
soon be deployed} in Florida and Texas.

Image

Germana Soares with her son, Guilherme, in 2016. She contracted the Zika
virus while pregnant, causing Guilherme to develop microcephaly. Brazil
was a leader in fighting the Zika outbreak.Credit...Mauricio Lima for
The New York Times

Brazil's prior success resulted from investment in science and
empowerment of scientists, said Tania Lago, a professor of medicine at
Santa Casa University in São Paulo, who worked in the ministry of health
in the 1990s.

``Now there's been a rupture in the nation with its scientific
community,'' she said. ``What saddens me is that we are and will
continue to lose lives that could be saved.''

As countries started taking drastic measures to curb the spread of the
virus in February and March, Mr. Bolsonaro played down the risks and
encouraged public gatherings. Now, he is urging Brazilians to return to
work even as the number of new cases and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/world/americas/brazil-coronavirus-cases.html}{deaths
are spiking}.

This past week, the president issued an executive order classifying gyms
and beauty salons as essential businesses that should reopen.

``Health is life,'' he said. As with some of his other decisions related
to the pandemic, it went against state and local measures, and
\href{https://politica.estadao.com.br/noticias/geral,saude-e-vida-diz-bolsonaro-para-justificar-academia-em-servicos-essenciais,70003299552?utm_source=webpush_notificacao\&utm_medium=webpush_notificacao\&utm_campaign=webpush_notificacao}{caught
the health minister by surprise}.

As of Saturday, Brazil had 233,142 diagnosed cases of coronavirus and
15,633 deaths. But the actual death toll is likely to be much higher,
according to death records compiled by Fiocruz, a government institute
that studies health care trends.

Between Jan. 1 and May 9, official government figures say 10,627 people
died in Brazil of Covid-19, the disease caused by the coronavirus.

Image

A nail salon in São Paulo this past week. Mr. Bolsonaro has declared the
salons essential businesses.Credit...Victor Moriyama for The New York
Times

During that period, an additional 11,026 people who were not diagnosed
with the coronavirus died from acute respiratory infections.

That number is several thousands more than the average number of deaths
from respiratory ailments in recent years, said Marcelo Gomes, a
researcher at Fiocruz. He said he suspected a significant percentage of
those patients died from undiagnosed coronavirus infections.

Experts do not expect the epidemic to peak in Brazil for several more
weeks. As of early May, it had the highest contagion rate of
\href{https://mrc-ide.github.io/covid19-short-term-forecasts/index.html}{54
countries studied by Imperial London College}, which also found that
existing containment measures in Brazil
\href{https://www.imperial.ac.uk/news/197474/coronavirus-under-control-brazil-scientists-warn/}{have
failed to put transmission} on a downward trajectory.

According to the Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation at the
University of Washington, \href{http://www.healthdata.org/brazil}{the
virus is on track to kill} more than 88,000 people in Brazil by early
August.

Brazil's Federal Council of Nursing said insufficient protective
equipment and punishing workloads have exposed thousands of medical
professionals to the virus, leaving hospitals understaffed.

``Because salaries are low, most work in two places, some three,'' said
Manoel Neri, the president of the council. ``This is a longstanding
problem in Brazil.''

The council said \href{http://observatoriodaenfermagem.cofen.gov.br}{at
least 116 nurses and medical technicians have died} from confirmed or
suspected coronavirus cases in recent weeks. Nearly 15,000 have
developed symptoms, but many have been unable to get tested.

Image

An aid group distributed food and cleaning supplies to people in São
Paulo this past week.Credit...Victor Moriyama for The New York Times

Jacqueline, a 37-year-old nurse in Rio de Janeiro who contracted the
virus along with her husband, also a nurse, said fear is pervasive among
her colleagues.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{}

\hypertarget{the-coronavirus-outbreak-}{%
\subsubsection{The Coronavirus Outbreak
›}\label{the-coronavirus-outbreak-}}

\hypertarget{frequently-asked-questions}{%
\paragraph{Frequently Asked
Questions}\label{frequently-asked-questions}}

Updated August 17, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{why-does-standing-six-feet-away-from-others-help}{%
  \paragraph{Why does standing six feet away from others
  help?}\label{why-does-standing-six-feet-away-from-others-help}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    The coronavirus spreads primarily through droplets from your mouth
    and nose, especially when you cough or sneeze. The C.D.C., one of
    the organizations using that measure,
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/14/health/coronavirus-six-feet.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{bases
    its recommendation of six feet} on the idea that most large droplets
    that people expel when they cough or sneeze will fall to the ground
    within six feet. But six feet has never been a magic number that
    guarantees complete protection. Sneezes, for instance, can launch
    droplets a lot farther than six feet,
    \href{https://jamanetwork.com/journals/jama/fullarticle/2763852}{according
    to a recent study}. It's a rule of thumb: You should be safest
    standing six feet apart outside, especially when it's windy. But
    keep a mask on at all times, even when you think you're far enough
    apart.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{i-have-antibodies-am-i-now-immune}{%
  \paragraph{I have antibodies. Am I now
  immune?}\label{i-have-antibodies-am-i-now-immune}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    As of right
    now,\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/22/health/covid-antibodies-herd-immunity.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{that
    seems likely, for at least several months.} There have been
    frightening accounts of people suffering what seems to be a second
    bout of Covid-19. But experts say these patients may have a
    drawn-out course of infection, with the virus taking a slow toll
    weeks to months after initial exposure. People infected with the
    coronavirus typically
    \href{https://www.nature.com/articles/s41586-020-2456-9}{produce}
    immune molecules called antibodies, which are
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/07/health/coronavirus-antibody-prevalence.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{protective
    proteins made in response to an
    infection}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/07/health/coronavirus-antibody-prevalence.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{.
    These antibodies may} last in the body
    \href{https://www.nature.com/articles/s41591-020-0965-6}{only two to
    three months}, which may seem worrisome, but that's perfectly normal
    after an acute infection subsides, said Dr. Michael Mina, an
    immunologist at Harvard University. It may be possible to get the
    coronavirus again, but it's highly unlikely that it would be
    possible in a short window of time from initial infection or make
    people sicker the second time.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{im-a-small-business-owner-can-i-get-relief}{%
  \paragraph{I'm a small-business owner. Can I get
  relief?}\label{im-a-small-business-owner-can-i-get-relief}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    The
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/small-business-loans-stimulus-grants-freelancers-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{stimulus
    bills enacted in March} offer help for the millions of American
    small businesses. Those eligible for aid are businesses and
    nonprofit organizations with fewer than 500 workers, including sole
    proprietorships, independent contractors and freelancers. Some
    larger companies in some industries are also eligible. The help
    being offered, which is being managed by the Small Business
    Administration, includes the Paycheck Protection Program and the
    Economic Injury Disaster Loan program. But lots of folks have
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/05/07/business/small-business-loans-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{not
    yet seen payouts.} Even those who have received help are confused:
    The rules are draconian, and some are stuck sitting on
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/02/business/economy/loans-coronavirus-small-business.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{money
    they don't know how to use.} Many small-business owners are getting
    less than they expected or
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/10/business/Small-business-loans-ppp.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{not
    hearing anything at all.}
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{what-are-my-rights-if-i-am-worried-about-going-back-to-work}{%
  \paragraph{What are my rights if I am worried about going back to
  work?}\label{what-are-my-rights-if-i-am-worried-about-going-back-to-work}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Employers have to provide
    \href{https://www.osha.gov/SLTC/covid-19/standards.html}{a safe
    workplace} with policies that protect everyone equally.
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/coronavirus-money-unemployment.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{And
    if one of your co-workers tests positive for the coronavirus, the
    C.D.C.} has said that
    \href{https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/community/guidance-business-response.html}{employers
    should tell their employees} -\/- without giving you the sick
    employee's name -\/- that they may have been exposed to the virus.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{what-is-school-going-to-look-like-in-september}{%
  \paragraph{What is school going to look like in
  September?}\label{what-is-school-going-to-look-like-in-september}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    It is unlikely that many schools will return to a normal schedule
    this fall, requiring the grind of
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/05/us/coronavirus-education-lost-learning.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{online
    learning},
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/29/us/coronavirus-child-care-centers.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{makeshift
    child care} and
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/03/business/economy/coronavirus-working-women.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{stunted
    workdays} to continue. California's two largest public school
    districts --- Los Angeles and San Diego --- said on July 13, that
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/13/us/lausd-san-diego-school-reopening.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{instruction
    will be remote-only in the fall}, citing concerns that surging
    coronavirus infections in their areas pose too dire a risk for
    students and teachers. Together, the two districts enroll some
    825,000 students. They are the largest in the country so far to
    abandon plans for even a partial physical return to classrooms when
    they reopen in August. For other districts, the solution won't be an
    all-or-nothing approach.
    \href{https://bioethics.jhu.edu/research-and-outreach/projects/eschool-initiative/school-policy-tracker/}{Many
    systems}, including the nation's largest, New York City, are
    devising
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/26/us/coronavirus-schools-reopen-fall.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{hybrid
    plans} that involve spending some days in classrooms and other days
    online. There's no national policy on this yet, so check with your
    municipal school system regularly to see what is happening in your
    community.
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

``We feel exposed,'' said Jacqueline, who asked to be identified by
first name only because she fears reprisals from her employer. ``You
look around and people are crying because they're fearful of taking the
virus to our families.''

The political turmoil that has whiplashed the health ministry over the
past few weeks has further hurt the country's ability to prepare for the
pandemic.

The health minister, Nelson Teich, resigned on Friday, just days shy of
completing a month on the job.

Mr. Bolsonaro fired his predecessor, Luiz Henrique Mandetta, after the
two clashed over the president's disdain for quarantine measures.

In an interview, Mr. Mandetta said Brazil's ``erratic'' response to the
pandemic left it ill-equipped to compete in a global scramble for
ventilators, tests and protective equipment for medical personnel.

``Our challenge is to expand health coverage while competing with the
absurd spending power of the United States and Europe,'' he said.

Flávio Dino, the governor of Maranhão State, said the federal government
has been an obstacle as state officials have shopped for ventilators and
put up field hospitals. The state capital, São Luís, was the first in
the country to impose a strict lockdown this month, requiring everyone
other than essential workers to stay home.

``At the national level, there wasn't a plan to prepare for this trying
month of May,'' he said. He called the firing of Mr. Mandetta a setback.
``You don't change the crew of an airplane mid-flight.''

Image

A gravedigger in Rio de Janeiro. Nearly 90,000 Brazilians will die in
the epidemic, according to one projection.Credit...Dado Galdieri for The
New York Times

The impoverished State of Amazonas, in the north, has seen its hospitals
overloaded and its cemeteries resorting to mass graves in order to cope
with the deluge of bodies.

Arthur Virgílio Neto, the mayor of Manaus, the state capital, has cried
during televised interviews as he pleaded for federal assistance. Mr.
Bolsonaro, with his disregard for social distancing and other preventive
measures, has been part of the problem, Mr. Virgílio said.

``People never stopped roaming the streets; there has been flagrant
disregard for our decrees,'' he said, blaming Mr. Bolsonaro. ``He is
against social distancing, and that explains part of the disobedience.''

Facing mounting criticism, the Bolsonaro administration, which declined
to comment, launched a campaign this past week that highlighted the
president's concern over the economy, which is projected to contract by
at least 5 percent this year.

``Those lockdowns, they're not the path --- they're the path to
failure,'' Mr. Bolsonaro said on Thursday,
\href{https://www.instagram.com/p/CAKwEN7nRHV/}{addressing supporters}
outside the presidential palace. He added, disparagingly, ``It will turn
into a country of misery, like a country in sub-Saharan Africa.''

Ms. Castro, the Harvard professor, said the government's failure to
mount an effective response is likely to lead to a series of outbreaks
that will do more damage to the economy in the long run.

``How can you promote economic growth if your population is sick?'' she
said. ``A sick work force can't work.''

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
