\href{/watching}{}

Watching Logo

New York Times Watching Logo

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{/watching/search}{Search}

  Search

  Magnifying glass icon
\item
  \href{/watching/watchlist}{Your Watchlist}
\item
\end{itemize}

Search

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/01/30/watching/the-learning-tree-watching/watching-slide-BPX8-videoSixteenByNineJumbo1600.jpg}

Mira Waters and Kyle Johnson in ``The Learning Tree.''Warner Bros.

\hypertarget{nyt-recommendation}{%
\subsection{NYT RECOMMENDATION}\label{nyt-recommendation}}

\hypertarget{the-learning-tree}{%
\section{The Learning Tree}\label{the-learning-tree}}

1969• 1 hour and 47 minutes• Kyle Johnson, Alex Clarke, Estelle Evans
and Richard Ward• Directed by Gordon Parks

A black child comes of age in rural Kansas during the 1920s, his fate
shaped by two moments of terrible violence.

Share

Save To Watch

Ribbon

Save to Watch

Like

Heart Shape

Like

Watch ... for a powerful drama of innocence lost, still relevant to
modern viewers. This film from the noted photographer and
African-American filmmaking pioneer Gordon Parks earned comparisons to
``To Kill A Mockingbird'' with his account of the teen years of Newt
Winger (Kyle Johnson), a well-meaning farmhand in the town of Cherokee
Flats. He bears witness to two crimes, both against his white employer,
and how he chooses to react acquaints him with difficult knowledge of
how cruel life can be. Parks tactfully tackled mature matters of racism
and adolescent sexuality with an uncommon candor and with this film
planted one of the earliest seeds of blaxploitation cinema.

Skip ... if you're in the mood for uplift. Parks traffics in bitter
truths, and he concludes his story on a note of disenchantment. His
parting message concerns the ways in which anger is passed down through
generations from fathers to sons --- hardly a starting point for warm
fuzzies.

\hypertarget{read-before-you-watch}{%
\subsubsection{Read Before You Watch}\label{read-before-you-watch}}

\href{http://www.nytimes.com/movie/review?res=9B07E7DB103AEF3BBC4F53DFBE668382679EDE}{}

\hypertarget{the-new-york-times-review}{%
\subsubsection{The New York Times
Review}\label{the-new-york-times-review}}

\href{http://www.nytimes.com}{www.nytimes.com}

\hypertarget{read-after-you-watch}{%
\subsubsection{Read After You Watch}\label{read-after-you-watch}}

\href{https://www.rogerebert.com/interviews/gordon-parks-big-score}{}

\hypertarget{roger-ebert-profiles-gordon-parks}{%
\subsubsection{Roger Ebert Profiles Gordon
Parks}\label{roger-ebert-profiles-gordon-parks}}

\href{http://www.rogerebert.com}{www.rogerebert.com}

\href{https://www.albany.edu/writers-inst/webpages4/filmnotes/fns99n3.html}{}

\hypertarget{notes-on-the-films-of-gordon-parks}{%
\subsubsection{Notes on the Films of Gordon
Parks}\label{notes-on-the-films-of-gordon-parks}}

\href{http://www.albany.edu}{www.albany.edu}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2018/02/01/movies/28-essential-films-black-history-month.html}{}

\hypertarget{28-days-28-films-for-black-history-month}{%
\subsubsection{28 Days, 28 Films for Black History
Month}\label{28-days-28-films-for-black-history-month}}

\href{http://www.nytimes.com}{www.nytimes.com}

\hypertarget{related-videos}{%
\subsubsection{Related Videos}\label{related-videos}}

\href{https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hnnv5BsNxTM}{}

\hypertarget{watch-the-trailer}{%
\subsubsection{Watch the Trailer}\label{watch-the-trailer}}

\href{http://www.youtube.com}{www.youtube.com}

\hypertarget{want-to-watch-it-later}{%
\subsubsection{Want to watch it later?}\label{want-to-watch-it-later}}

Save To Watch

Ribbon

Save to Watch

This recommendation was selected by the NYT Watching editors and was
written by Charles Bramesco

\hypertarget{have-questions-feedback}{%
\paragraph{Have questions? Feedback?}\label{have-questions-feedback}}

Read our \href{//www.nytimes.com/2017/01/10/watching/faq.html}{FAQs} or
\href{mailto:watchingcare@nytimes.com}{contact us} to let us know how
we're doing.

\hypertarget{lets-be-friends}{%
\paragraph{Let's be friends.}\label{lets-be-friends}}

\href{https://www.facebook.com/nytwatching/}{\includegraphics{/watching/assets/web/img/footer_facebook_icon.48f8f0ac.svg}}\href{https://twitter.com/watching}{\includegraphics{/watching/assets/web/img/footer_twitter_icon.f138d306.svg}}

\href{//www.nytimes.com}{\includegraphics{/watching/assets/web/img/the-new-york-times.c0889830.svg}}\href{//www.nytimes.com/section/arts/television}{TV}\href{//www.nytimes.com/section/movies}{Movies}

\href{//www.nytimes.com/content/help/rights/privacy/policy/privacy-policy.html}{Privacy
Policy}\href{//www.nytimes.com/content/help/rights/terms/terms-of-service.html}{Terms
of
Service}\href{//www.nytimes.com/content/help/rights/privacy/policy/privacy-policy.html\#pp}{Your
Ad Choices}\href{http://www.nytco.com/}{© The New York Times Company}

Do Not Sell My Personal Information

Your preference has been saved.
