\href{/watching}{}

Watching Logo

New York Times Watching Logo

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{/watching/search}{Search}

  Search

  Magnifying glass icon
\item
  \href{/watching/watchlist}{Your Watchlist}
\item
\end{itemize}

Search

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2017/09/10/watching/death-and-life-of-marsha-watching/death-and-life-of-marsha-watching-videoSixteenByNineJumbo1600-v2.jpg}

Marsha P. Johnson in ``The Death and Life of Marsha P. Johnson.''Netflix

\hypertarget{nyt-recommendation}{%
\subsection{NYT RECOMMENDATION}\label{nyt-recommendation}}

\hypertarget{the-death-and-life-of-marsha-p-johnson}{%
\section{The Death And Life of Marsha P.
Johnson}\label{the-death-and-life-of-marsha-p-johnson}}

2017• 1 hour and 45 minutes• Directed by
\href{/watching/search?q=David\%20France\&director=david-france}{David
France}

A documentary investigation of the unsolved murder of Marsha P. Johnson,
a transgender activist in the early years of the gay liberation movement
in New York City.

Share

Save To Watch

Ribbon

Save to Watch

Like

Heart Shape

Like

Watch ... for an informative and emotional portrait of an important but
forgotten figure. The Oscar-nominated director David France (``How to
Survive a Plague'') pays overdue tribute to Ms. Johnson, affectionately
nicknamed the Mayor of Christopher Street, telling the story of her
eventful life through interviews with friends and fascinating archival
footage. And by framing her story as an investigation into her
mysterious death 25 years before --- an investigation led by Victoria
Cruz, another transgender activist --- France draws an explicit and
affecting parallel to the violence against transgender women of color
today. The result is both a powerful look at our past, and a frightening
snapshot of our present.

Skip ... if you like true-crime documentaries with tidy endings. The
film is about the death of Marsha P. Johnson, but it's much more about
her life. And although the film floats some compelling theories behind
her death, the investigation is less the modus operandi than the
organizing principle.

\hypertarget{read-before-you-watch}{%
\subsubsection{Read Before You Watch}\label{read-before-you-watch}}

\href{http://www.hollywoodreporter.com/review/death-life-marsha-p-johnson-tribeca-2017-996386}{}

\hypertarget{review-an-impassioned-inquiry-even-if-it-tends-to-wander}{%
\subsubsection{Review: An Impassioned Inquiry, Even If It Tends to
Wander}\label{review-an-impassioned-inquiry-even-if-it-tends-to-wander}}

\href{http://www.hollywoodreporter.com}{www.hollywoodreporter.com}

\href{http://www.indiewire.com/2017/04/the-death-and-life-of-marsha-p-johnson-review-tribeca-2017-1201808593/}{}

\hypertarget{review-another-powerful-tale-of-lgbtq-struggles}{%
\subsubsection{Review: Another Powerful Tale of L.G.B.T.Q.
Struggles}\label{review-another-powerful-tale-of-lgbtq-struggles}}

\href{http://www.indiewire.com}{www.indiewire.com}

\href{http://themuse.jezebel.com/the-death-and-life-of-marsha-p-johnson-examines-the-co-1794590726}{}

\hypertarget{review-a-movie-about-the-lack-of-answers}{%
\subsubsection{Review: A Movie About the Lack of
Answers}\label{review-a-movie-about-the-lack-of-answers}}

themuse.jezebel.com

\hypertarget{read-after-you-watch}{%
\subsubsection{Read After You Watch}\label{read-after-you-watch}}

\href{https://www.out.com/out-exclusives/2017/8/24/power-people-exploring-marsha-p-johnsons-queer-liberation}{}

\hypertarget{power-to-the-people-exploring-marsha-p-johnsons-queer-liberation}{%
\subsubsection{Power to the People: Exploring Marsha P. Johnson's Queer
Liberation}\label{power-to-the-people-exploring-marsha-p-johnsons-queer-liberation}}

\href{http://www.out.com}{www.out.com}

\href{https://www.advocate.com/film/2017/5/09/what-would-marsha-p-johnson-do-today}{}

\hypertarget{what-would-marsha-p-johnson-do-today}{%
\subsubsection{What Would Marsha P. Johnson Do
Today?}\label{what-would-marsha-p-johnson-do-today}}

\href{http://www.advocate.com}{www.advocate.com}

\href{https://www.villagevoice.com/2012/11/26/marsha-p-johnson-case-reopened/}{}

\hypertarget{marsha-p-johnson-case-reopened}{%
\subsubsection{Marsha P. Johnson Case,
Reopened}\label{marsha-p-johnson-case-reopened}}

\href{http://www.villagevoice.com}{www.villagevoice.com}

\hypertarget{related-videos}{%
\subsubsection{Related Videos}\label{related-videos}}

\href{https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pADsuuPd79E}{}

\hypertarget{watch-the-trailer}{%
\subsubsection{Watch the Trailer}\label{watch-the-trailer}}

\href{http://www.youtube.com}{www.youtube.com}

\href{https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=C-pMeR2lnlo}{}

\hypertarget{laverne-cox-candis-cayne-and-more-on-marsha-p-johnson-and-sylvia-rivera}{%
\subsubsection{Laverne Cox, Candis Cayne and More on Marsha P. Johnson
and Sylvia
Rivera}\label{laverne-cox-candis-cayne-and-more-on-marsha-p-johnson-and-sylvia-rivera}}

\href{http://www.youtube.com}{www.youtube.com}

\hypertarget{want-to-watch-it-later}{%
\subsubsection{Want to watch it later?}\label{want-to-watch-it-later}}

Save To Watch

Ribbon

Save to Watch

This recommendation was selected by the NYT Watching editors and was
written by Jason Bailey

\hypertarget{have-questions-feedback}{%
\paragraph{Have questions? Feedback?}\label{have-questions-feedback}}

Read our \href{//www.nytimes.com/2017/01/10/watching/faq.html}{FAQs} or
\href{mailto:watchingcare@nytimes.com}{contact us} to let us know how
we're doing.

\hypertarget{lets-be-friends}{%
\paragraph{Let's be friends.}\label{lets-be-friends}}

\href{https://www.facebook.com/nytwatching/}{\includegraphics{/watching/assets/web/img/footer_facebook_icon.48f8f0ac.svg}}\href{https://twitter.com/watching}{\includegraphics{/watching/assets/web/img/footer_twitter_icon.f138d306.svg}}

\href{//www.nytimes.com}{\includegraphics{/watching/assets/web/img/the-new-york-times.c0889830.svg}}\href{//www.nytimes.com/section/arts/television}{TV}\href{//www.nytimes.com/section/movies}{Movies}

\href{//www.nytimes.com/content/help/rights/privacy/policy/privacy-policy.html}{Privacy
Policy}\href{//www.nytimes.com/content/help/rights/terms/terms-of-service.html}{Terms
of
Service}\href{//www.nytimes.com/content/help/rights/privacy/policy/privacy-policy.html\#pp}{Your
Ad Choices}\href{http://www.nytco.com/}{© The New York Times Company}

Do Not Sell My Personal Information

Your preference has been saved.
