Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/nyregion}{New York}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/nyregion}{New York}\textbar{}`We Want to See Action': Why
Black Supporters Are Deserting de Blasio

\url{https://nyti.ms/3hlFt5Z}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{race-and-america}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/george-floyd-protests-minneapolis-new-york-los-angeles?name=styln-george-floyd\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=4dfaf4b0-f4bd-11ea-a63b-a9cd07fa0b5c\&variant=undefined}{Race
and America}}{Race and America}}\label{race-and-america}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/11/us/black-police-chiefs-reform.html?name=styln-george-floyd\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=4dfaf4b1-f4bd-11ea-a63b-a9cd07fa0b5c\&variant=undefined}{Black
  Police Chiefs}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/04/nyregion/rochester-police-daniel-prude.html?name=styln-george-floyd\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=4dfb1bc0-f4bd-11ea-a63b-a9cd07fa0b5c\&variant=undefined}{What
  Happened in Rochester, N.Y.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/30/us/portland-shooting-explained.html?name=styln-george-floyd\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=4dfb1bc1-f4bd-11ea-a63b-a9cd07fa0b5c\&variant=undefined}{Portland
  Shooting}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/30/us/breonna-taylor-police-killing.html?name=styln-george-floyd\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=4dfb1bc2-f4bd-11ea-a63b-a9cd07fa0b5c\&variant=undefined}{Breonna
  Taylor's Life and Death}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{we-want-to-see-action-why-black-supporters-are-deserting-de-blasio}{%
\section{`We Want to See Action': Why Black Supporters Are Deserting de
Blasio}\label{we-want-to-see-action-why-black-supporters-are-deserting-de-blasio}}

They say the mayor has benefited politically from pledges to overhaul
the Police Department, but has failed to deliver meaningful change.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/06/11/nyregion/00nyunrest-deblasio-1/merlin_173206641_68412109-752c-49ca-9eb9-cbfcf10fc9ee-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/jeffery-c-mays}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/07/18/multimedia/author-jeffery-c-mays/author-jeffery-c-mays-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/jeffery-c-mays}{Jeffery
C. Mays}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Published June 12, 2020Updated June 17, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Mayor
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/17/nyregion/police-reform-nypd.html}{Bill
de Blasio} looked out into a sea of protesters at a memorial with George
Floyd's brother in Brooklyn last week and delivered a bold promise: He
would transform the New York Police Department. ``Change that you can
see and believe, because you will see it with your own eyes,'' he
declared.

The response from many of the black protesters was withering.

Obscenities and chants of ``resign'' and ``I can't breathe'' filled the
air, drowning out Mr. de Blasio. Some demonstrators turned their backs
on him as he spoke. After 90 seconds, he turned the microphone over.

Mr. de Blasio took the helm of New York City as a white mayor who tied
his fortunes to black constituents, perhaps more than any big-city mayor
in the nation. He vowed to attack the inequities that left blacks and
Latinos behind, and promised to rethink police tactics --- using his
biracial son, Dante, to star in a viral ad about stop and frisk.

But now, with the city in tumult after more than two weeks of protests,
many of Mr. de Blasio's longtime black advisers and supporters have
abandoned him --- a blow to the mayor's core political identity, one
that threatens to taint his legacy and erode his last and most faithful
constituency.

It comes less than a year after Mr. de Blasio ran a campaign for
president that had been based in part on his ties to black Democrats.
But he failed to gain traction.

``We once thought de Blasio was with us,'' said the Rev. Kevin McCall, a
civil rights activist who organized last week's memorial with Mr.
Floyd's brother, Terrence Floyd. ``But he flipped the script on us.''

Mr. McCall futilely pleaded with the crowd to show the mayor some
respect. The problem, he said, was that the mayor had lost his
credibility with New Yorkers, especially in the black community.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/06/11/nyregion/00nyunrest-deblasio-2-sub/merlin_173320461_f988fac5-0c0f-4838-aea3-bf79fc09bbcb-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

As the coronavirus pandemic
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/08/nyregion/coronavirus-race-deaths.html}{exacerbated
racial disparities} in health and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/07/nyregion/nypd-social-distancing-race-coronavirus.html}{policing},
and protesters flooded the streets to call for justice for Mr. Floyd,
Mr. de Blasio made a series of missteps that has many black leaders
questioning his commitment to rethinking policing and to addressing
issues of inequality.

When asked about a video of two police cruisers being deliberately
driven into protesters, the mayor defended the officers involved. Other
images of the police in
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/05/nyregion/police-kettling-protests-nyc.html}{violent
clashes with protesters} flooded social media, but Mr. de Blasio
typically said that he had not seen them.

When images of looting circulated on the news, the mayor imposed a
curfew that was aggressively enforced by the police, who arrested
hundreds of protesters. Mr. de Blasio further alienated many
demonstrators by praising the police for exercising restraint.

Former advisers publicly questioned the mayor's commitment to
overhauling the Police Department. Hundreds of current and former
mayoral administration staff members demonstrated against him.

And even when Mr. de Blasio called for the officer involved in Mr.
Floyd's death in Minneapolis to be immediately charged, it only
underscored how the mayor had steadfastly
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/07/17/nyregion/eric-garner-de-blasio-pantaleo.html}{refused
to fire} the officer whose chokehold led to the death of Eric Garner, a
Staten Island man, in 2014.

Image

Mr. de Blasio alienated many New Yorkers when he praised the police for
exercising restraint in dealing with protesters.Credit...Gabriela
Bhaskar for The New York Times

``You can no longer hide behind your black wife and children, not
anymore,'' Jumaane Williams, the city's public advocate, said last week
during an online news conference. ``You're exposed now.''

Mr. Williams, who is black, added, ``We are at a time when we are asking
you to do the things you said you were going to do.''

Mr. de Blasio declined to be interviewed for this article. His press
secretary, Freddi Goldstein, defended his record.

``The mayor campaigned on a promise to bring more equity to this city.
That's what he has worked daily to do, and he's not done,'' she said.
``He is committed to spending the rest of his time in office listening
to communities and improving the lives of everyday New Yorkers.''

Asked about Mr. Williams's comments, she said, ``The public advocate's
comments were offensive and inappropriate.''

Mr. de Blasio has had his share of accomplishments aimed at reducing
income inequality; early in his tenure, the mayor began a ``pre-K for
all'' program that he has since expanded to many 3-year-olds. He has
also
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/12/31/nyregion/15-minimum-wage-new-york.html}{raised
the minimum wage to \$15 an hour} and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2014/04/07/nyregion/new-yorks-paid-sick-leave-law-quietly-takes-effect.html}{implemented
paid sick leave}.

Still, the mayor has faced questions from black leaders about his
commitment to overhauling criminal justice.

Under Mr. de Blasio, the Police Department fought in court to expand the
interpretation of a 1970s-era law in the state's civil code known as
50-a, so that it could shield the results of disciplinary hearings
against individual officers. Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo on Friday signed a
bill
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/08/nyregion/floyd-protests-police-reform.html}{to
repeal} the law.

The mayor also questioned a bill that would criminalize the police use
of chokeholds and was
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2016/02/17/nyregion/de-blasio-says-idea-of-closing-rikers-jail-complex-is-unrealistic.html}{opposed
to closing Rikers Island}, stances that he eventually changed once it
became obvious they would become law.

``If he was anyone else, black people wouldn't have expected any more
than we are getting right now,'' said Tyquana Henderson-Rivers, who was
Mr. de Blasio's deputy chief of staff when he was on the City Council
and deputy campaign manager during his successful race for public
advocate in 2009.

Ms. Henderson-Rivers, now a political consultant, said Mr. de Blasio was
once someone ``we thought we could trust and who understood the plight
of what was happening in our communities.''

Donovan Richards, a councilman from Queens, said disappointment is the
word he hears most when talking to black constituents about the mayor.
``Who is the real Bill de Blasio?'' Mr. Richards said. ``That's always
the question.''

Image

Amid criticism that a curfew in New York City was fueling confrontations
between the police and protesters, Mayor de Blasio ended it a day
early.Credit...Demetrius Freeman for The New York Times

Mr. de Blasio has spent the last few days consulting with black leaders
to try to salvage a relationship that has buttressed his political
career. Last Sunday, he met at Gracie Mansion with Gwen Carr, the mother
of Eric Garner; Mr. McCall; and Iesha Sekou, the founder of the Harlem
anti-violence group Street Corner Resources, among others.

During the meeting, Mr. de Blasio admitted that he had made mistakes,
asked what he could do better and said that his connection to people on
the ground was not as strong as it should be.

Ms. Sekou said she remained a supporter of Mr. de Blasio.

``I'm not outraged with Bill de Blasio --- I'm outraged with those who
were in a position to make greater change before now,'' she said. ``We
have to look at this as an issue that's bigger than de Blasio.''

In public appearances last week, the mayor seemed to be recalibrating
his message. He refined his remarks about protesters and police
officers, saying that any officer who used excessive force should be
investigated.

There were also concrete actions: He lifted the curfew a day early, and
a police officer who shoved a protester to the ground and called her a
``bitch''
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/09/nyregion/nypd-officer-vincent-dandraia-arrest.html}{was
arrested.}

After strongly resisting the idea of cutting the Police Department's
budget, the mayor suddenly announced that he would shift money from the
police to youth and social services. The mayor refused to commit to the
\$1 billion figure that some advocates are requesting.

The mayor has also begun appearing with his wife, Chirlane McCray, more
often since the unrest.

On Tuesday, those who tuned in to the mayor's near daily news conference
found Ms. McCray reading from Langston Hughes's poem ``Harlem.'' In
announcing the expansion of a health care initiative, she quoted from
the poem, ``What happens to a dream deferred?''

She appeared on the dais again with the mayor on Thursday morning to
announce what the coronavirus racial equity task force is doing for
``black and brown" communities.

In a conversation last week with
\href{https://time.com/5850041/bill-de-blasio-chirlane-mccray-time-100-talks/}{Time
100}, Mr. de Blasio and Ms. McCray highlighted the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/01/nyregion/chiara-de-blasio-arrest.html}{arrest
of their daughter, Chiara}, 25, during the protests.

It harkened back to how the mayor deployed their son, Dante, to discuss
stop and frisk in a pivotal ad during Mr. de Blasio's initial mayoral
campaign; his son also wrote an op-ed about interacting with the police
during the mayor's failed
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/07/12/nyregion/dante-de-blasio-2020-iowa.html}{presidential
campaign}.

``I believe he uses his proximity to blackness without giving the reform
that he said he was going to give,'' Mr. Williams said in an interview.
``And that's just hard to see all the time. We want to see change.''

Image

Ms. McCray has been making more public appearances with her
husband.Credit...Demetrius Freeman for The New York Times

Yet the changes the mayor has proposed so far don't go far enough,
according to some black leaders, including several of the mayor's former
black advisers and allies who have used social media to criticize him.

Maya Wiley, Mr. de Blasio's former counsel, criticized the curfew and
the police violence against protesters. Richard R. Buery Jr., a former
deputy mayor under Mr. de Blasio who is credited with implementing
universal prekindergarten, posted a quote from the Rev. Dr. Martin
Luther King Jr.
\href{https://twitter.com/RichardBuery/status/1268583486178328576}{criticizing
white moderates}.

``The black community has been his strongest base of support. Black
people got him elected twice,'' Mr. Buery said in an interview. ``But
black people around the country are tired of supporting politicians that
take their communities for granted.''

Patrick Gaspard, a longtime close friend and adviser of the mayor, used
Twitter to post a
\href{https://twitter.com/patrickgaspard/status/1268321441541308417}{video
of himself} protesting against the curfew.

In an interview, Mr. Gaspard, president of the Open Society Foundations,
said that while the mayor has significant social justice
accomplishments, the police response to peaceful protesters was
unjustified.

``I'm very clear that I do not believe that the signals toward reform
are enough yet,'' Mr. Gaspard said. ``One should not be cutting summer
jobs and holding the Police Department with impunity and
unaccountability in a summer when powerful questions are being asked
about the nature of policing.''

Other black leaders say they cut ties with Mr. de Blasio a long time
ago. Kirsten John Foy joined Mr. de Blasio's campaign for public
advocate in 2009 after he made overhauling the Civilian Complaint Review
Board one of his top priorities.

The mayor called for the agency, which investigates allegations of
police misconduct, to be separated from the Police Department and have
its own budget and more power. On his first day on the job in the public
advocate's office, Mr. Foy said that Mr. de Blasio pulled back, worried
that an unsuccessful effort would hurt his future political prospects.

``From that moment, I knew that he was a paternalistic progressive who
appropriates the pain of the black community for his political
ambitions,'' Mr. Foy said.

In spite of his recent disappointment with Mr. de Blasio, Mr. McCall
said his recent discussions with the mayor, as well as the mayor's
pledge to reduce the Police Department budget, have left him hopeful.

``George Floyd made him remember his commitment to black and brown
communities,'' he said. ``Now we want to see action.''

Dana Rubinstein contributed reporting.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
