\href{/watching}{}

Watching Logo

New York Times Watching Logo

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{/watching/search}{Search}

  Search

  Magnifying glass icon
\item
  \href{/watching/watchlist}{Your Watchlist}
\item
\end{itemize}

Search

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2016/06/09/arts/television/how-to-survive-a-plague-watching-recommendation/how-to-survive-a-plague-watching-recommendation-videoSixteenByNineJumbo1600.jpg}

Peter Staley in a scene from ``How to Survive a Plague.''William Lucas
Walker/Sundance Selects

\hypertarget{nyt-recommendation}{%
\subsection{NYT RECOMMENDATION}\label{nyt-recommendation}}

\hypertarget{how-to-survive-a-plague}{%
\section{How to Survive a Plague}\label{how-to-survive-a-plague}}

2012• NR• 1 hour and 50 minutes• Peter Staley, Larry Kramer and Iris
Long• Directed by
\href{/watching/search?q=David\%20France\&director=david-france}{David
France}

Journalist David France tells the story of what happened when AIDS first
spread across the United States, using footage from early
news~conferences and protests --- many of which he covered as a reporter
in New York.

Share

Save To Watch

Ribbon

Save to Watch

Like

Heart Shape

Like

Watch ... to get unparalleled insight into AIDS, one of the great health
crises of our time. Because France was on the front lines of this story
as both a reporter and a gay man, he knows the government officials who
didn't act quickly enough and the activists who wouldn't take no for an
answer. In the 1980s and `90s, the aggressiveness of the H.I.V./AIDS
patient advocacy groups Act Up and TAG (Treatment Action Group) rubbed
many the wrong way. But ``How to Survive a Plague'' argues that not only
did that anger make a difference in funding for research and drugs, but
it also helped raise the profile and acceptance of gay people in
American culture.

Skip ... if you're looking for a broader overview of the events. This is
France's personal story, using only the footage he had access to, and so
it's primarily focused on how the disease affects the United States in
general and New York in particular. A lot of Googling would be required
to fill in the details.

\hypertarget{read-before-you-watch}{%
\subsubsection{Read Before You Watch}\label{read-before-you-watch}}

\href{http://www.nytimes.com/2012/09/21/movies/how-to-survive-a-plague-aids-documentary-by-david-france.html}{}

\hypertarget{the-new-york-times-review}{%
\subsubsection{The New York Times
Review}\label{the-new-york-times-review}}

\href{http://www.nytimes.com}{www.nytimes.com}

\href{http://www.peabodyawards.com/award-profile/independent-lens-how-to-survive-a-plague-pbs}{}

\hypertarget{david-france-accepts-a-peabody-award}{%
\subsubsection{David France Accepts a Peabody
Award}\label{david-france-accepts-a-peabody-award}}

\href{http://www.peabodyawards.com}{www.peabodyawards.com}

\hypertarget{read-after-you-watch}{%
\subsubsection{Read After You Watch}\label{read-after-you-watch}}

\href{http://www.nytimes.com/2012/12/13/fashion/how-to-survive-a-plague-provides-a-silver-lining-on-aids.html}{}

\hypertarget{an-interview-with-david-france}{%
\subsubsection{An Interview With David
France}\label{an-interview-with-david-france}}

\href{http://www.nytimes.com}{www.nytimes.com}

\href{http://gawker.com/5945317/how-to-survive-a-plague-how-to-make-an-uplifting-documentary-about-aids}{}

\hypertarget{the-making-of-the-film}{%
\subsubsection{The Making of the Film}\label{the-making-of-the-film}}

gawker.com

\hypertarget{related-videos}{%
\subsubsection{Related Videos}\label{related-videos}}

\href{https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=haEPLCA_H2Y}{}

\hypertarget{watch-the-trailer}{%
\subsubsection{Watch the Trailer}\label{watch-the-trailer}}

\href{http://www.youtube.com}{www.youtube.com}

\href{https://youtu.be/yAzDn7tE1lU}{}

\hypertarget{a-short-film-on-the-reagan-administrations-early-response-to-the-crisis}{%
\subsubsection{A Short Film on the Reagan Administration's Early
Response to the
Crisis}\label{a-short-film-on-the-reagan-administrations-early-response-to-the-crisis}}

youtu.be

\href{https://youtu.be/nI038QEP2MU}{}

\hypertarget{a-ronald-reagan-psa-on-aids}{%
\subsubsection{A Ronald Reagan P.S.A. on
AIDS}\label{a-ronald-reagan-psa-on-aids}}

youtu.be

\hypertarget{want-to-watch-it-later}{%
\subsubsection{Want to watch it later?}\label{want-to-watch-it-later}}

Save To Watch

Ribbon

Save to Watch

This recommendation was selected by the NYT Watching editors and was
written by Noel Murray

\hypertarget{have-questions-feedback}{%
\paragraph{Have questions? Feedback?}\label{have-questions-feedback}}

Read our \href{//www.nytimes.com/2017/01/10/watching/faq.html}{FAQs} or
\href{mailto:watchingcare@nytimes.com}{contact us} to let us know how
we're doing.

\hypertarget{lets-be-friends}{%
\paragraph{Let's be friends.}\label{lets-be-friends}}

\href{https://www.facebook.com/nytwatching/}{\includegraphics{/watching/assets/web/img/footer_facebook_icon.48f8f0ac.svg}}\href{https://twitter.com/watching}{\includegraphics{/watching/assets/web/img/footer_twitter_icon.f138d306.svg}}

\href{//www.nytimes.com}{\includegraphics{/watching/assets/web/img/the-new-york-times.c0889830.svg}}\href{//www.nytimes.com/section/arts/television}{TV}\href{//www.nytimes.com/section/movies}{Movies}

\href{//www.nytimes.com/content/help/rights/privacy/policy/privacy-policy.html}{Privacy
Policy}\href{//www.nytimes.com/content/help/rights/terms/terms-of-service.html}{Terms
of
Service}\href{//www.nytimes.com/content/help/rights/privacy/policy/privacy-policy.html\#pp}{Your
Ad Choices}\href{http://www.nytco.com/}{© The New York Times Company}

Do Not Sell My Personal Information

Your preference has been saved.
