\href{/watching}{}

Watching Logo

New York Times Watching Logo

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{/watching/search}{Search}

  Search

  Magnifying glass icon
\item
  \href{/watching/watchlist}{Your Watchlist}
\item
\end{itemize}

Search

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2012/09/25/watching/the-mindy-project-watching-recommendation/the-mindy-project-watching-recommendation-videoSixteenByNineJumbo1600-v7.jpg}

Mindy Kaling in ``The Mindy Project.''Isabella Vosmikova/Fox

\hypertarget{nyt-recommendation}{%
\subsection{NYT RECOMMENDATION}\label{nyt-recommendation}}

\hypertarget{the-mindy-project}{%
\section{The Mindy Project}\label{the-mindy-project}}

2012-Present• Five seasons and counting, between 21 and 26 half-hour
episodes each•
\href{/watching/search?q=Mindy\%20Kaling\&actor=mindy-kaling}{Mindy
Kaling}, Ike Barinholtz and Chris Messina

A self-centered, pop culture-obsessed New York gynecologist fumbles
through the dating world, looking for a relationship as magical as her
favorite romantic comedies.

Share

Save To Watch

Ribbon

Save to Watch

Like

Heart Shape

Like

Watch ... for a charming sitcom about a lovable buffoon. Though Mindy
Lahiri (played by Mindy Kaling, the show's creator) is a skilled OB-GYN
beloved by her patients, she's also shortsighted, clumsy and demanding,
which makes her easily one of the most flawed protagonists in TV comedy
history. As she works her way toward both romantic and professional
success, Mindy reassuringly represents all of us who've ever felt too
lazy and disorganized to get ahead. ``The Mindy Project'' also benefits
from a funny, colorful supporting cast, highlighted by Ike Barinholtz as
a well-meaning, addlebrained nurse and Chris Messina as Mindy's
staunchly conservative love interest.

Skip ... if you have no sympathy for hopeless narcissists. The big joke
of ``The Mindy Project'' is that its heroine has no real interest in
high culture, political activism or really anything that doesn't make
her feel pampered and admired. Though this is an intentional spoof of an
entitled, internet-raised generation, Kaling also wants audiences to
root for her Mindy to be happy. That may be a leap some can't take.

\hypertarget{how-to-watch-it}{%
\subsubsection{How To Watch It}\label{how-to-watch-it}}

``The Mindy Project'' struggled to find a tone, point of view and
supporting cast in its first season, but right around the eighth episode
(``Two to One''), the show started to find a rhythm. It's been
consistently funny ever since, with flashes of heartwarming emotion. A
few standout episodes: ``All My Problems Solved Forever \ldots'' (Season
2, Episode 1); ``What About Peter?'' (Season 3, Episode 10); ``While I
Was Sleeping'' (Season 4, Episode 1); and ``Jody Kimball-Kinney Is My
Husband'' (Season 4, Episode 9).

\hypertarget{read-before-you-watch}{%
\subsubsection{Read Before You Watch}\label{read-before-you-watch}}

\href{http://www.nytimes.com/2012/09/25/arts/television/the-mindy-project-and-ben-and-kate-new-fox-series.html}{}

\hypertarget{the-new-york-times-review}{%
\subsubsection{The New York Times
Review}\label{the-new-york-times-review}}

\href{http://www.nytimes.com}{www.nytimes.com}

\href{http://variety.com/2012/tv/reviews/the-mindy-project-1117948409/}{}

\hypertarget{variety-review}{%
\subsubsection{Variety Review}\label{variety-review}}

variety.com

\hypertarget{read-after-you-watch}{%
\subsubsection{Read After You Watch}\label{read-after-you-watch}}

\href{http://www.npr.org/sections/monkeysee/2015/03/04/390690285/mindy-and-the-little-story-that-just-might-work}{}

\hypertarget{how-the-mindy-project-changed-during-its-first-few-seasons}{%
\subsubsection{How `The Mindy Project' Changed During Its First Few
Seasons}\label{how-the-mindy-project-changed-during-its-first-few-seasons}}

\href{http://www.npr.org}{www.npr.org}

\href{http://www.newyorker.com/culture/culture-desk/mindys-happy-ending}{}

\hypertarget{emily-nussbaum-on-season-4s-daring-midseason-finale}{%
\subsubsection{Emily Nussbaum on Season 4's Daring Midseason
Finale}\label{emily-nussbaum-on-season-4s-daring-midseason-finale}}

\href{http://www.newyorker.com}{www.newyorker.com}

\hypertarget{related-videos}{%
\subsubsection{Related Videos}\label{related-videos}}

\href{https://youtu.be/Cik62wcbAE8}{}

\hypertarget{watch-an-interview-with-mindy-kaling}{%
\subsubsection{Watch an Interview with Mindy
Kaling}\label{watch-an-interview-with-mindy-kaling}}

youtu.be

\href{https://youtu.be/rDaEnmN3lNI}{}

\hypertarget{watch-a-cast-panel}{%
\subsubsection{Watch a Cast Panel}\label{watch-a-cast-panel}}

youtu.be

\hypertarget{want-to-watch-it-later}{%
\subsubsection{Want to watch it later?}\label{want-to-watch-it-later}}

Save To Watch

Ribbon

Save to Watch

This recommendation was selected by the NYT Watching editors and was
written by Noel Murray

\hypertarget{have-questions-feedback}{%
\paragraph{Have questions? Feedback?}\label{have-questions-feedback}}

Read our \href{//www.nytimes.com/2017/01/10/watching/faq.html}{FAQs} or
\href{mailto:watchingcare@nytimes.com}{contact us} to let us know how
we're doing.

\hypertarget{lets-be-friends}{%
\paragraph{Let's be friends.}\label{lets-be-friends}}

\href{https://www.facebook.com/nytwatching/}{\includegraphics{/watching/assets/web/img/footer_facebook_icon.48f8f0ac.svg}}\href{https://twitter.com/watching}{\includegraphics{/watching/assets/web/img/footer_twitter_icon.f138d306.svg}}

\href{//www.nytimes.com}{\includegraphics{/watching/assets/web/img/the-new-york-times.c0889830.svg}}\href{//www.nytimes.com/section/arts/television}{TV}\href{//www.nytimes.com/section/movies}{Movies}

\href{//www.nytimes.com/content/help/rights/privacy/policy/privacy-policy.html}{Privacy
Policy}\href{//www.nytimes.com/content/help/rights/terms/terms-of-service.html}{Terms
of
Service}\href{//www.nytimes.com/content/help/rights/privacy/policy/privacy-policy.html\#pp}{Your
Ad Choices}\href{http://www.nytco.com/}{© The New York Times Company}

Do Not Sell My Personal Information

Your preference has been saved.
