\href{/watching}{}

Watching Logo

New York Times Watching Logo

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{/watching/search}{Search}

  Search

  Magnifying glass icon
\item
  \href{/watching/watchlist}{Your Watchlist}
\item
\end{itemize}

Search

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2016/04/11/watching/jane-the-virgin-watching-recommendation/jane-the-virgin-watching-recommendation-videoSixteenByNineJumbo1600-v6.jpg}

Gina Rodriguez in ``Jane the Virgin.''The CW

\hypertarget{nyt-recommendation}{%
\subsection{NYT RECOMMENDATION}\label{nyt-recommendation}}

\hypertarget{jane-the-virgin}{%
\section{Jane the Virgin}\label{jane-the-virgin}}

2014-Present• Three seasons and counting, 22 hourlong episodes each•
Gina Rodriguez, Justin Baldoni, Brett Dier, Andrea Navedo, Ivonne Coll,
Jaime Camil and Anthony Mendez

A telenovela about a young woman who is accidentally inseminated.

Share

Save To Watch

Ribbon

Save to Watch

Like

Heart Shape

Like

Watch ... if you like shows about people who treasure one another.
``Jane'' does a lot of things extraordinarily well, but what holds the
show together is how devoted Jane, her mother and grandmother are to one
another. The powerful bonds between the characters allow the show to go
in some truly loopy directions without losing its way, and the knowing
narrator's in-on-the-joke voice-over tempers some of the show's
sweetness. The show is also a delicate meta-narrative --- very much a
story about telling stories, whether through Jane's passion for writing,
her father Rogelio's role as a telenovela star or nods throughout the
series to other popular media.

Skip ... if you prefer tougher fare. ``Jane'' is a sweetheart of a show,
and while it's not corny, it can elicit tears in many episodes.

\hypertarget{how-to-watch-it}{%
\subsubsection{How To Watch It}\label{how-to-watch-it}}

In its first two seasons, ``Jane'' has not had a dud episode. Lots of
episodes end on cliffhangers, so there'll be the impulse to mainline
them, but slow and steady is the way to go here; the plots get gnarled
and involved, so try to pay real attention to who's who among secondary
characters.

\hypertarget{read-before-you-watch}{%
\subsubsection{Read Before You Watch}\label{read-before-you-watch}}

\href{http://www.nytimes.com/2014/10/11/arts/television/jane-the-virgin-on-cw-and-cristela-on-abc.html}{}

\hypertarget{the-new-york-times-review}{%
\subsubsection{The New York Times
Review}\label{the-new-york-times-review}}

\href{http://www.nytimes.com}{www.nytimes.com}

\href{http://www.nytimes.com/2014/09/21/arts/television/jane-the-virgin-aims-beyond-its-latin-ethnicity.html}{}

\hypertarget{jane-the-virgin-aims-beyond-its-latin-ethnicity}{%
\subsubsection{`Jane the Virgin' Aims Beyond Its Latin
Ethnicity}\label{jane-the-virgin-aims-beyond-its-latin-ethnicity}}

\href{http://www.nytimes.com}{www.nytimes.com}

\href{http://www.vulture.com/2014/11/you-should-be-watching-jane-the-virgin.html}{}

\hypertarget{heres-why-you-should-be-watching-jane-the-virgin}{%
\subsubsection{Here's Why You Should Be Watching `Jane the
Virgin'}\label{heres-why-you-should-be-watching-jane-the-virgin}}

\href{http://www.vulture.com}{www.vulture.com}

\hypertarget{read-after-you-watch}{%
\subsubsection{Read After You Watch}\label{read-after-you-watch}}

\href{http://www.vulture.com/2016/05/jane-the-virgin-jennie-snyder-urman-season-two-finale.html}{}

\hypertarget{the-series-showrunner-on-michael-love-triangles-and-the-season-2-finale}{%
\subsubsection{The Series' Showrunner on Michael, Love Triangles and the
Season 2
Finale}\label{the-series-showrunner-on-michael-love-triangles-and-the-season-2-finale}}

\href{http://www.vulture.com}{www.vulture.com}

\hypertarget{related-videos}{%
\subsubsection{Related Videos}\label{related-videos}}

\href{https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=veftkYtLVBM}{}

\hypertarget{rodriguez-wins-a-golden-globe-for-her-performance-as-jane}{%
\subsubsection{Rodriguez Wins a Golden Globe for Her Performance as
Jane}\label{rodriguez-wins-a-golden-globe-for-her-performance-as-jane}}

\href{http://www.youtube.com}{www.youtube.com}

\hypertarget{want-to-watch-it-later}{%
\subsubsection{Want to watch it later?}\label{want-to-watch-it-later}}

Save To Watch

Ribbon

Save to Watch

This recommendation was selected by the NYT Watching editors and was
written by Margaret Lyons

\hypertarget{have-questions-feedback}{%
\paragraph{Have questions? Feedback?}\label{have-questions-feedback}}

Read our \href{//www.nytimes.com/2017/01/10/watching/faq.html}{FAQs} or
\href{mailto:watchingcare@nytimes.com}{contact us} to let us know how
we're doing.

\hypertarget{lets-be-friends}{%
\paragraph{Let's be friends.}\label{lets-be-friends}}

\href{https://www.facebook.com/nytwatching/}{\includegraphics{/watching/assets/web/img/footer_facebook_icon.48f8f0ac.svg}}\href{https://twitter.com/watching}{\includegraphics{/watching/assets/web/img/footer_twitter_icon.f138d306.svg}}

\href{//www.nytimes.com}{\includegraphics{/watching/assets/web/img/the-new-york-times.c0889830.svg}}\href{//www.nytimes.com/section/arts/television}{TV}\href{//www.nytimes.com/section/movies}{Movies}

\href{//www.nytimes.com/content/help/rights/privacy/policy/privacy-policy.html}{Privacy
Policy}\href{//www.nytimes.com/content/help/rights/terms/terms-of-service.html}{Terms
of
Service}\href{//www.nytimes.com/content/help/rights/privacy/policy/privacy-policy.html\#pp}{Your
Ad Choices}\href{http://www.nytco.com/}{© The New York Times Company}

Do Not Sell My Personal Information

Your preference has been saved.
