Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/fashion/weddings}{Love}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/fashion/weddings}{Love}\textbar{}Next Stop: Marriage

\url{https://nyti.ms/2CZcc1l}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

vows

\hypertarget{next-stop-marriage}{%
\section{Next Stop: Marriage}\label{next-stop-marriage}}

Sara Ziff and Reed Young met on a train platform. They hit it off, but
neither expected much from the encounter and said their goodbyes without
an introduction. Four months later they matched on a dating app.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/07/26/fashion/24Vows-ModelActivist1/merlin_173908452_121834c5-2ab7-4830-bedd-1c85133e89a7-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By Tammy La Gorce

\begin{itemize}
\item
  July 24, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

When Sara Ziff, a fashion model and labor activist, boarded a train in
Philipstown, N.Y., in June 2019 after a four-day hike along the
Appalachian Trail, glamour certainly didn't get on board with her.

``I was thoroughly exhausted and smelly,'' said Ms. Ziff, who has been
the face of campaigns for designers like Stella McCartney and Diane von
Furstenberg.

She hadn't showered in days. And this left her feeling less than
confident about the possibility of impressing a handsome stranger she
met on the train platform who was also on his way home to New York City.
The stranger, \href{https://www.reedyoung.com/}{Reed Young}, a
photographer, tacitly confirmed she may not have been at her most
magnetic when they parted company. Although they had chatted before
getting on the train and throughout the hour-plus ride about their
hiking adventures, he said goodbye without asking for her name or
number.

Ms. Ziff, the founder and executive director of the
\href{https://modelalliance.org/}{Model Alliance}, a nonprofit research,
policy and advocacy group for fashion industry workers, wasn't expecting
much from the encounter anyway. She had gotten out of her trail
experience what she wanted: a getaway with a few fellow models who also
needed a break from their cellphones and work obligations. By the time
she strapped on her massive hiking pack for the walk home to her West
Village apartment, after a subway ride to Union Square, the prospect of
romance with Mr. Young seemed as distant as the train whistle at
Philipstown's tiny Manitou Station.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/07/24/fashion/24Vows-ModelActivist2/merlin_173908464_7da15faa-1928-4d9b-b172-c715fef84cde-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

``When I decided to go on this hiking adventure with my girlfriends I
had been single for a while,'' she said. ``I was really not thinking
about guys. To be honest, I was kind of over men at that point in my
life and very focused on my work and resigned to maybe never meeting the
right person.''

Ms. Ziff, 38, started modeling at 14 after being discovered by a
photographer after school on the streets of Manhattan, where she grew
up. Her father, Edward Ziff, is a professor of biochemistry at N.Y.U.'s
school of medicine. Her mother, Susan Taylorson Ziff, is semiretired
from her position as a lawyer at the law firm of Gerstein Strauss \&
Rinaldi. She has a younger brother, Benjamin Ziff.

Her decision to take the scout seriously and become a model did not sit
well with her parents. ``I come from an academic background,'' she said.
``Fashion and modeling just wasn't a part of the world I grew up in. My
parents were horrified. I thought it would be better than babysitting,
which is what a lot of my friends were doing.''

In many ways, it was.

By the early 2000s, Ms. Ziff had been in ad campaigns for brands like
the Gap and had walked runways for luxury labels including Prada, Chanel
and Christian Dior; she still accepts the occasional modeling job. ``I
was one of the lucky ones, in that I got to be the face of big brands,''
she said. ``But I also experienced the pitfalls of what remains a
largely unregulated industry.''

Image

A local florist decorated the~train station with garlands of roses and
ranunculus.Credit...Jose A. Alvarado Jr. for The New York Times

Image

``One year ago today I got butterflies when I spotted you,'' Ms. Ziff
read from her handwritten vows. ``My life is happier and better with you
in it.''Credit...Jose A. Alvarado Jr. for The New York Times

These pitfalls, she said, included sexual harassment and difficulties
getting paid for her work. In 2010, while a student at Columbia, where
she graduated, she co-directed a documentary, ``Picture Me: A Model's
Diary,'' that traces the highs and lows of models' lives in front of the
camera, including her own. Two years later, the prevalence of struggles
within the industry and the lack of an organizing body to help with
issues like nonpayment and racial discrimination inspired Ms. Ziff to
start the Model Alliance.

She led the effort to introduce New York State's Child Model Act, which
was enacted in 2013, and was involved in other legislative efforts to
secure fair working conditions in the industry. In 2016, she earned a
master's degree in public administration from Harvard. She paid for her
undergraduate and graduate education with money she made modeling. Now,
``I very much appreciate my parents' emphasis on education,'' she said.
If she had a teenage daughter who was interested in modeling, she added,
she would advise proceeding with caution.

At the time of the Manitou Station encounter with Mr. Young, caution
also defined her approach to dating. Her work had landed her in a
precarious position. ``When you run a nonprofit, you're constantly
trying to fund raise to make sure you can continue with the work that's
meaningful to you,'' she said. ``It can be hard to be fully present in a
relationship.'' Though she had felt a tug of curiosity about Mr. Young,
it had been easily dismissed for that reason. ``I remember thinking he
was very handsome. But I didn't want to push it.''

Image

Although the couple hit it off during their first meeting, they didn't
start to date until many weeks later when they matched on a dating
app.Credit...Jose A. Alvarado Jr. for The New York Times

At the same time, Mr. Young had been harboring regret about the woman
who walked away from him at the Union Square subway station on June 23,
2019. As he continued his ride home to Bedford-Stuyvesant, Brooklyn, he
chided himself for his reticence.

``I wasn't brave enough in the moment,'' said Mr. Young, also 38, who
has worked as a photographer for magazines including Wired and Time, and
for the fashion line Tibi. ``I remember sitting on the subway being so
mad at myself, and then walking home that Sunday afternoon being so
bummed, like, `Now I'm all alone. What did I have to lose?'''

Mr. Young grew up in Minneapolis with an older sister, Julie Taggart,
and his mother, Barbara Iverson, the retired president of the financial
services industry practice at Weber Shandwick, a public relations firm,
and his father, Douglas Young, the retired chief executive of Endura
Financial, a credit union. He graduated from Brooks Institute of
Photography in Santa Barbara, Calif., after an adolescent struggle to
find a career path.

``When Sara was being discovered as a model, I was getting my first job
at McDonald's,'' he said. His parents also pushed education. ``But I
didn't have the bandwidth for it. To be honest, my No. 1 priority was
hanging out with friends. I was very social.''

His friendliness has been an asset on the far-flung photo essay projects
he assigns himself each year, which have taken him to places including
Alaska and Japan. ``I'll think of an idea and go cover it, then come
back and find a magazine or newspaper to publish it,'' he said. This
fall, he will begin a master's degree in journalism at Columbia.

Image

Ms. Ziff and Mr. Young are both avid hikers. When they first met on the
train platform, she had just finished a four-day hike along the
Appalachian Trail. After their ceremony, they changed clothes and hit
the trails again.Credit...Jose A. Alvarado Jr. for The New York Times

Image

The bride and groom and their guests took an hourlong hike to a picnic
area after the ceremony.Credit...Jose A. Alvarado Jr. for The New York
Times

Neither Mr. Young nor Ms. Ziff has ever married. Both describe
themselves as serial monogamists. When he met Ms. Ziff at the train
station, Mr. Young was looking for his next girlfriend on dating apps.
Reluctantly. ``I had been single for a while too, and I went through
phases where I really wanted to meet somebody,'' he said. ``But at 37,
which is how old I was when I met Sara, you go out on these dates, and
you can tell right away it's not the right person. With Sara, I remember
there was this nice feeling.''

When they matched on Hinge last October, he nearly dropped his phone.
``I was so happy,'' he said. Ms. Ziff had only recently posted her
profile at the urging of friends who convinced her she shouldn't give up
on dating. Mr. Young introduced himself through the app: ``This may be a
little creepy,'' he wrote, ``but I'm almost positive we've already
met.''

Their first date, on Oct. 29, was at Malatesta Trattoria in the West
Village. The chemistry they felt on the train resurfaced instantly.
Within weeks, he was riding his bike to the West Village regularly for
dinner dates in Manhattan, and Ms. Ziff and her rescue dog, Tillie, were
commuting to Bed-Stuy for home-cooked dinners.

``That was one of the nice things for me, because I don't have much of a
kitchen,'' she said. ``That's when the nesting started. We became
homebodies together.'' By Christmas, Ms. Ziff had agreed to spend the
holidays in Palm Springs, Calif., where Mr. Young's parents have winter
homes. ``I thought it was a bold move on my part, because we stayed for
eight days.''

Ms. Ziff fit right in. ``Sara is smart and beautiful and so
down-to-earth,'' Ms. Iverson said. ``Reed had only known her five or six
weeks, but by the time they left I knew that this was the one for him.
He just absolutely lights up around her.''

\emph{{[}}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/love-letter?module=inline}{\emph{Sign
up for Love Letter and always get the latest in Modern Love, weddings,
and relationships in the news by email.}}\emph{{]}}

Image

They celebrated with a catered lunch from Greedi Kitchen, a vegan cafe
in Brooklyn.Credit...Jose A. Alvarado Jr. for The New York Times

Their next getaway, to Costa Rica in early March, was rocked by the
start of the pandemic. ``The news out of New York was bad, so we
extended our trip, but eventually flights out of Costa Rica started
seeming nonexistent,'' Mr. Young said. At the end of the month, they
secured tickets to Palm Springs. Their lives, like the rest of the
world's, had changed by then. But in a way that transcended the virus.

``Between morning hikes in the rainforest and afternoon swims in the
ocean, we decided to get married,'' Ms. Ziff said. ``There was no formal
proposal. It was more like a series of discussions. But we decided to do
it while the world was unraveling.''

In late May, they returned to New York with a plan to get married at the
spot they had met a year earlier. On June 23, Ms. Ziff, in a white
cotton-voile dress by Esteban Cortazar and flat strappy sandals, held a
bouquet of white peonies as she walked down a dusty country road toward
the Manitou Station flanked by her friends Lisa and Peter Yanowitz. Ms.
Yanowitz, a former model and now a labor and delivery nurse at Lenox
Hill Hospital, was ordained by the Universal Life Church to marry them.
Mr. Yanowitz, a musician, provided musical accompaniment during the walk
on a pocket-size flute painted to look like a toucan. The wedding's two
other guests were Mr. Young's friends: Edward Mostoller, a consumer
protection attorney at Brooklyn Volunteers Lawyers Project, had been Mr.
Young's hiking partner last summer when he met Ms. Ziff. Jaka Vinsek, a
photographer and cinematographer, is a frequent collaborator of his.

As the couple met under the shelter of the station, ornamented by a
local florist with garlands of roses and ranunculus, Ms. Yanowitz
started by telling them the universe wanted them to be together. ``To
meet on a tiny little platform in the middle of nowhere, all the stars
have to align,'' she said.

Image

The newlyweds enjoy the panoramic views of the Hudson
River.Credit...Jose A. Alvarado Jr. for The New York Times

Mr. Young, in black pants and a black jacket pulled from his closet, was
the first to read handwritten vows. ``I'll never forget how radiant you
looked on that bench last summer,'' he told Ms. Ziff. ``I'll never
forget the dread I felt on the subway home for failing to ask you on a
date.''

After a train roared past, it was Ms. Ziff's turn. ``One year ago today
I got butterflies when I spotted you,'' she said. ``My life is happier
and better with you in it.''

By the conclusion of the 15-minute ceremony, when Ms. Yanowitz
pronounced them married, not a single passenger had surfaced. Ms. Ziff
and Mr. Young celebrated the semiprivate moment with a marathon kiss
before Ms. Ziff tossed her bouquet behind her toward the train tracks.
Mr. Mostoller, the only single wedding guest, was waiting to catch it.

\hypertarget{on-this-day}{%
\subsubsection{On This Day}\label{on-this-day}}

\textbf{When} June 23, 2020

\textbf{Where} The Manitou train station in Philipstown, N.Y.

\textbf{Heat of the Moment} Mr. Young and Ms. Ziff exchanged custom gold
bands during the ceremony. The rings, ordered from Bario Neal Jewelry in
Philadelphia, were a struggle to put on during the 90-degree day.

\textbf{Together This Time} After the ceremony, the couple and their
guests took an hourlong hike to a picnic area, where they celebrated
with a catered lunch packed by Greedi Kitchen, a vegan cafe in Brooklyn.

\textbf{More Nesting} After the wedding, Ms. Ziff and Mr. Young planned
to finish moving Ms. Ziff into Mr. Young's Brooklyn apartment. ``We've
had so much time off with the pandemic that it seemed strange to think
of going on a honeymoon,'' Mr. Young said.

\emph{Continue following our fashion and lifestyle coverage on Facebook
(}\href{https://www.facebookcorewwwi.onion/nytimesstyles}{\emph{Styles}}
\emph{and}
\href{https://www.facebookcorewwwi.onion/modernlove}{\emph{Modern
Love}}\emph{), Twitter
(}\href{https://twitter.com/nytstyles}{\emph{Styles}}\emph{,}
\href{https://twitter.com/nytfashion}{\emph{Fashion}} \emph{and}
\href{https://twitter.com/nytimesvows}{\emph{Weddings}}\emph{) and}
\href{https://instagram.com/nytimesfashion}{\emph{Instagram}}\emph{.}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
