Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/nyregion}{New York}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/nyregion}{New York}\textbar{}Wounded Rapper Gets Mixed
Verdict In Sex-Abuse Case

\url{https://nyti.ms/298iyJu}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{wounded-rapper-gets-mixed-verdict-in-sex-abuse-case}{%
\section{Wounded Rapper Gets Mixed Verdict In Sex-Abuse
Case}\label{wounded-rapper-gets-mixed-verdict-in-sex-abuse-case}}

By Richard Perez-Pena

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Dec. 2, 1994
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

\includegraphics{https://s1.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/timesmachine/pages/1/1994/12/02/984868_360W.png?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

See the article in its original context from\\
December 2, 1994, Section A, Page
1\href{https://store.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/collections/new-york-times-page-reprints?utm_source=nytimes\&utm_medium=article-page\&utm_campaign=reprints}{Buy
Reprints}

\href{http://timesmachine.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/timesmachine/1994/12/02/984868.html}{View
on timesmachine}

TimesMachine is an exclusive benefit for home delivery and digital
subscribers.

About the Archive

This is a digitized version of an article from The Times's print
archive, before the start of online publication in 1996. To preserve
these articles as they originally appeared, The Times does not alter,
edit or update them.

Occasionally the digitization process introduces transcription errors or
other problems; we are continuing to work to improve these archived
versions.

Tupac Shakur, the rap star, was convicted yesterday of felony sex-abuse
charges for groping a fan who went to his room at the Parker Meridien
Hotel last year, but he was acquitted of the more serious charges of
forcing the woman to have oral sex with him and his friends, and of
weapons charges.

With his prominence in the music world and his repeated run-ins with the
law, Mr. Shakur has become a symbol of "gangsta rap," a genre often
criticized for its violent images and for what many feel is its
degradation of women. He was not in the courtroom as the verdict was
read yesterday, because he was receiving treatment for gunshot wounds he
suffered early Wednesday in what the police said was a robbery. His
lawyer, Michael Warren, would not say exactly where he was.

He faces a maximum penalty of 2 1/3 to 7 years in prison, while the most
serious charges of which he was acquitted carry a maximum sentence of 8
1/3 to 25 years.

His lawyer, while saying he would appeal the conviction, portrayed the
verdict as a victory for Mr. Shakur.

"We're ecstatic that we had a jury with an open mind and a jury that
scrutinized very closely the testimony of the prosecution witnesses, and
for the most part found it completely incredible," Mr. Warren told a
crowd of reporters outside the courthouse. Prosecutors had no comment on
the verdict.

Mr. Shakur and his co-defendant, Charles Fuller, have acknowledged that
they had oral sex with the Brooklyn woman -\/- the basis of sodomy
charges against them -\/- but insisted that it was consensual.

The mixed verdict, and comments made by members of the nine-woman,
three-man State Supreme Court jury, seemed to suggest a compromise by
the jurors. The defense did not dispute during the trial that the
defendants grasped the woman's buttocks and had oral sex with her. In
its verdict, the jury apparently found that one set of acts was a crime,
but that the other was not.

"That is the common ground that we could all agree on," said Richard
Devitt, a juror.

The jurors would not say if their verdict meant they believed that the
woman, 19 years old at the time of the incident, consented to sex with
Mr. Shakur and his friends.

Mr. Shakur and Mr. Fuller were convicted of three counts of sexual
abuse, and acquitted of two counts of sodomy, one count of attempted
sodomy and three counts of criminal weapons possession. The weapons
charges dealt with guns found in the hotel room.

Mr. Warren held out hope that Justice Daniel P. Fitzgerald might
sentence the two defendants to probation. He and Robert Ellis, Mr.
Fuller's lawyer, said they planned to appeal the convictions.

The jurors, who were sequestered during their three days of
deliberations, said they were unaware that Mr. Shakur had been shot. Mr.
Shakur, who checked himself out of Bellevue Hospital Center hours after
the shooting, appeared in court yesterday morning, sitting in a
wheelchair with his head and hand swathed in bandages, but jurors said
last night that the brief look they had at him during the day had no
effect on their decision. One woman on the panel said she did not even
notice the bandages.

During the trial, Mr. Warren attacked the character and credibility of
the woman who made the accusations, but the tactic may have had little
effect. "It didn't carry any weight," said a juror, Deirdre Dunn.

When the charges were first filed, Mr. Warren said that Mr. Shakur, who
is black, was the victim of racism, and that the authorities were out to
get Mr. Shakur because of a lyric in one of his raps about killing
police officers. Mr. Shakur made similar charges outside the courtroom
during the trial.

But in the trial, before a jury that had two black members, race did not
appear to play a role. The victim in the case, who was not in court
today, is also black.

Mr. Warren said his client checked himself out of Bellevue because of
"security problems" posed by the police at the hospital, but would not
elaborate. He would not say yesterday where Mr. Shakur had gone for
further treatment.

Yesterday morning, Mr. Shakur, smiling but looking drawn, appeared at
the courthouse, surrounded by bodyguards, and refused to discuss either
the case or the shooting. He was wheeled into the courtroom when the
jury asked to have some testimony read back from transcripts. A few of
the jurors nudged one another and gestured at him, obviously surprised
to see him hurt.

In court, Mr. Shakur, wearing a black jogging suit, read newspaper
accounts of the attack on him and chatted with Mr. Warren. He did not
return to court in the afternoon because his wounded leg felt numb, a
condition that required medical attention, Mr. Warren said.

Mr. Shakur remains free on bail. His next court appearance is set for
Monday. No sentencing date has been set.

The case took an odd twist several hours before the verdict, when the
Assistant District Attorney, Francine James, admitted that the
prosecution had improperly withheld some evidence from the defense. Ms.
James said that perhaps as long as a year ago, prosecutors misplaced
some photographs of the woman Mr. Shakur was accused of sodomizing, and
discovered them yesterday morning. She told Justice Daniel P. Fitzgerald
that the prosecution would not object if he were to grant a mistrial.

But the pictures would not seem to have helped Mr. Shakur's case. They
show the woman's breasts with scratches that she said she suffered
during the attack at the hotel. The photos were taken at the District
Attorney's Office the day after the attack, Ms. James said.

"The material was placed in a folder that was not specific to this
particular case," a folder labeled "things to file," she said. "The
pictures were discovered just this morning for the first time."

Mr. Warren did not ask for a mistrial, choosing to wait for the jury's
verdict. The missing pictures could be the grounds for an appeal.

Mr. Devitt, the juror, said that if the jury had seen the pictures, "I
don't think that would have made any difference."

Mr. Shakur became one of rap's biggest stars with his 1991 album,
"2Pacalypse Now," and he has also appeared in the films "Juice," "Poetic
Justice" and "Above the Rim."

He is one of the "gangsta" rappers, whose graphic lyrics about gunplay,
crime and sex have gained numerous critics, from the Rev. Calvin O.
Butts, pastor of the Abyssinian Baptist Church in Harlem, to Vice
President Dan Quayle. The genre's defenders say that rappers merely
report what they see in America's cities.

As with some other rappers, for Mr. Shakur, tales of violent street life
are not merely fodder for lyrics. He has been arrested several times,
and was charged last year with shooting two off-duty police officers in
Atlanta, though the charges were later dropped.

The trial that ended yesterday stemmed from a Nov. 18, 1993 encounter
between a woman and Mr. Shakur and three other men in a room on the 38th
floor of the Parker Meridien. The woman, who testified that she had had
oral sex with Mr. Shakur at a nightclub four days earlier, told the jury
that Mr. Shakur said he wanted to share her with his friends.

Mr. Warren argued that the sex was consensual, and that the woman made
the accusations out of jealousy when she saw Mr. Shakur with another
woman.

A third man, Jack Agnant, also known as Ricardo Brown, will be tried
separately. The fourth man has not been found.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{Â©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
