Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}Trump Reaches Beyond West
Wing for Counsel

\url{https://nyti.ms/2pPvoDF}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{trump-reaches-beyond-west-wing-for-counsel}{%
\section{Trump Reaches Beyond West Wing for
Counsel}\label{trump-reaches-beyond-west-wing-for-counsel}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2017/04/23/us/23trumptalk-ALT-2/23trumptalk-ALT-2-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By \href{http://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/maggie-haberman}{Maggie
Haberman} and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/glenn-thrush}{Glenn Thrush}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  April 22, 2017
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

WASHINGTON --- Relationships have always been President Trump's currency
and comfort, helping him talk his way into real estate deals over three
decades in New York. Those who know him best say that his outer
confidence has always belied an inner uncertainty, and that he needs to
test ideas with a wide range of people.

As Mr. Trump's White House advisers jostle for position, the president
has turned to another group of advisers --- from family, real estate,
media, finance and politics, and all outside the White House gates ---
many of whom he consults at least once a week.

The media mogul Rupert Murdoch is on the phone every week, encouraging
Mr. Trump when he's low and arguing that he focus on the economy rather
than detouring to other issues. The developer Richard LeFrak is a
soothing voice who listens to Mr. Trump's complaints that cost estimates
for the border wall with Mexico are too high. Sean Hannity tells the
president that keeping promises on core Republican issues is crucial.

Mr. Trump's West Wing aides, like President Bill Clinton's staff two
decades before, say they sometimes cringe at the input from people they
can't control, with consequences they can't predict. Knowing these
advisers --- who are mostly white, male and older --- is a key to
figuring out the words coming from Mr. Trump's mouth and his Twitter
feed.

Here, based on interviews with more than a dozen friends, top aides and
advisers inside and outside the White House, are 20 of Mr. Trump's
outside touchstones.

\hypertarget{the-mogul}{%
\subsection{The Mogul}\label{the-mogul}}

Rupert Murdoch

Mr. Trump's relationships depend on two crucial measures: personal
success and loyalty to him. Mr. Murdoch excels in both categories. His
New York Post vaulted Mr. Trump from local housing developer to
gossip-page royalty, and his Fox News Channel was pro-Trump in the 2016
general election.

The two share preferences for transactional tabloid journalism and never
giving in to critics. (Mr. Trump said the fallen Fox star Bill O'Reilly
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2017/04/05/business/media/trump-oreilly-fox-murdochs.html}{should
not have settled} sexual harassment complaints.) The president's
relationship with Mr. Murdoch is deeper and more enduring than most in
his life, and the two commiserate and plot strategy in their phone
calls, according to people close to both.

Mr. Murdoch even called the White House press secretary, Sean Spicer, to
buck him up after Mr. Spicer was savaged for a remark about Adolf
Hitler.

\hypertarget{the-media}{%
\subsection{The Media}\label{the-media}}

Sean Hannity

Presidents always deploy surrogates to appear on television to spout
their talking points, but Mr. Trump has expanded on that by developing
relationships with sympathetic media figures like Mr. Hannity who also
serve as advisers. Mr. Hannity, the Fox News host, defends Mr. Trump's
most controversial behavior in public, but privately, according to
people close to Mr. Trump, he urges the president not to get distracted,
and advises him to focus on keeping pledges like repealing the
Affordable Care Act.

Chris Ruddy

The chief executive of Newsmax Media is a longtime Mar-a-Lago member and
was a Trump cheerleader among conservative media well before the website
Breitbart joined the parade. He employs writers and editors who tracked
Mr. Trump's career when they were at The New York Post. He recently
visited the Oval Office, and he and Mr. Trump kibitz in Florida and by
phone.

\hypertarget{the-lawyer}{%
\subsection{The Lawyer}\label{the-lawyer}}

Sheri A. Dillon

Ms. Dillon seemed out of place when she spoke at a too-large lectern in
the lobby of Trump Tower on Jan. 11, describing the steps Mr. Trump
planned to take to separate himself from his business. But Ms. Dillon, a
tax lawyer who worked out a highly criticized plan for Mr. Trump to
retain ownership of his company but step back from running it, has
repeatedly counseled the president about the business and made at least
one White House visit. (Michael Cohen, a veteran Trump aide, has been
serving as his personal lawyer.)

\hypertarget{campaign-advisers}{%
\subsection{Campaign Advisers}\label{campaign-advisers}}

Corey Lewandowski

Despite his ``you're fired'' slogan, the president dislikes dismissing
people. Mr. Lewandowski, Mr. Trump's hot-tempered first campaign
manager, was fired in June but never really went away. A New
England-bred operative whose working-class roots and clenched-teeth
loyalty earned him Mr. Trump's trust, he continued to be in frequent
phone contact with Mr. Trump until the election and beyond. Friends of
Mr. Lewandowski say that he can see the windows of the White House
residence from his lobbying office on Pennsylvania Avenue, and that the
view is even better during his visits to the West Wing, including when
the New England Patriots were there this past week.

Newt Gingrich

The former House speaker talks more with Mr. Trump's top advisers than
he does with the president, but his presence permeates the
administration. Mr. Gingrich's former spokesman is at the State
Department, and two former advisers work in the West Wing. Mr. Gingrich
has relentlessly promoted Mr. Trump's policy adviser, Stephen Miller, as
the West Wing conservative ballast as the chief strategist, Stephen K.
Bannon, has been under fire.

Image

President Trump in the Roosevelt Room this week. Outside the White
House, Mr. Trump has kept a small group of informal advisers whom he
speaks with at least one a week.Credit...Al Drago/The New York Times

\hypertarget{childhood-friend}{%
\subsection{Childhood Friend}\label{childhood-friend}}

Richard LeFrak

Their fathers were developers together in New York, and the two men have
been friends for decades. Mr. LeFrak is a Mar-a-Lago member, and he
agreed to be part of an infrastructure effort that Mr. Trump hopes to
put forward. Mr. Trump has turned to him to vent frustrations about the
slow pace of bureaucracy.

\hypertarget{the-peers}{%
\subsection{The Peers}\label{the-peers}}

Thomas Barrack Jr.

Mr. Trump divides the people around him into broad categories: family,
paid staff and wealthy men like Mr. Barrack whom he considers peers. A
sunny and loyal near-billionaire who has socialized with the president
for years, Mr. Barrack is less a strategic adviser than a trusted
moneyman, fixer and sounding board who has often punctuated emails to
Mr. Trump with exhortations like ``YOU ROCK!'' He has urged Mr. Trump to
avoid needless, distracting fights.

Under Mr. Barrack's leadership, Mr. Trump's inaugural committee raised a
record \$106.7 million, much of it from big corporations, banks and
Republican megadonors like the Las Vegas billionaire Sheldon Adelson.
Mr. Barrack also helped usher Paul Manafort, the international political
operative now under scrutiny for his ties to Russia, into the Trump fold
last year. The velvet-voiced Mr. Barrack does not seek out attention for
himself, one of the most important and elusive qualities by which the
president judges people.

Stephen Schwarzman

The chairman and chief executive of the Blackstone Group, Mr. Schwarzman
is the head of Mr. Trump's economic advisory council. He and the
president don't speak daily, West Wing aides said, but do talk
frequently. Mr. Schwarzman has counseled him on a number of topics,
including advising him to leave in place President Barack Obama's
executive order shielding young undocumented immigrants, known as
``Dreamers,'' from deportation.

Steve Roth

A good way to get on Mr. Trump's side is to do a deal with him,
particularly if it means rescuing him from his own financial crisis.
That's what Mr. Roth, a real estate tycoon, did a decade ago when he
bought out Mr. Trump's share in a West Side real estate deal that went
sour. Mr. Roth, head of Vornado Realty Trust and a longtime Democratic
donor, also helped Mr. Trump's son-in-law, Jared Kushner, when he
injected \$80 million into 666 Fifth Avenue, a Kushner family property
in danger of defaulting on \$1.1 billion in loans. Mr. Trump speaks with
Mr. Roth frequently, and is leaning on him to help develop a
trillion-dollar infrastructure package expected this year.

Phil Ruffin

Mr. Trump has 20-odd business partners, but none is closer to him than
Mr. Ruffin, 82, a Texas billionaire who has lent his ear and private
jet. The president was best man at the 2008 wedding of Mr. Ruffin to his
third wife, a 26-year-old model and former Miss Ukraine. Mr. Ruffin has
a knack for showing up when Mr. Trump needs him most and remains a
die-hard defender. ``This stuff about him having financial investments
all over Russia --- that's just pure crap,'' Mr. Ruffin told Forbes. ``I
went to Russia with him. We took my airplane. We were having lunch with
one of the oligarchs there. No business was discussed.''

Carl Icahn

Rounding out Mr. Trump's roster of wealthy octogenarians is this
81-year-old corporate raider and real estate mogul, who occupies perhaps
the most respected perch in the president's circle of businessmen
buddies. The affection is longstanding: The Queens-bred Mr. Icahn has
known Mr. Trump and his family for decades. It's also numerical: Mr.
Icahn is worth an estimated \$16 billion, a major plus in the eyes of a
president who keeps score. Mr. Icahn serves as a free-roving economic
counselor and the head of Mr. Trump's effort to reduce government
regulations on business.

\hypertarget{man-of-mystery}{%
\subsection{Man of Mystery}\label{man-of-mystery}}

Roger J. Stone Jr.

Few alliances in politics are as complicated as the 40-year relationship
between the Nixon-tattooed Mr. Stone and Mr. Trump. Mr. Stone won't say
how frequently they speak these days, but he shares the president's
tear-down-the-system impulses and is ubiquitous on cable news, radio and
the website InfoWars defending Mr. Trump.

\hypertarget{the-clubgoers}{%
\subsection{The Clubgoers}\label{the-clubgoers}}

Ike Perlmutter

Mr. Perlmutter, the chief executive of Marvel Comics, who is so
reclusive that there are few public photographs of him, has been
informally advising Mr. Trump on veterans issues. The two men are old
friends, and Mr. Perlmutter has been a presence at Mar-a-Lago.

Robert Kraft

The owner of the New England Patriots is a Democrat, but his loyalty to
Mr. Trump, Mr. Kraft once said, dates partly to the president's
thoughtfulness when Mr. Kraft's wife died. Mr. Trump loved talking about
the Patriots during the campaign, and Mr. Kraft has been a Mar-a-Lago
presence since the transition.

\hypertarget{the-first-lady}{%
\subsection{The First Lady}\label{the-first-lady}}

Melania Trump

Mrs. Trump is uninterested in the limelight, but she has remained a
powerful adviser by telephone from New York. Among her roles: giving Mr.
Trump feedback on media coverage, counseling him on staff choices and
urging him, repeatedly, to tone down his Twitter feed. Lately, he has
listened closely, and has a more disciplined Twitter finger.

\hypertarget{the-governor}{%
\subsection{The Governor}\label{the-governor}}

Chris Christie

Mr. Kushner, the president's son-in-law and palace gatekeeper, has shown
a capacity to hobble his rivals, but few have been finished off. The
most durable has been Mr. Christie, whose transition planning, several
West Wing aides now concede, should not have been discarded. He has been
a frequent Oval Office visitor and has worked with the White House on
the opioid addiction crisis.

\hypertarget{the-speaker}{%
\subsection{The Speaker}\label{the-speaker}}

Paul D. Ryan

Mr. Trump and the clean-cut and wonky Wisconsinite aren't exactly best
friends forever. But their relationship is closer than in the bad old
days of the 2016 campaign when Mr. Ryan delayed a hold-my-nose
endorsement of Mr. Trump, whose morality he had long questioned. But as
the president's agenda passes through the razor-blade gantlet of the
House, where Mr. Ryan faces the constant threat of opposition and
overthrow, the two men have become foxhole buddies.

\hypertarget{the-sons}{%
\subsection{The Sons}\label{the-sons}}

Donald Trump Jr. and Eric Trump

The two sons and the president insist they no longer discuss company
business. But the family is close, and Mr. Trump still speaks to his
sons frequently, inquiring about their lives and searching for
gut-checks on his own.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
