Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/world/europe}{Europe}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/world/europe}{Europe}\textbar{}Virus Knocks Thousands of
Health Workers Out of Action in Europe

\url{https://nyti.ms/3dob8BT}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{the-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=7b36d270-f4c0-11ea-b722-756f4ec0fc54\&variant=undefined}{The
Coronavirus
Outbreak}}{The Coronavirus Outbreak}}\label{the-coronavirus-outbreak}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  live\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/11/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=7b36d271-f4c0-11ea-b722-756f4ec0fc54\&variant=undefined}{Latest
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=7b36d272-f4c0-11ea-b722-756f4ec0fc54\&variant=undefined}{Maps
  and Cases}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=7b36d273-f4c0-11ea-b722-756f4ec0fc54\&variant=undefined}{Vaccine
  Tracker}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/10/us/politics/fda-coronavirus-vaccine.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=7b36d274-f4c0-11ea-b722-756f4ec0fc54\&variant=undefined}{F.D.A.
  Regulators' Self-Defense}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/09/upshot/coronavirus-surprise-test-fees.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=7b36f980-f4c0-11ea-b722-756f4ec0fc54\&variant=undefined}{Surprise
  Test Fees}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{virus-knocks-thousands-of-health-workers-out-of-action-in-europe}{%
\section{Virus Knocks Thousands of Health Workers Out of Action in
Europe}\label{virus-knocks-thousands-of-health-workers-out-of-action-in-europe}}

The thinning ranks of doctors and nurses, particularly in Spain, are
hampering the ability to fight the epidemic, straining hospitals and
raising fears that health workers are spreading the coronavirus.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/03/25/world/25virus-spain/25virus-spain-articleLarge-v2.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/raphael-minder}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/10/15/multimedia/author-raphael-minder/author-raphael-minder-thumbLarge.png}}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/elian-peltier}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2019/07/03/reader-center/author-elian-peltier/165383d8b7284129a185b6ca96e2a52e-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/raphael-minder}{Raphael
Minder} and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/elian-peltier}{Elian
Peltier}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  March 24, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

MADRID --- Across Western Europe, health care professionals have used
the language of war to describe the struggle against the coronavirus,
which has left some
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/12/world/europe/12italy-coronavirus-health-care.html}{hospitals
on the brink of collapse}.

And health care workers are the soldiers on the front lines.

Out of Spain's 40,000 confirmed coronavirus cases, 5,400 --- nearly 14
percent --- are medical professionals, the health ministry said on
Tuesday. No other country has reported health care staff accounting for
a double-digit percentage of total infections.

But the problem is widespread throughout Europe. In Italy, France and
Spain, more than 30 health care professionals have died of the
coronavirus, and thousands of others have had to self-isolate.

In Brescia province, the center of Italy's outbreak, 10 to 15 percent of
doctors and nurses have been infected and put out of commission,
according to a doctor there.

In France, the public hospital system in Paris has tallied 490 infected
staff members, a small but growing proportion of the system's 100,000 or
so employees.

The same dynamics are starting to take hold in Britain and the United
States, where the contagion is bearing down but has yet to fully bite.

At the La Paz hospital in Madrid, one of the largest in Spain's capital,
426 employees --- 6 percent of the medical staff --- are isolated at
home, after testing positive or showing possible symptoms of the
coronavirus, according to internal numbers provided by a labor union
that represents doctors in Madrid.

At the smaller Igualada hospital in Catalonia, a third of the 1,000
hospital staff has been sent home.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/03/23/world/24virus-spain5/merlin_170842287_19414076-bbed-4da6-a48e-a4c02deb6c05-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

``The virus was already among us when we were really only testing those
who came from Wuhan and then from Italy,'' said Ángela Hernández Puente,
a doctor who is the deputy secretary general of the doctors' union.
``Some of our doctors unfortunately worked without adequate protection
and acted as vectors.''

As doctors, nurses and other practitioners fall sick, the burdens
increase on health care systems already groaning under the strain of an
expanding epidemic. And infected workers and their hospitals are
increasingly being recognized as vectors for the spread of the virus.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-the-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/11/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: The Coronavirus
Outbreak}}{Latest Updates: The Coronavirus Outbreak}}\label{latest-updates-the-coronavirus-outbreak}}

Updated 2020-09-12T06:16:33.399Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/11/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-dfb8a16}{Fauci
  cautions the virus could disrupt life in the U.S. until `maybe even
  towards the end of 2021.'}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/11/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-7104d154}{From
  Asia to Africa, China promotes its vaccine candidates to win friends.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/11/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-393ad215}{The
  other way the virus will kill: hunger.}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/11/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

More live coverage:
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/11/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Markets}

The number of cases in Spain has been doubling every four days, and the
country
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/20/world/europe/coronavirus-spain.html?searchResultPosition=3}{is
fast shaping up as Europe's next epicenter} of the contagion. On
Tuesday, Spain's coronavirus toll reached 2,700 dead, the second-highest
in Europe after Italy.

In Madrid, the focus of Spain's outbreak, so many are dying that bodies
are being placed in an Olympic-sized ice skating rink that has been
converted into an emergency morgue.

In some retirement homes, soldiers deployed to disinfect the premises
found elderly people abandoned, or dead in their beds, prompting Spain's
public prosecutors to open an investigation.

It has not helped that Spain's population, on average, is among the
world's oldest. But the government
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/15/world/europe/spain-coronavirus.html?searchResultPosition=4}{was
also late to impose restrictions} on the movement of people.

Even as a tragedy unfolded in northern Italy, mass events went ahead
earlier this month in Madrid, and the government waited until March 14
to declare a state of emergency that has since forced people to stay
indoors, barring exceptional circumstances.

Spain also did not shore up its stock of medical equipment early on.
Doctors and nurses have had to work with a dangerous shortage of masks,
gloves and other essential gear that has proved disastrous for them.

Image

Discharging a patient from the Hospital Del Mar in Barcelona, on
Tuesday.Credit...Samuel Aranda for The New York Times

The grim situation has left many of Spain's health care professionals
overwhelmed and pleading for more equipment, doctors, nurses and
ambulance crews have told The New York Times. For those who have been
infected, a feeling of powerlessness has sunk in.

``You are used to taking care of others and now you're being asked to
stay home and take care of yourself,'' said Marc Arnaiz, a doctor in the
internal medicine unit of the Igualada hospital, who tested positive
earlier this month.

``For most of us this job is a vocation, so it's shocking and
frustrating,'' he said.

Mr. Arnaiz, 31, said he had likely been infected by a patient. He
noticed the first symptoms on March 9, the day his patient was confirmed
positive, among the first in the hospital, which has since become one of
the worst infection clusters in northeastern Spain.

While it's impossible to know how many patients infected doctors and
vice versa, the alarming spread within hospitals has forced the
government to struggle with a shortage of both professionals and
equipment.

Last week, the government launched an emergency recruitment plan to add
50,000 health care workers, ranging from medical students to retired
doctors.

After employees began complaining openly about the stresses on the
system, some Madrid hospitals told their staff not to speak out. Many of
those interviewed by The New York Times were not authorized to comment
publicly and asked that their full names not be used for fear of
retribution.

One, Yolanda, has been a nurse for 30 years, working in a public
hospital in Madrid. But earlier this month, as the outbreak worsened in
Spain, she said she was moved instead to a makeshift emergency ward,
where she had to learn new skills on the job while working without
decent protective gear.

``We've been put on the front line not only without enough protection,
but also sometimes with the stress of a very different work
environment,'' she said, noting that she had never before handled
intubated patients. The nurses in her unit wore face masks and gowns,
but they had to reuse them because of a shortage.

``Putting on a face mask again and again is as useless as sticking a
piece of paper on your face,'' she said.

Last Thursday, Yolanda went home feeling feverish. On Sunday, she tested
positive for coronavirus, along with about 30 colleagues. ``We have done
our best, but some of us sadly became part of the contamination chain,''
she said.

Image

Staff at the Barcelona Hospital Clinic on Tuesday cheered and thanked
their neighbors, who have been taking to their balconies every night to
thank the health care workers.Credit...Samuel Aranda for The New York
Times

Hospital workers' unions were less hesitant to point fingers.

``When we already knew that the virus was circulating in hospitals, we
were still being told that the usage of protective gear should be
limited to specific circumstances,'' said Juanjo Menéndez, the
communications director of SATSE Madrid, a nurses' union. ``It's the
kind of basic error that a student learns to avoid in the first year of
medical school.''

In Spain, France and Italy, officials and health care professionals said
they were shocked by equipment shortages.

Giorgio Gori, the mayor of Bergamo, one of the hardest hit towns in
Italy, said ``the doctors weren't protected,'' and lacked ``the
sufficient defenses,'' adding that he was still receiving requests for
masks and gloves from doctors making home visits.

Jean-Paul Hamon, the president of one of France's biggest doctor
unions,\href{https://twitter.com/LCI/status/1242395197721501703}{told
the LCI television broadcaster} on Tuesday that he was particularly
worried about workers who are not in hospitals but are still in close
contact with patients, like general practitioners or retirement home
employees.

Three of the five doctors who have died of Covid-19 so far in France
were general practitioners, and one was a gynecologist. ``The state is
absolutely unprepared,'' said Mr. Hamon, who is himself infected. ``The
state is going to owe an explanation.''

In Spain, doctors warned that hospitals were now paying the price of the
loose measures announced in the early days of the outbreak.

``The lack of protection is everywhere, the improvisation seems to be
widespread,'' said Antonio Antela, a doctor who coordinates the
infectious disease unit at the university hospital of Santiago de
Compostela, in northwestern Spain. He has been hospitalized for a week
after developing pneumonia and testing positive.

``The lesson is: take care of your public health care system, because
there will be other epidemics and we ought to be better prepared,'' he
added in a telephone interview from his hospital bed.

Image

Hospitals in Italy and France have also been hard by sick workers and
depleted supplies.Credit...Nadia Shira Cohen for The New York Times

At a medical center in the heart of Madrid, María, another nurse who is
now isolated at home with coronavirus, said that she spent several days
working without a face mask and gloves, handing out masks only to
visitors who reported breathing problems or had recently been in Italy.

On March 11, the day she first felt fever, her medical center finally
ordered all staff to wear masks. ``We probably didn't have enough face
masks, but we also acted for far too long as if this was a limited
problem, mostly imported from Italy,'' she said.

The Spanish government is now stepping up efforts to buy medical
equipment, as well as distributing about 650,000 new test kits across
the country. Two Chinese cargo planes filled with face masks and other
gear landed in Madrid and Zaragoza on Tuesday.

``We are a target like everybody else, but we are also a threat to other
co-workers,'' said Juan, a 37-year-old doctor in a Madrid public
hospital. ``Also, if you test everyone and there's no health care
workers left in the hospitals, what can you do?''

Raphael Minder reported from Madrid and Elian Peltier from Barcelona.
Reporting was contributed by Jason Horowitz in Rome and Aurelien Breeden
in Paris.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
