Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/us}{U.S.}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/us}{U.S.}\textbar{}East Coast Braces for Floods and Wind
as Isaias Intensifies

\url{https://nyti.ms/31eRNh5}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{east-coast-braces-for-floods-and-wind-as-isaias-intensifies}{%
\section{East Coast Braces for Floods and Wind as Isaias
Intensifies}\label{east-coast-braces-for-floods-and-wind-as-isaias-intensifies}}

A heavy soaking is expected in the Carolinas and Maryland, with tropical
storm warnings and watches in effect all the way up the Eastern
Seaboard.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/08/03/us/03isaias-01/merlin_175260564_cdaa5f9b-3847-4210-9921-8d0f0a042d66-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/rick-rojas}{Rick Rojas} and Lucy
Tompkins

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Aug. 3, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

ATLANTA --- Tens of millions of Americans were warned on Monday to brace
themselves for the threat of flooding, power outages and downed trees as
Hurricane Isaias intensified while moving up the Atlantic Coast.

On the coast of the Carolinas, residents were preparing for the Category
1 storm's arrival on Monday night, boarding up their windows and
stocking up on generators, flashlights and gas cans. Farther inland, in
North Carolina and Maryland, officials said that flooding would be one
of the storm's most perilous risks.

The storm is expected to soak much of the East Coast in the coming days,
prompting state officials to caution residents that they must prepare
for heavy rainfall and powerful winds while remaining vigilant against
the coronavirus.

``I know that North Carolinians have had to dig deep in recent months to
tap into our strength and resilience during the pandemic, and that
hasn't been easy,'' Gov. Roy Cooper of North Carolina said. ``But with
this storm on the way, we have to dig a little deeper. Let's keep each
other safe from the wind and water as well as from the virus.''

Isaias, which is written as Isaías in Spanish and pronounced
ees-ah-EE-ahs, strengthened back into a hurricane on Monday night before
making landfall near Ocean Isle Beach, N.C., at about 11:10 p.m.
Eastern. A hurricane warning was issued from the South Santee River in
South Carolina to Surf City, N.C., a region that includes Myrtle Beach,
S.C.

The eastern Carolinas and Virginia may get three to six inches of rain,
with isolated areas receiving up to eight inches. Significant flash
floods and urban flooding can be expected through the middle of the
week, and widespread minor to moderate river flooding is possible.
Tropical-force winds and heavy rain were also expected to hit Maryland.

The Middle Atlantic States, southeastern New York and New England can
expect a few inches of rain. Tropical storm warnings and watches were in
effect Monday night all the way up the Eastern Seaboard, including in
Martha's Vineyard, Mass., and Stonington, Maine.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/08/03/us/03isaias-02/merlin_175269030_6b1538f1-19b7-421a-a365-972c631d1993-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Heavy rainfall in northeastern New Jersey, New York City and the lower
Hudson Valley was expected to begin late Monday night, building into
heavier downpours by Tuesday afternoon and evening, said Matthew Wunsch,
a meteorologist with the National Weather Service. Emergency management
officials in New York City said the storm might bring three to six
inches of rain in some areas.

Gov. Philip D. Murphy of New Jersey asked people on Monday to stay
inside during the storm, clarifying that it should not be an invitation
to huddle together with friends and relatives for the kind of gatherings
that have been behind a recent rise in coronavirus cases there.

``I'm not a fan of hurricane parties,'' Mr. Murphy said, referring to
the events that became something of a tradition in Florida during minor
storms. ``If it's a hurricane party, you're inside. It just doesn't make
sense, folks. It doesn't end well. And we know that.''

Officials in Florida expressed relief over the weekend, saying that
Isaias failed to deliver the punch they had feared after it first became
a Category 1 hurricane in the Caribbean. It brought rain and wind, but
not enough to create significant damage.

The Florida coast was hit by the storm's outer flank as it shifted
north, and it largely spared Georgia. But Isaias veered inland,
positioning the Carolinas to face the brunt of the storm.

North Carolina declared a statewide emergency, as did coastal
communities in South Carolina. In Maryland, Gov. Larry Hogan said that
coronavirus testing sites were closing on Tuesday, and Mayor Jack Young
of Baltimore encouraged residents to move their cars to higher ground.

In the Chesapeake Bay, wind gusts may reach more than 65 miles per hour,
and around 50 to 60 m.p.h. southeast of Washington, said Jeremy Geiger,
a meteorologist with the Weather Service.

Image

Filling sandbags in Virginia Beach on Monday in preparation for
Isaias.Credit...Stephen M. Katz/The Virginian-Pilot, via Associated
Press

Winds above 60 m.p.h. are strong enough to knock down trees, so
residents could experience power outages. Flooding will be the biggest
risk, with southern Maryland expected to receive three to seven inches
of rain within an eight-hour period. The most rain was expected around
the Interstate 95 corridor.

``People don't realize it, but in the Mid-Atlantic and a lot of areas,
flooding actually causes the most loss of life and damage,'' Mr. Geiger
said. ``So be aware of where you live, and what's going on.''

Along the shore in Myrtle Beach, the operators of the SkyWheel, which
sends gondolas 20 stories into the air, have watched Isaias since it was
brewing near western Africa. On Monday, they were locking down anything
the wind could turn into a projectile.

``We're always familiar with how storms can change at the drop of a
dime,'' said Rachel Beckerman, a manager for the attraction. ``We take
every storm as if it were a Category 4 coming for Myrtle Beach.''

On the coast of the Carolinas, storms blowing in from the Atlantic are a
fact of life, sometimes arriving daily during the summer. Tropical
storms and hurricanes can be capricious and destructive, but many
residents know how to prepare.

``They've been through this before,'' said Susan A. Freeman, the
executive director of the Brunswick County Chamber of Commerce, which
includes a strand of North Carolina beach communities directly in the
storm's path.

Rick Rojas reported from Atlanta, and Lucy Tompkins from Bozeman, Mont.
Patricia Mazzei contributed reporting from Miami, and Michael Gold and
Mihir Zaveri from New York.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
