Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}U.S. Accuses Hackers of
Trying to Steal Coronavirus Vaccine Data for China

\url{https://nyti.ms/2CyTMED}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/news-event/coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{The
Coronavirus Outbreak}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  live\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/01/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Latest
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Maps
  and Cases}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Vaccine
  Tracker}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/07/29/us/schools-reopening-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{What
  School May Look Like}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/live/2020/07/31/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Economy}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{us-accuses-hackers-of-trying-to-steal-coronavirus-vaccine-data-for-china}{%
\section{U.S. Accuses Hackers of Trying to Steal Coronavirus Vaccine
Data for
China}\label{us-accuses-hackers-of-trying-to-steal-coronavirus-vaccine-data-for-china}}

Two suspects in China targeted companies working on vaccines as part of
a broader cybertheft campaign to enrich themselves and aid the Chinese
government, officials said.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/07/21/us/politics/21dc-cyber/merlin_173396472_2e20a751-fe4b-4b0c-a3b5-772fb49e2fdd-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/julian-e-barnes}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2019/12/13/reader-center/author-julian-barnes/author-julian-barnes-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/julian-e-barnes}{Julian E. Barnes}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  July 21, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://cn.nytimes.com/usa/20200722/china-hacking-coronavirus-vaccine/}{阅读简体中文版}\href{https://cn.nytimes.com/usa/20200722/china-hacking-coronavirus-vaccine/zh-hant/}{閱讀繁體中文版}

WASHINGTON --- The Justice Department accused a pair of Chinese hackers
on Tuesday of targeting vaccine development on behalf of the country's
intelligence service as part of a broader yearslong campaign of global
cybertheft aimed at industries such as defense contractors, high-end
manufacturing and solar energy companies.

Justice Department officials labeled the suspects, Li Xiaoyu and Dong
Jiazhi, as a blended threat who sometimes worked on behalf of China's
spy services and sometimes to enrich themselves. The officials said that
\href{https://www.courtlistener.com/recap/gov.uscourts.waed.91446/gov.uscourts.waed.91446.15.0.pdf}{an
indictment} secured against them this month and unsealed on Tuesday was
the first to target such a threat.

United States government officials said that the suspects had previously
stolen information about other Chinese intelligence targets like human
rights activists and, at the behest of the Ministry of State Security
spy service, shifted focus this year to trying to acquire coronavirus
vaccine research.

The indictment comes as the Trump administration has stepped up its
criticism of Beijing, both for its theft of secrets and its failure to
contain the spread of the coronavirus, and is a significant escalation
of that campaign to denounce Beijing. The Justice Department said that
China's covert activity could potentially set back vaccine research
efforts.

The accusations also came days after the United States and allied
countries
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/16/us/politics/vaccine-hacking-russia.html}{accused
Russia} of trying to steal information on vaccine development.

The indictment also suggests that China did far less to curb its spying
than it had vowed to as part of a
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/26/world/asia/xi-jinping-white-house.html}{nonaggression
pact} signed with the United States in late 2015 that was aimed at
curbing China's efforts to steal American technological know-how.

The agreement was thought to have slowed China's hacking for
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/11/29/us/politics/china-trump-cyberespionage.html}{about
18 months}, reducing the industrial espionage work done by the Chinese
military. But Mr. Li and Mr. Dong, guided by the Chinese intelligence
agency, tried to steal secrets in 2016 and 2017, even as the agreement
was purportedly being honored.

Asked for comment on the accusations, a press officer for the Chinese
Embassy pointed on Tuesday to earlier comments by a foreign ministry
spokeswoman, Hua Chunying, who said that the government opposed all
forms of cyberattacks and threats.

The suspects are unlikely to be brought to trial because China does not
have an extradition treaty with the United States. The charges were the
latest in a continuing effort by the Justice Department to secure
indictments against private groups and intelligence officials involved
in hacking campaigns as a deterrent and to raise awareness of the threat
that such groups pose.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-global-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/01/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: Global Coronavirus
Outbreak}}{Latest Updates: Global Coronavirus Outbreak}}\label{latest-updates-global-coronavirus-outbreak}}

Updated 2020-08-02T07:42:09.613Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/01/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-34047410}{The
  U.S. reels as July cases more than double the total of any other
  month.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/01/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-780ec966}{Top
  U.S. officials work to break an impasse over the federal jobless
  benefit.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/01/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-2bc8948}{Its
  outbreak untamed, Melbourne goes into even greater lockdown.}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/01/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

More live coverage:
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/live/2020/07/31/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Markets}

On Tuesday, David L. Bowdich, the F.B.I. deputy director, called the
hacks part of a campaign of economic coercion akin to ``what we expect
from an organized criminal syndicate.''

The suspects targeted hundreds of computer networks around the world and
caused unnamed companies to lose hundreds of millions of dollars of
intellectual property, according to the indictment. For example, they
stole research on radio and laser technology from a California defense
firm and engineering drawings for a gas turbine from a company working
in the United States and Japan, court papers showed.

Justice Department and F.B.I. officials said the hackers were pursuing
information and research about the coronavirus vaccine from American
biotech firms but described it as an attempt to steal the data. The
indictment, which was filed in the Eastern District of Washington, did
not say that the hackers successfully stole information or research on
the vaccine.

The pair did try to hack a Massachusetts biotech firm researching a
vaccine as early as Jan. 27, according to the indictment. On Feb. 1, the
pair tried to find vulnerabilities on the networks of a California
biotech firm that had announced it was researching coronavirus antiviral
drugs. Then, in May, Mr. Li investigated a California diagnostic firm
developing virus testing kits.

While the indictment named only the two suspects, unlike the larger
group of Russian hackers accused of seeking vaccine data, the Justice
Department portrayed their work as far-reaching and long-running, going
back to at least 2009.

American officials first detected the suspects five years ago, when they
stole a gigabyte of information including personnel and administrator
accounts from the Hanford Site, an Energy Department facility in
Washington State where plutonium was produced during World War II,
according to the indictment.

In some cases, the suspects tried to extort money from companies,
according to the indictment. In 2017, Mr. Li threatened to publish the
source code of a Massachusetts software company if it did not give him
\$15,000 in cryptocurrency.

Like the Russian group, the Chinese hackers operated with the assistance
of their country's intelligence agencies. Their interests were broad,
covering manufacturing firms, defense contractors, government agencies,
game developers and medical device makers; they recently grew to include
information about coronavirus vaccine development and other
virus-related data.

The suspects also tried to steal other information on Chinese activists
for the Ministry of State Security, Beijing's civilian spy agency, said
John C. Demers, the assistant attorney general for national security.
The suspects handed over account information and passwords belonging to
a Hong Kong community organizer, a former Tiananmen Square protester and
a pastor of a Christian church in China.

``You can see by the variety of the hacks that they did how they were
being directed by the government,'' Mr. Demers said at a news conference
at the Justice Department. ``Extorting someone for cryptocurrency is not
something that the government is usually interested in, nor are criminal
hackers usually interested in human rights activists and clergymen.''

The hackers broke into computer networks by researching personal
identifying information about employees and customers, which helped them
gain unauthorized access, according to law enforcement officials. Once
inside, they stole information from pharmaceutical companies about drugs
under development and source code from software companies, the
indictment said.

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/news-event/coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{}

\hypertarget{the-coronavirus-outbreak-}{%
\subsubsection{The Coronavirus Outbreak
›}\label{the-coronavirus-outbreak-}}

\hypertarget{frequently-asked-questions}{%
\paragraph{Frequently Asked
Questions}\label{frequently-asked-questions}}

Updated July 27, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{should-i-refinance-my-mortgage}{%
  \paragraph{Should I refinance my
  mortgage?}\label{should-i-refinance-my-mortgage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/coronavirus-money-unemployment.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{It
    could be a good idea,} because mortgage rates have
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/16/business/mortgage-rates-below-3-percent.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{never
    been lower.} Refinancing requests have pushed mortgage applications
    to some of the highest levels since 2008, so be prepared to get in
    line. But defaults are also up, so if you're thinking about buying a
    home, be aware that some lenders have tightened their standards.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{what-is-school-going-to-look-like-in-september}{%
  \paragraph{What is school going to look like in
  September?}\label{what-is-school-going-to-look-like-in-september}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    It is unlikely that many schools will return to a normal schedule
    this fall, requiring the grind of
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/05/us/coronavirus-education-lost-learning.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{online
    learning},
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/05/29/us/coronavirus-child-care-centers.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{makeshift
    child care} and
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/03/business/economy/coronavirus-working-women.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{stunted
    workdays} to continue. California's two largest public school
    districts --- Los Angeles and San Diego --- said on July 13, that
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/13/us/lausd-san-diego-school-reopening.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{instruction
    will be remote-only in the fall}, citing concerns that surging
    coronavirus infections in their areas pose too dire a risk for
    students and teachers. Together, the two districts enroll some
    825,000 students. They are the largest in the country so far to
    abandon plans for even a partial physical return to classrooms when
    they reopen in August. For other districts, the solution won't be an
    all-or-nothing approach.
    \href{https://bioethics.jhu.edu/research-and-outreach/projects/eschool-initiative/school-policy-tracker/}{Many
    systems}, including the nation's largest, New York City, are
    devising
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/26/us/coronavirus-schools-reopen-fall.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{hybrid
    plans} that involve spending some days in classrooms and other days
    online. There's no national policy on this yet, so check with your
    municipal school system regularly to see what is happening in your
    community.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{is-the-coronavirus-airborne}{%
  \paragraph{Is the coronavirus
  airborne?}\label{is-the-coronavirus-airborne}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    The coronavirus
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/04/health/239-experts-with-one-big-claim-the-coronavirus-is-airborne.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{can
    stay aloft for hours in tiny droplets in stagnant air}, infecting
    people as they inhale, mounting scientific evidence suggests. This
    risk is highest in crowded indoor spaces with poor ventilation, and
    may help explain super-spreading events reported in meatpacking
    plants, churches and restaurants.
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/06/health/coronavirus-airborne-aerosols.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{It's
    unclear how often the virus is spread} via these tiny droplets, or
    aerosols, compared with larger droplets that are expelled when a
    sick person coughs or sneezes, or transmitted through contact with
    contaminated surfaces, said Linsey Marr, an aerosol expert at
    Virginia Tech. Aerosols are released even when a person without
    symptoms exhales, talks or sings, according to Dr. Marr and more
    than 200 other experts, who
    \href{https://academic.oup.com/cid/article/doi/10.1093/cid/ciaa939/5867798}{have
    outlined the evidence in an open letter to the World Health
    Organization}.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{what-are-the-symptoms-of-coronavirus}{%
  \paragraph{What are the symptoms of
  coronavirus?}\label{what-are-the-symptoms-of-coronavirus}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Common symptoms
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/symptoms-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{include
    fever, a dry cough, fatigue and difficulty breathing or shortness of
    breath.} Some of these symptoms overlap with those of the flu,
    making detection difficult, but runny noses and stuffy sinuses are
    less common.
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/04/27/health/coronavirus-symptoms-cdc.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{The
    C.D.C. has also} added chills, muscle pain, sore throat, headache
    and a new loss of the sense of taste or smell as symptoms to look
    out for. Most people fall ill five to seven days after exposure, but
    symptoms may appear in as few as two days or as many as 14 days.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{does-asymptomatic-transmission-of-covid-19-happen}{%
  \paragraph{Does asymptomatic transmission of Covid-19
  happen?}\label{does-asymptomatic-transmission-of-covid-19-happen}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    So far, the evidence seems to show it does. A widely cited
    \href{https://www.nature.com/articles/s41591-020-0869-5}{paper}
    published in April suggests that people are most infectious about
    two days before the onset of coronavirus symptoms and estimated that
    44 percent of new infections were a result of transmission from
    people who were not yet showing symptoms. Recently, a top expert at
    the World Health Organization stated that transmission of the
    coronavirus by people who did not have symptoms was ``very rare,''
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/09/world/coronavirus-updates.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq\#link-1f302e21}{but
    she later walked back that statement.}
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Although the Chinese intelligence service in some cases provided them
with hacking tools, much of their work was done using more common
methods to breach publicly known software vulnerabilities.

The hackers also worked to cover their tracks, sometimes in ways that
could damage the data they were stealing, like by changing the file
names of information they downloaded, according to court papers. To
further avoid detection, the two hackers worked inside computers'
``recycle bins,'' where files are hidden by default and harder for
system administrators to see.

Mr. Demers said an attempted breach could slow down research because it
must be secured, but researchers also must make sure their data has not
been corrupted or altered by the intruders. The government officials did
not say they had evidence that such manipulation had occurred, however.

``Once someone is in your system, they cannot only take the data, they
can manipulate the data,'' Mr. Demers said. ``So what you have to focus
on is making sure through backup or other systems that nothing has
changed about your data.''

The indictment contained 11 criminal charges against Mr. Li and Mr.
Dong, including conspiracies to commit computer fraud and theft as well
as multiple counts of aggravated identity theft.

Trump administration officials, both in public speeches and classified
briefings to Congress, have stepped up warnings in recent weeks about
Chinese intelligence services and their campaign to steal information
and influence American politics.

Lawmakers have been wrestling with how to better deter China, Russia and
other nations from trying to hack into pharmaceutical companies,
technology firms and other organizations.

``We need a comprehensive strategy to deter the serial theft of
strategic U.S. secrets,'' Senator Chris Van Hollen, Democrat of
Maryland, said in an interview. ``It is not enough to have these one-off
indictments. We need to make it clear upfront that there will be a very
high price to pay for foreign actors that attempt to steal important
trade secrets, whether it relates to the coronavirus or semiconductors
or 5G networks.''

Mr. Van Hollen and Senator Ben Sasse, Republican of Nebraska and a
member of the Senate Intelligence Committee, have pushed a bill that
would impose sanctions on foreigners and foreign companies that try to
steal American intellectual property. The two are hoping the measure
could be considered as part of congressional debate this week over a
defense policy bill, though there is no guarantee of a vote on the
proposal.

``This indictment reveals yet again that Chairman Xi leads an army of
hackers that steal and attempt to steal --- every single day, in almost
every country and industry,'' Mr. Sasse said, referring to President Xi
Jinping of China.

David E. Sanger contributed reporting.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
