Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}Rise in Virus Cases Near
Bases in U.S. and Abroad Poses Test for Military

\url{https://nyti.ms/2CCP0WB}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/news-event/coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{The
Coronavirus Outbreak}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  live\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/01/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Latest
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Maps
  and Cases}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Vaccine
  Tracker}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/07/29/us/schools-reopening-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{What
  School May Look Like}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/live/2020/07/31/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Economy}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{rise-in-virus-cases-near-bases-in-us-and-abroad-poses-test-for-military}{%
\section{Rise in Virus Cases Near Bases in U.S. and Abroad Poses Test
for
Military}\label{rise-in-virus-cases-near-bases-in-us-and-abroad-poses-test-for-military}}

American military officials are trying to contain the spread of the
coronavirus in its ranks while tackling logistical problems like
relieving troops overseas.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/07/21/us/politics/21dc-virus-military1/merlin_173626323_c7b0f6f0-692e-4ec9-ad98-ae7ce9c96213-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/jennifer-steinhauer}{Jennifer
Steinhauer} and
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/thomas-gibbons-neff}{Thomas
Gibbons-Neff}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  July 21, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

WASHINGTON --- More than
\href{https://www.defense.gov/explore/spotlight/coronavirus/}{20,000
American service members} have contracted the coronavirus, and the
infection rate in the services has tripled over the past six weeks as
the United States military has emerged as a potential source of
transmission both domestically and abroad, according to military and
local public health officials.

Cases are rising the most on military bases in Arizona, California,
Florida, Georgia and Texas, states that have all seen surges in
confirmed infections. At a base in Okinawa, Japan, the U.S. Marine Corps
has reported nearly 100 cases,
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/13/world/asia/coronavirus-military-okinawa.html}{enraging
local officials}. And in war zones in Iraq, Afghanistan and Syria,
already awash with unreported cases, U.S. troops have contended with
outbreaks within their ranks.

In South Korea, where Gen. Robert B. Abrams was praised early in the
pandemic for taking aggressive steps to rein in the virus, U.S. Forces
Korea has 98 positive cases, which appear to have been brought from the
United States, General Abrams has
\href{https://en.yna.co.kr/view/AEN20200720007051325}{confirmed}.

Domestically, local officials in Chattahoochee County, Ga., a sparsely
populated area with high infection rates,
\href{https://www.georgiahealthnews.com/2020/06/fort-benning-cases-covid-19-surge-chattahoochee-county/}{traced}
the outbreaks to Fort Benning, the large training base there. And
officials in California and North Carolina have also seen connections
between military installations and local communities.

The rise of cases among a largely young population that lives in dense
quarters near cities where bars and other crowded places have been
reopened is unsurprising. But the increase in coronavirus cases ---
especially overseas --- raises questions about the military's safety
precautions as the Pentagon wrestles with both containing the virus
within the ranks while also addressing logistical problems it has
created, like relieving units that had been stuck overseas for longer
than expected

``It's an amazing challenge,'' said Jason Dempsey, an adjunct senior
fellow at the Center for a New American Security. ``With our inability
to control the virus nationally, I think we're going to see countries
that may not welcome deployments of American troops for anything but the
most essential missions.''

In many ways, the surge in military cases mirrors the situation in the
rest of the United States: exhausted by months of lockdown and trying to
get back to normal. There were 21,909 cases in the military as of
Monday, compared with 7,408 on June 10, according to the Pentagon. Three
service members have died since March, including a sailor on the
aircraft carrier Theodore Roosevelt. More than 440 service members have
been hospitalized.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-global-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/01/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: Global Coronavirus
Outbreak}}{Latest Updates: Global Coronavirus Outbreak}}\label{latest-updates-global-coronavirus-outbreak}}

Updated 2020-08-02T07:42:09.613Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/01/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-34047410}{The
  U.S. reels as July cases more than double the total of any other
  month.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/01/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-780ec966}{Top
  U.S. officials work to break an impasse over the federal jobless
  benefit.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/01/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-2bc8948}{Its
  outbreak untamed, Melbourne goes into even greater lockdown.}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/01/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

More live coverage:
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/live/2020/07/31/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Markets}

In the military training camps, there is little room for a socially
distant middle ground. Barracks are packed, grueling training schools
are the norm, and open bars and other places to socialize beckon, all as
troops prepare to head overseas.

``Military bases represent a combustible demographic mix of young and
older people in a dense institutional setting, which is pretty much an
ideal context for a wildfirelike outbreak to occur,'' said Lindsey J.
Leininger, a health policy researcher and clinical professor at the Tuck
School of Business at Dartmouth College. ``Unfortunately, both density
and demographics place military bases at high outbreak risk. And since
many employees on the bases are from the host communities, a base
outbreak can easily seed a community outbreak.''

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/07/21/us/politics/21dc-virus-military2/merlin_172535040_e2ef7a19-125f-4310-a95e-1d00e04bf41e-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

In a recent conference call with reporters, Army Secretary Ryan D.
McCarthy noted sharp increases in cases at Fort Benning and at Fort
Leonard Wood in Missouri, both large infantry training schools, and
acknowledged that the Army might be paying for reopening its basic
training sites too early or without adequate protections.

Mr. McCarthy said the Army was weighing whether to change its testing
protocols, expand the 14-day isolation bubble for deploying troops
before they are sent overseas or increase the frequency of coronavirus
testing.

``This is something that we take very, very seriously,'' General Abrams
said on a radio program on American Forces Network Korea.

As the only nation that projects military power in dozens of countries
all over the world --- some of which are banning American travelers ---
the United States has many opportunities to export an unchecked virus,
as well as possibilities to facilitate domestic spread in areas that are
already overwhelmed with new cases.

This was clear in Okinawa, one of Japan's southernmost islands that is
home to several American bases. Over several weeks in June, several
thousand Marines deployed to Okinawa, delayed by Pentagon travel
restrictions that have since been eased. Defense Secretary Mark T.
Esper's decision to restrict, then loosen, military travel by the end of
June served two purposes: It was an attempt to keep the virus from the
ranks, but also to minimize disruptions to long-planned deployment
schedules.

A Marine helicopter and infantry unit from California is believed to
have brought new cases of the virus to Okinawa, according to a Marine
familiar with the issue who spoke on the condition of anonymity.
Covid-19 rapidly spread in the unit in June and was most likely
accelerated through a series of unauthorized parties around the Fourth
of July weekend, the Marine said.

``As I suspect you are all aware, based on the tracing teams, Marines
and sailors who contracted Covid likely broke'' restrictions placed on
their movements, military commanders in Okinawa wrote to Marines several
days after the holiday in a message obtained by The New York Times. The
commanders warned the service members to adhere to the restrictions and
said that they were ``under the microscope.''

Image

Marine Corps Air Station Futenma, a U.S. base in Okinawa, Japan.
Reported cases among troops stationed on the island have angered local
officials.Credit...Toru Yamanaka/Agence France-Presse --- Getty Images

In South Korea, more than 70 people
\href{https://www.stripes.com/news/pacific/us-forces-korea-11-more-troops-from-us-test-positive-for-coronavirus-1.637307}{affiliated
with U.S. Forces Korea} have tested positive for the virus since the
first outbreak in the country in late February. The military says that
troops are following strict quarantine procedures after being tested;
health officials in South Korea, which was successful in beating back
coronavirus early on, say that most new cases are coming from abroad.

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/news-event/coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{}

\hypertarget{the-coronavirus-outbreak-}{%
\subsubsection{The Coronavirus Outbreak
›}\label{the-coronavirus-outbreak-}}

\hypertarget{frequently-asked-questions}{%
\paragraph{Frequently Asked
Questions}\label{frequently-asked-questions}}

Updated July 27, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{should-i-refinance-my-mortgage}{%
  \paragraph{Should I refinance my
  mortgage?}\label{should-i-refinance-my-mortgage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/coronavirus-money-unemployment.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{It
    could be a good idea,} because mortgage rates have
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/16/business/mortgage-rates-below-3-percent.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{never
    been lower.} Refinancing requests have pushed mortgage applications
    to some of the highest levels since 2008, so be prepared to get in
    line. But defaults are also up, so if you're thinking about buying a
    home, be aware that some lenders have tightened their standards.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{what-is-school-going-to-look-like-in-september}{%
  \paragraph{What is school going to look like in
  September?}\label{what-is-school-going-to-look-like-in-september}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    It is unlikely that many schools will return to a normal schedule
    this fall, requiring the grind of
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/05/us/coronavirus-education-lost-learning.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{online
    learning},
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/05/29/us/coronavirus-child-care-centers.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{makeshift
    child care} and
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/03/business/economy/coronavirus-working-women.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{stunted
    workdays} to continue. California's two largest public school
    districts --- Los Angeles and San Diego --- said on July 13, that
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/13/us/lausd-san-diego-school-reopening.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{instruction
    will be remote-only in the fall}, citing concerns that surging
    coronavirus infections in their areas pose too dire a risk for
    students and teachers. Together, the two districts enroll some
    825,000 students. They are the largest in the country so far to
    abandon plans for even a partial physical return to classrooms when
    they reopen in August. For other districts, the solution won't be an
    all-or-nothing approach.
    \href{https://bioethics.jhu.edu/research-and-outreach/projects/eschool-initiative/school-policy-tracker/}{Many
    systems}, including the nation's largest, New York City, are
    devising
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/26/us/coronavirus-schools-reopen-fall.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{hybrid
    plans} that involve spending some days in classrooms and other days
    online. There's no national policy on this yet, so check with your
    municipal school system regularly to see what is happening in your
    community.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{is-the-coronavirus-airborne}{%
  \paragraph{Is the coronavirus
  airborne?}\label{is-the-coronavirus-airborne}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    The coronavirus
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/04/health/239-experts-with-one-big-claim-the-coronavirus-is-airborne.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{can
    stay aloft for hours in tiny droplets in stagnant air}, infecting
    people as they inhale, mounting scientific evidence suggests. This
    risk is highest in crowded indoor spaces with poor ventilation, and
    may help explain super-spreading events reported in meatpacking
    plants, churches and restaurants.
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/06/health/coronavirus-airborne-aerosols.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{It's
    unclear how often the virus is spread} via these tiny droplets, or
    aerosols, compared with larger droplets that are expelled when a
    sick person coughs or sneezes, or transmitted through contact with
    contaminated surfaces, said Linsey Marr, an aerosol expert at
    Virginia Tech. Aerosols are released even when a person without
    symptoms exhales, talks or sings, according to Dr. Marr and more
    than 200 other experts, who
    \href{https://academic.oup.com/cid/article/doi/10.1093/cid/ciaa939/5867798}{have
    outlined the evidence in an open letter to the World Health
    Organization}.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{what-are-the-symptoms-of-coronavirus}{%
  \paragraph{What are the symptoms of
  coronavirus?}\label{what-are-the-symptoms-of-coronavirus}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Common symptoms
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/symptoms-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{include
    fever, a dry cough, fatigue and difficulty breathing or shortness of
    breath.} Some of these symptoms overlap with those of the flu,
    making detection difficult, but runny noses and stuffy sinuses are
    less common.
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/04/27/health/coronavirus-symptoms-cdc.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{The
    C.D.C. has also} added chills, muscle pain, sore throat, headache
    and a new loss of the sense of taste or smell as symptoms to look
    out for. Most people fall ill five to seven days after exposure, but
    symptoms may appear in as few as two days or as many as 14 days.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{does-asymptomatic-transmission-of-covid-19-happen}{%
  \paragraph{Does asymptomatic transmission of Covid-19
  happen?}\label{does-asymptomatic-transmission-of-covid-19-happen}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    So far, the evidence seems to show it does. A widely cited
    \href{https://www.nature.com/articles/s41591-020-0869-5}{paper}
    published in April suggests that people are most infectious about
    two days before the onset of coronavirus symptoms and estimated that
    44 percent of new infections were a result of transmission from
    people who were not yet showing symptoms. Recently, a top expert at
    the World Health Organization stated that transmission of the
    coronavirus by people who did not have symptoms was ``very rare,''
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/09/world/coronavirus-updates.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq\#link-1f302e21}{but
    she later walked back that statement.}
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

In Australia, where more than 1,000 Marines recently started their
annual monthslong deployment in Darwin, at least one Marine was found to
have the virus, according to a
\href{https://www.dvidshub.net/news/373660/confirmed-positive-case-covid-19-mrf-d-marine}{Marine
news release} this month. The Bitburg-Prüm region, home to Spangdahlem
Air Base, has one of the highest rates of infection in Germany, although
cases on the base
\href{https://www.spangdahlem.af.mil/Portals/10/2019\%20Novel\%20Corona\%20virus\%20\%28COVID-19\%29\%20HPCON\%20A_\%20PHASE\%203\%20Guidance.pdf}{appear
to be abating}.

Chattahoochee County, Ga., has seen its per capita infection rate nearly
double over the past two weeks. ``Of course there is community spread on
the base,'' Pamela Kirkland, a spokeswoman for the state's Department of
Public Health's West Central Health District, said of Fort Benning.
``Many live off base and could be reported in several counties in
Georgia and Alabama.''

She added, ``We did see quite an increase in what was otherwise a
typical smaller number of cases for a low-populated county.''

Fort Bragg in North Carolina, one of the biggest Army bases and home to
Special Operations units and training schools, also had a large
outbreak, and surrounding counties have also been affected. More than 80
soldiers tested positive for the virus last month after a weekslong
survival course, known as SERE school.

``There is evidence of community spread in North Carolina and in
Cumberland County,'' said Dr. Jennifer Green, the county's public health
director. ``Fort Bragg is a part of our Cumberland County community.''

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
