Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/world/asia}{Asia
Pacific}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/world/asia}{Asia Pacific}\textbar{}China and North Korea
Reveal Sudden, and Deep, Cracks in Their Friendship

\url{https://nyti.ms/2meFxuW}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{china-and-north-korea-reveal-sudden-and-deep-cracks-in-their-friendship}{%
\section{China and North Korea Reveal Sudden, and Deep, Cracks in Their
Friendship}\label{china-and-north-korea-reveal-sudden-and-deep-cracks-in-their-friendship}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2017/02/25/world/25china-1/25china-1-articleInline.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By \href{http://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/jane-perlez}{Jane Perlez}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Feb. 24, 2017
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

\href{http://cn.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/asia-pacific/20170227/china-north-korea-relations-kim-jong-un/}{阅读简体中文版}

BEIJING --- For decades, North Korea could count on China as a loyal
ally despite the erratic behavior of the ruling Kim dynasty. Beijing
held its tongue, even as its neighbor engaged in saber rattling, nuclear
testing and bombastic threats.

But by this week, things may have gone too far, with
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2017/02/23/world/asia/north-korea-china.html}{North
Korea unleashing a tirade} in which it deployed some of the most damning
insults in its playbook, accusing China of ``dancing to the tune of the
U.S.'' and ``styling itself as a big power.''

Chinese observers of relations between the countries were left in
disbelief about how rapidly those ties have deteriorated, particularly
after Beijing decided to
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2017/02/18/world/asia/north-korea-china-coal-imports-suspended.html}{cut
off coal imports} that provide badly needed currency for the North's
economy.

``At first many people thought it was a fake commentary,'' Cheng Xiaohe,
associate professor of international studies at Renmin University, said
of the tirade against China, published in the North's state-run news
media on Thursday. ``It is a big surprise that North Korea has launched
such a strong attack against China. I expected an angry reaction --- but
not this strong.''

The diatribe, carried by the Korean Central News Agency, came just
before the Malaysian government announced that
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2017/02/24/world/asia/vx-nerve-agent-kim-jong-nam.html}{VX
nerve agent} had killed Kim Jong-nam, the half brother of the North's
leader, Kim Jong-un. North Korean agents are suspected of
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2017/02/22/world/asia/kim-jong-nam-assassination-korea-malaysia.html}{masterminding
the attack}.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2017/02/25/world/25china-2/25china-2-articleInline.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

The disclosure that a chemical weapon banned under international
treaties was used in the attack is sure to put more pressure on China's
relations with North Korea, which some Chinese analysts say are at their
lowest point since the founding of the North as a separate country after
World War II.

The disclosure ``makes things worse,'' Mr. Cheng said. ``It's wrong to
kill the half brother. It's more wrong to have used banned chemical
agents.''

Earlier this month, the North issued a more indirect takedown of Beijing
in its government newspaper Minju Joson, signaling a growing rift.
Shortly afterward, China announced the suspension of coal imports.

The burst of criticisms from Pyongyang --- coupled with Beijing's coal
ban --- suggested boiling tensions between China's president, Xi
Jinping, 63, who sees himself as a global leader, and Mr. Kim, 33, an
eccentric dictator.

Mr. Xi is said to have low regard for Mr. Kim, who has not visited China
and is not known to have been invited.

Despite past periods of turbulence, including under Mao Zedong, both
sides have more or less tried to preserve a polite public veneer of
amity. But the friendship was a myth, said Shen Zhihua, a professor of
history at East China Normal University.

Image

The view from the landmark Juche Tower in Pyongyang last week. The rift
between China and North Korea has emerged as the United States has
pushed for Beijing to do more to curb Pyongyang's nuclear
ambitions.Credit...Ed Jones/Agence France-Presse --- Getty Images

The Chinese government has always viewed North Korea as a ``vassal
country,'' he said in an interview with Phoenix Television on Thursday,
shortly before the North Korean editorial was published.

``You can go through the People's Daily from 1949 to this day, we have
never said a single word of ill, all words of praise,'' about North
Korea, said Mr. Shen, who is one of China's pre-eminent historians on
the North. ``Meanwhile, the North Korean newspapers do not speak ill of
China.''

Even as the relationship has noticeably worsened in recent weeks, China
has maintained public restraint. An editorial in Global Times, a
state-run tabloid that sometimes reflects the thinking of senior
government officials, noted on Friday that the suspension of coal
imports was ``fair'' and in keeping with United Nations sanctions.

The Chinese Foreign Ministry also kept up that facade. ``China and North
Korea are friendly neighbors, and we are willing to work with the North
Korean side in joint efforts to develop healthy and stable relations,''
said Geng Shuang, the ministry spokesman.

The ministry also played down the significance of the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2017/02/23/world/asia/kim-jong-nam-vx-nerve-agent-.html}{Malaysian
announcement that VX had been used} in the killing of Kim Jong-nam.

``It is only a preliminary result published by Malaysia, and there is
not conclusion on this yet,'' Mr. Geng said.

Image

A coal-powered power station in Pyongyang. China said it was ending
imports of North Korean coal because it had already met the quota
permitted under United Nations sanctions.Credit...Ed Jones/Agence
France-Presse --- Getty Images

It was not immediately clear how much China's ban on coal imports would
affect North Korea's ability to look after its population. And at least
publicly, China said that it was imposing the ban only because it had
already fulfilled its coal quota allowed under United Nations sanctions.

That seemed to suggest that Beijing may have already paid Pyongyang for
the coal it imported in the first 50 days of this year, money that would
go to the North's cash-starved government, experts said.

The exposure of the deepening rift comes as the Trump administration has
been pressuring Beijing to use its leverage to curtail the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2017/02/17/world/asia/north-korea-nuclear-threat.html}{North's
rapidly expanding nuclear weapons program}.

In the last week, the American secretary of state, Rex Tillerson, has
spoken with China's senior foreign policy official, Yang Jiechi, and the
Chinese foreign minister, Wang Yi, about North Korea.

President Trump has said China can do significantly more to persuade the
North to scale back its nuclear program, even as Beijing has told
Washington that it holds limited influence. The latest flare-up is
likely to further weaken that leverage, while illustrating the
resistance of Kim Jong-un to China's arguments in favor of a
denuclearized Korean Peninsula.

``In terms of diplomacy, I see no solution,'' said Yan Xuetong, the
director of the Institute of International Studies at Tsinghua
University. Mr. Yan, writing in the Chinese news media this week, said
that China had no choice but to accept the North as a nuclear-armed
state. That was because China had only two options: either a nuclear
North Korea that was friendly toward China or a nuclear North Korea that
was unfriendly, he wrote.

``I am very pessimistic about this issue,'' Mr. Yan said.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
