Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}Andrew Yang Drops Out: `It
Is Clear Tonight From the Numbers That We Are Not Going to Win'

\url{https://nyti.ms/3buuQKZ}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Election
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/biden-vice-president-2020.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Biden's
  V.P. Search}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/07/24/us/politics/trump-biden-campaign-donors.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Map
  of Donations}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/elections/delegate-count-primary-results.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Delegate
  Count}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2019/us/politics/2020-presidential-candidates.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{The
  Candidates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Politics
  Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{andrew-yang-drops-out-it-is-clear-tonight-from-the-numbers-that-we-are-not-going-to-win}{%
\section{Andrew Yang Drops Out: `It Is Clear Tonight From the Numbers
That We Are Not Going to
Win'}\label{andrew-yang-drops-out-it-is-clear-tonight-from-the-numbers-that-we-are-not-going-to-win}}

Mr. Yang, an entrepreneur with no previous political experience, mounted
a long-shot presidential campaign that promoted a universal basic income
and persisted well beyond expectations.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/02/08/us/politics/00yang-out/00yang-out-videoSixteenByNine3000.jpg}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/matt-stevens}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2019/04/03/multimedia/author-matt-stevens/author-matt-stevens-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/matt-stevens}{Matt Stevens}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Feb. 11, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

MANCHESTER, N.H. ---
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/04/29/nyregion/andrew-yang-mayor-nyc.html}{Andrew
Yang}, an entrepreneur with no previous political experience who
evangelized a universal basic income and warned of the perils of
automation, ended his
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/02/10/technology/his-2020-campaign-message-the-robots-are-coming.html}{longer-than-long-shot
bid} for president on Tuesday night after a yearslong campaign that
endured even as those of members of Congress and governors dropped out.

Speaking to supporters inside a ballroom as
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/02/11/us/politics/nh-primary-election.html}{New
Hampshire's primary results} were coming in, Mr. Yang said ``endings are
hard'' and that he had intended to stay in the race until the end.

``I am the math guy, and it is clear tonight from the numbers that we
are not going to win this race,'' he said. ``So tonight I am announcing
that I am suspending my campaign.''

Mr. Yang had spent considerable time and resources in the state and was
banking on the support of its many independent voters.
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/02/10/us/politics/andrew-yang-new-hampshire.html}{He
had signaled in recent interviews and emails to supporters} that he
would need to vastly outperform expectations in the Granite State for
his campaign to continue.

The end came a week after Mr. Yang, 45, failed to win any
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/02/04/us/elections/results-iowa-caucus.html}{pledged
delegates in the Iowa} caucuses despite spending a significant share of
his war chest on ads there.

Mr. Yang's decision to exit the race closes out one of the Democratic
primary's most surprising story lines, removing a candidate who
developed
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/09/06/us/politics/andrew-yang-2020.html}{a
fiercely loyal following of disaffected voters} from across the
ideological spectrum and intrigued even skeptics with his wit, levity
and relentless positivity.

As Mr. Yang announced his decision Tuesday night --- noting that he did
not want to continue to accept donations ``in a race that we will not
win'' --- there were audible groans.

But a moment later, a supporter yelled: ``We still love you, Andrew!''
The crowd immediately broke into cheers and began chanting his name.

``Thank you so much, New Hampshire --- I love you, too,'' he said.
``Being your candidate has been the privilege of my life.''

\hypertarget{latest-updates-2020-election}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: 2020
Election}}{Latest Updates: 2020 Election}}\label{latest-updates-2020-election}}

Updated 2020-08-01T01:26:45.732Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-29fdff45}{Kamala
  Harris, a top vice-presidential contender, confronts double
  standards.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-13ec3d9c}{Karen
  Bass and Susan Rice are rising on Biden's vice-presidential
  shortlist.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-49e9a016}{Trump
  says Russian bounties to kill U.S. troops `never took place.'}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

As he approached the end of his speech, the crowd began a different
chant: ``2024! 2024!''

The son of Taiwanese immigrants, Mr. Yang was one of about a half-dozen
viable Asian-American candidates to ever run for president. He became
something of an
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/12/19/us/politics/Andrew-Yang-2020-Democrats-Debate.html}{involuntary
torchbearer for Asian-Americans} as he grappled with how to discuss his
identity on the trail and how to address and
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/09/17/us/politics/shane-gillis-snl-andrew-yang.html?action=click\&module=RelatedLinks\&pgtype=Article}{confront
racism}.

It was
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/06/27/us/politics/who-is-andrew-yang.html}{Mr.
Yang's plan to give every American adult \$1,000 a month}, though, that
formed the foundation and rationale for his run.

Aware that a candidate beginning with essentially no name recognition
and few traditional credentials would face stiff odds, Mr. Yang often
told audiences that he had not initially wanted to run for president,
because he was not ``crazy.''

But he would add that during a trip to Washington, he was told that if
he wanted the government to do anything about job loss caused by
automation, he would need to bring a ``wave'' crashing down on the heads
of bureaucrats. His run for president, he said, amounted to that wave.

Mr. Yang enjoyed steady growth from under the radar as higher-profile
candidates absorbed the media scrutiny and attacks from rivals that came
with that status.

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2019/us/politics/2020-presidential-candidates.html}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2019/01/20/us/2020-presidential-candidates-promo-1548014688187/2020-presidential-candidates-promo-1548014688187-articleLarge-v68.png}

\hypertarget{whos-running-for-president-in-2020}{%
\subsection{Who's Running for President in
2020?}\label{whos-running-for-president-in-2020}}

The field of Democratic presidential candidates has been historically
large, but all have dropped out except Joe Biden, the presumptive
Democratic nominee to challenge President Trump.

But two days after Mr. Yang's underwhelming performance in Iowa,
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/live/2020/iowa-caucus-nh-primary-02-06/yang-campaign}{his
campaign laid off dozens of staff members} from a team that had
ballooned from fewer than a dozen people to over 200.

Despite having raised more than \$30 million over the course of his
presidential campaign --- a remarkable sum for a political outsider ---
Mr. Yang's team
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/02/01/us/elections/democratic-q4-fundraising.html}{had
only \$3.7 million in cash on hand} at the start of this year, according
to federal filings.

In an email to supporters last week, he suggested he would need to
finish in the top four in the New Hampshire primary for the campaign to
get ``the boost'' it needed --- a goal he failed to achieve.

Mr. Yang's base of political support consisted mostly of young and male
voters --- some progressive, some who previously supported President
Trump, and many in between. His departure from the race could aid
Senator
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/elections/bernie-sanders.html}{Bernie
Sanders} of Vermont, whom many of Mr. Yang's most loyal fans
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/01/09/us/politics/bernie-sanders-andrew-yang-tulsi-gabbard.html}{said
they had voted for in 2016}.

But given that Mr. Yang's support in the polls never exceeded the
mid-single-digits, no candidate is likely to be significantly helped by
his exit. Indeed, at rallies and town halls throughout the primary, many
members of the so-called Yang Gang said they had never been involved in
politics before encountering Mr. Yang.

His plans moving forward were not immediately clear, though senior
campaign officials would not rule out a return to politics. ``We are
just getting started,'' Zach Graumann, Mr. Yang's campaign manager, said
Tuesday.

Speaking to reporters later in the evening, Mr. Yang was asked if he
would consider running for mayor of New York City. ``I wouldn't rule
anything out,'' he said.

Early in his campaign --- sometimes in front of audiences of a few dozen
people or less --- Mr. Yang, the Schenectady, N.Y.-born former head of a
test-prep company and a nonprofit organization, often sounded the alarm
about what he called the ``fourth industrial revolution.''

Automation, he warned, would bring mass unemployment, chaos and even
violence if no remedy were pursued; free money combined with a more
humane economic system, he argued, would buffer American society against
its worst effects and help restore people's dignity.

The candidate and a small campaign staff labored in relative obscurity
for about a year until last February, when Mr. Yang went on a popular
podcast and raised hundreds of thousands of dollars overnight. From
there,
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/11/11/us/politics/andrew-yang-campaign.html}{he
began a slow but steady rise}, raising
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/01/02/us/politics/andrew-yang-fundraising.html}{millions
of dollars each quarter} and moving from less than 1 percent in the
polls to 4 and 5 percent early this year. His political operation grew
and formalized.

Unlike several more experienced candidates, Mr. Yang qualified for all
of the 2019 Democratic debates, and he appeared to grow more comfortable
on the trail and the debate stages.

By the time the Iowa caucuses arrived, Mr. Yang was one of just 11
candidates in the Democratic field, which had at one point ballooned to
two dozen.

But Mr. Yang's modest rise also coincided with
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/02/07/us/politics/andrew-yang-president-campaign.html}{increased
scrutiny} of his policy proposals, his
\href{https://www.buzzfeednews.com/article/mollyhensleyclancy/a-woman-claimed-andrew-yang-discriminated-against-her-at}{past
treatment of employees} and his handling of topics like race and gender.
The news media
\href{https://www.politico.com/magazine/story/2019/10/16/andrew-yang-universal-basic-income-229847}{began
digging into the cost of his universal basic income proposal}; he was
criticized for saying at a debate, ``I am Asian, so I know a lot of
doctors''; and he faced claims of gender discrimination from campaign
volunteers and past employees.

Still, when Mr. Yang ostensibly kicked off his campaign in February 2018
by announcing it
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/02/10/technology/his-2020-campaign-message-the-robots-are-coming.html}{in
an article in The New York Times}, few would have expected him to make a
run so deep into the primary.

Mr. Yang seemed self-aware enough to comprehend this. At a debate in
December that had been winnowed down to seven candidates,
\href{https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Xo8Vc7qHXWc}{Mr. Yang earned
laughs when he remarked}, ``I know what you're thinking, America: How am
I still on this stage with them?''

In an interview last week, he reflected on his two years on the trail.

``Supporters come up to me just about every day and say, `Thank you,
this campaign lifted me out of a depression,' or `Thank you, this
campaign made me feel so much better about my future,''' he said. ``It's
really incredible.''

``And while you're running, you don't really reflect on these things
because you're trying to get to the next benchmark,'' he continued.
``But it's very touching that this campaign has touched other people. It
is something that I had hoped for, but I didn't realize what it would
feel like to actually see it.''

\hypertarget{our-2020-election-guide}{%
\section{Our 2020 Election Guide}\label{our-2020-election-guide}}

Updated July 31, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{the-latest}{%
  \subsection{The Latest}\label{the-latest}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    President Trump's assault on the Postal Service is intersecting with
    his attacks on mail-in voting.
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/politics/trump-usps-mail-delays.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Voting
    rights groups say it is a recipe for disaster.}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{bidens-vp-search}{%
  \subsection{Biden's V.P. Search}\label{bidens-vp-search}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/biden-vice-president-2020.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Here
    are 13 women} who have been under consideration to be Joe Biden's
    running mate, and why each might be chosen --- and might not be.
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{keep-up-with-our-coverage}{%
  \subsection{Keep Up With Our
  Coverage}\label{keep-up-with-our-coverage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Get an
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{email}
    recapping the day's news
  \end{itemize}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Download our mobile app on
    \href{https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nytimes/id284862083?ls=1\&mat_click_id=5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\&referrer=mat_click_id\%3D5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\%26link_click_id\%3D722930677036718082}{iOS}
    and
    \href{http://a.localytics.com/android?id=com.nytimes.android\&referrer=utm_source\%3Dother_nyt_mobile_web\%26utm_medium\%3DWeb\%2520page\%26utm_term\%3DGeneral\%2520Mobile\%2520Page\%26utm_campaign\%3DNYT\%2520Mobile\%2520General\%2520Page}{Android}
    and turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
