Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/sports/hockey}{Hockey}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/sports/hockey}{Hockey}\textbar{}N.H.L. Conference Finals
Begin After Hectic Second Round

\url{https://nyti.ms/3lUbgNy}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{nhl-conference-finals-begin-after-hectic-second-round}{%
\section{N.H.L. Conference Finals Begin After Hectic Second
Round}\label{nhl-conference-finals-begin-after-hectic-second-round}}

Three teams won Game 7s to advance. Dallas and Vegas start the action
with Game 1 on Sunday night in Edmonton, Alberta.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/09/06/sports/06nhl-preview-web-1/merlin_176593746_5cd6ecd2-8d3b-487c-8de8-91cd249a387f-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By Andrew Knoll

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Sept. 6, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Against the sizzle of late summer, the ice in Edmonton, Alberta, is
being prepared to host both of the N.H.L.'s conference finals, beginning
with Sunday night's Game 1 of the Western Conference series between the
Dallas Stars and Vegas Golden Knights. In the Eastern series, the Tampa
Bay Lightning will clash with
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/05/sports/hockey/islanders-flyers-result.html}{the
Islanders}, starting with Game 1 on Monday night.

A conference semifinal round with three Game 7s makes for a tough act to
follow, but these matchups feature no shortage of intrigue.

\hypertarget{no-1-vegas-golden-knights-vs-no-3-dallas-stars}{%
\subsection{No. 1 Vegas Golden Knights vs. No. 3 Dallas
Stars}\label{no-1-vegas-golden-knights-vs-no-3-dallas-stars}}

Vegas nearly became the first team to lose a series after holding a 3-1
lead in two consecutive seasons. It did so against the San Jose Sharks
last year and nearly fell victim to some supernatural goaltending from
the Canucks rookie Thatcher Demko, who had stopped 98 straight shots ---
leaving
\href{https://twitter.com/dalter/status/1302089788770656261?ref_src=twsrc\%5Etfw\%7Ctwcamp\%5Etweetembed\%7Ctwterm\%5E1302089788770656261\%7Ctwgr\%5Eshare_3\&ref_url=https\%3A\%2F\%2Fwww.sportsnet.ca\%2Fnhl\%2Farticle\%2F2020-western-conference-final-preview-stars-vs-golden-knights\%2F}{Vegas's
star forward Mark Stone shaking his head} in the postgame handshake line
--- before Shea Theodore's game-winning goal in Game 7.

Instead, the Golden Knights became the first franchise to advance to the
conference finals in two of its first three seasons in the N.H.L. after
having reached the Stanley Cup finals in 2017-18, their inaugural
season.

The Stars endured a similar struggle late in their series, having
reached Game 7 after holding a 3-1 lead over the Colorado Avalanche.
Joel Kiviranta, who had played only 11 regular-season games, scored a
hat-trick, including the overtime winner, to finish off a battered
Colorado side led by center Nathan MacKinnon, the playoffs' top scorer
to date. The Stars reached their fifth conference final since the
franchise relocated to Dallas from Minnesota in 1993, with their last
appearance in 2008. They won the organization's only Stanley Cup in
1999.

Dallas was a suffocating defensive team during the regular season,
ranking second in goals-against per game while having only one player,
forward Tyler Seguin, exceed 40 points. With 178 goals, it was the
third-worst offense in the N.H.L. and the worst among postseason
qualifiers. But the Stars have found their stride offensively in the
playoffs. Defenseman Miro Heiskanen had led all blue-liners in scoring.
And wing Denis Gurianov led the Stars in goals in both the regular
season and playoffs. The familiar trio of Seguin, Jamie Benn and
Alexander Radulov clicked earlier in the postseason. Over all, they have
the postseason's fourth-best scoring average.

A broader statistical analysis places the Stars at a significant
disadvantage. They are the only team that has managed to reach the
conference finals with a negative goal differential. Their goaltending,
led primarily in the postseason by Anton Khudobin, has been
unspectacular. He and Ben Bishop have backstopped the Stars to the worst
team goals against average of any team that made it out of the first
round.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/09/06/sports/06nhl-preview-web-2/merlin_176598864_125249c5-97f0-40c7-a57f-643667b0a39b-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

That is compounded by Vegas's comparatively solid numbers. It is an
eyelash behind the Stars in scoring in the playoffs but allows 2.33
goals per game compared with Dallas's 3.5. Both teams have a formidable
mix of speed and size, with Vegas being led by the two-way standout wing
Stone. Much like how Dallas has been keyed by Heiskanen and John
Klingberg from the back end, Vegas has seen Theodore and Nate Schmidt
assume larger roles in its attack. In goal, the trade deadline
acquisition Robin Lehner has started 12 of Vegas's 15 games this
postseason and earned eight victories. Marc-Andre Fleury, heretofore a
franchise pillar, has won all three of his decisions.

Both teams made in-season coaching changes, with Dallas dismissing Jim
Montgomery for
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/12/10/sports/hockey/dallas-stars-jim-montgomery-fired.html\#:~:text=The\%20Dallas\%20Stars\%20fired\%20Coach,\%2C\%20citing\%20\%E2\%80\%9Cunprofessional\%20conduct.\%E2\%80\%9D\&text=This\%20decision\%20was\%20made\%20due,and\%20the\%20National\%20Hockey\%20League.\%E2\%80\%9D}{``unprofessional
conduct''} in December and Vegas tiring of volatile play under Gerard
Gallant as a strong alternative became available. Dallas promoted the
veteran assistant coach Rick Bowness, while Vegas looked to Peter
DeBoer, who had been fired by the Sharks amid their abjectly
disappointing campaign. DeBoer has had the Midas touch in his first
season behind the bench. He took over the Devils in 2011-12 and led them
to the Stanley Cup finals. He replicated that feat when he assumed
control of San Jose in 2015-16. But, as he's in his 12th season as a
head coach, DeBoer has found winning a championship elusive.

\hypertarget{no-2-tampa-bay-lightning-vs-no-6-islanders}{%
\subsection{No. 2 Tampa Bay Lightning vs No. 6
Islanders}\label{no-2-tampa-bay-lightning-vs-no-6-islanders}}

The Lightning have now reached the conference finals five times over the
past 10 seasons, winning once before falling to the Chicago Blackhawks
in the 2015 Stanley Cup finals, and losing in seven games three times.
Last season, they won a record-tying 62 regular-season games, only to be
swept in the first round. This season, they have become focused on
becoming more adaptable. They emphasized versatility, doggedness and
defensive ability by paying handsomely for a pair of bottom-six
forwards, Blake Coleman and Barclay Goodrow, at the trade deadline.

That has paid off, as the Lightning appear comfortable in either a
battle of attrition or a free-flowing game with few whistles. They've
also needed depth up front given that center Steven Stamkos, a two-time
goal-scoring champion, has yet to play in these playoffs and right wing
Nikita Kucherov, last season's most valuable player and scoring
champion, sustained an injury in Game 5 of their series against Boston.
In the between-the-lines vernacular of the playoffs, one might surmise
that Kucherov is a possibility and Stamkos is doubtful for Game 1.

Image

With Steven Stamkos out, Brayden Point, right, has led the Lightning in
scoring this postseason.Credit...Elsa/Getty Images

Center Brayden Point has led the Bolts in goals and points, as the team
has put up elite possession numbers. Defenseman Victor Hedman has lived
up to his Norris Trophy billing by recording nine points in 13 games and
a plus-11 rating, which ties him with two Islanders for the best rating
in the conference. Goalie Andrei Vasilevskiy has been a leviathan in net
and played every minute of the playoffs. He leads the league in
victories and time on ice while posting a .931 save percentage and a
1.91 goals against average.

While the Lightning finished off the Bruins in five games, the Islanders
needed seven, three of which went to overtime, to advance past the
Philadelphia Flyers. Whether that leaves their club energized or
exhausted remains to be seen, but the Islanders have seldom shied away
from adversity or physical play.

Persistence, soundness and poise have been elements of Coach Barry
Trotz's team in New York, which is in its first conference final since
1993.

The Islanders are the only team remaining that had to play a qualifying
round series. They have advanced by consistently rolling four forward
lines and three defense pairings that have all produced. The
second-liners Josh Bailey and Brock Nelson have been their leading
scorers. The top line of Mathew Barzal, Anders Lee and Jordan Eberle has
been a constant offensive threat. Semyon Varlamov has nine wins, but it
was Thomas Greiss who earned the Game 7 shutout win against Philadelphia
on Friday in Toronto.

If the Islanders advance, it will be their first finals appearance since
1984, which was their fifth consecutive trip on the heels of four
straight championships.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
