Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/sports/baseball}{Baseball}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/sports/baseball}{Baseball}\textbar{}As the Virus Spreads
Through M.L.B., So Does Frustration

\url{https://nyti.ms/31jVWAe}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

on baseball

\hypertarget{as-the-virus-spreads-through-mlb-so-does-frustration}{%
\section{As the Virus Spreads Through M.L.B., So Does
Frustration}\label{as-the-virus-spreads-through-mlb-so-does-frustration}}

Series have been postponed, teams have been quarantined and road trips
have been rerouted in a season that has been defined above all by its
precariousness.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/08/03/sports/03mlb-virus-1/merlin_174367527_c7c15a93-a776-4a66-b980-a02e4cd85e8e-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/tyler-kepner}{Tyler Kepner}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Aug. 3, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Major League Baseball is like a beleaguered landlord with 30 frightened
tenants. Flooding in one apartment damages several others. The pipes get
fixed, and then mold spreads in the room down the hall. Nobody wants to
condemn the building, but everyone knows it might collapse.

So it was on Monday, when the Miami Marlins worked out in Baltimore, the
Philadelphia Phillies prepared for a game in the Bronx --- and
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/01/sports/baseball/coronavirus-cardinals.html}{the
St. Louis Cardinals' outbreak of positive coronavirus cases} swelled to
13, forcing the postponement of four games this week in Detroit.

The Cardinals have been quarantined since Thursday at their hotel in
Milwaukee, where their three-game series with the Brewers was postponed
last weekend after St. Louis's first cases were confirmed. M.L.B.
announced on Monday that seven Cardinals players and six staff members
had tested positive, another body blow for the league after 20 people in
the Marlins' traveling party --- 18 players and two coaches --- tested
positive last week.

``I think everyone is trying to look for someone or something to blame,
and there isn't one person or one thing to blame,'' Derek Jeter, the
Marlins' chief executive, said on Monday. ``This is a health crisis that
we're all dealing with --- a health crisis that not only our country is
dealing with, but our world is dealing with.''

Baseball wants to insulate itself from that world, but its 30 teams are
traveling throughout the United States to stage a 60-game season. The
league determined that a so-called bubble approach was impractical, and
the areas it considered months ago --- Arizona, Texas and Florida --- to
carry out a season in a contained environment have since become hot
spots for the virus, anyway. Yet road trips have increased the risk of
infection.

``We weren't perfect,'' Marlins Manager Don Mattingly said. ``We were in
Miami for three weeks and we didn't have one positive. So I think we
felt like we were being good at it. Obviously, we weren't being good
enough --- and then we got hit in a big way.''

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/08/03/sports/03mlb-virus-2/merlin_175274157_564dcdc6-0f94-46b7-8427-3a31a7e33f4b-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Jeter said the Marlins had been unfairly maligned for playing in
Philadelphia on July 26 after they learned of four positive tests within
their traveling party; in fact, he said, the Phillies and M.L.B. were
also aware of those test results. He also disputed that the Marlins had
acted recklessly in Atlanta, where they played two exhibitions before
flying to Philadelphia.

Mostly, Jeter said, the Marlins were careless, failing to adhere
strictly to mask-wearing and social distancing. While there was ``no
salacious activity'' in Atlanta, he said, some players did leave the
hotel for coffee or shopping. The subsequent outbreak, however it
originated, has been sobering for a young team.

``If there's any group that understands the seriousness of what we're
dealing with, it's our group, because we've seen how it's gone through
our clubhouse,'' Jeter said. ``We've talked to our guys once again about
the importance of being disciplined on the road. We've talked to them
over and over again. In terms of giving them warnings, they've seen it.
It comes down to discipline. I don't think there's any secret formula
for a team to be successful through this. You have to be extremely
disciplined.''

The Marlins' infected players took a bus home to Miami over the weekend,
before the rest of the team left Philadelphia --- at last --- for
Baltimore on Sunday night. To fill out the roster, Michael Hill, the
Marlins' president of baseball operations, brought in six new players
and promoted several others, including Eddy Alvarez, a 30-year-old
infielder who won a silver medal at the 2014 Winter Olympics as a
short-track speedskater and has never played in the majors.

``In our jobs, we always plan for Plan A, Plan B, Plan C, Plan D, and
that's normally one or two players at a time,'' Hill said. ``To
encounter the numbers that we had to place on the injured list and
respond to that has been a challenge.''

The Marlins' crisis also affected the Phillies, who stayed idle for a
week as they underwent extensive testing. A coach and a clubhouse
staffer tested positive, but no Phillies players have. First baseman
Rhys Hoskins acknowledged Monday that players sometimes wondered if the
league was being overly cautious in sidelining them, but he stopped
short of blaming the Marlins.

``Look, I think everyone would be lying if they said they weren't
frustrated, but we knew the volatility of the virus coming into the
season, and we knew these things were a possibility,'' Hoskins said.
``Not ideal, but here we are. We get to play again. We're getting ready
to --- hopefully --- continuously play throughout the rest of the
season.''

Phillies Manager Joe Girardi said he wondered how sharp his players
would be after another unexpected layoff in a year now full of them. Yet
he said he felt empathy for the Marlins, not resentment.

``I don't think it's something they tried to go out and do,'' Girardi
said. ``There's 18 players that are affected, and they all want to play
and they can't play for at least two weeks. So I feel for what they're
going through; to have to ride home on a sleeper bus, and their healthy
guys probably wondering every day, `Am I going to be sick tomorrow? Am I
going to be shut down?' They were locked up in a hotel, basically.

``And the one thing I've learned through this, in talking to people, is
I think there's a sense of guilt, sometimes, when a player gets it. And
that's a tough way to live, because there are so many ways to contract
this, and a lot of times you don't know if someone around you has
Covid.''

That is the strange and sad reality of playing in a pandemic. There are
so many ways it can fall apart, and you never know how long you'll stay
safe.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{Â©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
