Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}Sidestepping Congress, Trump
Signs Executive Measures for Pandemic Relief

\url{https://nyti.ms/3aakK1M}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{the-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=412ca600-f52d-11ea-96a2-f52873655d97\&variant=undefined}{The
Coronavirus
Outbreak}}{The Coronavirus Outbreak}}\label{the-coronavirus-outbreak}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  live\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/12/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=412ccd10-f52d-11ea-96a2-f52873655d97\&variant=undefined}{Latest
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=412ccd11-f52d-11ea-96a2-f52873655d97\&variant=undefined}{Maps
  and Cases}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=412ccd12-f52d-11ea-96a2-f52873655d97\&variant=undefined}{Vaccine
  Tracker}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/10/us/politics/fda-coronavirus-vaccine.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=412ccd13-f52d-11ea-96a2-f52873655d97\&variant=undefined}{F.D.A.
  Regulators' Self-Defense}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/09/upshot/coronavirus-surprise-test-fees.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=412ccd14-f52d-11ea-96a2-f52873655d97\&variant=undefined}{Surprise
  Test Fees}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{sidestepping-congress-trump-signs-executive-measures-for-pandemic-relief}{%
\section{Sidestepping Congress, Trump Signs Executive Measures for
Pandemic
Relief}\label{sidestepping-congress-trump-signs-executive-measures-for-pandemic-relief}}

President Trump signed the directives after two weeks of stalemate with
Democrats over a recovery package, using legally dubious measures to try
to restore lapsed benefits.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/08/business/08virus-briefing-trumplede/08virus-briefing-trumplede-videoSixteenByNine3000.jpg}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/maggie-haberman}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/07/12/multimedia/author-maggie-haberman/author-maggie-haberman-thumbLarge.png}}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/emily-cochrane}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/11/28/multimedia/author-emily-cochrane/author-emily-cochrane-thumbLarge-v3.png}}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/jim-tankersley}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/10/19/multimedia/author-jim-tankersley/author-jim-tankersley-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/maggie-haberman}{Maggie
Haberman},
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/emily-cochrane}{Emily
Cochrane} and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/jim-tankersley}{Jim
Tankersley}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Aug. 8, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

President Trump took executive action on Saturday to circumvent Congress
and try to extend an array of federal pandemic relief, resorting to a
legally dubious set of edicts whose impact was unclear, as negotiations
over
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/08/world/coronavirus-updates.html}{an
economic recovery package} appeared on the brink of collapse.

It was not clear what authority Mr. Trump had to act on his own on the
measures or what immediate effect, if any, they would have, given that
Congress controls federal spending. But his decision to sign the
measures --- billed as a federal eviction ban, a payroll tax suspension,
and relief for student borrowers and \$400 a week for the unemployed ---
reflected the failure of two weeks of talks between White House
officials and top congressional Democrats to strike a deal on a broad
relief plan as crucial benefits have expired with no resolution in
sight.

Mr. Trump's move also illustrated the heightened concern of a president
staring down re-election in the middle of a historic recession and a
pandemic, and determined to show voters that he was doing something to
address the crises. But despite Mr. Trump's assertions on Saturday that
his actions ``will take care of this entire situation,'' the orders also
leave a number of critical bipartisan funding proposals unaddressed,
including providing assistance to small businesses, billions of dollars
to schools ahead of the new school year, aid to states and cities and a
second round of \$1,200 stimulus checks to Americans.

``Nancy Pelosi and Chuck Schumer have chosen to hold this vital
assistance hostage,'' Mr. Trump said, savaging the two top Democrats and
their \$3.4 trillion opening offer during a news conference at his
private golf club in New Jersey, his second in two days. A few dozen
club guests were in attendance, and the president appeared to revel in
their laughter at his jokes denouncing his political rivals.

``We've had it,'' he added, repeatedly referring to his directives as
``bills,'' a term reserved for legislation passed by Congress. He
accused the Democrats of holding up negotiations with demands for
provisions that appeared to have little to do with the pandemic, though
he made little mention of comparable items in the \$1 trillion proposal
Republicans
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/27/us/politics/republicans-jobless-aid.html}{unveiled
last month}.

Democrats have refused to agree to that plan, pressing instead for a far
more expansive economic relief package, at least twice as large, that
would provide billions more for states and cities and food aid, and
revive the lapsed \$600-per-week enhanced federal jobless aid payments.
(Republicans are proposing to revive the payments, but at a rate of
\$400 a week.)

It was unclear whether the effort to bypass Congress would kill the
already-stalled negotiations altogether, though Mr. Trump told reporters
he would be open to continuing the discussions and Democratic leaders
responded by demanding that the talks resume.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-the-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/11/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: The Coronavirus
Outbreak}}{Latest Updates: The Coronavirus Outbreak}}\label{latest-updates-the-coronavirus-outbreak}}

Updated 2020-09-12T12:04:20.515Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/11/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-dfb8a16}{Fauci
  cautions the virus could disrupt life in the U.S. until `maybe even
  towards the end of 2021.'}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/11/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-7104d154}{From
  Asia to Africa, China promotes its vaccine candidates to win friends.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/11/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-393ad215}{The
  other way the virus will kill: hunger.}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/11/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

More live coverage:
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/11/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Markets}

``We're disappointed that instead of putting in the work to solve
Americans' problems, the president instead chose to stay on his luxury
golf course to announce unworkable, weak and narrow policy announcements
to slash the unemployment benefits that millions desperately need and
endanger seniors' Social Security and Medicare,'' Speaker Nancy Pelosi
and Senator Chuck Schumer, Democrat of New York and the minority leader,
said in a statement. They called on Republicans to ``return to the
table'' to continue negotiating and ``meet us halfway.''

It was unclear whether the aid would even materialize if lawsuits are
filed challenging their legality. Mr. Trump walked away from the lectern
after just a few questions from reporters about his claim that he had
the ability to circumvent Congress.

Signing the orders was a familiar tactic from a president who has
portrayed himself as the ultimate deal-maker, but in practice has shown
little interest in or skill for negotiating with Congress, bristling
against the limitations of his power. It recalled his decision in 2018
to
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/12/21/us/politics/trump-shutdown-border-wall.html}{shut
down the government} over his demand for funding for a wall on the
southwestern border, his signature campaign promise, in an effort to
force Democrats to agree to the money. They never did, and the president
ultimately declared a national emergency to divert other federal money
to fund it himself, a move that drew legal challenges.

Shortly after the event on Saturday, the White House released texts of
the measures --- one executive order and three memorandums --- which
included several flourishes that read like political documents in
accusing Democrats of playing games. One invoked the Stafford Act, a
federal disaster relief statute, to divert money from a homeland
security fund and allow states to use money already allocated by
Congress to help people who have been laid off amid the coronavirus
pandemic, effectively allowing them to apply for disaster relief to
cover lost wages. The mechanism would pull from the same fund that
covers natural disasters in the middle of what is expected to be a
highly active hurricane season.

Mr. Trump claimed that the action would provide \$400 weekly in enhanced
unemployment benefits, \$200 less than laid-off workers had been
receiving under benefits that lapsed at the end of July. But with states
being directed to pick up \$100 of that aid, the federal amount would be
no more than \$300 a week.

And there is another catch --- the text of the memorandum says that the
\$300 can only be paid to people who first qualify for \$100 in aid paid
by their state.

It was unclear how quickly states, whose unemployment systems had
already been overburdened by the record numbers of new jobless claims,
would be able to adjust to a new system, or whether they will have the
resources to supplement an additional benefit.

``If they don't, they don't --- that's going to be their problem,'' Mr.
Trump said.

He also retroactively signed a memorandum suspending the payroll tax
from Aug. 1 through the end of 2020, though the order would just defer
the payment of the taxes. (Mr. Trump vowed that if re-elected in
November, he would extend the deferral and the payments.)

If Mr. Trump tried to make a payroll tax cut permanent, it would have a
drastic effect on the funding of Social Security, which he has
previously vowed not to cut.

The memorandum that Mr. Trump called a moratorium on evictions did not
revive the expired moratorium that was part of the \$2.2 trillion
stimulus law passed in March. Instead, it said that federal policy was
to minimize evictions during the pandemic and that officials should
identify statutory ways to help homeowners and renters.

Long before taking office, Mr. Trump
\href{https://twitter.com/realdonaldtrump/status/222739756105207808}{criticized
Barack Obama} for what he described as an overreliance on executive
orders to accomplish policy goals that had been blocked by Congress, but
in acting unilaterally, Mr. Trump was vastly expanding the use of such
measures.

Mark Meadows, the White House chief of staff and a vicious critic of Mr.
Obama's actions while a North Carolina congressman, was among those who
recommended that Mr. Trump issue the orders, even as he conceded that an
agreement with lawmakers would be more potent for the American economy.

``This is not a perfect answer --- we'll be the first ones to say
that,'' Mr. Meadows said on Friday, after he and Steven Mnuchin, the
Treasury secretary, emerged from another meeting with congressional
Democrats with no deal. ``But it is all that we can do and all the
president can do within the confines of his executive power and we're
going to encourage him to do it.''

While most Democrats slammed the legality of the executive actions, few
Republicans publicly criticized the maneuver. One notable exception was
Senator Ben Sasse of Nebraska, who declared, ``The pen-and-phone theory
of executive lawmaking is unconstitutional slop.''

Mr. Trump had told reporters on Friday evening that he would probably
sign executive orders to provide economic relief next week if no
compromise could be reached with Democrats, but by Saturday morning,
officials were already drafting them and planning an afternoon news
conference.

After signing the measures, Mr. Trump handed out the black Sharpies he
had used, embossed with his name, to members of his golf club standing
at the back of the room.

The Labor Department reported on Friday that the economy
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/07/business/economy/july-jobs-report.html}{created
1.8 million jobs in July}, a sharp slowdown from May and June, and
economic forecasters expect further slowing in August. Many economists
have noted that the \$600 supplemental unemployment benefits, which
expired at the end of July, had been propping up consumer spending at a
time when about 30 million Americans are unemployed.

Mr. Trump's memorandum seeking to repurpose other money to cover lost
wages is unlikely to deliver additional cash to laid-off workers any
time soon. And while some of Mr. Trump's outside advisers, including the
conservative economists Arthur B. Laffer and Stephen Moore, have urged
him to suspend payroll tax collections, other economists say the move is
unlikely to bolster workers' paychecks because it is only a delay in tax
liability. Many companies are likely to continue withholding the taxes
in order to remit them next year on workers' behalf, they say.

It is an idea that Republican lawmakers have also resisted.

``They don't make that much difference,'' Ms. Pelosi told members of the
Democratic caucus on a private call Saturday afternoon, according to
three people familiar with her remarks. She questioned whether Mr. Trump
genuinely wanted to reach an agreement, telling lawmakers that the
president cared about the markets and having his ``name on the letter
when those direct payments go out.''

Luke Broadwater contributed reporting.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
