Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}Gillibrand Drops Out of 2020
Democratic Presidential Race

\url{https://nyti.ms/2PuzSQG}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Election
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/biden-vice-president-2020.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Biden's
  V.P. Search}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/07/24/us/politics/trump-biden-campaign-donors.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Map
  of Donations}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/elections/delegate-count-primary-results.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Delegate
  Count}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2019/us/politics/2020-presidential-candidates.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{The
  Candidates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Politics
  Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{gillibrand-drops-out-of-2020-democratic-presidential-race}{%
\section{Gillibrand Drops Out of 2020 Democratic Presidential
Race}\label{gillibrand-drops-out-of-2020-democratic-presidential-race}}

The New York senator anchored her candidacy in issues of women's
equality, but she was unable to gain traction and her failure to qualify
for the next debate convinced her to withdraw.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2019/08/28/us/politics/28gillibrand1/28gillibrand1-articleLarge-v2.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/alexander-burns}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/09/25/multimedia/author-alexander-burns/author-alexander-burns-thumbLarge-v2.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/alexander-burns}{Alexander Burns}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Published Aug. 28, 2019Updated Aug. 30, 2019
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Senator Kirsten Gillibrand of New York, who presented herself in the
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/news-event/2020-election}{presidential
race} as a champion of women and families, said Wednesday that she was
withdrawing from the Democratic primary after failing to qualify for a
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/news-event/democratic-debates}{third
debate} next month --- a development she described as fatal to her
candidacy.

Ms. Gillibrand said in an interview that she would endorse another
candidate in the primary but had not yet picked a favorite. Though she
stopped short of saying she would endorse a woman, Ms. Gillibrand, who
has made electing women to Congress a personal cause, said the next
president had to be capable of uniting the country and suggested that a
woman might be best suited for the job.

``I think that women have a unique ability to bring people together and
heal this country,'' Ms. Gillibrand said, adding, ``I think a woman
nominee would be inspiring and exciting.''

But she added: ``I will support whoever the nominee is, and I will do
whatever it takes to beat Trump.''

\emph{{[}}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/politics?smid=rd?action=click\&module=Intentional\&pgtype=Article}{\emph{Sign
up for our politics newsletter}} \emph{and join the conversation around
the 2020 presidential race.{]}}

Ms. Gillibrand, 52,
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/05/22/us/politics/gillibrand-family-bill-of-rights.html}{had
anchored her candidacy in issues of women's equality}, with
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/05/17/us/politics/kirsten-gillibrand-abortion.html}{a
strong emphasis on abortion rights}. She pledged to screen nominees for
judgeships based on their support for the Roe v. Wade decision
legalizing abortion, and held rallies in two Republican-leaning states,
Georgia and Missouri, where conservative lawmakers recently passed new
restrictions on the procedure.

Ms. Gillibrand also repeatedly challenged former Vice President Joseph
R. Biden Jr., the Democratic front-runner, over his record on women's
rights.
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/06/05/us/politics/biden-hyde-amendment.html}{She
assailed him in June} for supporting a law that bars federal funding for
abortion, a stance
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/06/06/us/politics/joe-biden-hyde-amendment.html}{Mr.
Biden soon recanted}. In
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/07/31/us/politics/democratic-presidential-debate-recap.html}{the
most recent primary debate}, Ms. Gillibrand criticized Mr. Biden for
having opposed a proposal in the early 1980s to expand the child tax
credit; Mr. Biden described that as ancient history and questioned the
sincerity of Ms. Gillibrand's rebuke.

Her energetic advocacy did not lift Ms. Gillibrand in the polls in a
race full of candidates supportive of abortion rights, including three
other female senators. Like so many other candidates, she found herself
squeezed for a space in a primary contest dominated by Mr. Biden and a
handful of progressives jockeying to overtake him.

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2019/us/politics/2020-presidential-candidates.html}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2019/01/20/us/2020-presidential-candidates-promo-1548014688187/2020-presidential-candidates-promo-1548014688187-articleLarge-v68.png}

\hypertarget{whos-running-for-president-in-2020}{%
\subsection{Who's Running for President in
2020?}\label{whos-running-for-president-in-2020}}

The field of Democratic presidential candidates has been historically
large, but all have dropped out except Joe Biden, the presumptive
Democratic nominee to challenge President Trump.

Although Ms. Gillibrand aligned herself with her party's progressive
wing on a range of issues, from health care and climate to immigration
and campaign finance reform, she did not electrify liberals with her
distinctive ideas, like Senators Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts and
Bernie Sanders of Vermont. Nor did she achieve a moment of debate-stage
ignition, like Senator Kamala Harris of California.

And if Ms. Gillibrand never engineered a breakthrough moment for
herself, she also appeared, at times, to suffer from a combination of
ill fortune and missteps.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-2020-election}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: 2020
Election}}{Latest Updates: 2020 Election}}\label{latest-updates-2020-election}}

Updated 2020-08-01T01:26:45.732Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-29fdff45}{Kamala
  Harris, a top vice-presidential contender, confronts double
  standards.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-13ec3d9c}{Karen
  Bass and Susan Rice are rising on Biden's vice-presidential
  shortlist.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-49e9a016}{Trump
  says Russian bounties to kill U.S. troops `never took place.'}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/03/24/us/politics/gillibrand-trump-2020.html}{A
late March rally} Ms. Gillibrand planned outside the Trump International
Hotel and Tower in New York was blotted out by the media frenzy
accompanying the submission of the Mueller report to the Justice
Department. An early appearance on Rachel Maddow's coveted prime time
show was dominated by Ms. Maddow's biting introduction of Ms. Gillibrand
as a candidate who once held conservative positions on gun rights and
border control. And by random drawing, Ms. Gillibrand appeared twice on
the debate stage beside Mr. Biden and Ms. Harris, whose rivalry consumed
both events.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2019/08/28/us/28gillibrand-2/merlin_158710476_596d9bbe-16fe-4d3e-a69a-44ee7834a0e7-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Throughout the race, Ms. Gillibrand averaged less than 1 percent support
in national surveys and struggled to raise money, relying heavily on a
\$10 million war chest in her Senate campaign account. She hired nearly
five dozen staff members in Iowa and New Hampshire and retained a
collection of high-powered operatives in her Troy, N.Y., campaign
headquarters. But her funds were nearly depleted over the summer, aides
to Ms. Gillibrand said, and the campaign estimated she would wind up
with about \$800,000 left in her coffers.

That depletion reflected, in part, Ms. Gillibrand's efforts to qualify
for the September debate --- an effort that turned out to be in vain.
She poured money into advertising in the early primary states in an
effort to move her poll numbers, but public polling was scarce over the
summer and any improvement for Ms. Gillibrand was not detected in time
for
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/08/28/us/politics/democratic-polls-quinnipiac-suffolk.html}{the
debate cutoff on Wednesday}.

``I think being able to have a voice on a debate stage, when other
candidates have that, is really important,'' Ms. Gillibrand said. ``And
without it, I just didn't see our path.''

\emph{{[}}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/elections/democratic-polls.html?action=click\&module=Intentional\&pgtype=Article}{\emph{Which
Democrats are leading the 2020 presidential race this week?}}\emph{{]}}

Unlike some other frustrated candidates, she declined to complain about
the Democratic National Committee's qualifying rules for the debates:
``I think the D.N.C. did the best they could,'' she said.

Her exit from the presidential race represents an abrupt setback in a
political career defined, up to this point, by a steady rise to
prominence since her first election to Congress in 2006. A former
corporate lawyer, Ms. Gillibrand won a conservative-leaning House seat
in upstate New York, campaigning as a rural moderate with liberal views
on health care but more conservative inclinations on gun rights and
immigration.

When she joined the Senate in 2009, as an appointee to the seat Hillary
Clinton vacated to take over the State Department, Ms. Gillibrand
revised her stances on a number of issues to better match the politics
of her deep-blue state. She quickly emerged as a champion of progressive
causes including gay rights, paid family leave and fighting sexual
assault in the military, and she became a formidable fund-raiser for
Democratic campaigns.

Yet as a presidential candidate, Ms. Gillibrand found herself shunned by
a class of powerful Democratic Party donors --- who had once been
supportive of her political ambitions --- after she called on Al Franken
of Minnesota to resign from the Senate amid allegations of groping and
other sexual misconduct toward women. Ms. Gillibrand acknowledged in the
interview that she had paid a political price but
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/07/23/us/politics/al-franken-kirsten-gillibrand.html}{reiterated
that she had no regrets about confronting Mr. Franken}.

``We know there were donors who were angry about it and did not support
me because of it,'' Ms. Gillibrand said, adding, ``I wouldn't change
what I did, because I would stand with those eight women again today.''

Image

Taking down signs after a campaign event in Creston, Iowa. As a
candidate, Ms. Gillibrand found herself shunned by a class of powerful
Democratic Party donors.Credit...Maddie McGarvey for The New York Times

Ms. Gillibrand said she would return to the Senate and continue to
champion the causes of her presidential campaign. She intends to revive
her political committee, Off the Sidelines, that has been dormant during
the presidential race, and use it to support female candidates for the
House and Senate in 2020.

``I'm really going to focus on electing women up and down the ballot,''
she said.

Despite her past criticism of Mr. Biden, she said she did not see him as
a problematic potential nominee for their party, and credited him with
addressing her reservations about his record on issues of concern to
women.

``I think he clarified his views at the debate, which is why I raised
it,'' Ms. Gillibrand said. ``I thought it was really important to know
that all candidates on that stage value women and will fight for paid
leave and equal pay and affordable day care and universal pre-K and a
national paid leave plan.''

Ms. Gillibrand said she felt she had helped ``move the conversation on
all of these issues.''

But she said she was open to considering other offices after 2020 ---
perhaps in the administration of a Democratic president.

``I would absolutely consider anything that was asked of me, because my
goal is to serve,'' Ms. Gillibrand said.

For now, she added, ``I'm going to do everything I can to make sure our
nominee defeats Trump.''

\hypertarget{our-2020-election-guide}{%
\section{Our 2020 Election Guide}\label{our-2020-election-guide}}

Updated July 31, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{the-latest}{%
  \subsection{The Latest}\label{the-latest}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    President Trump's assault on the Postal Service is intersecting with
    his attacks on mail-in voting.
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/politics/trump-usps-mail-delays.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Voting
    rights groups say it is a recipe for disaster.}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{bidens-vp-search}{%
  \subsection{Biden's V.P. Search}\label{bidens-vp-search}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/biden-vice-president-2020.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Here
    are 13 women} who have been under consideration to be Joe Biden's
    running mate, and why each might be chosen --- and might not be.
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{keep-up-with-our-coverage}{%
  \subsection{Keep Up With Our
  Coverage}\label{keep-up-with-our-coverage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Get an
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{email}
    recapping the day's news
  \end{itemize}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Download our mobile app on
    \href{https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nytimes/id284862083?ls=1\&mat_click_id=5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\&referrer=mat_click_id\%3D5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\%26link_click_id\%3D722930677036718082}{iOS}
    and
    \href{http://a.localytics.com/android?id=com.nytimes.android\&referrer=utm_source\%3Dother_nyt_mobile_web\%26utm_medium\%3DWeb\%2520page\%26utm_term\%3DGeneral\%2520Mobile\%2520Page\%26utm_campaign\%3DNYT\%2520Mobile\%2520General\%2520Page}{Android}
    and turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
