Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}Thomas Massie, House's `Mr.
No,' Tries to Force Vote on Coronavirus Aid Bill

\url{https://nyti.ms/2QKR1Eb}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/news-event/coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{The
Coronavirus Outbreak}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  live\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/01/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Latest
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Maps
  and Cases}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Vaccine
  Tracker}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/07/29/us/schools-reopening-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{What
  School May Look Like}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/live/2020/07/31/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Economy}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{thomas-massie-houses-mr-no-tries-to-force-vote-on-coronavirus-aid-bill}{%
\section{Thomas Massie, House's `Mr. No,' Tries to Force Vote on
Coronavirus Aid
Bill}\label{thomas-massie-houses-mr-no-tries-to-force-vote-on-coronavirus-aid-bill}}

The Kentucky libertarian's tactics failed, but not before forcing
lawmakers back to the Capitol for passage of the \$2 trillion
coronavirus stimulus package, infuriating them and President Trump.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/03/27/us/politics/27dc-virus-massie-sub/merlin_171040413_11f7f836-1309-4f46-8524-4ce048b7b866-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/catie-edmondson}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2019/11/20/us/politics/catie-edmonson-twitter-chatblog/catie-edmonson-twitter-chatblog-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/catie-edmondson}{Catie Edmondson}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  March 27, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

WASHINGTON --- When Representative Thomas Massie heard that House
leaders wanted to pass a
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/26/us/coronavirus-senate-stimulus-package.html?action=click\&module=Top\%20Stories\&pgtype=Homepage\&action=click\&module=RelatedLinks\&pgtype=Article}{\$2
trillion stimulus measure} to respond to the coronavirus without so much
as a recorded vote, he swung into outraged action.

He got into his black Tesla on Wednesday and began the drive from his
home in northeastern Kentucky to the Capitol, determined to object to
its quick passage and insist that lawmakers show up in person --- in
defiance of public health advice --- to register their support or
opposition.

``I came here to make sure our republic doesn't die by unanimous consent
and empty chamber,'' he said on the House floor on Friday.

Mr. Massie, the libertarian whose contrarian streak has earned him
\href{https://www.politico.com/story/2013/01/kentucky-rep-earns-name-for-himself-by-voting-no-086318}{the
moniker} \href{https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HTSqyyOC4Jc}{``Mr. No,}''
ultimately failed when House leaders in both parties united to deflect
his stunt, assembling enough lawmakers in the chamber for a quorum and
allowing
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/27/us/politics/coronavirus-house-voting.html}{the
bill to pass by voice vote after all}. President Trump signed the bill
later in the afternoon, sending direct payments and jobless aid to
taxpayers, help to states and hospitals battling the disease, and
government bailouts to businesses battered by the crisis.

But putting down his one-man revolt required scores of House members to
scramble late Thursday to return to Washington from all corners of the
country, infuriated and terrified as they put their health on the line
amid a rapidly spreading pandemic to grudgingly board empty flights or
drive back to the Capitol.

Mr. Massie has never been one of the more beloved members of the House,
but on Friday, he became in short order its most reviled representative,
bringing together Democrats and Republicans --- who had spent days
fighting bitterly over the economic aid bill --- around shared contempt
for one man.

``Looks like a third rate Grandstander named @RepThomasMassie, a
Congressman from, unfortunately, a truly GREAT state, Kentucky, wants to
vote against the new Save Our Workers Bill in Congress,''
\href{https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/1243534441772974081}{President
Trump wrote in his first of two Twitter rebukes}, in which he suggested
that Mr. Massie should be expelled from the Republican Party. ``He just
wants the publicity.''

\hypertarget{latest-updates-global-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/01/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: Global Coronavirus
Outbreak}}{Latest Updates: Global Coronavirus Outbreak}}\label{latest-updates-global-coronavirus-outbreak}}

Updated 2020-08-02T10:04:29.623Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/01/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-34047410}{The
  U.S. reels as July cases more than double the total of any other
  month.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/01/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-780ec966}{Top
  U.S. officials work to break an impasse over the federal jobless
  benefit.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/01/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-2bc8948}{Its
  outbreak untamed, Melbourne goes into even greater lockdown.}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/01/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

More live coverage:
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/live/2020/07/31/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Markets}

Not long after, John Kerry, the former secretary of state and Democratic
presidential nominee,
\href{https://twitter.com/JohnKerry/status/1243552337429438464?s=20}{took
to Twitter himself} to declare that Mr. Massie ``has tested positive for
being an asshole,'' and should ``be quarantined to prevent the spread of
his massive stupidity.''

``Never knew John Kerry had such a good sense of humor!''
\href{https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/1243572588200280064?s=20}{Mr.
Trump quipped} in a rare showing of bipartisan camaraderie. ``Very
impressed!''

A reporter happened upon a bipartisan venting of spleen against Mr.
Massie in the driveway outside the Capitol, in which Senator Dan
Sullivan, Republican of Alaska, was overheard telling Representative
Sean Patrick Maloney, Democrat of New York, of the Kentuckian: ``What a
dumbass.''

``I can confirm that
\href{https://slack-redir.net/link?url=https\%3A\%2F\%2Ftwitter.com\%2FRepThomasMassie}{@RepThomasMassie}
is indeed a dumbass,''
\href{https://twitter.com/RepSeanMaloney/status/1243585547941154817?s=20}{Mr.
Maloney tweeted}, confirming the conversation.

House leaders had planned to pass the mammoth government aid package by
voice vote in an effort to allow fewer representatives to return to
Washington, reducing the health risk to lawmakers. But that method can
be easily stymied by just one vocal objector, and despite
behind-the-scenes pleas delivered to the Kentucky Republican from
members of his own party, Mr. Massie refused to commit to allowing it.

That meant Democratic and Republican leaders, betting that Mr. Massie
would carry through on his threats, had to urge their members to come
back to the Capitol to form a quorum, even as public health officials
around the country advised against travel and large gatherings as a way
of slowing the spread of Covid-19, the disease caused by the
coronavirus.

They bet right.

``The Constitution requires that a quorum of members be present to
conduct business in the House. Right now, millions of essential,
working-class Americans are still required to go to work during this
pandemic,''
\href{https://twitter.com/RepThomasMassie/status/1243565643137454080?s=20}{Mr.
Massie said in a lengthy statement} on Friday morning announcing that he
would force a vote. ``Is it too much to ask that the House do its job,
just like the Senate did?''

A self-described constitutional conservative who has been known to sport
a tie bearing the Gadsden flag, Mr. Massie, 49, often takes lonely
stands. He routinely tweets contrarian takes using the hashtag
\#SassyWithMassie. In 2014,
\href{https://www.cincinnati.com/story/news/politics/2014/06/15/congressman-thinks-answer/10565771/}{Mr.
Massie derailed a bill} the House was about to pass by voice vote to
award an honor to the golf legend Jack Nicklaus by demanding every
lawmaker go on the record about whether they supported such a
commendation.

Awarding a medal to Mr. Nicklaus, Mr. Massie argued, ``is not a good use
of our resources,'' adding that the golfer ``didn't die on the golf
course.''

His unwillingness to bend on even the smallest issue has charmed a slew
of powerful conservative groups, including the Club for Growth and
FreedomWorks. His closest friends on Capitol Hill are Representative
Justin Amash, the Republican turned independent from Michigan who is
also a frequent invoker of constitutional principle, and Senator Rand
Paul, Republican of Kentucky.

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/news-event/coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{}

\hypertarget{the-coronavirus-outbreak-}{%
\subsubsection{The Coronavirus Outbreak
›}\label{the-coronavirus-outbreak-}}

\hypertarget{frequently-asked-questions}{%
\paragraph{Frequently Asked
Questions}\label{frequently-asked-questions}}

Updated July 27, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{should-i-refinance-my-mortgage}{%
  \paragraph{Should I refinance my
  mortgage?}\label{should-i-refinance-my-mortgage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/coronavirus-money-unemployment.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{It
    could be a good idea,} because mortgage rates have
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/16/business/mortgage-rates-below-3-percent.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{never
    been lower.} Refinancing requests have pushed mortgage applications
    to some of the highest levels since 2008, so be prepared to get in
    line. But defaults are also up, so if you're thinking about buying a
    home, be aware that some lenders have tightened their standards.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{what-is-school-going-to-look-like-in-september}{%
  \paragraph{What is school going to look like in
  September?}\label{what-is-school-going-to-look-like-in-september}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    It is unlikely that many schools will return to a normal schedule
    this fall, requiring the grind of
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/05/us/coronavirus-education-lost-learning.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{online
    learning},
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/05/29/us/coronavirus-child-care-centers.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{makeshift
    child care} and
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/03/business/economy/coronavirus-working-women.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{stunted
    workdays} to continue. California's two largest public school
    districts --- Los Angeles and San Diego --- said on July 13, that
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/13/us/lausd-san-diego-school-reopening.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{instruction
    will be remote-only in the fall}, citing concerns that surging
    coronavirus infections in their areas pose too dire a risk for
    students and teachers. Together, the two districts enroll some
    825,000 students. They are the largest in the country so far to
    abandon plans for even a partial physical return to classrooms when
    they reopen in August. For other districts, the solution won't be an
    all-or-nothing approach.
    \href{https://bioethics.jhu.edu/research-and-outreach/projects/eschool-initiative/school-policy-tracker/}{Many
    systems}, including the nation's largest, New York City, are
    devising
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/26/us/coronavirus-schools-reopen-fall.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{hybrid
    plans} that involve spending some days in classrooms and other days
    online. There's no national policy on this yet, so check with your
    municipal school system regularly to see what is happening in your
    community.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{is-the-coronavirus-airborne}{%
  \paragraph{Is the coronavirus
  airborne?}\label{is-the-coronavirus-airborne}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    The coronavirus
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/04/health/239-experts-with-one-big-claim-the-coronavirus-is-airborne.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{can
    stay aloft for hours in tiny droplets in stagnant air}, infecting
    people as they inhale, mounting scientific evidence suggests. This
    risk is highest in crowded indoor spaces with poor ventilation, and
    may help explain super-spreading events reported in meatpacking
    plants, churches and restaurants.
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/06/health/coronavirus-airborne-aerosols.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{It's
    unclear how often the virus is spread} via these tiny droplets, or
    aerosols, compared with larger droplets that are expelled when a
    sick person coughs or sneezes, or transmitted through contact with
    contaminated surfaces, said Linsey Marr, an aerosol expert at
    Virginia Tech. Aerosols are released even when a person without
    symptoms exhales, talks or sings, according to Dr. Marr and more
    than 200 other experts, who
    \href{https://academic.oup.com/cid/article/doi/10.1093/cid/ciaa939/5867798}{have
    outlined the evidence in an open letter to the World Health
    Organization}.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{what-are-the-symptoms-of-coronavirus}{%
  \paragraph{What are the symptoms of
  coronavirus?}\label{what-are-the-symptoms-of-coronavirus}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Common symptoms
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/symptoms-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{include
    fever, a dry cough, fatigue and difficulty breathing or shortness of
    breath.} Some of these symptoms overlap with those of the flu,
    making detection difficult, but runny noses and stuffy sinuses are
    less common.
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/04/27/health/coronavirus-symptoms-cdc.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{The
    C.D.C. has also} added chills, muscle pain, sore throat, headache
    and a new loss of the sense of taste or smell as symptoms to look
    out for. Most people fall ill five to seven days after exposure, but
    symptoms may appear in as few as two days or as many as 14 days.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{does-asymptomatic-transmission-of-covid-19-happen}{%
  \paragraph{Does asymptomatic transmission of Covid-19
  happen?}\label{does-asymptomatic-transmission-of-covid-19-happen}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    So far, the evidence seems to show it does. A widely cited
    \href{https://www.nature.com/articles/s41591-020-0869-5}{paper}
    published in April suggests that people are most infectious about
    two days before the onset of coronavirus symptoms and estimated that
    44 percent of new infections were a result of transmission from
    people who were not yet showing symptoms. Recently, a top expert at
    the World Health Organization stated that transmission of the
    coronavirus by people who did not have symptoms was ``very rare,''
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/09/world/coronavirus-updates.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq\#link-1f302e21}{but
    she later walked back that statement.}
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Mr. Paul provoked the ire of his colleagues this week for continuing to
work in the Capitol while awaiting coronavirus test results that came
back as positive. (Mr. Massie, in a nod to his friendship with Mr. Paul,
for years sported
\href{https://www.rollcall.com/2015/06/01/thomas-massie-talks-tesla/}{a
``Stand With Rand'' decal on his Tesla}.)

But that approach found few admirers on Friday.
\href{https://www.politico.com/news/2020/01/31/thomas-massie-trump-110136}{His
primary race challenger, Todd McMurtry}, who has accused Mr. Massie of
being insufficiently supportive of Mr. Trump, eagerly seized on the
president's comments, saying he agreed with Mr. Trump's
\href{https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/1243541556424048643?s=20}{assessment}
that Mr. Massie was ``a disaster for America.''

Nor were Mr. Massie's colleagues --- a majority of them older or with a
pre-existing health condition --- amused. Many were privately terrified
of the health risks of traveling. Shingles and lice, one senior
Democratic aide said, were more popular than Mr. Massie.

The normally affable Representative Dean Phillips, Democrat of
Minnesota,
\href{https://twitter.com/RepDeanPhillips/status/1243296323312340992?s=20}{used
Twitter} to confront him, tagging Mr. Massie in his broadside.

``If you intend to delay passage of
the\href{https://twitter.com/hashtag/coronavirus?src=hashtag_click}{\#coronavirus}
relief bill tomorrow morning, please advise your 428 colleagues RIGHT
NOW,'' Mr. Phillips wrote, ``so we can book flights and expend
\textasciitilde{}\$200,000 in taxpayer money to counter your principled
but terribly misguided stunt.''

A handful of Mr. Massie's allies defended him on Friday and directly
appealed to Mr. Trump.

Mr. Massie ``is a good man and a solid conservative,'' Representative
Paul Gosar, Republican of Arizona,
\href{https://twitter.com/DrPaulGosar/status/1243546289175961608?s=20}{wrote
on Twitter}. ``He believes in the Constitution strongly.''

Mr. Gosar added: ``We won't always agree on strategy or policy. But he
doesn't warrant this dressing down. Thomas---Hang tough brother.''

Representative Chip Roy, Republican of Texas,
\href{https://twitter.com/chiproytx/status/1243542668367613952?s=20}{told
Mr. Trump on Twitter} to ``back off.''

``He is defending the Constitution today by requiring a quorum,'' Mr.
Roy wrote. ``There's nothing 3rd rate about that,
\href{https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/}{@realDonaldTrump}. I may
miss vote if he forces roll call (flights) but it will pass.''

But the overriding sentiment among lawmakers on Friday may have been
best put by Representative Peter T. King, Republican of New York, who
also aired his grievances on Twitter, even as he called passage of the
stimulus bill a ``Victory for America.''

``Large number of Congress Members had to be in House Chamber and risk
infection to themselves \& others because of 1 arrogant Member,''
\href{https://twitter.com/RepPeteKing/status/1243595215828549635?s=20}{Mr.
King fumed}. ``If anyone gets infected, blood is on
\href{https://twitter.com/RepThomasMassie}{@RepThomasMassie}'s hands!''

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
