Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/arts/music}{Music}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/arts/music}{Music}\textbar{}Adam Schlesinger, Songwriter
for Rock, Film and the Stage, Dies at 52

\url{https://nyti.ms/2R5jp3X}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/news-event/coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{The
Coronavirus Outbreak}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  live\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/03/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Latest
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Maps
  and Cases}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Vaccine
  Tracker}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/02/us/covid-college-reopening.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{College
  Reopening}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/live/2020/08/03/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Economy}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

Those We've lost

\hypertarget{adam-schlesinger-songwriter-for-rock-film-and-the-stage-dies-at-52}{%
\section{Adam Schlesinger, Songwriter for Rock, Film and the Stage, Dies
at
52}\label{adam-schlesinger-songwriter-for-rock-film-and-the-stage-dies-at-52}}

He made suburban characters shine in Fountains of Wayne songs and
brought pop-rock perfection to the film ``That Thing You Do!'' He died
of coronavirus complications.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/04/03/obituaries/01Schlesinger1/merlin_37645536_e4ae3a9b-7f97-45e0-969c-16c5561ec22e-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/ben-sisario}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/02/20/multimedia/author-ben-sisario/author-ben-sisario-thumbLarge.jpg}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/ben-sisario}{Ben Sisario}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Published April 1, 2020Updated April 16, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

\emph{This obituary is part of a series about people who died in the
coronavirus pandemic. Read about
others}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/series/people-who-have-died-of-the-coronavirus}{\emph{here}}\emph{.}

Adam Schlesinger, an acclaimed singer-songwriter for the bands Fountains
of Wayne and Ivy who had an award-winning second career writing songs
for film, theater and television, died on Wednesday in Poughkeepsie,
N.Y. He was 52.

The cause was complications of the coronavirus, his family said.

In Fountains of Wayne, which was started in 1995, Mr. Schlesinger and
Chris Collingwood perfected a novelistic form of hummable pop-rock in a
style derived from the Kinks and from 1970s groups like Big Star and the
Cars.

They chose northern New Jersey and boroughs outside Manhattan as
thematic territory, chronicling the lives of suburban mall shoppers,
Generation X slackers and down-market cover bands in songs like
``Hackensack'' and ``Red Dragon Tattoo.''

Adored by critics, Fountains of Wayne --- in which Mr. Schlesinger
played bass and Mr. Collingwood played guitar and sang lead vocals ---
became a cult favorite but had modest record sales. Its most famous
moment came in 2003 with
\href{https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dZLfasMPOU4}{``Stacy's Mom,''} a
winking novelty track about a teenage boy infatuated with a friend's
mother. With a racy video featuring the supermodel Rachel Hunter, the
song made it to No. 21 on Billboard's Hot 100 chart.

Almost from the start of his career, Mr. Schlesinger found success in
other mediums. He wrote the Beatlesesque theme song to ``That Thing You
Do!,'' a 1996 film directed by Tom Hanks about an also-ran 1960s rock
band; like the best Fountains of Wayne songs,
\href{https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Dsi-eF6-uOY}{``That Thing You
Do!''} had an instantly catchy melody, a twisting chord progression and
plenty of wordplay.

The movie brought Mr. Schlesinger nominations for an Academy Award and a
Golden Globe. He also won three Emmys, including one last year for
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/10/10/arts/television/crazy-ex-girlfriend-best-songs.html}{his
songs on the 2010s TV show ``Crazy Ex-Girlfriend,''} which often
threaded campy, Broadway-style numbers into its plot.

As a journeyman songwriter, he also
\href{https://ew.com/article/2007/04/20/adam-schlesingers-musical-resume/}{wrote
jingles} for the Maryland State Lottery and Gillette.

Mr. Schlesinger received two Grammy nominations with Fountains of Wayne,
but his sole trophy was for his work with David Javerbaum --- another
frequent collaborator --- on Stephen Colbert's
``\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2008/11/21/arts/television/21colb.html}{A
Colbert Christmas: The Greatest Gift of All!},'' which took best comedy
album in 2010.

In the theater, Mr. Schlesinger worked with Mr. Javerbaum to write songs
for the 2008 Broadway musical ``Cry-Baby,'' based on John Waters's 1990
film of the same title. That earned them a Tony nomination in 2008, and
Mr. Schlesinger and Mr. Javerbaum worked together again in 2015 on the
play ``An Act of God.''

Adam Lyons Schlesinger was born in Manhattan on Oct. 31, 1967, to Bobbi
and Stephen Schlesinger, and grew up in Montclair, N.J. He studied
philosophy at Williams College in Massachusetts, where he met Mr.
Collingwood.

After graduation, Mr. Schlesinger went to New York, where he founded the
group Ivy with Andy Chase and Dominique Durand, while Mr. Collingwood
moved to Boston. The two men later reconnected in New York and founded
Fountains of Wayne, writing most of the songs for their first album in a
West Village bar.

The band was signed by Atlantic Records and released its first album,
``Fountains of Wayne,'' in 1996. With jagged guitars and sneering vocals
on songs like ``Radiation Vibe,'' the band fit the mold of post-grunge
alternative rock.

But Mr. Schlesinger and Mr. Collingwood stood out with witty and
sharp-eyed lyrics. Melody and location were central elements to their
music, a lesson they derived from Ray Davies of the Kinks, as Mr.
Schlesinger
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/1999/07/09/movies/streets-new-york-with-fountains-wayne-urban-minstrels-with-roots-suburbia.html}{told
The New York Times} in an interview in 1999 for the band's second album,
``Utopia Parkway,'' named after a road in Queens.

``When we were teenagers, we liked listening to Kinks records because
we'd never been to England, and we got a sense of what it was like to
live there,'' he said.

With minimal sales, though, the band was dropped from Atlantic. It
released its next album, ``Welcome Interstate Managers,'' in 2003 on the
small label S-Curve. That album found some success with ``Stacy's Mom''
and \href{https://www.robertchristgau.com/xg/pnj/pjres03.php}{reached
No. 3} on The Village Voice's critics' poll for that year.

Fountains of Wayne released two more studio albums, ``Traffic and
Weather'' (2007) and ``Sky Full of Holes'' (2011), but had been on
hiatus since.

In recent years, Mr. Schlesinger had devoted himself to ``Crazy
Ex-Girlfriend'' and to the theater world. Two of his Emmy wins were for
songs he wrote with Mr. Javerbaum that were performed during Tony Awards
telecasts: ``\href{https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3BHyfYiBt5o}{It's Not
Just for Gays Anymore},'' which won in 2012, and ``If I Had Time,'' in
2013.

More recently, Mr. Schlesinger had been collaborating with Sarah
Silverman on a stage adaptation of her memoir, ``The Bedwetter,'' which
was scheduled to begin performances Off Broadway this month at the
Atlantic Theater Company, but was delayed by the pandemic; he wrote the
music, and co-wrote the lyrics with Ms. Silverman. And he had begun
working with Rachel Bloom of ``Crazy Ex-Girlfriend'' to write songs for
a musical adaptation of the TV show ``The Nanny,'' which is in
development and aimed at Broadway.

Mr. Schlesinger is survived by his parents; two daughters, Sadie and
Claire Schlesinger; a sister, Laurie Rose; and his partner, Alexis
Morley. His marriage to Katherine Michel ended in divorce.

Mr. Schlesinger's mother, a former public relations executive, has
sometimes been credited with suggesting the name Fountains of Wayne, but
in an interview on Wednesday, she refuted that.

Her son had been playing music and writing songs from the time he was a
child, she said, and from a young age had an eye on
\href{https://www.roadsideamerica.com/blog/end-fountains-of-wayne/}{a
garish, only-in-New Jersey lawn ornament shop in Wayne, N.J}.

``Every time we drove past it,'' Ms. Schlesinger said, ``Adam would say,
`Fountains of Wayne. That would be a great band name.'''

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/obituaries/people-died-coronavirus-obituaries.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=covid_obits_promo}{}

\hypertarget{those-weve-lost}{%
\section{Those We've Lost}\label{those-weve-lost}}

The coronavirus pandemic has taken an incalculable death toll. This
series is designed to put names and faces to the numbers.

Read more

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/07/30/obituaries/30Pedro/30Pedro-square640.jpg}

\hypertarget{bernaldina-josuxe9-pedro}{%
\section{Bernaldina José Pedro}\label{bernaldina-josuxe9-pedro}}

d. Boa Vista, Brazil

Leader among the Indigenous Macuxi

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/07/31/obituaries/31Swing/merlin_175167783_8913bc90-0d64-43f3-a655-1bb1bf1601c9-square640.jpg}

\hypertarget{john-eric-swing}{%
\section{John Eric Swing}\label{john-eric-swing}}

d. Fountain Valley, Calif.

Champion of Filipino-Americans

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/07/27/obituaries/27Victor/merlin_175001436_38b11f8e-227a-4e2c-9821-7618af9b2524-square640.jpg}

\hypertarget{victor-victor}{%
\section{Victor Victor}\label{victor-victor}}

d. Santo Domingo, Dominican Republic

Beloved musician of the Dominican Republic

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/07/31/obituaries/31Negron/merlin_175160169_516322ae-fd23-4969-b6b2-193ced371105-square640.jpg}

\hypertarget{dr-eddie-negruxf3n}{%
\section{Dr. Eddie Negrón}\label{dr-eddie-negruxf3n}}

d. Fort Walton Beach, Fla.

Internist on Florida's Emerald Coast

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/07/30/obituaries/30Dobson/merlin_175115928_f6b9271c-8f05-4fe1-a38a-5ca4a58f8935-square640.jpg}

\hypertarget{dobby-dobson}{%
\section{Dobby Dobson}\label{dobby-dobson}}

d. Coral Springs, Fla.

Jamaican singer and songwriter

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/08/01/obituaries/28Gonzalez/merlin_175002771_beb57888-3951-409a-ae13-03a94b2e962e-square640.jpg}

\hypertarget{waldemar-gonzalez}{%
\section{Waldemar Gonzalez}\label{waldemar-gonzalez}}

d. White Plains, N.Y.

Teacher and social worker

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
