\href{https://nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{\includegraphics{//theme.zdassets.com/theme_assets/968999/51caa74a53a7c7d938c23ab40a5941798a5ccb79.svg}
HOME}

\href{/hc/en-us}{Help} \textbar{}
\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/seg/}{Account} \textbar{}
\href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact}

\begin{enumerate}
\def\labelenumi{\arabic{enumi}.}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{/hc/en-us/categories/115001547468-Permissions-policies}{Permissions
  \& policies}
\item
  \href{/hc/en-us/sections/115002797688-Permissions-policies}{Permissions
  \& policies}
\end{enumerate}

\hypertarget{terms-of-sale}{%
\section{Terms of sale}\label{terms-of-sale}}

*Last Updated on July 31, 2020\\
*

This page provides the terms of sale and purchase for The New York Times
digital products, including digital subscriptions and one-time
purchases, offered by The New York Times newspaper and NYTimes.com
("NYTimes" or "we" or "us").

Other useful links:

\href{http://homedelivery.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/HDS/HDSHome.do?mode=HDSHome}{Home
Delivery Web Site\\
}\href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
of Service\\
}\href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014892108-Privacy-policy}{Privacy
Policy}

By using NYTimes.com and NYTimes products, you are agreeing to
our~\href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
of Service}.

\protect\hyperlink{general}{\textbf{1. GENERAL TERMS OF SALE}}

\protect\hyperlink{definition}{\textbf{1.1. Definitions}}\\
\protect\hyperlink{aboutdigi}{\textbf{1.2. About Digital Products}}\\
\protect\hyperlink{processing}{\textbf{1.3. Processing and Payment}}\\
\protect\hyperlink{pricing}{\textbf{1.4. Pricing}}\\
\protect\hyperlink{billing}{\textbf{1.5. Billing}}\\
\protect\hyperlink{billingdigi}{\emph{1.5.1. Billing of Digital
Subscriptions}}\\
\protect\hyperlink{billingone}{\emph{1.5.2. Billing of One-Time
Purchases}}\\
\protect\hyperlink{currency}{\emph{1.5.3. Currency}}\\
\protect\hyperlink{unpaid}{\textbf{1.6. Unpaid Charges}}\\
\protect\hyperlink{promotion}{\textbf{1.7. Promotions}}\\
\protect\hyperlink{software}{\textbf{1.8. Software Products}}\\
\protect\hyperlink{thirdparty}{\textbf{1.9. Third Parties}}

\protect\hyperlink{cancellation}{\textbf{2. CANCELLATION AND REFUND
POLICY}}

\protect\hyperlink{canceldigi}{\textbf{2.1. Cancellation and Refunds of
Digital Subscriptions}}\\
\protect\hyperlink{cancelpromo}{\textbf{2.2 Cancellation During
Promotional Periods}}\\
\protect\hyperlink{changesub}{\textbf{2.3. Changing your
Subscription}}\\
\protect\hyperlink{cancelone}{\textbf{2.4. Cancellation and Refunds of
One-Time Purchases}}

\textbf{1. GENERAL TERMS OF SALE}

\textbf{1.1. Definitions}

The term "digital product" refers to paid digital products available
from NYTimes, including both NYTimes digital subscriptions and one-time
purchases.

\textbf{1.2. About Digital Products}

You are not required to purchase anything for certain limited use of
NYTimes.com or the NYTimes apps. However, if you do not purchase a
subscription or product, your access to NYTimes content and services
will be limited.

You can review the various NYTimes digital
subscriptions~\href{http://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscriptions/Multiproduct/lp87JHJ.html?campaignId=466K8}{here}.
We also offer other products and services, such
as~\href{http://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/pages/crosswords/index.html}{crosswords},~\href{http://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscriptions/Multiproduct/lp4021.html?campaignId=393LW}{gift
subscriptions}, e-books and articles from our archive. The purchase of a
gift subscription is a one-time purchase; for more information, see
the~\href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015919807-Gift-subscriptions}{Gift
Subscriptions FAQ.}

The New York Times reserves the right to modify the content, type and
availability of any digital product at any time.

Only one person may use the user name and password associated with a
digital product account.

For details about your purchases, including payment methods and billing
cycles,~\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/membercenter/myaccount.html}{visit
the My Account area of NYTimes.com}.

\textbf{1.3. Processing and Payment}

The New York Times will process your purchase as promptly as possible.
There may be a delay in the activation of your product while payment
details are verified.

We accept major credit cards, PayPal and certain digital wallet
services. We reserve the right to reject any order or purchase at any
time.

If your initial payment authorization is later revoked, your
subscription, product or access will be
terminated.~\href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-us}{Contact
our Customer Care group~}if you believe your access was terminated in
error.

Unless specified otherwise in
the~\href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale\#cancel}{Cancellation
and Refund Policy}, all charges are nonrefundable.

To view or change your payment
method,~\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/membercenter/myaccount.html}{visit
the My Account area of NYTimes.com}.

\textbf{1.4. Pricing}

When you purchase a digital product, the price will be made clear during
the order process. You agree to pay the price that is stated at the time
of your order, as well as any applicable taxes. You also agree to the
billing frequency stated at the time of your order.

Discount eligibility is determined at the time of the order. Discounts
cannot be applied retroactively.

All prices are in United States Dollars, unless otherwise stated.

The New York Times reserves the right to change prices and fees at any
time. We will notify you in advance if the regular rate of a product
changes from what was stated at the time of your order. You will have
the opportunity to accept the new price or cancel your subscription or
purchase from that point forward.

Applicable taxes may vary. We are not able to notify you in advance of
changes in applicable taxes.

If a stated price is determined by us in our sole discretion to be in
error, we are not under any obligation to offer you the product at that
price. We will notify you of the error and give you the opportunity to
cancel your order and obtain a refund if payment has already been made.

\emph{Additional Costs}

Your subscription may not include access to all areas of the digital
product, and you may have to pay additional fees for full access. These
additional charges will be clearly stated.

When you use your digital product, you may incur other additional
charges from third party service providers, such as telecommunications
fees, data fees or service provider fees. You are responsible for paying
any additional charges.

If you believe someone else has used your account or you are being
charged for a product you do not have,
please~\href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-us}{contact
our Customer Care group.}

\textbf{1.5. Billing}

\emph{1.5.1. Billing of Digital Subscriptions}

We will charge or debit your payment method at the beginning of your
subscription or, if applicable, at the end of your free trial period.
Billing will continue according to the cycle stated at the time of your
order.

To view information about your billing
cycle,~\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/membercenter/myaccount.html}{visit
the My Account area of NYTimes.com}.

All NYTimes digital subscriptions are renewed automatically. When we
renew your subscription, we will use the payment method currently
associated with your account. If you redeem a gift subscription and
choose to extend your subscription at the time of redemption, that
subscription will renew automatically. You can view your payment method
at any time in
the~\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/membercenter/myaccount.html}{My
Account area of NYTimes.com}.

In most cases, you will not be notified in advance of impending renewals
and you expressly agree to waive the application of New York General
Obligations Law section 5-903 and any similar laws. Please see
our~\href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale\#cancel}{Cancellation
and Refund policy}~below for information about canceling.

\emph{1.5.2. Billing of One-Time Purchases}

When you make a one-time purchase (for example, a subscription
sponsorship or standalone product such as an article from our archives
or a gift subscription), we will charge or debit your payment method at
the time of purchase.

\emph{1.5.3. Currency}

The currency in which you will be billed will be stated during the
purchase process and is determined based on your billing address.

\textbf{1.6. Unpaid Charges}

If your credit card expires or your payment method is otherwise invalid,
your subscription or product will not automatically be terminated. You
will remain responsible for all charges.

You will be responsible for all costs we incur in connection with the
collection of unpaid amounts, including court costs, attorneys' fees,
collection agency fees and any other associated costs.

\textbf{1.7. Promotions}

We may occasionally offer promotions. The specific terms of each
promotion are stated at the time the promotion is offered. Each
promotion may be different. Promotions cannot be combined.

You are required to provide your payment details when you sign up for a
promotion. At the end of the promotion, your subscription will
automatically renew at the rates displayed at the time of purchase.

We will not notify you in advance that the promotion is about to end and
we will not notify you when your promotional rate has ended. To cancel
and avoid being charged, you must notify us before the promotion ends.

\textbf{1.8. Software Products}

If you purchase a digital subscription that includes downloadable
software, your download and use of that software may be subject to
additional terms or end user license agreements.

\textbf{1.9. Third Parties}

If you have purchased your product through a third party, these Terms of
Sale may not apply to you. We are not liable to you for any claims
related to purchases made through third parties. Please contact the
third party directly.

\_\_\_\_\_

\textbf{2. CANCELLATION AND REFUND POLICY}

\textbf{2.1. Cancellation and Refunds of Digital Subscriptions}

When you cancel a subscription, you cancel only future charges
associated with your subscription. You may notify us of your intent to
cancel at any time, but the cancellation will become effective at the
end of your current billing period.~

Except in the case of certain promotions, you can change or cancel your
digital subscription at any time by calling Customer Care at
800-591-9233 (for international customers,
click~\href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792927}{here}~for
international phone numbers) or contact us via chat, when available, by
clicking the Chat button at the top right of~this page. If you are on a
mobile device, scroll to the bottom of this page to locate the Chat
button.~Group Subscription billing cycles and terms of cancellations may
differ and are governed by the terms set forth in the Group Subscription
Purchase Order.

Digital products sold as part of a promotion, subject to an annual
commitment or as an add-on to your home delivery subscription, such as
Times Insider, may have different cancellation or refund policies that
will be made clear at the time of purchase.

Cancellations are effective the following billing cycle. You will not
receive a refund for the current billing cycle. You will continue to
have the same access and benefits of your product for the remainder of
the current billing period.

We reserve the right to issue refunds or credits at our sole discretion.
If we issue a refund or credit, we are under no obligation to issue the
same or similar refund in the future.

\emph{Changes to Content or Access}

We reserve the right to make changes to our digital products at any
time. If we temporarily reduce or eliminate the charge for content or
access that you are currently paying for under different terms, you will
not receive a refund.

\emph{Cancellations by Us}

We reserve the right to suspend or terminate your subscription or
product for any reason, with or without notice and without further
obligation. You will not be entitled to a refund in these circumstances.
If any or all of our digital products are temporarily unavailable, you
will not receive a refund. We reserve the right to issue refunds or
credits at our sole discretion. If we issue a refund or credit, we are
under no obligation to issue the same or similar refund in the future.

\textbf{2.2. Cancellation During Promotional Periods}

Certain promotions may not permit cancellation during the promotional
period. You agree to the cancellation and refund terms stated at the
time of purchase.

\textbf{2.3. Changing your Subscription}

When you change your subscription, you will receive a pro-rated credit
toward your new subscription.

\textbf{2.4. Cancellation and Refunds of One-Time Purchases}

One-time purchases cannot be canceled or refunded. For more information
on the cancellation terms for gift subscriptions, see
the~\href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015919807-Gift-subscriptions}{Gift
Subscriptions FAQ.}

We reserve the right to make changes to our digital products at anytime.
If we temporarily reduce or eliminate the charge for content or access
that you are currently paying for under different terms, you will not
receive a refund.

If any or all of our digital products are temporarily unavailable, you
will not receive a refund. We reserve the right to issue refunds or
credits at our sole discretion. If we issue a refund or credit, we are
under no obligation to issue the same or similar refund in the future.

~

\hypertarget{cant-find-what-youre-looking-for}{%
\paragraph{Can't find what you're looking
for?}\label{cant-find-what-youre-looking-for}}

Review our Help topics or chat with one of our Customer Care advocates.

\protect\hyperlink{article-container}{Return to top}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{http://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/content/help/rights/copyright/copyright-notice.html}{©~
  ~ The New York Times Company }
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{http://www.nytco.com/careers}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{http://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/content/help/rights/privacy/policy/privacy-policy.html\#pp}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/ref/membercenter/help/agree.html}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/content/help/rights/sale/terms-of-sale.html}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{http://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Sitemap}
\item
  \href{/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscriptions/Multiproduct/lp5558.html?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
