Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/sports/basketball}{Pro Basketball}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/sports/basketball}{Pro Basketball}\textbar{}W.N.B.A.
Rookie Showdown Halted by Ionescu Injury

\url{https://nyti.ms/33fMJeZ}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{wnba-rookie-showdown-halted-by-ionescu-injury}{%
\section{W.N.B.A. Rookie Showdown Halted by Ionescu
Injury}\label{wnba-rookie-showdown-halted-by-ionescu-injury}}

Sabrina Ionescu, who was selected with the top draft pick by the
Liberty, sprained her left ankle in a game against the Atlanta Dream.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/08/01/sports/01wnba-rookies01/merlin_175183137_b22e2977-41eb-491c-884a-3bd474e94826-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By Gina Mizell

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Aug. 1, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/28/sports/sabrina-ionescu-oregon-wnba.html}{Sabrina
Ionescu} accidentally stepped on Betnijah Laney's foot near midcourt,
then dropped to the floor after rolling her left ankle.

What was supposed to be an early-season showdown between the Liberty
guard Ionescu and the Atlanta Dream's Chennedy Carter,
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/24/sports/basketball/wnba-eastern-conference-preview.html}{two
of the top W.N.B.A. rookie of the year contenders}, took an abrupt turn
in the second quarter on Friday night.

Ionescu, unable to put weight on her left leg, slung her arms around the
shoulders of two team staff members as they helped her off the floor.
She was found to have a sprained ankle, and underwent X-rays as the game
at IMG Academy in Bradenton, Fla., continued. The team said Saturday
that doctors believed the sprain would not require surgery.

Carter also could not finish her third professional game. She struggled
early, converted a string of key buckets down the stretch, and then
fouled out with less than two minutes to play.

Ionescu and Carter illustrated that, even for the most promising young
players,
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/23/sports/basketball/wnba-season-preview.html}{W.N.B.A.
life} can be rocky.

``You got to grind night in and night out in this league,'' Atlanta
Coach Nicki Collen said after her team's 84-78 victory. ``You can say,
`Would it have been different if Ionescu played?' Sure, it might have
been different. It's hard to say. But you play the cards that are dealt
to you and you find ways to win.''

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/08/01/sports/01wnba-rookies02/merlin_175183638_bf6655ab-353a-4f88-931a-8be42d465019-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Ionescu and Carter are both expected to play crucial roles on their
rebuilding teams.

It has been years since a player entered the league with as much fanfare
as Ionescu. Thanks to a multidimensional skill set, she set the N.C.A.A.
record for career triple-doubles while leading Oregon to the 2019 Final
Four. She was poised for another deep N.C.A.A. tournament run with
Oregon this season, before the event was canceled because of the
coronavirus pandemic.

The Liberty drafted her first over all in April, and Ionescu was
immediately tasked with anchoring a New York team that went 10-24 last
season and recently hired a new coach, Walt Hopkins. The Liberty have
six other rookies, and played Friday without the 2019 All-Star Kia
Nurse, who sprained her ankle in last week's opener against Seattle.

It took only two games for Ionescu to unleash her first breakout
performance: She totaled 33 points, seven rebounds and seven assists in
Wednesday's loss to Dallas.

Yet Ionescu remained matter-of-fact in her self-assessment.

She made 4 of 17 shots in her W.N.B.A. debut against Seattle, and
acknowledged she ``didn't have much confidence'' and rushed while
shooting. She thanked the Storm, a championship contender, for
immediately showing her how much faster, stronger and more athletic
professional players are compared with college athletes. She said she
felt more comfortable during the Dallas game but that building chemistry
with a new group takes time.

``My teammates know it took us some growing pains at Oregon, as well,''
Ionescu said.

When asked on Friday about the prospect of a lengthy Ionescu absence,
Hopkins did not mince words. ``There's not a lot of ready-to-go options
hanging around,'' Hopkins said. ``We're going to have to huddle up and
see if we can get Kia right. Hopefully it's not serious with Sabrina.''

Image

Chennedy Carter, right, defends against Ionescu as the players compete
in their first professional head-to-head matchup. Both are leading
rookie of the year contenders.Credit...Eve Edelheit for The New York
Times

Carter, the fourth overall draft pick out of Texas A\&M, has an
attacking, score-first style that earned her the nickname Hollywood.

She has become the primary ballhandler for an Atlanta team that is
trying to up its playing pace after finishing last season 8-26 and
overhauling its roster. The Dream have 11 new players, and are just
introducing Courtney Williams and Glory Johnson to the mix after both
players cleared testing protocol for the coronavirus.

Carter totaled 18 points, eight assists and five rebounds in her
W.N.B.A. debut, a victory against Dallas. She then struggled shooting in
a 30-point loss to Las Vegas. Collen said she has challenged Carter to
improve her shot selection and, at times, her defensive engagement.
Carter believes she is ``a little bit underrated'' as a passer, and
hopes her first outing indicates she can also facilitate as a point
guard.

``We've put in a lot of work in training camp, and I'm starting to
really know them and find them,'' Carter said. ``It'll all come
together.''

Carter finished with 17 points on 6-of-15 shooting and three assists on
Friday, a performance with rough stretches and dynamic moments.

She missed shots early. But with less than five minutes to play, she
drew a foul on a drive, finished a scooping layup and buried a nifty
pull-up jumper at the elbow to help the Dream maintain their advantage.
With 1:25 to play, though, Carter made contact with New York's Jazmine
Jones as Jones rose for a jumper, which sent Carter to the bench with
her sixth foul.

Before her injury, Ionescu appeared to be on her way to another
impressive performance.

She scored 10 points in 12 minutes, mixing aggressive drives with
outside shooting. During one excellent sequence, she finished at the
basket, sprinted back and jumped to snag a steal, then delivered an
overhead pass down the floor --- while still airborne --- to Layshia
Clarendon for a layup.

But by the fourth quarter, the Liberty needed their other rookies to
produce with Ionescu injured. Jones finished with 20 points, two steals
and two blocks off the bench, while Jocelyn Willoughby added 14 points,
three steals and two blocks.

``It's been exciting to see, every night, somebody else has stepped
up,'' Hopkins said. ``What we've talked about with consistency, with a
younger team, it's about getting those types of efforts.''

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{Â©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
