\href{/watching}{}

Watching Logo

New York Times Watching Logo

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{/watching/search}{Search}

  Search

  Magnifying glass icon
\item
  \href{/watching/watchlist}{Your Watchlist}
\item
\end{itemize}

Search

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2017/03/14/watching/american-crime-watching-recommendation/american-crime-watching-recommendation-videoSixteenByNineJumbo1600-v2.jpg}

Regina King in ``American Crime.''Ryan Green/ABC

\hypertarget{nyt-recommendation}{%
\subsection{NYT RECOMMENDATION}\label{nyt-recommendation}}

\hypertarget{american-crime}{%
\section{American Crime}\label{american-crime}}

2015-2017• Three seasons, 10 to 11 hourlong episodes each•
\href{/watching/search?q=Regina\%20King\&actor=regina-king}{Regina
King},
\href{/watching/search?q=Felicity\%20Huffman\&actor=felicity-huffman}{Felicity
Huffman},
\href{/watching/search?q=Timothy\%20Hutton\&actor=timothy-hutton}{Timothy
Hutton} and
\href{/watching/search?q=Lili\%20Taylor\&actor=lili-taylor}{Lili Taylor}

Each season of this topical anthology series follows a new set of
suspects, victims and their families in the intense aftermath of a
crime.

Share

Save To Watch

Ribbon

Save to Watch

Like

Heart Shape

Like

Watch ... for a politically~charged ensemble series that plays like
Shakespearean tragedy. Created by John Ridley, the screenwriter for
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/watching/recommendations/watching-film-twelve-years-a-slave}{``12
Years a Slave,''} this heart-wrenching drama probes the human impact of
crime, prejudice and the justice system. Season 1 tackles race and
immigration, as black and Latino men are arrested in connection with a
white couple's murder. The rape of a boy at an elite high school fuels
the inquiry in Season 2 into sexuality, gender and class. Each crime is
more complicated than it seems, and a stellar cast wrings devastating
scenes out of even the most improbable twists, its lead members playing
different characters in each season. Regina King's Emmy-winning
performances, as a murder suspect's radicalized sister and as a fiercely
protective mother, are particular highlights.

Skip ... if you're looking~for a procedural. ``American Crime'' focuses
on the civilians and the groups affected by criminal investigations,
almost to the exclusion of the police and lawyers. Also steer clear if
you're looking for even a touch of levity; these story lines are bleak.

\hypertarget{how-to-watch-it}{%
\subsubsection{How To Watch It}\label{how-to-watch-it}}

Nothing but the overlapping casts connect the uniformly strong seasons
of ``American Crime,'' so start with whichever story interests you most.
But keep in mind that this crime drama is more heart-wrenching than
suspenseful. Marathon viewing might leave you emotionally exhausted, so
pace yourself, and consider taking a break to watch something lighter
between seasons.

\hypertarget{read-before-you-watch}{%
\subsubsection{Read Before You Watch}\label{read-before-you-watch}}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/05/arts/television/review-american-crime-a-series-where-justice-is-far-from-black-or-white.html}{}

\hypertarget{season-1-read-the-new-york-times-review}{%
\subsubsection{Season 1: Read The New York Times
Review}\label{season-1-read-the-new-york-times-review}}

\href{http://www.nytimes.com}{www.nytimes.com}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2016/01/06/arts/television/tv-review-american-crime-season-2.html}{}

\hypertarget{season-2-read-the-new-york-times-review}{%
\subsubsection{Season 2: Read The New York Times
Review}\label{season-2-read-the-new-york-times-review}}

\href{http://www.nytimes.com}{www.nytimes.com}

\href{http://www.slate.com/articles/arts/television/2015/03/abc_s_american_crime_review_this_is_the_most_nuanced_intelligent_take_on.html}{}

\hypertarget{review-the-most-nuanced-intelligent-take-on-race-relations-in-years}{%
\subsubsection{Review: The Most Nuanced, Intelligent Take on Race
Relations in
Years}\label{review-the-most-nuanced-intelligent-take-on-race-relations-in-years}}

\href{http://www.slate.com}{www.slate.com}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/04/arts/television/american-crime-john-ridleys-new-series-on-abc.html}{}

\hypertarget{creator-john-ridley-on-american-crime-season-1}{%
\subsubsection{Creator John Ridley on `American Crime' Season
1}\label{creator-john-ridley-on-american-crime-season-1}}

\href{http://www.nytimes.com}{www.nytimes.com}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2017/03/09/arts/television/review-american-crime-season-3-abc.html}{}

\hypertarget{season-3-read-the-new-york-times-review}{%
\subsubsection{Season 3: Read The New York Times
Review}\label{season-3-read-the-new-york-times-review}}

\href{http://www.nytimes.com}{www.nytimes.com}

\hypertarget{read-after-you-watch}{%
\subsubsection{Read After You Watch}\label{read-after-you-watch}}

\href{http://www.avclub.com/tv/american-crime/}{}

\hypertarget{episode-recaps}{%
\subsubsection{Episode Recaps}\label{episode-recaps}}

\href{http://www.avclub.com}{www.avclub.com}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2016/03/06/arts/television/regina-king-profile.html}{}

\hypertarget{regina-king-has-so-many-stories-to-tell}{%
\subsubsection{Regina King Has So Many Stories to
Tell}\label{regina-king-has-so-many-stories-to-tell}}

\href{http://www.nytimes.com}{www.nytimes.com}

\href{http://uproxx.com/sepinwall/i-was-wrong-american-crime-is-a-great-tv-drama/}{}

\hypertarget{alan-sepinwall-i-was-wrong-american-crime-is-a-great-tv-drama}{%
\subsubsection{Alan Sepinwall: I Was Wrong. `American Crime' Is a Great
TV
Drama.}\label{alan-sepinwall-i-was-wrong-american-crime-is-a-great-tv-drama}}

uproxx.com

\href{http://www.chicagotribune.com/entertainment/tv/ct-american-crime-finale-racism-and-class-20160310-story.html}{}

\hypertarget{in-season-2-new-ways-to-talk-about-race-class-and-rape}{%
\subsubsection{In Season 2, New Ways to Talk About Race, Class and
Rape}\label{in-season-2-new-ways-to-talk-about-race-class-and-rape}}

\href{http://www.chicagotribune.com}{www.chicagotribune.com}

\href{https://theringer.com/abc-miniseries-when-we-rise-american-crime-b1318c140d1e\#.meogkilxn}{}

\hypertarget{abc-experiments-with-the-network-mini-series}{%
\subsubsection{ABC Experiments With the Network
Mini-Series}\label{abc-experiments-with-the-network-mini-series}}

theringer.com

\hypertarget{related-videos}{%
\subsubsection{Related Videos}\label{related-videos}}

\href{https://youtu.be/Uu2P7ABRLRw}{}

\hypertarget{watch-the-season-1-trailer}{%
\subsubsection{Watch the Season 1
Trailer}\label{watch-the-season-1-trailer}}

youtu.be

\href{https://youtu.be/5gkJiPRkbj8}{}

\hypertarget{watch-the-season-2-trailer}{%
\subsubsection{Watch the Season 2
Trailer}\label{watch-the-season-2-trailer}}

youtu.be

\href{https://youtu.be/bfGwQm-SsPs}{}

\hypertarget{the-cast-of-american-crime-discusses-season-2}{%
\subsubsection{The Cast of `American Crime' Discusses Season
2}\label{the-cast-of-american-crime-discusses-season-2}}

youtu.be

\href{https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kY21RZvuF2A}{}

\hypertarget{watch-the-season-3-trailer}{%
\subsubsection{Watch the Season 3
Trailer}\label{watch-the-season-3-trailer}}

\href{http://www.youtube.com}{www.youtube.com}

\hypertarget{want-to-watch-it-later}{%
\subsubsection{Want to watch it later?}\label{want-to-watch-it-later}}

Save To Watch

Ribbon

Save to Watch

This recommendation was selected by the NYT Watching editors and was
written by Judy Berman

\hypertarget{have-questions-feedback}{%
\paragraph{Have questions? Feedback?}\label{have-questions-feedback}}

Read our \href{//www.nytimes.com/2017/01/10/watching/faq.html}{FAQs} or
\href{mailto:watchingcare@nytimes.com}{contact us} to let us know how
we're doing.

\hypertarget{lets-be-friends}{%
\paragraph{Let's be friends.}\label{lets-be-friends}}

\href{https://www.facebook.com/nytwatching/}{\includegraphics{/watching/assets/web/img/footer_facebook_icon.48f8f0ac.svg}}\href{https://twitter.com/watching}{\includegraphics{/watching/assets/web/img/footer_twitter_icon.f138d306.svg}}

\href{//www.nytimes.com}{\includegraphics{/watching/assets/web/img/the-new-york-times.c0889830.svg}}\href{//www.nytimes.com/section/arts/television}{TV}\href{//www.nytimes.com/section/movies}{Movies}

\href{//www.nytimes.com/content/help/rights/privacy/policy/privacy-policy.html}{Privacy
Policy}\href{//www.nytimes.com/content/help/rights/terms/terms-of-service.html}{Terms
of
Service}\href{//www.nytimes.com/content/help/rights/privacy/policy/privacy-policy.html\#pp}{Your
Ad Choices}\href{http://www.nytco.com/}{© The New York Times Company}

Do Not Sell My Personal Information

Your preference has been saved.
