\href{/watching}{}

Watching Logo

New York Times Watching Logo

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{/watching/search}{Search}

  Search

  Magnifying glass icon
\item
  \href{/watching/watchlist}{Your Watchlist}
\item
\end{itemize}

Search

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2015/12/13/watching/master-of-none-watching-recommendation/master-of-none-watching-recommendation-videoSixteenByNineJumbo1600-v5.jpg}

Alessandra Mastronardi and Aziz Ansari in ``Master of None.''Netflix

\hypertarget{nyt-recommendation}{%
\subsection{NYT RECOMMENDATION}\label{nyt-recommendation}}

\hypertarget{master-of-none}{%
\section{Master of None}\label{master-of-none}}

2015-Present• Two seasons and counting, 19 half-hour episodes, one
hour-long episode•
\href{/watching/search?q=Aziz\%20Ansari\&actor=aziz-ansari}{Aziz
Ansari}, Noël Wells, Lena Waithe,
\href{/watching/search?q=Eric\%20Wareheim\&actor=eric-wareheim}{Eric
Wareheim}, Kelvin Yu and Ravi Patel

A slice-of-life millennial comedy about an Indian-American actor living,
working and dating in New York City, loosely inspired by the life of
comedian Aziz Ansari.

Share

Save To Watch

Ribbon

Save to Watch

Like

Heart Shape

Like

Watch ... if you like witty comedies about the path to love. Dev (Aziz
Ansari) finds himself at a crucial juncture in his life, deciding how to
preference his career, love life and willingness to have a family over
the freewheeling life he's currently leading. Packed within this arc are
brilliantly layered stories about sexual faux pas, race, identity and
family obligation. (Dev observes that he spends more time picking
takeout on Yelp than his immigrant parents did deciding on their
arranged marriage.)

The show is~also interested in understanding how people of varying
gender, age, sexual orientation, etc., experience the world. It's fresh,
funny and sweet, and perfect for a low-key weekend.

Skip ... if stories about millennials make you roll your eyes. There's
very little about this rom-com that feels traditional, and if the Tinder
dating rituals of the Netflix and chill generation make you cringe, you
might want to skip. Also, if you're at all prone to saying ``all lives
matter,'' the way this show deftly talks about race will most likely
make you uncomfortable.

\hypertarget{how-to-watch-it}{%
\subsubsection{How To Watch It}\label{how-to-watch-it}}

Each ``Master of None'' season is split fairly equally between themed
stand-alone episodes and episodes that push forward a serialized
romantic arc.

Must-watch Season 1 stand-alones include ``Parents,'' where Ansari's
real-life parents make their acting debut; ``Ladies and Gentlemen,''
which delves brilliantly into issues of sexism and the complicated role
of male allies; and ``Indians on TV,'' an indictment of the casual
racism in Hollywood that often pushes actors like Ansari to the
sidelines.

Season 2's essential stand-alones are ``First Date,'' which finds Dev on
a series of awkward dates; ``New York, I Love You,'' an experimental
episode that follows a handful of New Yorkers as they go about their
lives; and ``Thanksgiving,'' which traces two decades' worth of holiday
gatherings at Dev's friend Denise's (Lena Waithe) house.

Dev's Season 2 romance plot begins in the first two episodes, resurfaces
in ``The Dinner Party'' and ``Door \#3,'' and culminates in the final
two episodes. (Make sure you budget extra time for Episode 9, ``Amarsi
Un Po''; while most ``Master of None'' installments run about 30
minutes, this one stretches to nearly an hour.)

\hypertarget{read-before-you-watch}{%
\subsubsection{Read Before You Watch}\label{read-before-you-watch}}

\href{http://www.nytimes.com/2015/11/06/arts/television/review-aziz-ansari-in-master-of-none-negotiates-technology-and-social-mores.html}{}

\hypertarget{the-new-york-times-review}{%
\subsubsection{The New York Times
Review}\label{the-new-york-times-review}}

\href{http://www.nytimes.com}{www.nytimes.com}

\href{http://time.com/4111777/master-of-none-aziz-ansari-review/}{}

\hypertarget{master-of-none-knows-exactly-what-its-doing}{%
\subsubsection{`Master of None' Knows Exactly What It's
Doing}\label{master-of-none-knows-exactly-what-its-doing}}

time.com

\hypertarget{read-after-you-watch}{%
\subsubsection{Read After You Watch}\label{read-after-you-watch}}

\href{http://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2015/12/02/style/aziz-ansari-master-of-none-10-locations.html}{}

\hypertarget{aziz-ansari-walks-us-through-10-master-of-none-season-1-dining-spots}{%
\subsubsection{Aziz Ansari Walks Us Through 10 `Master of None' Season 1
Dining
Spots}\label{aziz-ansari-walks-us-through-10-master-of-none-season-1-dining-spots}}

\href{http://www.nytimes.com}{www.nytimes.com}

\href{http://www.nytimes.com/2015/11/22/arts/television/noel-wells-on-master-of-none-and-her-plan-b.html}{}

\hypertarget{nouxebl-wells-on-master-of-none-season-1-and-her-plan-b}{%
\subsubsection{Noël Wells on `Master of None' Season 1 and Her Plan
B}\label{nouxebl-wells-on-master-of-none-season-1-and-her-plan-b}}

\href{http://www.nytimes.com}{www.nytimes.com}

\href{http://www.nytimes.com/2015/11/15/arts/television/aziz-ansari-on-acting-race-and-hollywood.html}{}

\hypertarget{aziz-ansari-on-acting-race-and-hollywood}{%
\subsubsection{Aziz Ansari on Acting, Race and
Hollywood}\label{aziz-ansari-on-acting-race-and-hollywood}}

\href{http://www.nytimes.com}{www.nytimes.com}

\href{http://www.slate.com/blogs/browbeat/2017/05/12/master_of_none_s_references_to_italian_movies_a_guide.html}{}

\hypertarget{a-guide-to-the-many-many-references-to-classic-italian-films-in-master-of-none-season-2}{%
\subsubsection{`A Guide to the Many, Many References to Classic Italian
Films in ``Master of None'' Season
2'}\label{a-guide-to-the-many-many-references-to-classic-italian-films-in-master-of-none-season-2}}

\href{http://www.slate.com}{www.slate.com}

\href{https://www.vice.com/en_ca/article/master-of-nones-religion-episode-is-the-most-honest-portrayal-of-modern-islam-on-tv}{}

\hypertarget{master-of-nones-religion-episode-is-the-most-honest-portrayal-of-modern-islam-on-tv}{%
\subsubsection{```Master of None's'' `Religion' Episode Is the Most
Honest Portrayal of Modern Islam on
TV'}\label{master-of-nones-religion-episode-is-the-most-honest-portrayal-of-modern-islam-on-tv}}

\href{http://www.vice.com}{www.vice.com}

\href{http://www.vulture.com/2017/05/master-of-none-season-two-finale-ending-discussion.html}{}

\hypertarget{are-you-ready-to-talk-about-the-master-of-none-season-2-ending}{%
\subsubsection{Are You Ready to Talk About the 'Master of None' Season 2
Ending?}\label{are-you-ready-to-talk-about-the-master-of-none-season-2-ending}}

\href{http://www.vulture.com}{www.vulture.com}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2017/05/24/arts/television/master-of-none-season-2-netflix-alan-yang-interview.html}{}

\hypertarget{master-of-none-co-creator-alan-yang-on-season-2-chef-jeff-and-that-final-shot}{%
\subsubsection{`Master of None' Co-Creator Alan Yang on Season 2, Chef
Jeff and That Final
Shot}\label{master-of-none-co-creator-alan-yang-on-season-2-chef-jeff-and-that-final-shot}}

\href{http://www.nytimes.com}{www.nytimes.com}

\href{http://fusion.kinja.com/master-of-nones-lena-waithe-on-gay-black-hollywood-and-1795760008}{}

\hypertarget{lena-waithe-on-gay-black-hollywood-and-that-amazing-season-2-thanksgiving-episode}{%
\subsubsection{Lena Waithe on Gay Black Hollywood and That Amazing
Season 2 'Thanksgiving'
Episode}\label{lena-waithe-on-gay-black-hollywood-and-that-amazing-season-2-thanksgiving-episode}}

fusion.kinja.com

\hypertarget{related-videos}{%
\subsubsection{Related Videos}\label{related-videos}}

\href{http://deadline.com/2016/05/deadline-the-contenders-emmys-video-master-of-none-netflix-alan-yang-1201764030/}{}

\hypertarget{master-of-none-takes-unconventional-path-to-comedy-success}{%
\subsubsection{`Master of None' Takes Unconventional Path to Comedy
Success}\label{master-of-none-takes-unconventional-path-to-comedy-success}}

deadline.com

\href{https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XuntaP30Ns0}{}

\hypertarget{master-of-none-wins-best-comedy-series-at-critics-choice-awards}{%
\subsubsection{`Master of None' Wins Best Comedy Series at Critic's
Choice
Awards}\label{master-of-none-wins-best-comedy-series-at-critics-choice-awards}}

\href{http://www.youtube.com}{www.youtube.com}

\hypertarget{want-to-watch-it-later}{%
\subsubsection{Want to watch it later?}\label{want-to-watch-it-later}}

Save To Watch

Ribbon

Save to Watch

This recommendation was selected by the NYT Watching editors and was
written by Laura Hudson and Danielle Henderson

\hypertarget{have-questions-feedback}{%
\paragraph{Have questions? Feedback?}\label{have-questions-feedback}}

Read our \href{//www.nytimes.com/2017/01/10/watching/faq.html}{FAQs} or
\href{mailto:watchingcare@nytimes.com}{contact us} to let us know how
we're doing.

\hypertarget{lets-be-friends}{%
\paragraph{Let's be friends.}\label{lets-be-friends}}

\href{https://www.facebook.com/nytwatching/}{\includegraphics{/watching/assets/web/img/footer_facebook_icon.48f8f0ac.svg}}\href{https://twitter.com/watching}{\includegraphics{/watching/assets/web/img/footer_twitter_icon.f138d306.svg}}

\href{//www.nytimes.com}{\includegraphics{/watching/assets/web/img/the-new-york-times.c0889830.svg}}\href{//www.nytimes.com/section/arts/television}{TV}\href{//www.nytimes.com/section/movies}{Movies}

\href{//www.nytimes.com/content/help/rights/privacy/policy/privacy-policy.html}{Privacy
Policy}\href{//www.nytimes.com/content/help/rights/terms/terms-of-service.html}{Terms
of
Service}\href{//www.nytimes.com/content/help/rights/privacy/policy/privacy-policy.html\#pp}{Your
Ad Choices}\href{http://www.nytco.com/}{© The New York Times Company}

Do Not Sell My Personal Information

Your preference has been saved.
