Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/world/asia}{Asia Pacific}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/world/asia}{Asia Pacific}\textbar{}As India Struggles
With Coronavirus, Bollywood's Biggest Star Tests Positive

\url{https://nyti.ms/3iTO7t0}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/news-event/coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{The
Coronavirus Outbreak}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  live\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/02/world/coronavirus-updates.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Latest
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Maps
  and Cases}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Vaccine
  Tracker}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/07/29/us/schools-reopening-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{What
  School May Look Like}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/live/2020/07/31/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Economy}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{as-india-struggles-with-coronavirus-bollywoods-biggest-star-tests-positive}{%
\section{As India Struggles With Coronavirus, Bollywood's Biggest Star
Tests
Positive}\label{as-india-struggles-with-coronavirus-bollywoods-biggest-star-tests-positive}}

Amitabh Bachchan, whose face is everywhere in the country, checked into
a hospital with mild symptoms. His son, daughter-in-law and
granddaughter have also become infected.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/07/12/world/12amitabh2/12amitabh2-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/jeffrey-gettleman}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/10/10/multimedia/author-jeffrey-gettleman/author-jeffrey-gettleman-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/jeffrey-gettleman}{Jeffrey
Gettleman}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  July 12, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

NEW DELHI --- When this country's biggest film star, Amitabh Bachchan,
announced Saturday night that he had contracted the coronavirus, a loud
alarm bell rang across India.

Mr. Bachchan, known as Big B, is not simply an enormously successful
actor. He is one of India's most revered figures. His face and rich,
avuncular voice, dripping with gravitas, are everywhere, deployed in ads
for household products, voice-overs at museums and countless public
service campaigns. He was recently roped into doing a campaign on ---
what else? --- the coronavirus.

The worry was that if Big B could catch the virus, anybody could, and
with India getting walloped by Covid-19, Mr. Bachchan, 77,
\href{https://twitter.com/SrBachchan/status/1282002456063295490}{said on
Twitter on Saturday}: ``All that have been in close proximity to me in
the last 10 days are requested to please get themselves tested!''

India is now racking up more new reported infections each day --- about
30,000 --- than any other country except the United States and Brazil
--- and it is rapidly catching up to Brazil. India now has the
third-highest total cases after the United States and Brazil.

The authorities in several big Indian cities and states are reinstating
quarantines after attempting to loosen things up to stimulate a
critically wounded economy. The borders between states are again being
rigorously patrolled, with visitors shunted off to isolation centers.

International travel is still blocked. Hospitals are overflowing with
the sick. Even emergencies are being turned away.
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/21/world/asia/coronavirus-india-hospitals-pregnant.html}{One
pregnant woman was left to die} in the back of an ambulance a few weeks
ago after being rejected from eight hospitals in 15 hours.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/07/12/world/12amitabh3/merlin_174481251_77be7f4a-d053-407d-9d2a-cbce3b839113-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Prime Minister Narendra Modi has been trying to lift spirits by saying
in televised speeches that India is still doing better than richer
countries, especially when it comes to the death rate. India has
reported about 16 coronavirus-related deaths per million people, while
the United States, Brazil, Spain and Italy have all lost hundreds per
million.

Experts think this might be for a few reasons. India's average age,
around 28, is younger than that of other countries. Obesity is less
prevalent, too, and many doctors believe that obesity creates a greater
vulnerability to the coronavirus. Some medical professionals also
believe that Indians have strong immune systems because of
\href{http://www.pharmabiz.com/NewsDetails.aspx?aid=126323\&sid=1}{their
constant exposure to microbes}, living in cities that are not as clean
as cities in the West.

Another explanation, though, might simply be testing --- or the lack of
it. India has performed far fewer coronavirus tests per capita than many
other countries have.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-global-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/01/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: Global Coronavirus
Outbreak}}{Latest Updates: Global Coronavirus Outbreak}}\label{latest-updates-global-coronavirus-outbreak}}

Updated 2020-08-02T17:52:35.962Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/01/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-34047410}{The
  U.S. reels as July cases more than double the total of any other
  month.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/01/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-780ec966}{Top
  U.S. officials work to break an impasse over the federal jobless
  benefit.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/01/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-2bc8948}{Its
  outbreak untamed, Melbourne goes into even greater lockdown.}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/01/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

More live coverage:
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/live/2020/07/31/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Markets}

Either way, the Indian authorities keep coming up with innovative ways
to fight the virus. At airports, for instance, video cameras have been
installed that enable security officers to check passengers' boarding
passes remotely to minimize face-to-face contact. The officers who use
electromagnetic wands to screen passengers now use wands attached to
four-foot rubber poles to maintain distance. And many Indians, even the
poorest, have been wearing face masks for months.

India's biggest enemy is the density of its population. This country has
dozens of cities with more than a million people. Even in smaller towns
and villages, many families live in cramped quarters, eight or even 10
people to a room, which makes a highly contagious illness like the
coronavirus very hard to stop.

In many of these areas, it is impossible to maintain social distancing.
In recent weeks, Mumbai, one of India's most-packed cities and home to
Mr. Bachchan, the movie star, has especially struggled.

The virus started out in Mumbai's wealthier neighborhoods among the
jet-setter crowd. Then it
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/05/14/world/asia/mumbai-lockdown-coronavirus.html}{swept
through the slums}. Now it is gnawing through the entire city, home to
20 million.

On Saturday night,
\href{https://twitter.com/SrBachchan/status/1282002456063295490}{Mr.
Bachchan announced via Twitter} --- where he has 43.2 million followers
--- that he had tested positive. He was soon admitted to Nanavati
Hospital, near the exclusive Juhu neighborhood in Mumbai where he lives,
overlooking the Arabian Sea.

It appears that several of his family members have fallen sick as well.

His son, Abhishek Bachchan, also an actor, disclosed that he had
contracted the coronavirus. Abhishek's wife, Aishwarya Rai Bachchan, an
actress and model, tested positive, as did their 8-year-old daughter,
Aaradhya.

All seemed to have mild symptoms, officials said.

The illness in the illustrious Bachchan clan was such big news that the
health minister of Maharashtra State issued a Twitter post about it at
4:30 a.m. Sunday.

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/news-event/coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{}

\hypertarget{the-coronavirus-outbreak-}{%
\subsubsection{The Coronavirus Outbreak
â€º}\label{the-coronavirus-outbreak-}}

\hypertarget{frequently-asked-questions}{%
\paragraph{Frequently Asked
Questions}\label{frequently-asked-questions}}

Updated July 27, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{should-i-refinance-my-mortgage}{%
  \paragraph{Should I refinance my
  mortgage?}\label{should-i-refinance-my-mortgage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/coronavirus-money-unemployment.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{It
    could be a good idea,} because mortgage rates have
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/16/business/mortgage-rates-below-3-percent.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{never
    been lower.} Refinancing requests have pushed mortgage applications
    to some of the highest levels since 2008, so be prepared to get in
    line. But defaults are also up, so if you're thinking about buying a
    home, be aware that some lenders have tightened their standards.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{what-is-school-going-to-look-like-in-september}{%
  \paragraph{What is school going to look like in
  September?}\label{what-is-school-going-to-look-like-in-september}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    It is unlikely that many schools will return to a normal schedule
    this fall, requiring the grind of
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/05/us/coronavirus-education-lost-learning.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{online
    learning},
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/05/29/us/coronavirus-child-care-centers.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{makeshift
    child care} and
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/03/business/economy/coronavirus-working-women.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{stunted
    workdays} to continue. California's two largest public school
    districts --- Los Angeles and San Diego --- said on July 13, that
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/13/us/lausd-san-diego-school-reopening.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{instruction
    will be remote-only in the fall}, citing concerns that surging
    coronavirus infections in their areas pose too dire a risk for
    students and teachers. Together, the two districts enroll some
    825,000 students. They are the largest in the country so far to
    abandon plans for even a partial physical return to classrooms when
    they reopen in August. For other districts, the solution won't be an
    all-or-nothing approach.
    \href{https://bioethics.jhu.edu/research-and-outreach/projects/eschool-initiative/school-policy-tracker/}{Many
    systems}, including the nation's largest, New York City, are
    devising
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/26/us/coronavirus-schools-reopen-fall.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{hybrid
    plans} that involve spending some days in classrooms and other days
    online. There's no national policy on this yet, so check with your
    municipal school system regularly to see what is happening in your
    community.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{is-the-coronavirus-airborne}{%
  \paragraph{Is the coronavirus
  airborne?}\label{is-the-coronavirus-airborne}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    The coronavirus
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/04/health/239-experts-with-one-big-claim-the-coronavirus-is-airborne.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{can
    stay aloft for hours in tiny droplets in stagnant air}, infecting
    people as they inhale, mounting scientific evidence suggests. This
    risk is highest in crowded indoor spaces with poor ventilation, and
    may help explain super-spreading events reported in meatpacking
    plants, churches and restaurants.
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/06/health/coronavirus-airborne-aerosols.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{It's
    unclear how often the virus is spread} via these tiny droplets, or
    aerosols, compared with larger droplets that are expelled when a
    sick person coughs or sneezes, or transmitted through contact with
    contaminated surfaces, said Linsey Marr, an aerosol expert at
    Virginia Tech. Aerosols are released even when a person without
    symptoms exhales, talks or sings, according to Dr. Marr and more
    than 200 other experts, who
    \href{https://academic.oup.com/cid/article/doi/10.1093/cid/ciaa939/5867798}{have
    outlined the evidence in an open letter to the World Health
    Organization}.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{what-are-the-symptoms-of-coronavirus}{%
  \paragraph{What are the symptoms of
  coronavirus?}\label{what-are-the-symptoms-of-coronavirus}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Common symptoms
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/symptoms-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{include
    fever, a dry cough, fatigue and difficulty breathing or shortness of
    breath.} Some of these symptoms overlap with those of the flu,
    making detection difficult, but runny noses and stuffy sinuses are
    less common.
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/04/27/health/coronavirus-symptoms-cdc.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{The
    C.D.C. has also} added chills, muscle pain, sore throat, headache
    and a new loss of the sense of taste or smell as symptoms to look
    out for. Most people fall ill five to seven days after exposure, but
    symptoms may appear in as few as two days or as many as 14 days.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{does-asymptomatic-transmission-of-covid-19-happen}{%
  \paragraph{Does asymptomatic transmission of Covid-19
  happen?}\label{does-asymptomatic-transmission-of-covid-19-happen}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    So far, the evidence seems to show it does. A widely cited
    \href{https://www.nature.com/articles/s41591-020-0869-5}{paper}
    published in April suggests that people are most infectious about
    two days before the onset of coronavirus symptoms and estimated that
    44 percent of new infections were a result of transmission from
    people who were not yet showing symptoms. Recently, a top expert at
    the World Health Organization stated that transmission of the
    coronavirus by people who did not have symptoms was ``very rare,''
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/09/world/coronavirus-updates.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq\#link-1f302e21}{but
    she later walked back that statement.}
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

``I pray to god that Amitabh Bachchan Ji recovers from this soon,''
\href{https://twitter.com/rajeshtope11/status/1282088013716164609}{the
minister, Rajesh Tope, said}, adding the respectful ``Ji'' to Mr.
Bachchan's name.

Image

A mural in Mumbai depicting Mr. Bachchan in one of his movie
roles.Credit...Indranil Mukherjee/Agence France-Presse --- Getty Images

It is hard to overstate how big Big B really is. Walk through just about
any city in India, and there is his handsome, gray-bearded face staring
down from a billboard or a railway bridge, advertising a new phone app
or chocolate bar or public health campaign.

The son of a renowned poet, Mr. Bachchan is celebrated for his mastery
of language and diction. He has acted in more than 200 films over the
past 50 years --- and he is still working and drawing admirers. Until
the coronavirus lockdown brought life to a screeching halt this spring,
thousands of fans would camp out in front of his Mumbai mansion nearly
every Sunday, hoping to get a glimpse of him. Mr. Bachchan would step
out from his gates for a few minutes and stand on a stool and graciously
wave.

``He's like god,'' said Shivendra Singh Dungarpur, a filmmaker who has
worked with Mr. Bachchan. ``I've never seen a star having such power,
such credibility. He's the biggest superstar this country has ever, ever
seen.''

Part of Mr. Bachchan's appeal, Mr. Dungarpur said, was that, for half a
century, Mr. Bachchan has carefully chosen roles where he is fighting
against all odds, taking on the system, getting justice for the common
man. He is also very civically minded and has helped out with many
real-life causes.

Mr. Dungarpur, who runs a
\href{https://filmheritagefoundation.co.in/}{film preservation
foundation} to save heritage films across South Asia, said Mr. Bachchan
had helped him immensely, serving as the foundation's brand ambassador.

His contracting of the coronavirus might create more fear across India.
But it could also help take away some of the stigma that infected
Indians have endured, evidenced by people kicked out of their
neighborhoods and a
\href{https://www.livemint.com/news/india/illness-triggers-social-stigma-and-suicide-in-southern-tamil-nadu-11586884992752.html}{few
even driven to suicide}.

Mr. Dungarpur predicted that a lot of Indians would find his struggle
inspiring and say to themselves, ``If Amitabh Bachchan can fight this,
so can we.''

Suhasini Raj contributed reporting from Jaipur, India, and Hari Kumar
from New Delhi.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{Â©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
