Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}Behind Joe Biden's Evolution
on L.G.B.T.Q. Rights

\url{https://nyti.ms/3fJpI77}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/20/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{D.N.C.
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/20/us/politics/biden-presidential-nomination-dnc.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Biden's
  Speech}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/us/elections/2020-presidential-election-calendar.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Election
  Calendar}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/11/us/politics/vote-by-mail-us-states.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Voting
  by Mail}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Politics
  Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{behind-joe-bidens-evolution-on-lgbtq-rights}{%
\section{Behind Joe Biden's Evolution on L.G.B.T.Q.
Rights}\label{behind-joe-bidens-evolution-on-lgbtq-rights}}

Mr. Biden's support for same-sex marriage in 2012 was a reversal for him
and a watershed moment in his shift --- and the nation's --- on
L.G.B.T.Q. issues.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/06/21/us/politics/21biden-lgbt1/merlin_156639696_0f3d0690-7f50-4435-a8ef-6ffac66fb3db-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/adam-nagourney}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/02/20/multimedia/author-adam-nagourney/author-adam-nagourney-thumbLarge-v3.png}}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/thomas-kaplan}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2019/08/28/reader-center/author-thomas-kaplan/author-thomas-kaplan-thumbLarge-v2.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/adam-nagourney}{Adam
Nagourney} and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/thomas-kaplan}{Thomas
Kaplan}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Published June 21, 2020Updated June 22, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/joe-biden.html}{Joseph
R. Biden Jr.} voted for the Defense of Marriage Act in 1996, blocking
federal recognition of same-sex marriages. Two years earlier, he
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/1994/08/02/us/senate-backs-cuts-for-schools-that-endorse-homosexuality.html}{voted}
to cut off federal funds to schools that teach the acceptance of
homosexuality. In 1973, Mr. Biden, in
\href{https://www.newspapers.com/clip/53510488/the-morning-news/}{an
off-handed response} to a question, wondered if homosexuals in the
military or government were potential security risks.

But today, Mr. Biden, the presumptive Democratic nominee for president,
has so completely identified himself with positions embraced by
L.G.B.T.Q. leaders that his history on gay rights has faded into the
mist. If he is elected president, said Chad Griffin, a political
consultant and longtime gay rights leader, Mr. Biden, the former vice
president, will be the ``most pro-equality president we have ever had.''

Mr. Biden's evolution was on vivid display last week as he celebrated
the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/15/us/gay-transgender-workers-supreme-court.html}{Supreme
Court decision} protecting L.G.B.T.Q. workers from job discrimination.
So were his differences with
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/donald-trump.html}{President
Trump}, who barely acknowledged the ruling, and the Republican National
Committee, which is holding over the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/11/us/politics/republican-platform.html}{party
platform} from 2016 that still opposes same-sex marriage and supports
so-called conversion therapy for L.G.B.T.Q. youth.

Mr. Biden's shifting views over the course of his political career
illustrate the extent to which the Democratic Party has changed as it
sought to keep pace with Americans, especially younger ones, who have
dismissed traditional stances on issues like same-sex marriage. Mr.
Biden has managed to not only keep pace with these evolving views, but
on same-sex marriage, he was a step ahead of many of his fellow
Democrats.

This has been the case despite the nuances of his record over the past
50 years, his centrist politics in a party that is moving to the left
and his age. Mr. Biden, 77, grew up in an era when homosexuality, the
word routinely used at the time, was often viewed as a sin and even a
crime.

He can slip into dated generalizations about gay and lesbian life, as he
did in an interview with Anderson Cooper at an L.G.B.T.Q. town hall
event on CNN last year. Talking about what San Francisco was like ``15,
20 years ago,'' he said that the city, with its large community of gay
men and lesbians, was ``all about, well, you know, gay bathhouses,''
adding, ``It's all about round-the-clock sex.''

He has repeatedly told a story, recounted with variations on details of
the moment, of seeing two men kiss when he was a teenager and his father
saying: ``Joey, it's simple. They love each other.''

For all of the current unease with him on the left, Mr. Biden was the
highest-ranking Democrat to initially endorse same-sex marriage ---
disclosing his position in a
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2012/05/07/us/politics/biden-expresses-support-for-same-sex-marriages.html}{television
interview} in May 2012 that helped prod President Barack Obama to take
the same position
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2012/05/10/us/politics/obama-says-same-sex-marriage-should-be-legal.html}{in
an interview} a few days later.

``There's no political barometer that would have told him to get ahead
of the White House on this,'' said Pete Buttigieg, the former mayor of
South Bend, Ind., who is gay and ran against Mr. Biden for the
Democratic presidential nomination.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-2020-election}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/19/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: 2020
Election}}{Latest Updates: 2020 Election}}\label{latest-updates-2020-election}}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/19/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#night-3-featured-more-policy-a-focus-on-women-and-a-full-throated-rejection-of-trump-by-his-predecessor}{7h
ago}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/19/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#night-3-featured-more-policy-a-focus-on-women-and-a-full-throated-rejection-of-trump-by-his-predecessor}{Night
3 featured more policy, a focus on women and a full-throated rejection
of Trump by his predecessor.}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/19/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#trump-live-tweeted-obamas-speech-tonight-hell-appear-on-fox-news-right-before-bidens-tomorrow}{9h
ago}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/19/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#trump-live-tweeted-obamas-speech-tonight-hell-appear-on-fox-news-right-before-bidens-tomorrow}{Trump
live-tweeted Obama's speech tonight. He'll appear on Fox News right
before Biden's tomorrow.}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/19/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#advocates-for-domestic-violence-survivors-praised-biden-in-a-video}{9h
ago}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/19/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#advocates-for-domestic-violence-survivors-praised-biden-in-a-video}{Advocates
for domestic violence survivors praised Biden in a video.}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/19/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

But in voting for the Defense of Marriage Act, a bill that was passed
with overwhelming support from both parties and signed by President Bill
Clinton, Mr. Biden, then a Delaware senator, lent his name to
legislation that came to be known as one of the biggest legislative
setbacks for the gay rights movement in its history. His musing about
gay men and lesbians as security risks in 1973, and his support for a
measure restricting how homosexuality was presented to schoolchildren,
reflects the kind of attitudes that gay and lesbian activists had to
battle during the early decades of the movement.

``Did Joe Biden evolve on the issue of marriage like most of the rest of
the country?'' said Sarah McBride, a longtime transgender activist who
grew up in Delaware and was close to Mr. Biden's late son, Beau Biden.
``Yes. Frankly, we should want leaders with big minds and open hearts
who are willing to evolve and, in the case of Joe Biden, bring the
country along.''

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/06/21/us/politics/21biden-lgbt2/merlin_67512224_a3e4e1a8-0d79-40e9-b641-3da8e48f0083-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Evan Wolfson, who founded the advocacy group Freedom to Marry and was a
leader in the campaign for same-sex marriage, said his organization had
specifically sought Mr. Biden's backing, saying that he had over the
years shown a willingness to hear arguments and to change his thinking.

``When people criticize him as not being the most liberal, the most
progressive, the candidate they might have first wanted and so on, he
will find a principled center-left place and move toward it,'' Mr.
Wolfson said.

``He voted wrong on that in the '90s,'' Mr. Wolfson said of Mr. Biden's
support of the Defense of Marriage Act. ``But he never spoke in
discriminatory ways, and he kept his mind and heart open.''

Mr. Trump's administration, by contrast, urged the Supreme Court,
unsuccessfully, not to extend the 1964 Civil Rights Act's protections
against workplace discrimination to gay and transgender people. This
month, the administration
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/12/us/politics/trump-transgender-rights.html}{moved
to roll back protections} for transgender people against discrimination
by doctors, hospitals and health insurance companies. And his
administration has repeatedly nominated federal judges with records
opposing L.G.B.T.Q. rights.

Still, Mr. Biden's own history on gay rights --- along with calling Mike
Pence, the conservative vice president, a
\href{https://www.cnn.com/2019/02/28/politics/joe-biden-mike-pence-decent-guy-criticize-respond/index.html}{``decent
guy''} --- made him vulnerable to criticism from the left as he sought
the Democratic presidential nomination.

``As queer people, we abhor the way that Biden, in his eagerness to
reach across the aisle, winds up being an apologist for homophobes like
Mike Pence,'' Cynthia Nixon, the actress and activist who challenged
Andrew M. Cuomo in 2018 for the Democratic nomination for governor in
New York, said in a statement. ``But we also remember how powerful an
ally he was as vice president, and how instrumental he was in pulling
Obama to the right place in a way few people could have.''

During the Democratic presidential primary race, Senator Bernie Sanders
of Vermont invoked Mr. Biden's vote on the Defense of Marriage Act to
paint him as out of touch with today's Democratic Party.

``I cast a vote against the so-called Defense of Marriage Act, which was
a homophobic act brought by the right wing,'' Mr. Sanders
\href{https://abcnews.go.com/Politics/week-transcript-20-sen-bernie-sanders-dr-ben/story?id=69465733}{said
on the ABC program ``This Week''} in March. ``Back then, it was not an
easy vote. Joe voted for it.''

Mr. Biden has suggested that his vote was a way of precluding a
constitutional amendment against same-sex marriage.

\href{http://www.nbcnews.com/id/13085904/ns/meet_the_press/t/transcript-june/}{In
2006}, Mr. Biden said ``marriage is between a man and a woman,'' and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/elections/2008/president/debates/transcripts/vice-presidential-debate.html}{in
his 2008 vice-presidential debate} with Sarah Palin, he asserted that he
opposed ``redefining from a civil side what constitutes marriage.'' But
his later decision to jump out front on same-sex marriage erased, for
the most part, concerns L.G.B.T.Q. leaders had about those statements
and his vote on the Defense of Marriage Act, particularly given Mr.
Trump's record.

``If we established purity tests for elected officials, nobody would
pass,'' said Emily Hecht-McGowan, who served as director for L.G.B.T.Q.
equality at the Biden Foundation, a nonprofit group, until it was
disbanded in 2019 when he began his presidential run. ``If we keep
holding up our elected officials to these purity tests, we will never
grow us a nation.''

Mr. Griffin, the political consultant, said he was not bothered by the
Defense of Marriage Act vote that, he noted, was ``25, 26 years ago,
when I was 19 years old and still in the closet.''

``Joe Biden has had 25 years since then to establish his own record and
legacy,'' he said. ``I do not think that anyone can define Joe Biden by
a vote 25 years ago when he has literally spent more than a decade
championing L.G.B.T.Q. rights.''

From the first weeks after the riots at the Stonewall Inn and the start
of the modern-day gay rights movement, L.G.B.T.Q. leaders called for gay
men and lesbians to come out. The explicit strategy was that increased
visibility --- as family members, co-workers, civic leaders, celebrities
--- would lead to more acceptance by the general public. One of Mr.
Biden's grandchildren identifies as L.G.B.T.Q., an aide said.

Ms. McBride said that Mr. Biden grieved with her after her husband died
at the age of 28; Mr. Biden had just lost his own son. He has officiated
at two gay weddings, including in 2017 when Henry R. Muñoz III, who was
then the Democratic National Committee's finance chairman, married his
husband at Mr. Biden's home at the time in Northern Virginia.

``He let me work alongside of him to push people in the administration
on marriage equality, and then he married me,'' Mr. Muñoz said.

The moment that elevated Mr. Biden's standing among gay and lesbian
activists was his appearance on NBC's ``Meet the Press'' as vice
president in 2012 when, in response to a question, he said he supported
same-sex marriage. His response, which aides said was not calculated or
planned, blindsided the White House and Mr. Obama, who had not yet
staked out that position.

Given that he was a moderate Democrat with strong ties to blue-collar
workers, that response changed the contours of the discussion and, in
the view of many activists, emboldened other elected officials to jump
on as well. Ms. Hecht-McGowan said she was campaigning in a pitched, and
ultimately successful, battle on an initiative permitting same-sex
marriage in Maryland.

``He created this watershed moment for the movement,'' Ms. Hecht-McGowan
said. ``I believe that moment was the tipping point for the movement on
marriage. He did what he needed to do.''

It seems clear that whatever reservations L.G.B.T.Q. leaders have had
over the years with Mr. Biden, they have largely abandoned them in this
presidential race.

``He has been supporting L.G.B.T.Q. people for quite some time,'' said
Alphonso David, the president of the Human Rights Campaign, a civil
rights organization. ``And yes, we have votes that he's taken that we
wish he would have voted differently. But ultimately when we look at his
entire record, he has a very strong record of supporting L.G.B.T.Q.
equality.''

Kitty Bennett contributed research.

\hypertarget{our-2020-election-guide}{%
\section{Our 2020 Election Guide}\label{our-2020-election-guide}}

Updated Aug. 20, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{convention-recap}{%
  \subsection{Convention Recap}\label{convention-recap}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Joe Biden accepted the Democratic nomination, urging Americans to
    have faith that they could
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/20/us/politics/Joe-Biden-accepts-democratic-nomination.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{``overcome
    this season of darkness.''}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{news-analysis}{%
  \subsection{News Analysis}\label{news-analysis}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Looming over Mr. Biden's nomination was the ever-present shadow of
    another man who's poised to dominate the campaign:
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/20/us/politics/biden-dnc-speech-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Donald
    J. Trump}.
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{keep-up-with-our-coverage}{%
  \subsection{Keep Up With Our
  Coverage}\label{keep-up-with-our-coverage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Get an
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{email}
    recapping the day's news
  \end{itemize}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Download our mobile app on
    \href{https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nytimes/id284862083?ls=1\&mat_click_id=5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\&referrer=mat_click_id\%3D5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\%26link_click_id\%3D722930677036718082}{iOS}
    and
    \href{http://a.localytics.com/android?id=com.nytimes.android\&referrer=utm_source\%3Dother_nyt_mobile_web\%26utm_medium\%3DWeb\%2520page\%26utm_term\%3DGeneral\%2520Mobile\%2520Page\%26utm_campaign\%3DNYT\%2520Mobile\%2520General\%2520Page}{Android}
    and turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
