Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}On Politics With Lisa Lerer:
This Quiet Change Could Be a Big Deal in 2020

\url{https://nyti.ms/2E9oaDp}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/08/us/trump-vs-biden?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Election
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/election-states-biden-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Paths
  to 270}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/31/us/politics/vote-by-mail-deadlines.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Voting
  by Mail}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/us/elections/2020-presidential-election-calendar.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Key
  Dates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Politics
  Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{on-politics-with-lisa-lerer-this-quiet-change-could-be-a-big-deal-in-2020}{%
\section{On Politics With Lisa Lerer: This Quiet Change Could Be a Big
Deal in
2020}\label{on-politics-with-lisa-lerer-this-quiet-change-could-be-a-big-deal-in-2020}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2019/02/14/us/14onpolitics3-pm/14onpolitics3-pm-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/lisa-lerer}{Lisa Lerer}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Feb. 14, 2019
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

\emph{Hi. Welcome to On Politics, your guide to the day in national
politics. I'm Lisa Lerer, your host.}

\emph{Before we get to today's newsletter, we wanted to let you know
about some big news that's developing this evening.}

\emph{Today, the Senate}
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/02/14/us/politics/congress-trump-border-deal-wall.html}{\emph{voted
to approve a compromise on the border}} \emph{that includes funding for
some security measures, but not for President Trump's wall. The bill
would prevent another government shutdown, and the president was
expected to sign it.}

\emph{Just minutes before the vote, though, the White House announced
that Mr. Trump plans to declare a national emergency to build the wall.}
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/02/14/us/politics/trump-national-emergency-border.html}{\emph{The
story is still developing; you can read the latest here}}\emph{.}

\emph{(And for those of you wondering,}
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/01/07/us/politics/trump-national-emergency.html}{\emph{here's
an explanation of the president's emergency powers, and what exactly
they allow him to do.}}\emph{)}

\emph{\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_}

While we wait for the dust to settle from this latest fight between
President Trump and Congress, we wanted to tell you about an
under-the-radar change the Democrats are making in how they handle voter
data --- and why it could make a big difference in the 2020 presidential
race.

Political campaigns collect all kinds of information. Your address, of
course, but also things like your age, your interests, if you have kids,
your donation records. The more they know, they better they can target
ads --- so, say, a retired veteran in Oshkosh, Wis., doesn't get the
same message as a vegan freshman at New York University.

For years, Republicans had an edge in gathering this kind of
information. They had developed a platform that allowed them to share
data among state parties, the national party, campaigns and outside
groups like PACs. When Mr. Trump became the Republican nominee, the
G.O.P. exchange was there to make up for his lack of political
organization.

Now, the Democrats are taking concrete steps toward establishing their
own, similar organization. While the Democratic Data Exchange isn't as
headline-grabbing as the president declaring a national emergency, it
might just be one of the most significant steps Democrats can take in
their efforts to win in 2020.

``What we are announcing today is something that should have been in
place years ago,'' said Tom Perez, chairman of the Democratic National
Committee, who negotiated the deal. ``In 2016, it appeared all too
frequently that Republicans knew more about voters than we did.''

The exchange will be an independent, for-profit enterprise that will
allow the national party, state parties and some independent groups,
like Planned Parenthood or labor unions, to share data. Organizations
won't know which groups contributed which information, keeping the
system from running afoul of Federal Election Commission rules.

Democrats have tried to set up such a system twice in the past and
failed. Friend of the newsletter Julie Bykowicz
\href{https://www.wsj.com/articles/fight-over-voter-data-roils-democrats-ahead-of-election-11544899956}{broke
the news in December} that the D.N.C. and state parties were locked in a
deep internal battle over who would control the data. Essentially, state
parties didn't want to get shut out of controlling their own voter files
--- a step they believed would put them on a slippery slope toward
irrelevance.

It's a fear rooted in recent history: Advisers to Barack Obama scoffed
at the Democratic establishment, believing that running against the
state parties would help cast him as the outsider against Hillary
Clinton in 2008. After Mr. Obama won the election, his team established
its own organization, Organizing for America, and let the Democratic
National Committee languish.

But Mrs. Clinton's loss in 2016 helped Democrats realize they could not
depend on a presidential nominee to reach voters. They have appointed
Howard Dean, the former D.N.C. chairman who still has a strong following
among state party leaders, as head of the new exchange, helping to
reassure local parties.

``People have spent years and millions of dollars collecting that
information and ultimately no one wants to give it away,'' said Ken
Martin, president of the Democrats' organization of state party leaders.
``But what good is data if it just sits in your file?''

\emph{Want to read more about the Democrats and 2020?}
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/02/14/us/politics/democratic-debates-2020.html}{\emph{Today
the party unveiled a new system for their first debate in June}}\emph{.
And this graphic looks at the}
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/02/14/us/politics/2020-democratic-candidates-president.html}{\emph{historical
precedent for the field being so large, so early}} \emph{(spoiler: there
is none).}

\emph{\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_}

\textbf{Drop us a line!}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2019/01/14/us/politics/14onpolitics-announce-02/14onpolitics-announce-02-articleLarge-v4.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\emph{We want to hear from our readers. Have a question? We'll try to
answer it. Have a comment? We're all ears. Email us at}
\href{mailto:onpolitics@NYTimes.com}{\emph{onpolitics@NYTimes.com}}\emph{.}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/2020-election}{Election
2020 â€º}

\hypertarget{live-updates}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/08/us/trump-vs-biden}{Live
Updates}}{Live Updates}}\label{live-updates}}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/08/us/trump-vs-biden\#pence-and-harris-vied-for-wisconsin-a-pivotal-state-in-the-2020-race}{}

Sept. 8, 2020, 8:40 a.m. ET

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/08/us/trump-vs-biden\#pence-and-harris-vied-for-wisconsin-a-pivotal-state-in-the-2020-race}{Pence
and Harris vied for Wisconsin, a pivotal state in the 2020
race.}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/08/us/trump-vs-biden\#with-labor-day-behind-them-the-campaigns-take-flight-literally}{}

Sept. 8, 2020, 8:18 a.m. ET

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/08/us/trump-vs-biden\#with-labor-day-behind-them-the-campaigns-take-flight-literally}{With
Labor Day behind them, the campaigns take flight ---
literally.}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/08/us/trump-vs-biden\#the-trump-campaigns-lavish-spending-eroded-its-head-start-a-times-analysis-shows}{}

Sept. 8, 2020, 8:18 a.m. ET

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/08/us/trump-vs-biden\#the-trump-campaigns-lavish-spending-eroded-its-head-start-a-times-analysis-shows}{The
Trump campaign's lavish spending eroded its head start, a Times analysis
shows.}

\emph{\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_}

\hypertarget{a-year-after-parkland}{%
\subsection{A year after Parkland}\label{a-year-after-parkland}}

Image

A .223 cartridge for an AR-15, the rifle used in the Parkland
shooting.Credit...George Frey/Getty Images

\emph{It has been a year since a gunman walked into a high school in
Parkland, Fla., and killed 17 people. We were curious what, if anything,
has changed politically since then. So we asked} \emph{\textbf{Margaret
Kramer}} \emph{and} \emph{\textbf{Jennifer Harlan}}*, who*
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/02/13/us/parkland-shooting.html}{\emph{wrote
about the post-Parkland landscape for The Times}}\emph{. Here's what
they told us:}

From
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/03/14/us/school-walkout.html}{walkouts}
and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/02/21/us/politics/trump-guns-school-shooting.html}{calls
to action} to a
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/08/15/us/politics/parkland-students-voting.html}{national
bus tour}, the movement led by the students from Marjory Stoneman
Douglas High School in Parkland has had a clear message: Gun control is
imperative, and young people's votes are critical to making it happen.

Their message seems to have resonated at the state level. Over the last
year, states have passed 76
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2018/12/14/us/politics/gun-control-laws.html}{gun-control
laws}. Here are three big ones:

\textbf{â€¢ The Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School Public Safety Act in
Florida.} The
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/03/07/us/florida-shooting-gunman-indicted.html}{bill}
expanded mental health services, raised the minimum age for all gun
purchases to 21, established a waiting period for background checks and
allowed superintendents and sheriffs to arm school personnel. It also
banned
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2017/10/04/us/bump-stock-las-vegas-gun.html}{bump
stocks}, but not
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/03/08/us/florida-gun-bill.html}{the
AR-15}, the gun used in the Parkland shooting.

\textbf{â€¢ Ban on the sale of semiautomatic assault rifles to people
under 21 in Washington State.}
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/01/02/us/washington-state-new-gun-law.html}{I-1639}
raised the age of assault rifle purchases to 21, mandated enhanced
background checks and added a required firearm safety course for buyers.
But sheriffs are reportedly
\href{https://www.krem.com/article/news/politics/grant-county-sheriff-joins-others-who-say-they-wont-enforce-i-1639/293-beb89b25-cce3-4150-821e-2e6a6c1b7c2b}{not
enforcing the initiative}, and the N.R.A. has filed a lawsuit to have it
overturned.

\textbf{â€¢ The Safe Act in New York.}
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/01/29/nyregion/gun-laws-new-york.html}{The
state} banned bump stocks, extended the waiting period for buyers,
prohibited teachers from carrying guns in school and blocked individuals
who pose a threat from buying or possessing guns --- a provision known
as a
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2018/12/14/us/politics/gun-control-laws.html}{``red
flag law.''}

But aside from a
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/12/18/us/politics/trump-bump-stocks-ban.html}{bump
stock ban} --- spurred on by the 2017 Las Vegas massacre ---
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/02/15/us/politics/congress-inaction-guns.html}{partisan
gridlock} blocked any national changes in the last year, even as gun
deaths rose to their
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/12/18/us/gun-deaths.html}{highest
rates in 50 years}. Democrats, now in control of the House,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/01/08/us/politics/house-democrats-gun-control.html}{passed
two gun-control bills} on Wednesday, the day before the Parkland
anniversary. But Senate Republicans and President Trump will most likely
prevent the bills from ever becoming law.

\emph{Read Margaret and Jennifer's story:}
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/02/13/us/parkland-shooting.html}{\emph{Parkland
Shooting: Where Gun Control and School Safety Stand Today}}

\emph{And for more coverage, read about}
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/02/14/us/parkland-shooting-anniversary.html}{\emph{how
Parkland students remembered the day}}\emph{, a}
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/02/13/us/parkland-anniversary-marjory-stoneman-douglas.html?module=inline}{\emph{moving
story about the survivors in their own words}}\emph{, and a look at}
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/02/13/us/parkland-obituaries-students.html}{\emph{how
many children have been killed by guns since Parkland}}\emph{.}

\emph{\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_}

\hypertarget{what-to-read-tonight}{%
\subsection{What to read tonight}\label{what-to-read-tonight}}

\textbf{â€¢} Amazon
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/02/14/nyregion/amazon-hq2-queens.html}{canceled
its plans to build an expansive corporate campus in New York City} after
facing an unexpectedly fierce backlash. The decision --- a victory for
left-wing politicians and activists --- represented a
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/02/14/nyregion/cuomo-aoc-amazon.html}{reordering
of New York's political power structure}.

\textbf{â€¢}
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/02/13/climate/switzerland-glaciers-climate-change.html}{This
visual article takes you to the Alps}, to see how climate change is
destroying glaciers there --- and how Switzerland plans to handle it.

\textbf{â€¢} Vicki Ibarra, an I.R.S. worker, prided herself on her
self-sufficiency. Then came the government shutdown. From The Washington
Post, a
\href{https://www.washingtonpost.com/national/devastated-by-one-shutdown-dreading-the-next/2019/02/10/5ec2afcc-2b06-11e9-b011-d8500644dc98_story.html?utm_term=.f6f1e521a110}{haunting
portrait of the long-term effects of the 35-day stalemate}.

\emph{\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_}

\hypertarget{-seriously}{%
\subsection{\ldots{} Seriously}\label{-seriously}}

Sure, Valentine's Day is sappy, overly commercialized and out of step
with modern relationships. But
\href{https://www.usatoday.com/story/money/2019/02/06/valentines-days-bouquets-get-wacky-bacon-beef-jerky-pickles/2773987002/}{a
pickle, bacon or doughnut bouquet}? That's an idea we can get behind.

\emph{\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_}

\emph{Were you forwarded this newsletter?}
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics}{\emph{Subscribe
here to get it delivered to your inbox.}}

\emph{Thanks for reading. Politics is more than what goes on inside the
White House. On Politics brings you the people, issues and ideas
reshaping our world.}

\emph{Is there anything you think we're missing? Anything you want to
see more of? We'd love to hear from you. Email us at}
\href{mailto:onpolitics@NYTimes.com}{\emph{onpolitics@NYTimes.com}}\emph{.}

\hypertarget{our-2020-election-guide}{%
\section{Our 2020 Election Guide}\label{our-2020-election-guide}}

Updated ~Sept. 8, 2020

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

\begin{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{the-latest}{%
  \subsection{The Latest}\label{the-latest}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    The campaign
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/08/us/trump-vs-biden?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{shifts
    to a higher gear this week}, with President Trump set to visit
    Florida and North Carolina today and Joseph R. Biden heading to
    Michigan tomorrow.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{how-to-win-270}{%
  \subsection{How to Win 270}\label{how-to-win-270}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Joe Biden and Donald Trump need 270 electoral votes to reach the
    White House. Try building
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/election-states-biden-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{your
    own coalition of battleground states}~to see potential outcomes.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{voting-by-mail}{%
  \subsection{Voting by Mail}\label{voting-by-mail}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Will you have enough time to vote by mail in your state? Yes, but
    it's risky to procrastinate.
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/31/us/politics/vote-by-mail-deadlines.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Check
    your state's deadline.}
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/joe-biden.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{}

    \hypertarget{joe-biden}{%
    \section{Joe Biden}\label{joe-biden}}

    \hypertarget{democrat}{%
    \subsection{Democrat}\label{democrat}}

    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/donald-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{}

    \hypertarget{donald-trump}{%
    \section{Donald Trump}\label{donald-trump}}

    \hypertarget{republican}{%
    \subsection{Republican}\label{republican}}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \hypertarget{keep-up-with-our-coverage}{%
  \subsection{Keep Up With Our
  Coverage}\label{keep-up-with-our-coverage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Get an
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{email}~recapping
    the day's news
  \item
    Download our mobile app on
    \href{https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nytimes/id284862083?ls=1\&mat_click_id=5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\&referrer=mat_click_id\%3D5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\%26link_click_id\%3D722930677036718082}{iOS}~and
    \href{http://a.localytics.com/android?id=com.nytimes.android\&referrer=utm_source\%3Dother_nyt_mobile_web\%26utm_medium\%3DWeb\%2520page\%26utm_term\%3DGeneral\%2520Mobile\%2520Page\%26utm_campaign\%3DNYT\%2520Mobile\%2520General\%2520Page}{Android}~and
    turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{Â©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
