Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}Trump Makes Clear His
Opposition to More Money to Support Mail Voting

\url{https://nyti.ms/3izeB1W}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/09/08/us/elections/results-new-hampshire-primary-elections.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{New
  Hampshire Results}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/08/us/trump-vs-biden?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Election
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/election-states-biden-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Paths
  to 270}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/31/us/politics/vote-by-mail-deadlines.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Voting
  by Mail}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/us/elections/2020-presidential-election-calendar.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Key
  Dates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Politics
  Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{trump-makes-clear-his-opposition-to-more-money-to-support-mail-voting}{%
\section{Trump Makes Clear His Opposition to More Money to Support Mail
Voting}\label{trump-makes-clear-his-opposition-to-more-money-to-support-mail-voting}}

The president's remarks fueled alarm among Democrats that he is seeking
to undercut the election and sow confusion about the outcome.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/13/us/politics/13dc-postal/merlin_175421163_1e5b417c-955e-406d-b5ce-8ef48a3902df-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/emily-cochrane}{Emily
Cochrane} and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/hailey-fuchs}{Hailey Fuchs}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Published Aug. 13, 2020Updated Aug. 17, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

WASHINGTON --- President Trump stirred new questions on Thursday about
whether he would seek to hold up new money to the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/22/business/economy/dejoy-postmaster-general-trump-mnuchin.html}{Postal
Service} to impede
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/11/us/politics/vote-by-mail-us-states.html}{mail-in
voting} this fall in the middle of the pandemic.

Repeating the unfounded claim that the election could be riddled with
fraud if mail ballots were widely used, he made clear that he opposed
Democratic demands for additional funding for both the post office and
election security measures because of his opposition to mail-in voting.
Still, he left open the possibility that he could come to a deal as part
of a larger negotiation over a new round of economic stimulus.

``We have to have an honest election,'' the president said when pressed
on mail voting at a news conference in the White House Briefing Room.
``And if it's not going to be an honest election, I guess people have to
sit down and think really long and hard about it.''

His statements added to
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/31/us/politics/trump-usps-mail-delays.html}{growing
alarm} among Democrats and voting rights proponents that Mr. Trump is
intent on undercutting mail balloting and sowing discord and confusion
over the result of the election. They came amid growing scrutiny of the
postmaster general, a Republican megadonor.

Mr. Trump stressed the issue across the day in a series of inconsistent
remarks in which he veered between a hard line against mail-in balloting
and signals of some openness to an accommodation.

``They need that money in order to have the post office work so it can
take all of these millions and millions of ballots,'' Mr. Trump said
Thursday morning in an
\href{https://www.foxbusiness.com/politics/trump-rips-dems-for-holding-up-coronavirus-stimulus-deal-with-demand-for-post-office-aid}{interview}
on Fox Business, referring to Democratic demands. ``If they don't get
those two items, that means you can't have universal mail-in voting
because they're not equipped to have it.''

The dispute over the money for the post office and election security is
part of
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/12/us/politics/coronavirus-relief-bill.html}{the
larger partisan standoff} over another round of economic stimulus in
response to the coronavirus pandemic. Talks between the two sides
collapsed at the end of last week, and although the administration made
an overture on Wednesday, no serious new negotiations are underway. Both
chambers have now left Washington until September, after the Senate
formally adjourned on Thursday.

Mr. Trump suggested that without agreement on the larger package,
Democrats would have to give up on widespread use of mail balloting. He
regularly states that mail-in voting leads to election fraud.

``If we don't make a deal, that means they don't get the money,'' Mr.
Trump said. ``That means they can't have universal mail-in voting, they
just can't have it.''

But when asked later at his news conference if he would veto any
legislation that contained more money for the post office and election
security, Mr. Trump said no, suggesting that he was using the issue in
part as a negotiating chip with congressional Democrats on the larger
stimulus package.

``All they have to do is make a deal,'' he said. ``If they make a deal,
the Postal Service is taken care of, the money they need for the mail-in
ballots would be taken care of --- if we agree to it. That doesn't mean
we are going to agree to it, but all they have to do is make a deal.''

The Postal Service has said regularly that it can handle any surge in
volume from mail balloting this fall.
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/11/us/politics/vote-by-mail-us-states.html}{More
than three-quarters of voters} will be able to cast their ballots by
mail this year.

Mr. Trump has assailed the money-losing Postal Service in recent months,
at the same time warning that voting by mail will lead to fraud, lost or
stolen ballots and long delays in determining a winner. (On Wednesday,
both the president and the first lady, Melania Trump, were mailed
ballots, \href{https://www.pbcelections.org/Voters/Vote-By-Mail}{Palm
Beach County, Fla., election records show}. It was
\href{https://www.palmbeachpost.com/news/20200813/floridas-most-famous-mail-in-voter-will-do-it-again-trump-requests-ballot}{first
reported} by The Palm Beach Post. Late Thursday, Judd Deere, a White
House spokesman, said, ``The president supports absentee voting, not
universal mail-in voting, which contain several safeguards that prevent
fraud and abuse.'')

The appointment as postmaster general in May of Louis DeJoy, a Trump
campaign contributor with significant financial interests in the Postal
Service's competitors and contractors, has prompted further concerns
about the politicization of the agency, particularly after Mr. DeJoy put
in place policy changes that have slowed mail delivery in some areas.

Mr. DeJoy has kept tens of millions of dollars invested in XPO
Logistics, a Postal Service contractor for which he was a board member,
first
\href{https://www.cnn.com/2020/08/12/politics/postal-service-dejoy-conflicts-amazon-trades-xpo-stake/index.html}{reported
by CNN on Wednesday}. However, he sold his stake in United Parcel
Service, a major rival for the post office, in June, according to
financial disclosures.

Shortly after he divested between \$100,000 and \$250,000 in Amazon
stock the same month, he bought \$50,000 to \$100,000 in stock options
for the company. Amazon, a frequent subject of Mr. Trump's attacks, is a
major competitor to the Postal Service in package delivery.

Following the revelations, Senator Elizabeth Warren, Democrat of
Massachusetts,
\href{https://twitter.com/SenWarren/status/1293956521920012289}{called
for an investigation} into Mr. DeJoy's holdings.

A spokesman for the Postal Service said that the postmaster general was
not required to divest his assets unless a conflict of interest arose.

``I take my ethical obligations seriously, and I have done what is
necessary to ensure that I am and will remain in compliance with those
obligations,'' Mr. DeJoy said in a statement.

The president's remarks on Thursday connected his objections to
additional aid for the agency and his aversion to mail-in voting more
directly than he has previously. Critics of the administration said it
was further evidence that Mr. Trump seeks to
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/31/us/politics/trump-tweet-democracy.html}{delegitimize
the November vote before it happens}.

``The president is afraid of the American people,'' Speaker Nancy Pelosi
of California said at her weekly news conference. ``He's been afraid for
a while, he knows that on the legit, it'd be hard for him to win, so he
wants to put obstacles of participation.''

She added: ``But we do not agonize. We organize.''

A spokesman for Mr. Trump's presumptive Democratic opponent, former Vice
President Joseph R. Biden Jr., called it a cynical attempt at
disenfranchisement.

``The president of the United States is sabotaging a basic service that
hundreds of millions of people rely upon, cutting a critical lifeline
for rural economies and for delivery of medicines, because he wants to
deprive Americans of their fundamental right to vote safely during the
most catastrophic public health crisis in over 100 years,'' said Andrew
Bates, a spokesman for the Biden campaign.

Officials have repeatedly said that the agency is equipped to handle a
surge in mail-in voting, with Mr. DeJoy telling a board meeting last
Friday that
\href{https://about.usps.com/newsroom/national-releases/2020/0807-pmg-bog-meeting-comments.htm}{the
Postal Service}``has ample capacity to deliver all election mail
securely and on time in accordance with our delivery standards.''

But voting activists said that Mr. Trump's remarks simply made clear
what they already suspected: that the president was attacking the post
office to undermine the election. Tammy Patrick, an expert on mail-in
voting and senior adviser at the Democracy Fund, a nonpartisan
grant-making foundation, maintained that funding was not intended to
implement a ``universal vote by mail,'' as the president put it, but
rather a secure option for voters amid the pandemic.

Wendy Weiser, the director of the Democracy Program at the Brennan
Center for Justice, a New York-based research organization, said Mr.
Trump's comments effectively throw ``the ball into Congress's court'' to
provide the necessary money. Any funding bill, however, would require
Mr. Trump's signature to become law.

Negotiations over another coronavirus relief package have sputtered to a
halt. While Republicans have insisted on a \$1 trillion measure,
Democrats have pushed to infuse at least \$2 trillion into the American
economy and include money for state and local governments, food
assistance programs and for election security and the Postal Service.

In addition to new funding for the Postal Service, Ms. Pelosi and
Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, the Democratic leader, have called
for legislative language that would counter some of the operational
changes Mr. DeJoy has instituted.

Democrats originally called for \$25 billion for the Postal Service over
three years, a figure Ms. Pelosi has said they reached after discussions
with the bipartisan board of governors.

But Democrats have since raised the prospect of lowering the amount to
\$10 billion over one year, according to a person familiar with the
discussions, who asked for anonymity to disclose details of the private
talks.

At least one Republican has also expressed support for providing some
additional money to the agency.

``I do disagree with the president on the need to support the Postal
Service,'' said Senator Susan Collins of Maine, one of a number of
vulnerable Republicans up for re-election in November.

``There's no doubt that the Postal Service has long-term financial
challenges, and those need to be dealt with," she added. ``But now is
not the time to be cutting back services.''

Katie Glueck, Michael D. Shear and Annie Karni contributed reporting.

\hypertarget{our-2020-election-guide}{%
\section{Our 2020 Election Guide}\label{our-2020-election-guide}}

Updated ~Sept. 8, 2020

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

\begin{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{the-latest}{%
  \subsection{The Latest}\label{the-latest}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    President Trump and his party are using a playbook that aims to
    alarm people about crime in their backyards. It didn't work in 2018,
    but
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/08/us/politics/trump-republicans-fear-strategy.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{both
    parties think it could resonate more this year}.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{how-to-win-270}{%
  \subsection{How to Win 270}\label{how-to-win-270}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Joe Biden and Donald Trump need 270 electoral votes to reach the
    White House. Try building
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/election-states-biden-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{your
    own coalition of battleground states}~to see potential outcomes.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{voting-by-mail}{%
  \subsection{Voting by Mail}\label{voting-by-mail}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Will you have enough time to vote by mail in your state? Yes, but
    it's risky to procrastinate.
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/31/us/politics/vote-by-mail-deadlines.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Check
    your state's deadline.}
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/joe-biden.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{}

    \hypertarget{joe-biden}{%
    \section{Joe Biden}\label{joe-biden}}

    \hypertarget{democrat}{%
    \subsection{Democrat}\label{democrat}}

    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/donald-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{}

    \hypertarget{donald-trump}{%
    \section{Donald Trump}\label{donald-trump}}

    \hypertarget{republican}{%
    \subsection{Republican}\label{republican}}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \hypertarget{keep-up-with-our-coverage}{%
  \subsection{Keep Up With Our
  Coverage}\label{keep-up-with-our-coverage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Get an
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{email}~recapping
    the day's news
  \item
    Download our mobile app on
    \href{https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nytimes/id284862083?ls=1\&mat_click_id=5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\&referrer=mat_click_id\%3D5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\%26link_click_id\%3D722930677036718082}{iOS}~and
    \href{http://a.localytics.com/android?id=com.nytimes.android\&referrer=utm_source\%3Dother_nyt_mobile_web\%26utm_medium\%3DWeb\%2520page\%26utm_term\%3DGeneral\%2520Mobile\%2520Page\%26utm_campaign\%3DNYT\%2520Mobile\%2520General\%2520Page}{Android}~and
    turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
