Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}What We Know About Joe
Biden's Record on School Busing

\url{https://nyti.ms/2Lq53ZT}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/21/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{D.N.C.
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/20/us/politics/biden-presidential-nomination-dnc.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Biden's
  Speech}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/us/elections/2020-presidential-election-calendar.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Election
  Calendar}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/11/us/politics/vote-by-mail-us-states.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Voting
  by Mail}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Politics
  Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{what-we-know-about-joe-bidens-record-on-school-busing}{%
\section{What We Know About Joe Biden's Record on School
Busing}\label{what-we-know-about-joe-bidens-record-on-school-busing}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2019/06/28/us/politics/28bidenwhatweknow/93de6726c27849a5bb3177b7d011370c-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/matt-stevens}{Matt
Stevens}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  June 28, 2019
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

One of the most tense and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/06/27/us/politics/kamala-harris-joe-biden-busing.html}{dramatic
moments} of the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/06/27/us/politics/democratic-debate-live.html}{Democratic
debate} on Thursday night began with a stipulation.

``I do not believe you are a racist,'' Senator Kamala Harris of
California told former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr.

What followed was
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/06/27/us/politics/kamala-harris-biden-debate.html?rref=collection\%2Fbyline\%2Fmatt-flegenheimer\&action=click\&contentCollection=undefined\&region=stream\&module=stream_unit\&version=latest\&contentPlacement=1\&pgtype=collection}{a
deeply personal and at times lacerating explanation} of what Ms. Harris,
a black former prosecutor, did believe and had experienced. It was a
story about segregation, about busing, and about Ms. Harris herself. And
it was a story she wanted Mr. Biden to hear.

In an instantly memorable exchange, Ms. Harris said it had been ``very
hurtful'' to hear Mr. Biden invoke the names of two segregationist
senators
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/06/19/us/politics/biden-segregationists.html?module=inline}{as
he did on the campaign trail this month}. She then recalled Mr. Biden's
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/06/27/us/politics/factcheck-democratic-debate.html?module=inline}{opposition
to school busing in the 1970s}.

``There was a little girl in California who was a part of the second
class to integrate her public schools and she was bused to school every
day,'' Ms. Harris said. ``And that little girl was me.''

\emph{{[}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/06/27/us/politics/kamala-harris-joe-biden-busing.html?action=click\&module=RelatedCoverage\&pgtype=Article\&region=Footer}{Read
a transcript of the exchange}} \emph{between Ms. Harris and Mr.
Biden.{]}}

Mr. Biden called her remarks ``a mischaracterization of my position
across the board.'' And when Ms. Harris asked moments later whether Mr.
Biden would agree that he had been ``wrong to oppose busing in
America,'' Mr. Biden again pushed back on the premise.

``I did not oppose busing in America,'' Mr. Biden said. ``What I opposed
is busing ordered by the Department of Education.''

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/06/27/us/politics/factcheck-democratic-debate.html}{In
reality,} Mr. Biden was a
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/06/21/us/politics/joe-biden-james-eastland.html?module=inline}{leading
opponent} of busing in the Senate during the 1970s and 1980s, and his
opposition went beyond the federal government's role in the practice.

But
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/06/28/us/politics/biden-harris-debate-democratic.html}{speaking
at a conference Friday in Chicago}, Mr. Biden doubled down, claiming
that he had ``never, never, never ever opposed voluntary busing'' like
the program Ms. Harris participated in as a child, implicitly drawing a
distinction between voluntary busing allowed by some local governments
and the mandatory, court-ordered busing that also took place decades
ago.

Then he added: ``I've always been in favor of using federal authority to
overcome state-initiated segregation.''

\hypertarget{latest-updates-2020-election}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/21/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: 2020
Election}}{Latest Updates: 2020 Election}}\label{latest-updates-2020-election}}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/21/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#join-us-live-for-a-recap-of-the-democratic-convention}{12m
ago}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/21/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#join-us-live-for-a-recap-of-the-democratic-convention}{Join
us (live!) for a recap of the Democratic convention.}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/21/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#louis-dejoy-the-postmaster-general-testifies-before-the-senate-this-morning}{37m
ago}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/21/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#louis-dejoy-the-postmaster-general-testifies-before-the-senate-this-morning}{Louis
DeJoy, the postmaster general, testifies before the Senate this
morning.}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/21/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#brayden-harrington-a-boy-with-a-stutter-gave-a-gripping-convention-speech}{41m
ago}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/21/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#brayden-harrington-a-boy-with-a-stutter-gave-a-gripping-convention-speech}{Brayden
Harrington, a boy with a stutter, gave a gripping convention speech.}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/21/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

Here's a look at what we know about Mr. Biden's record in the 1970s and
'80s, as a senator from Delaware, and how it squares with the claims he
made this week.

\hypertarget{an-asinine-concept}{%
\subsection{`An asinine concept'}\label{an-asinine-concept}}

Mr. Biden was a liberal on most civil rights issues, but he
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/06/21/us/politics/joe-biden-james-eastland.html?module=inline}{did
not support integrating schools through busing} from the 1970s to the
1980s.

In 1975, Mr. Biden
\href{https://www.govinfo.gov/content/pkg/GPO-CRECB-1975-pt22/pdf/GPO-CRECB-1975-pt22-6-2.pdf\#page=122}{supported}
a sweeping anti-busing measure offered by
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2008/07/05/us/politics/00helms.html?module=inline}{the
segregationist Senator Jesse Helms of North Carolina}, and he offered
his
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/1975/09/18/archives/anti-busing-measure-approved-in-senate.html?module=inline}{own
less stringent anti-busing amendment} to an appropriations bill.

``I oppose busing,'' he said
\href{https://www.washingtonpost.com/transcript-of-then-sen-biden-s-interview-with-the-people-paper/3d9be388-6871-4993-ae53-869a88c3c6eb_note.html?questionId=bdc5761e-0777-4db5-9d00-e22e67012c96\&utm_term=.650a28e274a6}{in
an interview in 1975}. ``It's an asinine concept, the utility of which
has never been proven to me.''

``The new integration plans being offered are really just quota-systems
to assure a certain number of blacks, Chicanos, or whatever in each
school,'' he added. ``That, to me, is the most racist concept you can
come up with; what it says is, `in order for your child with curly black
hair, brown eyes and dark skin to be able to learn anything, he needs to
sit next to my blond-haired, blue-eyed son.' That's racist! Who the hell
do we think we are, that the only way a black man or woman can learn is
if they rub shoulders with my white child?''

He went on: ``The problem, you see, is that the courts have gone
overboard in their interpretation of what is required to remedy unlawful
segregation. It is one thing to say that you cannot keep a black man
from using this bathroom, and something quite different to say that one
out of every five people who use this bathroom must be black.''

He concluded: ``I do not buy the concept, popular in the '60s, which
said, `We have suppressed the black man for 300 years and the white man
is now far ahead in the race for everything our society offers. In order
to even the score, we must now give the black man a head start, or even
hold the white man back, to even the race.'''

\hypertarget{more-anti-busing-legislation}{%
\subsection{More anti-busing
legislation}\label{more-anti-busing-legislation}}

Mr. Biden introduced another
\href{https://www.govinfo.gov/content/pkg/GPO-CRECB-1976-pt16/pdf/GPO-CRECB-1976-pt16-5-1.pdf\#page=36}{proposal}
in 1976 that blocked the Justice Department from seeking busing as a
desegregation tool, and co-sponsored an
\href{https://www.washingtonpost.com/archive/politics/1977/06/21/senate-unit-challenges-president/d9f6eac0-0350-4dab-887f-4ffd431ab1f9/}{amendment}
in 1977 that limited federal funding of busing efforts. He continued his
efforts that year with a
\href{https://www.congress.gov/bill/95th-congress/senate-bill/1132/actions?q=\%7B\%22search\%22\%3A\%5B\%22busing\%22\%5D\%7D}{bill}
curbing court-ordered busing.

In February 1982, he
\href{https://www.govinfo.gov/app/details/GPO-CRECB-1982-pt1}{voted} for
an amendment to a Justice Department appropriations bill
\href{https://library.cqpress.com/cqalmanac/document.php?id=cqal82-1164676}{described}
as the ``toughest anti-busing rider ever approved by either chamber of
Congress.'' A month later, he
\href{https://www.govinfo.gov/content/pkg/GPO-CRECB-1982-pt3/pdf/GPO-CRECB-1982-pt3-1.pdf\#page=96}{voted
in favor} of another amendment that allowed the Justice Department to
participate in litigation ``to remove or reduce the requirement of
busing in existing court decrees or judgments.''

A spokesman for Mr. Biden
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/06/21/us/politics/joe-biden-james-eastland.html?module=inline}{recently
told The New York Times} that he had always supported integration, but
that he did not think busing was the right mechanism to achieve it. The
spokesman also said Mr. Biden thought busing placed an undue burden on
African-American families. In an attempt to highlight other aspects of
Mr. Biden's record on civil rights, he pointed to comments in 1975
calling for housing and employment integration, and in 1986
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/1986/07/31/us/excerpts-from-questioning-of-rehnquist-in-the-senate-judiciary-committee.html?module=inline}{pressing
Justice William H. Rehnquist on integration.}

\hypertarget{dismal-support-for-busing-in-70s}{%
\subsection{Dismal support for busing in
'70s}\label{dismal-support-for-busing-in-70s}}

To some extent, Mr. Biden's opposition to busing reflected the majority
of the country at the time. Polling in the 1970s found only single-digit
support for the practice.

``Busing is unpopular for many reasons,''
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/1978/03/13/archives/nations-resistance-to-busing-softens-but-rate-is-slowed-nations.html}{The
New York Times reported in 1978}. ``Some parents say they fear that
their children will be unsafe or get an inferior education; many parents
and children say they sincerely prefer the neighborhood school concept;
the comments of some are racist.''

\href{https://www.civilrightsproject.ucla.edu/research/k-12-education/integration-and-diversity/public-school-desegregation-in-the-united-states-1968-1980/orfield_american-desegregation-1983.pdf}{Research
has shown} that nationwide, the segregation of black students in public
schools declined significantly between 1968 and 1980, the period during
which the courts decided that busing could be used to aid school
integration. And indeed,
\href{https://news.gallup.com/poll/3577/americans-want-integrated-schools-oppose-school-busing.aspx}{a
1999 Gallup poll} showed that Americans believed busing had served a
positive historical purpose in improving the education of
African-American students.

But by that time,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/1999/09/11/us/by-court-order-busing-ends-where-it-began.html?mtrref=www.google.com\&gwh=8FCED2DAE1A76942112CE3A94FF569A0\&gwt=pay}{most
busing plans had been dismantled} and were considered by some to be a
vestige of a different era. In line with that sentiment, the majority of
respondents to the Gallup poll said they would prefer to integrate
schools through methods other than busing.

\hypertarget{a-liberal-train-wreck-in-delaware}{%
\subsection{A `liberal train wreck' in
Delaware}\label{a-liberal-train-wreck-in-delaware}}

\href{https://books.google.com/books?id=3SqRQnn4IykC\&q=busing\#v=snippet\&q=busing\&f=false}{In
his 2007 memoir}, Mr. Biden discussed a cross-district busing effort in
the 1970s aimed at desegregating schools in a county in Delaware --- his
home state.

Busing, Mr. Biden said, was a ``liberal train wreck'' that was ``tearing
people apart'' there. In the book, he argued that it was forcing some
students to travel great distances and some teachers to transfer and
take pay cuts. Black and white parents alike, he said, were
``terrified.''

He spoke out publicly against Delaware's court-ordered school-busing
program, arguing that the money spent on transportation could be better
spent on other educational needs, and that it made no sense to stop
students from attending a school just blocks away from their homes.

He would later recount telling constituents that ``I was against busing
to remedy de facto segregation owing to housing patterns and community
comfort, but if it was intentional segregation, I'd personally pay for
helicopters to move the children.''

\hypertarget{drawing-a-distinction}{%
\subsection{Drawing a distinction}\label{drawing-a-distinction}}

Mr. Biden's remarks on Friday about never having been opposed to
``voluntary'' busing appeared to echo an argument he made the night
before, on the debate stage.

At one point during his exchange with Ms. Harris, Mr. Biden noted that
she had been able to participate in a busing program because of ``a
local decision'' made by a City Council to allow it.

``That's fine,'' he said. ``That's one of the things I argued for.''

Ms. Harris pushed back, saying that it had been almost two decades since
Brown v. Board of Education and that states had largely failed to
integrate public schools. As a result, she argued, it was the federal
government's responsibility to step in.

On Friday, Mr. Biden told the crowd gathered in Chicago: ``Folks, the
discussion in this race today shouldn't be about the past.''

\hypertarget{our-2020-election-guide}{%
\section{Our 2020 Election Guide}\label{our-2020-election-guide}}

Updated Aug. 21, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{the-latest}{%
  \subsection{The Latest}\label{the-latest}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Joe Biden
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/21/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{accepted
    the Democratic nomination}, urging Americans to have faith that they
    could ``overcome this season of darkness.''
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/21/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Here's
    the latest.}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{news-analysis}{%
  \subsection{News Analysis}\label{news-analysis}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Looming over Mr. Biden's nomination was the ever-present shadow of
    another man who's poised to dominate the campaign:
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/20/us/politics/biden-dnc-speech-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Donald
    J. Trump}.
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{keep-up-with-our-coverage}{%
  \subsection{Keep Up With Our
  Coverage}\label{keep-up-with-our-coverage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Get an
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{email}
    recapping the day's news
  \end{itemize}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Download our mobile app on
    \href{https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nytimes/id284862083?ls=1\&mat_click_id=5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\&referrer=mat_click_id\%3D5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\%26link_click_id\%3D722930677036718082}{iOS}
    and
    \href{http://a.localytics.com/android?id=com.nytimes.android\&referrer=utm_source\%3Dother_nyt_mobile_web\%26utm_medium\%3DWeb\%2520page\%26utm_term\%3DGeneral\%2520Mobile\%2520Page\%26utm_campaign\%3DNYT\%2520Mobile\%2520General\%2520Page}{Android}
    and turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
