Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/us}{U.S.}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/us}{U.S.}\textbar{}Hurricane Isaias Live Updates: Storm
Churns Toward Florida After Hitting Bahamas

\url{https://nyti.ms/3i9sPqr}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/news-event/coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{The
Coronavirus Outbreak}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  live\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/01/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Latest
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Maps
  and Cases}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Vaccine
  Tracker}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/07/29/us/schools-reopening-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{What
  School May Look Like}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/live/2020/07/31/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Economy}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

LIVE UPDATES

Updated~

Aug. 1, 2020, 2:04 p.m. ET

Aug. 1, 2020, 2:04 p.m. ET

\hypertarget{hurricane-isaias-live-updates-storm-churns-toward-florida-after-hitting-bahamas}{%
\section{Hurricane Isaias Live Updates: Storm Churns Toward Florida
After Hitting
Bahamas}\label{hurricane-isaias-live-updates-storm-churns-toward-florida-after-hitting-bahamas}}

The Category 1 storm may hit Florida's coast, further testing a state
that has been battered by the coronavirus pandemic.

Right Now

Hurricane Isaias is about 140 miles southeast of Fort Lauderdale, moving
slowly toward the state with winds swirling at about 75 miles per hour.

\hypertarget{heres-what-you-need-to-know}{%
\subsubsection{Here's what you need to
know:}\label{heres-what-you-need-to-know}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-1cd8e207}{The storm is moving toward Florida's
  coastline.}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-45d987d2}{Shelters began opening in Palm Beach
  County}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-1257f12e}{Nursing homes, already tested by the
  pandemic, may be vulnerable.}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-65b0758c}{Florida is closing state-run
  coronavirus testing sites in the storm's path.}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-41916cd2}{Forecasters predicted an active
  hurricane season, and it seems they were right.}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-4b87d643}{Astronauts may have to delay return
  from the International Space Station.}
\end{itemize}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/08/01/business/01floriday-vid/01floriday-vid-videoSixteenByNine3000.jpg}

\subsection{}

The storm is moving toward Florida's coastline.

Florida was preparing for wind gusts up to 80 miles per hour and
dangerous coastal surf on Saturday as Hurricane Isaias churned toward
the state's coastline.

The storm, a Category 1 hurricane,
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/hurricane-isaias.html}{raked
parts of Puerto Rico and the Dominican Republic} and began battering the
Bahamas early Saturday.

Forecasters said on Saturday that Isaias's projected path had shifted
slightly eastward, and could potentially make landfall over Palm Beach,
Jacksonville and other coastal cities in the hurricane's possible path.

Miami is no longer in the
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/09/11/climate/hurricane-evacuation-path-forecasts.html}{``cone''
that signals the hurricane's possible paths}, but the National Weather
Service
\href{https://forecast.weather.gov/showsigwx.php?warnzone=FLZ073\&warncounty=FLC086\&firewxzone=FLZ073\&local_place1=3\%20Miles\%20W\%20Palm\%20Springs\%20North\%20FL\&product1=Hurricane+Local+Statement\&lat=25.9366\&lon=-80.3793\#.XyWaz_hKjOQ}{warned}
that the region could still see floods from heavy rain and damage from
strong winds.

Up the coast, officials in Georgia, South Carolina and North Carolina
were closely monitoring the storm, which is expected to move north and
could scrape the coasts of any of those states.

Like Florida, those three states have seen a dramatic rise in new
reported cases of the coronavirus since mid-June, and more recently,
health officials have warned that their health-care systems could be
strained beyond capacity with the flood of new patients. Emergency
management officials have been drawing up new plans to deal with people
fleeing amid the virus, including placing people in hotel rooms instead
of congregate shelters like basketball gyms.

Even so, Keith Acree, a North Carolina emergency management spokesman,
said the state was urging coastal residents to make plans to stay with
family or friends further inland. ``A shelter this year is not really
where you want to be this year during a pandemic,'' he said.

As of 2 p.m., the hurricane was about 140 miles southeast of Fort
Lauderdale and moving toward the coast at about 12 miles per hour. Its
winds were swirling at about 75 m.p.h.

In Florida, a hurricane warning remained in effect from Boca Raton to
the northern edge of Volusia County, which includes Daytona Beach. A
hurricane watch also remained in effect from southern Broward County to
south of Boca Raton. There could be storm surges up to four feet high.

The storm is expected to weaken be off the coast of Georgia on Monday
morning, and off the coast of South Carolina by Monday evening.

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/07/31/us/hurricane-isaias-tracker-map.html}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/07/31/us/hurricane-isaias-tracker-map-promo-1596209917104/hurricane-isaias-tracker-map-promo-1596209917104-articleLarge-v3.jpg}

\hypertarget{hurricane-isaias-tracking-map}{%
\subsection{Hurricane Isaias Tracking
Map}\label{hurricane-isaias-tracking-map}}

Hurricane Isaias could reach Florida on Saturday.

\hypertarget{-1}{%
\subsection{}\label{-1}}

Shelters began opening in Palm Beach County

Palm Beach County opened four general population centers at one middle
school and three high schools Saturday morning as Hurricane Isaias
continued to stretch up the Atlantic Coast. The shelters are available
only to residents who live in mobile homes or ``sub-standard'' housing,
the county
\href{https://discover.pbcgov.org/Lists/Newsroom/NewsDispForm.aspx?ID=3014}{said}.

Individuals older than 2 will be required to wear face coverings, and
temperature screenings will be conducted for all residents who want to
enter the shelters. The county noted that social distancing protocols
would be in effect, and families staying at the shelters would be kept
further apart from each other. The county also said it would open one
pet friendly shelter for animals.

Still, county officials on Friday urged residents to stay home and avoid
congregating in settings like shelters, if possible. For those living in
less stable housing, such as mobile homes, officials recommended
sheltering with a family member or friend who resides in a sturdy home,
or relocating to a hotel.

``There is Covid in every aspect of your hurricane preparedness needs,''
said Bill Johnson, the Emergency Management Director for Palm Beach
County at the news conference on Friday. ``Shelters should be considered
your last resort.''

\hypertarget{-2}{%
\subsection{}\label{-2}}

Nursing homes, already tested by the pandemic, may be vulnerable.

Three years after
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/08/24/us/4-charged-holywood-hills-deaths-hurricane-irma-florida.html}{a
dozen nursing home residents died during Hurricane Irma}, Florida's
former ombudsman warned that Hurricane Isaias will test nursing homes
already battling the coronavirus pandemic.

Lawmakers passed regulations after air-conditioners failed at one home
in 2017, leading to heat-related deaths. They mandated that nursing
homes install backup generators in case of severe weather.

But this May, the state issued 95 variances --- passes that allow
facilities to operate despite noncompliance --- to nursing homes that
had not met the emergency requirements,
\href{https://www.miamiherald.com/article242595251.html}{according to
The Miami Herald}.

The former ombudsman, Brian Lee, who now runs Families for Better Care,
an advocacy group for nursing home and elder-care residents, said he
doubted state officials who said the nursing homes were prepared.

``I can't imagine that these facilities are prepped and ready to handle
a pandemic and a hurricane simultaneously,'' Mr. Lee said. ``They are
going to be over their heads and under water. It is a total recipe for
disaster.''

Kristen Knapp, a spokeswoman for the Florida Health Care Association,
which lobbies for nursing homes, said that not every nursing home that
applied for a variance was without a generator. Some facilities applied
for other reasons, including that they had not been able to perform
inspections because of the coronavirus, she said.

According to
\href{http://apps.ahca.myflorida.com/dm_web/(S(1v0gkxzpdxlo2x3vtgyf1qxk))/doc_results_fo.aspx}{records
from Florida's Agency for Health Care Administration}, some nursing
homes that were approved for variances were without generators as
recently as March, and were allowed to operate without generators until
June 1.

An agency spokesman said in an email that all nursing homes and assisted
living facilities have generators on site.

Some facilities plan to shelter in place rather than evacuate residents.
Mr. Lee said he was concerned that social distancing would be impossible
if dozens of residents were gathered in a common space.

``You get 120 residents and their caregivers in a large room in the
middle of a pandemic --- social distancing is out the window,'' Mr. Lee
said. ``This pandemic is really a threat to the residents in these
facilities, not just from a health care perspective, but for natural
disasters as well.''

\hypertarget{-3}{%
\subsection{}\label{-3}}

Florida is closing state-run coronavirus testing sites in the storm's
path.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/08/01/us/politics/01isaias-briefing-testing/merlin_175172862_29a53906-3430-4d01-a267-6898ed0789e7-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Gov. Ron DeSantis said on Friday that state-run coronavirus testing
sites, which are mostly housed under tents at outdoor venues, will be
closed if they are within Hurricane Isaias's anticipated path.

Many testing sites would be unsafe for lab personnel during the storm's
wind and rain, Mr. DeSantis said
\href{https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FsKIF5je_bo}{during a news
conference} on Friday. Labs run by private companies, hospitals and
local county health departments
\href{https://www.floridadisaster.org/news-media/news/20200729-all-state-supported-testing-sites-temporarily-close-for-potential-tropical-cyclone-nine/}{will
not be affected} by the state's closure.

The governor, a Republican, had planned to close all of the state's
testing sites from Friday to Wednesday. But the Division of Emergency
Management eventually said it would keep testing sites open in counties
that should be unaffected.

In Miami-Dade County, the center of Florida's coronavirus outbreak,
Mayor Carlos Gimenez ordered the county-run sites to close from Friday
until at least Monday.

The county has recorded more than 20,000 cases in the past seven days.

``We have thousands of tests that will not be conducted until we get
these test sites up and running again,'' Mr. Gimenez said during a news
conference on Friday. ``We have to put safety first.''

On Thursday, Florida recorded 253 deaths, the state's most deaths in a
single day. While the number of daily new cases has declined in the
second half of July,
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/florida-coronavirus-cases.html}{the
number of daily deaths} has trended upward.

\hypertarget{-4}{%
\subsection{}\label{-4}}

Forecasters predicted an active hurricane season, and it seems they were
right.

Because of warm ocean temperatures and other conditions this year,
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/05/21/climate/hurricane-season-2020-noaa.html}{weather
experts said in May} that there would probably be more than the average
of 12 named storms.

The season, which runs from June 1 to November 30, is only one-third
over, and Hurricane Isaias is already its ninth named storm, which
requires maximum sustained winds above 38 miles per hour.

June and July are usually quiet, which means the 2020 season could
approach
\href{https://slack-redir.net/link?url=https\%3A\%2F\%2Fwww.nhc.noaa.gov\%2Fdata\%2Ftcr\%2Findex.php\%3Fseason\%3D2005\%26basin\%3Datl}{the
record of 27 named storms set in 2005} --- the only time the National
Hurricane Center had to use Greek letters for some names.

Two factors combine to make the August to October period more active.
Ocean warmth, which provides the energy that fuels tropical storms and
hurricanes, reaches its peak in late summer. And differential winds that
can weaken storms by disrupting their rotating, or cyclonic, structure
are at their quietest.

Of the nine storms so far, seven were tropical storms, with wind speeds
below 74 miles an hour. The first hurricane, Hanna,
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/26/us/virus-texas-storm.html}{which
struck South Texas last week}, was a Category 1 storm, with winds below
96 m.p.h. and so far Isaias's strength is about the same.

So while the season is busy, it remains to be seen whether another of
the predictions by the experts at the National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration are borne out. They forecast that three to six storms
this season would be major hurricanes, with sustained winds of 111
m.p.h. or higher.

\hypertarget{-5}{%
\subsection{}\label{-5}}

Astronauts may have to delay return from the International Space
Station.

\hypertarget{returning-to-earth}{%
\subsection{Returning to Earth}\label{returning-to-earth}}

The SpaceX Crew Dragon is scheduled to splash down near Florida on
Sunday, though
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/07/31/us/hurricane-isaias-tracker-map.html}{Hurricane
Isaias} could change those plans.

Category

2

1

Tropical storm

Forecasted path of Hurricane Isaias

Atlantic Ocean

Mon. 2 a.m.

Seven possible

splashdown sites

(approximate)

Gulf of Mexico

Sun. 2 a.m.

Sat. 2 a.m.

Last updated Sat. 9 a.m.

Category

2

1

Tropical storm

Forecasted path of Hurricane Isaias

Mon. 2 a.m.

Seven possible

splashdown sites

(approximate)

Gulf of Mexico

Sun. 2 a.m.

Sat. 2 a.m.

Last updated Sat. 9 a.m.

Category

2

1

Tropical storm

Forecasted path of Hurricane Isaias

Mon.

2 a.m.

Seven possible

splashdown sites

(approximate)

Gulf of Mexico

Sun.

2 a.m.

Last updated Sat. 9 a.m.

By The New York Times \textbar{} Sources: NASA, National Hurricane
Center, Mapbox, OpenStreetMap

Florida-bound travelers facing delays because of Hurricane Isaias may
include two astronauts scheduled to depart from the International Space
Station on Saturday.

The astronauts, Robert L. Behnken and Douglas G. Hurley, blasted off to
the space station in May in the Crew Dragon capsule built and operated
by SpaceX, the rocket company started by Elon Musk. They are scheduled
to splash down on Sunday afternoon, but the hurricane is complicating
that plan.

NASA and SpaceX have seven potential sites in the Atlantic Ocean and
Gulf of Mexico where the capsule and its passengers can splash down. But
the track of Isaias ruled out the three in the Atlantic.

At the splashdown site, winds must be less than 10 miles per hour, and
there are additional constraints on waves and rain. In addition,
helicopters that take part in the recovery of the capsule must be able
to fly and land safely.

Conditions may be calm enough at the two westernmost splashdown sites,
off Pensacola and Panama City. If the two astronauts cannot leave on
Saturday, NASA could decide to push back the departure by one day.

Reporting was contributed by Nicholas Bogel-Burroughs, Kenneth Chang,
Richard Fausset, Henry Fountain, Giulia McDonnell Nieto del Rio,Frances
Robles and Will Wright.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
