Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}At Rally, President Accuses
Liberal Critics of Seeking the Nation's `Destruction'

\url{https://nyti.ms/2LZWfu2}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Election
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/biden-vice-president-2020.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Biden's
  V.P. Search}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/07/24/us/politics/trump-biden-campaign-donors.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Map
  of Donations}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/elections/delegate-count-primary-results.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Delegate
  Count}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2019/us/politics/2020-presidential-candidates.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{The
  Candidates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Politics
  Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{at-rally-president-accuses-liberal-critics-of-seeking-the-nations-destruction}{%
\section{At Rally, President Accuses Liberal Critics of Seeking the
Nation's
`Destruction'}\label{at-rally-president-accuses-liberal-critics-of-seeking-the-nations-destruction}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2019/07/17/us/17dc-trump/merlin_158087397_635b6c8d-00d8-4744-86c5-ae09f7374052-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/michael-crowley}{Michael Crowley}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  July 17, 2019
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

GREENVILLE, N.C. --- President Trump road-tested his attacks on four
Democratic congresswomen on Wednesday, casting them as avatars of
anti-American radicalism and reiterating his call for them to leave the
country, as a raucous crowd chanted,
``\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/07/18/us/politics/ilhan-omar-donald-trump.html}{Send
her back! Send her back!}''

The performance here was a preview of a slash-and-burn re-election
strategy that depicts Mr. Trump as a bulwark against a ``dangerous,
militant hard left.''

``These left-wing ideologues see our nation as a force for evil,'' Mr.
Trump told a packed arena. To roaring applause, he railed against what
he called ``hate-filled extremists who are constantly trying to tear our
country down.''

``They don't love our country,'' he said. ``I think, in some cases, they
hate our country. You know what? If they don't love it, tell them to
leave it.''

In recent days, similar comments by
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/07/18/us/politics/ilhan-omar-donald-trump.html}{Mr.
Trump} have been met with repugnance across the country. But the
capacity crowd in an arena at East Carolina University seemed to savor
them. After Mr. Trump reeled off several controversial comments made by
one of the four congresswomen,
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/07/18/us/politics/ilhan-omar-donald-trump.html}{Representative
Ilhan Omar} of Minnesota, including ones that he depicted as sympathetic
to Al Qaeda, the crowd started its ``Send her back'' chant, which could
become the 2020 rejoinder to 2016's ``Lock her up!''

It was the latest sign that the president's plan for winning a second
term in office involves playing to racial and nationalist themes that
shock the consciences of many Americans, but which seem to delight his
most ardent supporters.

Mr. Trump doubled down with relish on his previous calls for the
congresswomen --- Ms. Omar, Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez of New York,
Rashida Tlaib of Michigan and Ayanna S. Pressley of Massachusetts ---
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/07/14/us/politics/trump-twitter-squad-congress.html}{to
``go back'' to their countries of origin}, even though all but one were
born in the United States and all four are citizens. It left no doubt
that he was undaunted by furious condemnations of his remarks as racist,
including a
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/07/16/us/politics/trump-tweet-house-vote.html}{Tuesday
vote by the House}.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-2020-election}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: 2020
Election}}{Latest Updates: 2020 Election}}\label{latest-updates-2020-election}}

Updated 2020-08-01T01:26:45.732Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-29fdff45}{Kamala
  Harris, a top vice-presidential contender, confronts double
  standards.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-13ec3d9c}{Karen
  Bass and Susan Rice are rising on Biden's vice-presidential
  shortlist.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-49e9a016}{Trump
  says Russian bounties to kill U.S. troops `never took place.'}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

As his raucous audience booed repeatedly at his mentions of the women,
the atmosphere had echoes of a pro-wrestling match at which the crowd
thrills in its collective disdain for the villain of the moment.

Wednesday night's event was billed as a ``Keep America Great'' rally ---
a boastful variant of Mr. Trump's 2016 campaign slogan, ``Make America
Great Again.''

``Big Rally tonight in Greenville, North Carolina,'' the president
\href{https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/1151473175496146945}{tweeted
early Wednesday}, saying he would play up economic growth and the
booming stock market in a state that has narrowly tilted right in the
past two presidential contests.

Many Republicans, including some of Mr. Trump's advisers, wish he would
stick to those themes, saying they think that he is overshadowing an
economic success story by engaging in name-calling and divisive cultural
clashes. Some feel that his relentless focus on immigration and other
nationalist themes before last November's midterm elections alienated
suburban swing voters and helped enable Democrats to win the House.

But while the president did devote time to the nation's recent economic
growth, and took credit for data showing that China's gross domestic
product is growing at its slowest rate in 27 years, he was most animated
when attacking his Democratic rivals, particularly Ms. Omar, Ms.
Ocasio-Cortez, Ms. Tlaib and Ms. Pressley, who are collectively known as
``the squad.''

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2019/07/18/us/politics/trump-racist-tweet-evolution.html}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2019/07/18/us/trump-racist-tweet-evolution-promo-1563501582520/trump-racist-tweet-evolution-promo-1563501582520-articleLarge-v3.png}

\hypertarget{how-trumps-twitter-attack-against-democrats-evolved-into-send-her-back-chant}{%
\subsection{How Trump's Twitter Attack Against Democrats Evolved Into
`Send Her Back'
Chant}\label{how-trumps-twitter-attack-against-democrats-evolved-into-send-her-back-chant}}

On Sunday, the president tweeted about four congresswomen in messages
denounced as racist. By Wednesday, a crowd of his supporters had a
rallying cry.

Mr. Trump denounced Ms. Ocasio-Cortez for
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/06/18/us/politics/ocasio-cortez-cheney-detention-centers.html}{branding
federal migrant detention centers} along the southwestern border
``concentration camps,'' saying she had, in effect, called border agents
Nazis. And he recalled the way Ms. Tlaib
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/01/04/us/politics/tlaib-impeach-trump.html?module=inline}{had
used} what he called a ``vicious'' expletive when
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/01/04/us/politics/tlaib-impeach-trump.html?module=inline}{she
vowed} in January that Mr. Trump would be impeached.

``That's not somebody that loves our country,'' the president said.

Mr. Trump also ridiculed the 2020 Democratic presidential candidates,
like mocking the name of Pete Buttigieg, the mayor of South Bend, Ind.,
and saying that former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. had ``choked''
in the last Democratic primary debate after Senator Kamala Harris of
California challenged him on the issue of busing.

Depicting the 2020 Democrats as a hapless and left-wing lot, Mr. Trump
delivered what may have been his core pitch: ``Tonight, we renew our
resolve that America will never be a socialist country. A vote for any
Democrat in 2020 is a vote for the rise of radical socialism and the
destruction of the American Dream --- frankly, the destruction of our
country.''

Mr. Trump also boasted about an afternoon vote in the House on a
resolution to impeach him that had been introduced by Representative Al
Green, Democrat of Texas. The measure, opposed by House Democratic
leaders wary of a potential backlash, failed
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/07/17/us/politics/house-impeachment-trump.html}{332}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/07/17/us/politics/house-impeachment-trump.html?action=click\&module=Top\%20Stories\&pgtype=Homepage}{to
95}.

``We just received an overwhelming vote against impeachment, and that is
the end of it,'' Mr. Trump said after his arrival to the rally. ``Let
the Democrats now go back to work.'' The vote did not preclude the
possibility of future impeachment action.

Mr. Trump first announced the rally shortly after House Democrats set
Wednesday as the date for the former special counsel, Robert S. Mueller
III, to testify about his report on Russian election interference. That
was widely seen as an effort by the president to counterprogram that
testimony, which has
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/07/12/us/politics/house-democrats-mueller-hearings.html}{since
been delayed}.

During his speech on Wednesday, he only briefly mentioned the
investigation, denouncing it as ``a hoax,'' and never mentioned Mr.
Mueller.

Mr. Trump
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/elections/2016/results/north-carolina}{carried
North Carolina in 2016} with 49.8 percent of the vote to Hillary
Clinton's 46.2 percent. The state also voted Republican, for Mitt
Romney, in 2012, after Barack Obama won it narrowly in 2008.

In his remarks before leaving Washington, the president responded to a
question about Ms. Omar, who has faced scrutiny for filing tax records
with her first husband while legally married to her second.

An
\href{http://www.startribune.com/new-documents-revisit-questions-about-rep-ilhan-omar-s-marriage/511681362/}{investigation
of public records and state documents by The Minnesota Star Tribune}
last month could not substantiate a claim circulated online --- and
which Ms. Omar has denied --- that her first husband was her brother,
whom she allegedly married for immigration benefits.

Mr. Trump accepted the opportunity to weigh in on the subject.

``There's a lot of talk about the fact that she was married to her
brother,'' the president said, stating as fact something that is
unproved. ``I know nothing about it,'' he said, adding that ``I'm sure
that somebody would be looking at that.''

Ms. Omar, for one, stood firm in the face of the vitriol the president
and his supporters had directed at her.

Shortly after Mr. Trump's rally ended,
\href{https://twitter.com/IlhanMN/status/1151656827106541569}{she
retweeted a comment by Jon Favreau}, a former speechwriter for President
Barack Obama, saying that the crowd's chant of ``Send her back!'' was
``one of the most chilling and horrifying things I've ever seen in
politics.''

Above that statement, she quoted the poet Maya Angelou, writing in part:
``You may kill me with your hatefulness, But still, like air, I'll
rise.''

\hypertarget{our-2020-election-guide}{%
\section{Our 2020 Election Guide}\label{our-2020-election-guide}}

Updated July 31, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{the-latest}{%
  \subsection{The Latest}\label{the-latest}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    President Trump's assault on the Postal Service is intersecting with
    his attacks on mail-in voting.
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/politics/trump-usps-mail-delays.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Voting
    rights groups say it is a recipe for disaster.}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{bidens-vp-search}{%
  \subsection{Biden's V.P. Search}\label{bidens-vp-search}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/biden-vice-president-2020.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Here
    are 13 women} who have been under consideration to be Joe Biden's
    running mate, and why each might be chosen --- and might not be.
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{keep-up-with-our-coverage}{%
  \subsection{Keep Up With Our
  Coverage}\label{keep-up-with-our-coverage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Get an
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{email}
    recapping the day's news
  \end{itemize}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Download our mobile app on
    \href{https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nytimes/id284862083?ls=1\&mat_click_id=5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\&referrer=mat_click_id\%3D5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\%26link_click_id\%3D722930677036718082}{iOS}
    and
    \href{http://a.localytics.com/android?id=com.nytimes.android\&referrer=utm_source\%3Dother_nyt_mobile_web\%26utm_medium\%3DWeb\%2520page\%26utm_term\%3DGeneral\%2520Mobile\%2520Page\%26utm_campaign\%3DNYT\%2520Mobile\%2520General\%2520Page}{Android}
    and turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
