Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/11/us/trump-vs-biden?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Election
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/election-states-biden-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Paths
  to 270}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/us/elections/2020-presidential-election-calendar.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Key
  Dates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/31/us/politics/vote-by-mail-deadlines.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Voting
  by Mail}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Politics
  Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{trump-called-the-coronavirus-deadly-in-private-while-minimizing-its-risks-in-public-book-reveals}{%
\section{Trump Called the Coronavirus `Deadly' in Private While
Minimizing Its Risks in Public, Book
Reveals}\label{trump-called-the-coronavirus-deadly-in-private-while-minimizing-its-risks-in-public-book-reveals}}

Last Updated

Sept. 11, 2020, 5:01 p.m. ET

Sept. 11, 2020, 5:01 p.m. ET

In Michigan, Joe Biden pushed his plan to keep jobs in the United
States. At the White House, President Trump laid out a list of people
he'd consider for the Supreme Court in a second term.

\emph{This briefing has ended. Follow our}
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/10/us/trump-vs-biden}{\emph{latest
coverage of the 2020 election}}\emph{.}

\hypertarget{heres-what-you-need-to-know}{%
\subsubsection{Here's what you need to
know:}\label{heres-what-you-need-to-know}}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{trump-acknowledges-report-that-he-played-down-the-threat-of-the-virus-calling-himself-a-cheerleader}{}

  Trump acknowledges report that he played down the threat of the virus,
  calling himself a `cheerleader.'
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{biden-speaking-in-michigan-calls-trumps-minimizing-of-the-virus-beyond-despicable}{}

  Biden, speaking in Michigan, calls Trump's minimizing of the virus
  `beyond despicable.'
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{justice-tom-cotton-justice-ted-cruz-trump-reveals-his-long-list-for-the-supreme-court}{}

  Justice Tom Cotton? Justice Ted Cruz? Trump reveals his long list for
  the Supreme Court.
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{warning-of-possible-election-interference-pelosi-and-schumer-advise-americans-to-vote-early}{}

  Warning of possible election interference, Pelosi and Schumer advise
  Americans to vote early.
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{did-bob-woodward-err-in-keeping-trumps-virus-comments-to-himself}{}

  Did Bob Woodward err in keeping Trump's virus comments to himself?
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{a-new-poll-shows-most-voters-think-trump-did-a-bad-job-on-the-virus-and-doubt-he-can-help-the-country-recover}{}

  A new poll shows most voters think Trump did a bad job on the virus
  and doubt he can help the country recover.
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{the-nih-director-knocks-down-trumps-prediction-that-a-virus-vaccine-will-be-approved-by-election-day}{}

  The N.I.H. director knocks down Trump's prediction that a virus
  vaccine will be approved by Election Day.
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{two-large-rallies-for-trump-in-nevada-are-canceled-because-of-virus-restrictions}{}

  Two large rallies for Trump in Nevada are canceled because of virus
  restrictions.
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{trump-acknowledges-report-that-he-played-down-the-threat-of-the-virus-calling-himself-a-cheerleader}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{trump-acknowledges-report-that-he-played-down-the-threat-of-the-virus-calling-himself-a-cheerleader}{Trump
acknowledges report that he played down the threat of the virus, calling
himself a
`cheerleader.'}}{Trump acknowledges report that he played down the threat of the virus, calling himself a `cheerleader.'}}\label{trump-acknowledges-report-that-he-played-down-the-threat-of-the-virus-calling-himself-a-cheerleader}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/09/09/us/politics/09elections-briefing-woodward-rage-trump/09elections-briefing-woodward-rage-trump-articleLarge-v2.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

President Trump acknowledged to the journalist Bob Woodward
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/09/us/politics/woodward-trump-book-virus.html}{that
he had knowingly played down the coronavirus earlier this year} even
though he was aware it was ``deadly'' and vastly more serious than the
seasonal flu.

``This is deadly stuff,'' Mr. Trump said on Feb. 7 in one of a series of
interviews Mr. Woodward conducted with the president for his upcoming
book, ``Rage.''
\href{https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/bob-woodward-rage-book-trump/2020/09/09/0368fe3c-efd2-11ea-b4bc-3a2098fc73d4_story.html}{The
Washington Post} and
\href{https://www.cnn.com/2020/09/09/politics/bob-woodward-rage-book-trump-coronavirus/index.html}{CNN}
were given advance copies of the book and published details on
Wednesday. CNN also
\href{https://www.cnn.com/2020/09/09/politics/bob-woodward-rage-book-trump-coronavirus/index.html}{provided
audio of some of Mr. Trump's exchanges} with Mr. Woodward.

``You just breathe the air and that's how it's passed,'' Mr. Trump said.
``And so that's a very tricky one. That's a very delicate one. It's also
more deadly than even your strenuous flu.''

That was a vastly different story than Mr. Trump was telling the public.
In early March the president was suggesting on Twitter that the virus
was less deadly than the flu.

\begin{quote}
So last year 37,000 Americans died from the common Flu. It averages
between 27,000 and 70,000 per year. Nothing is shut down, life \& the
economy go on. At this moment there are 546 confirmed cases of
CoronaVirus, with 22 deaths. Think about that!

--- Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump)
\href{https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/1237027356314869761?ref_src=twsrc\%5Etfw}{March
9, 2020}
\end{quote}

``I wanted to always play it down,'' Mr. Trump told Mr. Woodward on
March 19. ``I still like playing it down, because I don't want to create
a panic.''

Joseph R. Biden Jr., Mr. Trump's Democratic opponent,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/09/us/politics/biden-trump-michigan-jobs-taxes.html}{excoriated
the president over the report}. ``He knew and purposely played it
down,'' Mr. Biden said during a speech in Warren, Mich., Wednesday
afternoon. ``Worse, he lied to the American people.''

Mr. Trump did not deny the report in remarks at the White House later
Wednesday. ``The fact is I'm a cheerleader for this country,'' he said,
taking credit for imposing restrictions on travel from China. He said
that he was trying to ``show confidence'' with his public statements and
rejected the suggestion that publicly minimizing the threat of the virus
had cost lives.

He acknowledged speaking with Mr. Woodward, whose regular books on
presidential administrations have a propensity for making news. ``I gave
him some quotes, and frankly, we'll see how the book turned out,'' Mr.
Trump said. ``I have no idea.''

According to the book, the national security adviser, Robert C. O'Brien,
warned the president on Jan. 28 that the coronavirus represented the
``biggest national security threat'' of his presidency, CNN reported,
but Mr. Trump later said he did not remember the warning.

At the White House press briefing on Wednesday, shortly after the book's
contents were made public in news reports, the press secretary, Kayleigh
McEnany, claimed that the president, who intentionally misled the public
about the virus, had not lied.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/09/09/us/politics/09elections-mcenany/09elections-mcenany-videoSixteenByNine3000.jpg}

``This president does what leaders do, good leaders,'' she said, adding,
``The president has never lied to the American public on Covid.''

But in public, Mr. Trump repeatedly claimed early on that the virus
would disappear. On Jan. 22, asked by a CNBC reporter whether there were
``worries about a pandemic,'' the president replied: ``No, not at all.
We have it totally under control. It's one person coming in from China,
and we have it under control. It's going to be just fine.''

On Feb. 10 he was
\href{https://factba.se/transcript/donald-trump-speech-kag-rally-manchester-new-hampshire-february-10-2020}{predicting}
that by April, ``when it gets a little warmer, it miraculously goes
away.'' And on Feb. 26, at a White House news conference, commenting on
the country's first reported cases, he said: ``We're going to be pretty
soon at only five people. And we could be at just one or two people over
the next short period of time. So we've had very good luck.''

But by mid-March
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/17/us/politics/trump-coronavirus.html}{he
was claiming publicly that} ``I felt it was a pandemic long before it
was called a pandemic.'' By then, experts said, the nation had already
fallen behind on the steps it needed to take to combat the virus, from
ramping up testing capability to distributing protective gear to health
care workers.

Elsewhere in the book, according to CNN, the former defense secretary,
Gen. James Mattis, is quoted calling Mr. Trump ``dangerous'' and
``unfit.'' He said he discussed with the former director of the office
of national intelligence, Dan Coats, whether there should be
``collective action'' to speak out publicly against Mr. Trump. And Mr.
Woodward includes an anecdote about Mr. Trump
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/09/us/politics/trump-generals-attacks.html}{being
heard in a meeting saying}, ``My fucking generals are a bunch of
pussies'' who care more about alliances than trade deals.

--- \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/maggie-haberman}{Maggie
Haberman} and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/michael-cooper}{Michael
Cooper}

\hypertarget{biden-speaking-in-michigan-calls-trumps-minimizing-of-the-virus-beyond-despicable}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{biden-speaking-in-michigan-calls-trumps-minimizing-of-the-virus-beyond-despicable}{Biden,
speaking in Michigan, calls Trump's minimizing of the virus `beyond
despicable.'}}{Biden, speaking in Michigan, calls Trump's minimizing of the virus `beyond despicable.'}}\label{biden-speaking-in-michigan-calls-trumps-minimizing-of-the-virus-beyond-despicable}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/09/09/us/politics/09biden2/09biden2-videoSixteenByNine3000.jpg}

WARREN, Mich. --- Joseph R. Biden Jr., taking on President Trump over
protecting American jobs, announced plans on Wednesday to change the tax
code to discourage moving jobs overseas and to reward companies for
investing in domestic production.

But before sketching out his plan, during a speech in the critical
battleground state of Michigan, he took aim at Mr. Trump over
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/09/us/trump-vs-biden/trump-admitted-to-bob-woodward-that-he-intentionally-played-down-the-threat-of-the-coronavirus}{new
revelations} from a forthcoming book by the journalist Bob Woodward that
the president knowingly minimized the risks of the coronavirus to the
American public.

``He had the information,'' Mr. Biden said, accusing Mr. Trump of lying
to the public. ``He knew how dangerous it was. And while this deadly
disease ripped through our nation, he failed to do his job on purpose.
It was a life-and-death betrayal of the American people.''

``It's beyond despicable,'' Mr. Biden added, detailing the crises the
nation faces as a result of the pandemic that go far beyond the
staggering public health costs. ``It's a dereliction of duty. It's a
disgrace.''

During an interview with CNN on Wednesday, Mr. Biden used even sharper
language to criticize Mr. Trump's contradictory message about the
gravity of the pandemic.

``It was all about making sure the stock market didn't come down, that
his wealthy friends didn't lose any money,''
\href{https://twitter.com/mkraju/status/1303811690371444750}{Mr. Biden
said}. ``He waved a white flag. He walked away. He didn't do a damn
thing. Think about it. Think about what he did not do. It's almost
criminal.''

In his speech, Mr. Biden ripped into the president's record on the
economy, suggesting that Mr. Trump has not kept his promises to American
workers about a range of issues, lashing his record on matters from job
creation to keeping work in the United States rather than overseas.

``He's failed our economy and our country,'' he said.

Mr. Biden also promised to take a series of executive actions to ensure
the purchase of American goods in the federal procurement process.

As part of the new plans, Mr. Biden would create a tax penalty aimed at
American companies that move jobs to other countries, known as
offshoring. Mr. Biden has already proposed raising the corporate tax
rate to 28 percent, from 21 percent. The penalty would apply to
``profits of any production by a United States company overseas for
sales back to the United States,'' bumping up the tax rate to nearly 31
percent on those profits.

Mr. Biden would also create a tax credit for companies that make
domestic investments, such as revitalizing closed manufacturing plants,
upgrading facilities or bringing back production from overseas.

``Make it in Michigan, make it in America, invest in our communities and
the workers in places like Warren,'' Mr. Biden said. ``That's what this
is about.''

Mr. Biden gave his speech in Warren, a city in
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2016/11/13/us/politics/michigan-voters-donald-trump.html}{Macomb
County} --- a place associated with white working-class voters who
traditionally voted Democratic but embraced Ronald Reagan and, later,
Mr. Trump. He has intensified his efforts in recent months to unveil
more
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/09/us/politics/biden-buy-american.html}{populist
policies} aimed at boosting American workers.

Thomas Kaplan reported from Warren, and Katie Glueck from New York.

--- \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/thomas-kaplan}{Thomas
Kaplan} and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/katie-glueck}{Katie Glueck}

\hypertarget{advertisement}{%
\subsubsection{Advertisement}\label{advertisement}}

\protect\hyperlink{after-dfp-ad-mid1}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{justice-tom-cotton-justice-ted-cruz-trump-reveals-his-long-list-for-the-supreme-court}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{justice-tom-cotton-justice-ted-cruz-trump-reveals-his-long-list-for-the-supreme-court}{Justice
Tom Cotton? Justice Ted Cruz? Trump reveals his long list for the
Supreme
Court.}}{Justice Tom Cotton? Justice Ted Cruz? Trump reveals his long list for the Supreme Court.}}\label{justice-tom-cotton-justice-ted-cruz-trump-reveals-his-long-list-for-the-supreme-court}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/09/09/us/politics/09elections-briefing-votingtwice/09elections-briefing-votingtwice-videoSixteenByNine3000.jpg}

President Trump revealed a list of 20 people he will consider nominating
to the Supreme Court if he wins a second term, reviving an election-year
gimmick that he used during the 2016 campaign to win support among
conservatives.

Mr. Trump's new list includes three conservative Republican senators:
Tom Cotton of Arkansas, Ted Cruz of Texas and Josh Hawley of Missouri.
(Mr. Hawley immediately took himself out of consideration,
\href{https://twitter.com/HawleyMO/status/1303787915668074497?s=20}{writing
on Twitter} that ``as I told the President, Missourians elected me to
fight for them in the Senate, and I have no interest in the high
court.'') It also includes lawyers who work at the White House and the
Justice Department, former solicitors general, and state and federal
judges around the country.

``Should there be another vacancy on the Supreme Court during my
presidency, my nominee will come from the names I have shared with the
American public,'' Mr. Trump said, adding that he will consider the
remaining names from a similar list he released during the previous
election.

Mr. Trump challenged Joseph R. Biden Jr. to release a similar list of
names and accused him of failing to do so because of the ``extreme''
ideology that would be represented by his choices.

Minutes after he was named to the list, Senator Cotton wrote on Twitter
that ``It's time for Roe v. Wade to go,'' weighing in directly on
abortion rights, an issue that past nominees to the court have often
tried to finesse.

\begin{quote}
It's time for Roe v. Wade to go.

--- Tom Cotton (@TomCottonAR)
\href{https://twitter.com/TomCottonAR/status/1303786807692124160?ref_src=twsrc\%5Etfw}{September
9, 2020}
\end{quote}

Speaking to reporters from the Diplomatic Reception Room in the White
House, Mr. Trump predicted that the next president might have the
opportunity to nominate ``one, two, three and even four'' justices.

He said that a Democratic president would stack the court with a
``radical left movement'' that would be bad for the country.

During his four years in office, Mr. Trump has successfully secured the
confirmation of two Supreme Court justices --- Neil Gorsuch and Brett
Kavanaugh --- and more than 200 other federal judges, significantly
shifting the judiciary to the right.

In addition to the senators, Mr. Trump's new list includes: Daniel
Cameron, the attorney general of Kentucky; Paul Clement and Noel
Francisco, who both served as United States solicitor general; Kate
Comerford Todd, a deputy counsel in the White House; Christopher Landau,
the ambassador to Mexico; and several federal and state judges.

--- \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/michael-d-shear}{Michael
D. Shear}

\hypertarget{warning-of-possible-election-interference-pelosi-and-schumer-advise-americans-to-vote-early}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{warning-of-possible-election-interference-pelosi-and-schumer-advise-americans-to-vote-early}{Warning
of possible election interference, Pelosi and Schumer advise Americans
to vote
early.}}{Warning of possible election interference, Pelosi and Schumer advise Americans to vote early.}}\label{warning-of-possible-election-interference-pelosi-and-schumer-advise-americans-to-vote-early}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/09/09/us/politics/09elections-briefing-demsvote/merlin_176731197_3f613b58-a815-4628-bf48-ad439ab21ffc-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Democratic congressional leaders sent a letter to colleagues on
Wednesday pleading with them to urge their constituents to vote as early
as possible, citing
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/31/us/postal-service-dejoy-subpoena.html}{their
concerns} that President Trump, with the help of Postmaster General
Louis DeJoy, is working to kneecap the Postal Service to ensure his own
re-election.

``Democrats need to convey a loud, clear message to voters about how to
overcome these concerns: To prevent Donald Trump from stealing this
election, VOTE,'' Speaker Nancy Pelosi and Senator Chuck Schumer, the
minority leader, wrote in an unusual letter sent from a campaign account
rather than an official one. ``Americans must vote as early as they can
--- especially if you plan to vote by mail.''

Mr. Trump has railed against mail-in voting, claiming that it will rig
the election against him and asserting
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/mail-in-voting-explained.html}{with
no evidence} that it is fraudulent. At the same time, Mr. DeJoy,
installed in June by a
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/08/us/politics/democrats-postal-service-board-trump.html}{board
packed with Republican loyalists}, has made operational changes at the
Postal Service that have coincided with a mail-delivery slowdown.

The agency
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/14/us/politics/usps-vote-mail.html}{recently
warned states} that it might not have the ability to process all
last-minute ballots, opening the possibility that hundreds of thousands
mailed in the days leading up to the election could arrive too late to
be counted. It has started a public education campaign to reassure
Americans that the Postal Service can handle voting by mail and to urge
those who plan to do so to send their ballots early. But its ads stop
short of encouraging mail-in voting.

In their letter, Ms. Pelosi and Mr. Schumer encouraged Democratic
lawmakers to direct their constituents to
\href{http://iwillvote.com/}{iwillvote.com}, a website funded by the
Democratic National Committee where people can register to vote and find
out how to do so in person or by mail.

``The best way to avoid lines, obstacles and delays is by not waiting
until Election Day to vote,'' they wrote. ``Stay vigilant: With
President Trump actively working to undermine the legitimacy of voting
by mail, we must remain vigilant against efforts to discourage or
deceive voters.''

--- \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/luke-broadwater}{Luke
Broadwater}

\hypertarget{did-bob-woodward-err-in-keeping-trumps-virus-comments-to-himself}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{did-bob-woodward-err-in-keeping-trumps-virus-comments-to-himself}{Did
Bob Woodward err in keeping Trump's virus comments to
himself?}}{Did Bob Woodward err in keeping Trump's virus comments to himself?}}\label{did-bob-woodward-err-in-keeping-trumps-virus-comments-to-himself}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/09/09/us/politics/09elections-briefing-woodward/merlin_151824108_c3047ef6-d9f1-425b-a868-89d50896879e-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Should Bob Woodward have withheld a February quote from President Trump,
who privately told him the coronavirus was ``deadly stuff'' even as he
publicly minimized its severity? Could Mr. Woodward have helped save
lives by releasing the information sooner?

The revelation of Mr. Trump's characterization of the virus came
Wednesday with the first reports about Mr. Woodward's new book,
``Rage,'' which is due out next week. Mr. Trump shared the information
in an interview with Mr. Woodward for the book about his presidency. It
prompted a larger debate around journalistic ethics, with some arguing
that Mr. Woodward, a lion of American journalism, had an obligation to
report or share Mr. Trump's assessment sooner.

In the hours after CNN and The Washington Post, which were given advance
access to the book, reported the quotations, many observers argued that
the public had a right not only to the information about the deadly
potential of the virus early on but also to the fact that Mr. Trump had
been told the truth by experts and yet continued to mislead Americans.
An often cited example is his comments in March comparing the
coronavirus favorably to the seasonal flu.

It is estimated that the toll of Covid-19, the illness caused by the
coronavirus, will soon reach 200,000 lives in the United States.

``Trump was the key vector of harmful misinformation,''
\href{https://twitter.com/marcambinder/status/1303829709902372864}{said}
Marc Ambinder, a former White House correspondent for National Journal,
on Twitter. ``We KNOW that his supporters BELIEVE HIM and altered their
behavior because they thought COVID would be less harmful then the flu
\ldots{} cause that's what Trump said.''

He added, ``I'm inclined to say that holding onto this is and was flat
out wrong.''

\begin{quote}
Trump was the key vector of harmful misinformation. ... We KNOW that his
supporters BELIEVE HIM and altered their behavior because they thought
COVID would be less harmful then the flu ... cause that's what Trump
said.

--- Marc Ambinder (@marcambinder)
\href{https://twitter.com/marcambinder/status/1303829709902372864?ref_src=twsrc\%5Etfw}{September
9, 2020}
\end{quote}

Others defended Mr. Woodward. ``If you believe that Woodward publishing
Trump's quote in March would've changed anything on Coronavirus the last
four years have taught you absolutely nothing,'' said James Ball, the
global editor of The Bureau of Investigative Journalism, on Twitter.

\begin{quote}
If you believe that Woodward publishing Trump's quote in March would've
changed anything on Coronavirus the last four years have taught you
absolutely nothing.

--- James Ball (@jamesrbuk)
\href{https://twitter.com/jamesrbuk/status/1303844204733435911?ref_src=twsrc\%5Etfw}{September
9, 2020}
\end{quote}

Mr. Woodward did not reply to requests for comment Wednesday evening.

While it is common for journalists and book authors to agree to hold
back information or comments from sources until an agreed-upon date, Mr.
Woodward
\href{https://www.washingtonpost.com/lifestyle/media/should-bob-woodward-have-reported-trumps-virus-revelations-sooner-heres-how-he-defends-his-decision/2020/09/09/6bd7fc32-f2d1-11ea-b796-2dd09962649c_story.html}{told}
Margaret Sullivan, The Post's media columnist, on Wednesday that there
was no such deal in place.

Rather, Mr. Woodward said, he declined to share the comment in February
or March because he did not learn until May that it had come from an
intelligence briefing. By then, he
\href{https://apnews.com/99916044401d8f8e24eb7bedfec1d5d2}{told} The
Associated Press on Wednesday, the quote's significance pertained to
politics rather than public health, and the relevant deadline was the
November election.

His ultimate goal, he told Ms. Sullivan, was to produce ``the best
obtainable version of the truth.''

Mr. Woodward has chronicled several presidents since the 1970s, when,
with his Post colleague Carl Bernstein, he helped expose the Watergate
scandal that led to President Richard M. Nixon's resignation. Though he
has the title of associate editor at The Post, he is no longer a Post
employee, a spokeswoman confirmed.

--- \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/marc-tracy}{Marc Tracy}

\hypertarget{advertisement-1}{%
\subsubsection{Advertisement}\label{advertisement-1}}

\protect\hyperlink{after-dfp-ad-mid2}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{a-new-poll-shows-most-voters-think-trump-did-a-bad-job-on-the-virus-and-doubt-he-can-help-the-country-recover}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{a-new-poll-shows-most-voters-think-trump-did-a-bad-job-on-the-virus-and-doubt-he-can-help-the-country-recover}{A
new poll shows most voters think Trump did a bad job on the virus and
doubt he can help the country
recover.}}{A new poll shows most voters think Trump did a bad job on the virus and doubt he can help the country recover.}}\label{a-new-poll-shows-most-voters-think-trump-did-a-bad-job-on-the-virus-and-doubt-he-can-help-the-country-recover}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/09/09/us/politics/09elections-briefing-astor/merlin_176738403_9bf89837-a469-45eb-bd77-b1b83120f3f1-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

With just eight weeks to go until Election Day, and early voting
starting well before then, voters continue to disapprove of President
Trump's coronavirus response and believe that Joseph R. Biden Jr. would
do a better job handling the pandemic, according to
\href{https://www.monmouth.edu/polling-institute/reports/monmouthpoll_US_090920/}{a
new poll} from Monmouth University.

Only 37 percent of registered voters say Mr. Trump has done a good job
handling the virus, and 56 percent say he has done a bad job. More
broadly, only 27 percent say the country is heading in the right
direction.

Forty-four percent say they are confident or somewhat confident that Mr.
Trump can put the country ``on the road to recovery'' from the pandemic,
and 56 percent say they are not confident. The numbers are reversed for
Mr. Biden, the Democratic nominee: 53 percent of voters say they are
confident in his ability to put the country on the road to recovery, and
45 percent say they are not confident.

A wide partisan gap persists on the question of whether officials are
lifting restrictions too quickly or not quickly enough, but over all, 58
percent of registered voters said states were moving too fast.

``Labor Day generally serves as a marker for returning to a more normal
flow of life,'' Patrick Murray, director of the Monmouth University
Polling Institute, said in a news release. ``That's not happening this
year and could be leading to an increase in anxiety levels.''

The poll, conducted from Sept. 3 to Sept. 8, surveyed 867 voters and has
a margin of error of roughly plus or minus 3 percentage points.

--- \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/maggie-astor}{Maggie
Astor}

\hypertarget{the-nih-director-knocks-down-trumps-prediction-that-a-virus-vaccine-will-be-approved-by-election-day}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{the-nih-director-knocks-down-trumps-prediction-that-a-virus-vaccine-will-be-approved-by-election-day}{The
N.I.H. director knocks down Trump's prediction that a virus vaccine will
be approved by Election
Day.}}{The N.I.H. director knocks down Trump's prediction that a virus vaccine will be approved by Election Day.}}\label{the-nih-director-knocks-down-trumps-prediction-that-a-virus-vaccine-will-be-approved-by-election-day}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/09/09/us/politics/09elections-briefing-NIH/merlin_176766861_d57c99d0-5cff-48cc-8e31-d198ef44a027-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Dr. Francis Collins, the director of the National Institutes of Health,
took issue on Wednesday with President Trump's suggestion that a
coronavirus vaccine
\href{https://patch.com/us/white-house/trump-says-coronavirus-vaccine-could-be-ready-october}{would
be available by Election Day}, as he repeatedly sought to reassure
senators and the public that a vaccine would not be made available to
the public unless it was safe and effective.

``Certainly to try to predict whether it happens on a particular week
before or after a particular date in early November is well beyond
anything that any scientist right now could tell you and be confident
they know what they are saying,'' Dr. Collins told the Senate Committee
on Health, Education Labor and Pensions at a hearing on the effort to
find a vaccine.

Dr. Collins is the latest leading medical expert to throw cold water on
Mr. Trump's prediction. Last Thursday, the chief adviser for the White
House vaccine program, Moncef Slaoui, said it was ``extremely unlikely
but not impossible'' that a vaccine could be available by the end of
October. And on Tuesday, Dr. Anthony S. Fauci
\href{https://www.cnbc.com/2020/09/08/coronavirus-vaccine-dr-fauci-says-its-unlikely-it-will-be-ready-by-us-election.html}{said
the same thing}, saying that it was more likely that a vaccine could be
ready by the end of the year.

Wednesday's hearing came amid growing concern over whether Americans
would be reluctant to take a coronavirus vaccine, and whether the
president would apply political pressure on his administration to
quickly approve one to give him a boost in his re-election bid against
former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr.

On Tuesday, a group of drug companies competing with one another to
develop vaccines
\href{https://slack-redir.net/link?url=https\%3A\%2F\%2Fwww.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion\%2F2020\%2F09\%2F08\%2Fhealth\%2F9-drug-companies-pledge-coronavirus-vaccine.html}{pledged}
that they would not release any vaccines that did not follow rigorous
efficacy and safety standards, and a leading vaccine developer,
AstraZeneca,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/08/health/coronavirus-astrazeneca-vaccine-safety.html}{suspended
its large-scale clinical tria}l of a vaccine candidate after a patient
experienced a severe adverse reaction.

Democrats on the panel grilled both Dr. Collins and Jerome Adams, the
surgeon general, on the effect of Mr. Trump's overly rosy statements
about the prospect of the vaccine, and whether they would erode trust in
the development process. Dr. Collins demurred, however, as Senator
Elizabeth Warren, Democrat of Massachussetts, asked him point blank
whether Mr. Trump's misinformation would discourage people from taking
the vaccine and hurt the effort to distribute it.

``I'm not sure I know the answer to that question,'' Dr. Collins said,
adding, ``I just hope Americans will choose to take the information they
need from scientists and not from politicians.''

---
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/sheryl-gay-stolberg}{Sheryl
Gay Stolberg}

\hypertarget{two-large-rallies-for-trump-in-nevada-are-canceled-because-of-virus-restrictions}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{two-large-rallies-for-trump-in-nevada-are-canceled-because-of-virus-restrictions}{Two
large rallies for Trump in Nevada are canceled because of virus
restrictions.}}{Two large rallies for Trump in Nevada are canceled because of virus restrictions.}}\label{two-large-rallies-for-trump-in-nevada-are-canceled-because-of-virus-restrictions}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/09/09/us/politics/09elections-nevada-trump2/merlin_176590008_a3ff3736-134a-41f1-9a0d-74e50d83fae4-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

An aviation company in Nevada on Wednesday withdrew its invitation to
President Trump to hold a 5,000-person rally at its airport hangar, the
first of two campaign events planned for this weekend that officials
said would have violated Nevada's coronavirus restrictions.

The company, Hangar 9 L.L.C., had planned to host Mr. Trump on Saturday
at its hangar at the Reno-Tahoe International Airport, but was told on
Tuesday by airport officials that the event would have violated the
terms of its lease, according to a letter sent by the airport authority.

The lease stipulates that the company must comply with all applicable
state laws and directives, which means it has to follow a statewide
order signed in May by Gov. Steve Sisolak, a Democrat,
\href{http://gov.nv.gov/News/Press/2020/Governor_Sisolak_Releases_Prepared_Remarks,_Guidance_for_Phase_2_Reopening,_Plans_Press_Call/}{limiting
gatherings to no more than 50 people}, airport officials said.

``Given the above, you are hereby advised that you may not proceed with
the proposed gathering,'' Tina Iftiger, a senior vice president and
chief commercial officer of the airport, wrote.

Claude R. Cognian, a representative of Hangar 9, told airport officials
on Wednesday that the company could not risk losing the lease for its
hangar and would stand down, according to correspondence obtained by The
New York Times.

``Then this leaves us with no other option than to communicate to
President Trump and his campaign that we cannot help him/them and we are
withdrawing the offer to use the hangar,'' he wrote.

The Trump campaign had been scheduled to hold a similar rally on Sunday
at a private jet charter company based at McCarran International Airport
in Las Vegas, but an airport spokesman said that the authorities must
approve any events on the property and that they had never received a
request from the organizers.

The charter company that had been listed as the host of the event,
Cirrus Aviation, did not respond to a request for comment.

Mr. Trump, who lost Nevada by less than three percentage points in 2016,
still plans to travel to the state this weekend, according to
representatives of his campaign. They
\href{https://twitter.com/AdamLaxalt/status/1303725097816076290?s=20}{accused
Democrats of short-circuiting the rallies}.

``Democrats are trying to keep President Trump from speaking to voters
because they know the enthusiasm behind his re-election campaign cannot
be matched by Joe Biden,'' Tim Murtaugh, a Trump campaign spokesman,
said.

A spokeswoman for Mr. Sisolak said that the governor's office had no
involvement or communication with the event organizers or potential
hosts of the two events, which the Trump campaign had been promoting.
She noted that the White House's coronavirus task force had recommended
limits on gatherings in Nevada.

Mr. Trump has been broadly criticized by public health authorities for
defying guidelines meant to stop the transmission of the virus. He held
a large indoor rally in June in Tulsa, Okla., and has recently been
holding outdoor rallies at airport hangars: At one in North Carolina
this week, he spoke before a large crowd and did not wear a mask,
despite pleas from
\href{https://journalnow.com/news/local/president-trump-should-wear-a-mask-during-his-visit-to-winston-salem-county-republican-says/article_551be240-ee3c-11ea-aaac-07490e3d44da.html\#1}{some
local Republican officials} that he follow the state's guidelines.

--- \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/neil-vigdor}{Neil
Vigdor},
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/sydney-ember}{Sydney Ember}
and \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/annie-karni}{Annie
Karni}

\hypertarget{advertisement-2}{%
\subsubsection{Advertisement}\label{advertisement-2}}

\protect\hyperlink{after-dfp-ad-mid3}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{polls-show-biden-maintaining-a-narrow-edge-in-wisconsin-and-holding-a-lead-in-pennsylvania}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{polls-show-biden-maintaining-a-narrow-edge-in-wisconsin-and-holding-a-lead-in-pennsylvania}{Polls
show Biden maintaining a narrow edge in Wisconsin and holding a lead in
Pennsylvania.}}{Polls show Biden maintaining a narrow edge in Wisconsin and holding a lead in Pennsylvania.}}\label{polls-show-biden-maintaining-a-narrow-edge-in-wisconsin-and-holding-a-lead-in-pennsylvania}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/09/09/us/politics/09elections-briefing-wisconsinpoll/merlin_176547735_a37ac787-4902-42d9-bccb-5a7ac6980548-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Two national political conventions and days of protests and unrest
following a police shooting in Kenosha, Wis., have done little to change
the contours of the presidential campaign in that state, according
to\href{https://law.marquette.edu/poll/}{a Marquette Law School poll}
released Wednesday.

The new poll, of 688 likely Wisconsin voters, found that 47 percent
planned to vote for Joseph R. Biden Jr. and 43 percent for President
Trump, which is within the poll's margin of error. That represented a
slight tightening from earlier Marquette polls: One in early August
showed Mr. Biden leading Mr. Trump, 49 percent to 44 percent. The new
survey had a margin of error of plus or minus four percentage points.

``Despite all those real-world events, there is very little change in
this poll,'' Charles Franklin, Marquette's poll director, said
\href{https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qd5LNhdapy0\&feature=youtu.be}{in
a video accompanying the release}.

The poll was made public as Wisconsin, a swing state that helped elect
Mr. Trump in 2016, became the center of the campaign in recent days.
Both Mr. Trump and Mr. Biden traveled to Kenosha after the police
shooting of Jacob Blake, a Black man, led to days of protests, and a
17-year-old white man was arrested on charges of killing two protesters.
The new poll was conducted from Aug. 30 to Sept. 3, so it did not fully
reflect the impact of their visits.

A majority --- 54 percent --- of respondents said that they disapproved
of Mr. Trump's handling of protests, while only 36 percent said they
approved, the poll found. And 56 percent said that they disapproved of
Mr. Trump's handling of the coronavirus. But Mr. Trump is still viewed
favorably on the economy: Fifty-two percent said that they approved of
his handling of it.

A new poll of another key battleground state, Pennsylvania, showed Mr.
Biden in the lead there. The
\href{http://maristpoll.marist.edu/wp-content/uploads/2020/09/NBC-News_Marist-Poll_PA-Written-Summary-of-Findings_2009081204.pdf}{NBC
News/Marist poll} found Mr. Biden leading Mr. Trump among likely voters
by 53 percent to 44 percent.

Mr. Biden's lead there was due in part to strong support from suburban
voters --- which were key to Mr. Trump's victory in 2016 --- and voters
with college degrees, according to the poll of 771 likely Pennsylvania
voters, which was conducted from Aug. 31 to Sept. 7. Mr. Biden leads Mr.
Trump among suburban voters by nearly 20 percentage points.

Among independents, Mr. Biden leads Mr. Trump 57 percent to 35 percent.
The two are tied with white voters, but Mr. Biden has a commanding lead
among nonwhite voters, 75 percent to 19 percent. Mr. Biden also leads
among women, 59 percent to 38 percent.

The poll has a margin of error of about four percentage points.

--- \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/michael-cooper}{Michael
Cooper} and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/sydney-ember}{Sydney Ember}

\hypertarget{trumps-campaign-was-badly-outraised-by-biden-and-the-democrats-last-month}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{trumps-campaign-was-badly-outraised-by-biden-and-the-democrats-last-month}{Trump's
campaign was badly outraised by Biden and the Democrats last
month.}}{Trump's campaign was badly outraised by Biden and the Democrats last month.}}\label{trumps-campaign-was-badly-outraised-by-biden-and-the-democrats-last-month}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/09/09/us/politics/09elections-trump-fundraising/merlin_176766693_71d8985e-ff1c-4338-843f-0c2e0e91527d-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

President Trump's re-election campaign and the Republican National
Committee and their shared committees reported raising over \$210
million in the month of August, a large amount that was nonetheless
dwarfed by what Joseph R. Biden Jr. raised in the same time frame.

And officials declined to say how much cash they have in the bank, which
is a key marker of what they can spend on going forward.

Mr. Biden and affiliated Democratic committees
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/01/us/politics/biden-trump-fundraising-election.html}{reported
raising \$364.5 million in August}. They also have not yet said how much
they have in cash on hand.

The momentum for Mr. Biden's campaign in fund-raising and the polls came
as a
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/07/us/politics/trump-election-campaign-fundraising.html}{once-seemingly
insurmountable cash advantage for Mr. Trump's campaign has evaporated}.

--- \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/maggie-haberman}{Maggie
Haberman}

Ad Watch

\hypertarget{biden-ad-looks-to-keep-focus-on-trumps-reported-remarks-disparaging-american-soldiers}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{biden-ad-looks-to-keep-focus-on-trumps-reported-remarks-disparaging-american-soldiers}{Biden
ad looks to keep focus on Trump's reported remarks disparaging American
soldiers.}}{Biden ad looks to keep focus on Trump's reported remarks disparaging American soldiers.}}\label{biden-ad-looks-to-keep-focus-on-trumps-reported-remarks-disparaging-american-soldiers}}

Usually, presidential campaign TV advertising aims to influence voters
in battleground states. But in the Trump era, more ads are targeting a
far narrower audience: Washington's chattering class and President
Trump, America's cable news watcher-in-chief.

On Wednesday morning, the Democratic National Committee and the
presidential campaign of Joseph R. Biden Jr. bought TV airtime in
Washington to debut an ad touting report last week in The Atlantic that
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/04/us/politics/trump-veterans-losers.html}{Mr.
Trump privately referred to American soldiers} killed in combat as
``losers'' and ``suckers.''

\begin{quote}
NEW AD: Trump inherited everything and sacrificed nothing --- as
commander-in-chief, he denigrates service members who've made the
ultimate sacrifice for our country.

America deserves a leader who understands the weight of these sacrifices
--- not one who disparages them.
\href{https://t.co/smxX35neZB}{pic.twitter.com/smxX35neZB}

--- DNC War Room (@DNCWarRoom)
\href{https://twitter.com/DNCWarRoom/status/1303427980182654979?ref_src=twsrc\%5Etfw}{September
8, 2020}
\end{quote}

\hypertarget{the-message}{%
\subsubsection{The Message}\label{the-message}}

Since
\href{https://www.theatlantic.com/politics/archive/2020/09/trump-americans-who-died-at-war-are-losers-and-suckers/615997/}{The
Atlantic's story} broke last Thursday, the Biden campaign has done
whatever it can to give it oxygen. Mr. Biden addressed it in a speech on
Friday and brought it up again during a Labor Day event. His campaign
has sent fund-raising emails soliciting donations off the president's
comments and circulated other news outlets' reporting confirming the
gist of the original report.

Now, six days after it first popped, the Biden campaign is trying to
keep the story in Washington's bloodstream.

The 60-second ad opens with black-and-white footage of soldiers and a
reminder that 1,800 Marines died at the battle of Belleau Wood in World
War I.

``But when Donald Trump was asked to pay his respects, he said, `Why
should I go to that cemetery? It's filled with losers,''' the ad
intones, with an on-screen graphic citing The Atlantic's reporting.

The ad goes on to cite Mr. Trump's remarks calling Senator John McCain
``a loser'' and his wondering aloud ``what was in it for'' those buried
at Arlington National Cemetery, before stating, ``Donald Trump inherited
everything, sacrificed nothing, scoffs at the valor of those who gave it
all for America.''

\hypertarget{fact-check}{%
\subsubsection{Fact Check}\label{fact-check}}

Mr. Trump did in fact call Mr. McCain a ``loser'' and said of Mr. McCain
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2015/07/19/us/politics/trump-belittles-mccains-war-record.html}{during
a July 2015 campaign stop} in Iowa: ``He's not a war hero. He's a war
hero because he was captured. I like people who weren't captured.''

Mr. Trump and his top White House aides have denied The Atlantic report,
but the thrust of it has been confirmed by
\href{https://apnews.com/b823f2c285641a4a09a96a0b195636ed}{several
competing}
\href{https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/trump-said-us-soldiers-injured-and-killed-in-war-were-losers-magazine-reports/2020/09/03/6e1725cc-ee35-11ea-99a1-71343d03bc29_story.html}{news
organizations},
\href{https://video.foxnews.com/v/6187968200001\#sp=show-clips}{including
Fox News}, and no current senior military officer has refuted it.

\hypertarget{where-its-running}{%
\subsubsection{Where It's Running}\label{where-its-running}}

So far, just once: in Washington during the 6 a.m. hour of ``Morning
Joe'' on MSNBC, an hour at which Mr. Trump is known to be channel
surfing. A Democratic National Committee official said the ad would also
air in Arizona, Florida, Maine, North Carolina and Virginia.

\hypertarget{the-takeaway}{%
\subsubsection{The Takeaway}\label{the-takeaway}}

Every day that the presidential campaign is about Mr. Trump and not Mr.
Biden is a good one for the Biden campaign. Mr. Trump's remarks about
America's veterans have been Topic A in Washington for nearly a week
now, and the Biden campaign is happy to keep the conversation going.

--- \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/reid-j-epstein}{Reid J.
Epstein}

\hypertarget{advertisement-3}{%
\subsubsection{Advertisement}\label{advertisement-3}}

\protect\hyperlink{after-dfp-ad-mid4}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{the-go-to-republican-election-lawyer-called-trumps-claims-of-voting-fraud-unsustainable}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{the-go-to-republican-election-lawyer-called-trumps-claims-of-voting-fraud-unsustainable}{The
go-to Republican election lawyer called Trump's claims of voting fraud
`unsustainable.'}}{The go-to Republican election lawyer called Trump's claims of voting fraud `unsustainable.'}}\label{the-go-to-republican-election-lawyer-called-trumps-claims-of-voting-fraud-unsustainable}}

Benjamin L. Ginsberg is one of the top election lawyers in the nation,
the go-to attorney for Republicans in nearly every major election law
battle over the past 38 years --- most famously, the Florida recount in
2000 in the disputed presidential race between George W. Bush and Al
Gore. Mr. Ginsberg won that one. His reputation as an expert in this
(often deliberately) complicated field of law crosses party lines.

Which makes an
\href{https://www.washingtonpost.com/opinions/2020/09/08/republicans-have-insufficient-evidence-call-elections-rigged-fraudulent/}{op-ed
that Mr. Ginsberg wrote in The Washington Post} striking. Mr. Ginsberg
--- who perhaps not coincidentally has the freedom that comes from
having just retired from his law firm --- flatly disputed President
Trump's assertions that mail-in voting is ``very dangerous'' and that
``there is tremendous fraud involved and tremendous illegality.''

``The lack of evidence renders these claims unsustainable,'' Mr.
Ginsberg wrote. ``The truth is that after decades of looking for illegal
voting, there's no proof of widespread fraud. At most, there are
isolated incidents --- by both Democrats and Republicans. Elections are
not rigged.''

These are ``painful conclusions for me to reach,'' Mr. Ginsberg said,
noting his own work in a catalog of redistricting and voter recount
cases on behalf of his party, and that he served as the counsel to the
Republican National Committee and to four of the past six Republican
presidential nominees.

``The president's rhetoric has put my party in the position of a
firefighter who deliberately sets fires to look like a hero putting them
out,'' he wrote. ``Republicans need to take a hard look before
advocating laws that actually do limit the franchise of otherwise
qualified voters. Calling elections `fraudulent' and results `rigged'
with almost nonexistent evidence is antithetical to being the `rule of
law' party.''

How significant is this? Well, imagine if Jerry Brown, the former
Democratic governor of California and longtime environmental warrior,
wrote an op-ed for The Sacramento Bee arguing that global warming
doesn't exist.

--- \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/adam-nagourney}{Adam
Nagourney}

\hypertarget{our-2020-election-guide}{%
\section{Our 2020 Election Guide}\label{our-2020-election-guide}}

Updated ~Sept. 11, 2020

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

\begin{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{the-latest}{%
  \subsection{The Latest}\label{the-latest}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Joe Biden and President Trump put
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/11/us/politics/shanksville-trump-biden.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{hostilities
    on hold today to travel to ground zero and then to Shanksville, Pa.,
    where they separately honored 9/11 victims}.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{how-to-win-270}{%
  \subsection{How to Win 270}\label{how-to-win-270}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Joe Biden and Donald Trump need 270 electoral votes to reach the
    White House. Try building
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/election-states-biden-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{your
    own coalition of battleground states}~to see potential outcomes.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{voting-by-mail}{%
  \subsection{Voting by Mail}\label{voting-by-mail}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Will you have enough time to vote by mail in your state? Yes, but
    it's risky to procrastinate.
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/31/us/politics/vote-by-mail-deadlines.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Check
    your state's deadline.}
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/joe-biden.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{}

    \hypertarget{joe-biden}{%
    \section{Joe Biden}\label{joe-biden}}

    \hypertarget{democrat}{%
    \subsection{Democrat}\label{democrat}}

    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/donald-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{}

    \hypertarget{donald-trump}{%
    \section{Donald Trump}\label{donald-trump}}

    \hypertarget{republican}{%
    \subsection{Republican}\label{republican}}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \hypertarget{keep-up-with-our-coverage}{%
  \subsection{Keep Up With Our
  Coverage}\label{keep-up-with-our-coverage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Get an
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{email}~recapping
    the day's news
  \item
    Download our mobile app on
    \href{https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nytimes/id284862083?ls=1\&mat_click_id=5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\&referrer=mat_click_id\%3D5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\%26link_click_id\%3D722930677036718082}{iOS}~and
    \href{http://a.localytics.com/android?id=com.nytimes.android\&referrer=utm_source\%3Dother_nyt_mobile_web\%26utm_medium\%3DWeb\%2520page\%26utm_term\%3DGeneral\%2520Mobile\%2520Page\%26utm_campaign\%3DNYT\%2520Mobile\%2520General\%2520Page}{Android}~and
    turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
