Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/business/media}{Media}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/business/media}{Media}\textbar{}Fox Settles With Gretchen
Carlson Over Roger Ailes Sex Harassment Claims

\url{https://nyti.ms/2cpn7iL}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{fox-settles-with-gretchen-carlson-over-roger-ailes-sex-harassment-claims}{%
\section{Fox Settles With Gretchen Carlson Over Roger Ailes Sex
Harassment
Claims}\label{fox-settles-with-gretchen-carlson-over-roger-ailes-sex-harassment-claims}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2016/09/07/business/07fox1/07fox1-articleInline.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By
\href{http://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/michael-m-grynbaum}{Michael
M. Grynbaum} and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/john-koblin}{John Koblin}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Sept. 6, 2016
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Fox News's parent company spent \$20 million on Tuesday to settle a
lawsuit brought by a former anchor, Gretchen Carlson, whose allegations
of sexual harassment toppled the network's powerful chairman, Roger
Ailes, and engulfed the company in crisis.

But if the settlement was meant to signal the close of a damaging
chapter for the network, it fell short. Fox's newsroom was hit minutes
later by a new shock wave: Greta Van Susteren, one of the channel's
best-known and longest-serving hosts, was leaving, effective
immediately.

Network officials insisted that the timing was coincidental. But the
settlement, combined with Ms. Van Susteren's abrupt departure,
underscored the continuing tumult inside Fox News, whose newsroom, once
proudly defiant, has been besieged this summer by new allegations of
harassment and persistent rumors about turnover in the on-air and
executive ranks.

These days, it seems, the end of one Fox drama is only the start of
another.

Stars like Megyn Kelly and Bill O'Reilly have contracts that expire next
year, and Ms. Van Susteren's exit on Tuesday was taken as an unsettling
sign of change. It is unclear whether Fox News, without Mr. Ailes at the
helm, can maintain its political clout in a disruptive election season.

The uproar is somewhat puzzling for Rupert Murdoch and his sons, James
and Lachlan, who control Fox News's owner, 21st Century Fox. They say
they have taken extraordinary steps to address problems at the network,
which is still the highest-ranked cable news network in the country,
beginning with their swift removal of Mr. Ailes.

Specialists in employment law described the \$20 million payout to Ms.
Carlson --- a figure confirmed by a person briefed on the agreement ---
as among the largest-known settlements for a single-plaintiff sexual
harassment suit. (Mr. Ailes, who received \$40 million from Fox as part
of his exit agreement, is not paying any portion of the settlement.)

Fox has also settled with at least two other women who came forward with
complaints about Mr. Ailes, the person said.

Image

Greta Van SusterenCredit...Charles Dharapak/Associated Press

And the company issued a rare public apology to Ms. Carlson, ``for the
fact that Gretchen was not treated with the respect and dignity that she
and all of our colleagues deserve.''

But tensions remain among the network rank-and-file. Mr. Murdoch, who
now presides over Fox News as executive chairman, kept in place several
of Mr. Ailes's most loyal deputies and recently
\href{http://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2016/08/13/business/media/fox-news-leadership.html}{promoted
them to leadership roles}, troubling employees who had hoped for a clean
slate.

The reasons behind Ms. Van Susteren's departure remained murky, but
people on both sides of the negotiations pointed to an icy meeting in
July between Ms. Van Susteren and Rupert Murdoch as a turning point in
her tenure.

Days after Mr. Ailes's exit, Ms. Van Susteren met with Mr. Murdoch in
his second-floor office inside Fox's Manhattan headquarters. The anchor,
accompanied by her husband and agent, John P. Coale, requested more
favorable terms to her contract --- which was not immediately up for
renewal --- and cited an exit clause that allowed her to leave the
network in the event that Mr. Ailes was no longer chairman.

Mr. Murdoch was not impressed, both sides say. ``It was tense,'' Mr.
Coale recalled in a telephone interview on Tuesday.

Late last week, Ms. Van Susteren informed Fox that she planned to invoke
her exit clause. But she woke up on Tuesday fully expecting to tape her
prime-time show, ``On the Record,'' that evening. Instead, Mr. Coale
said, ``someone came to our house and delivered two letters'' from the
network. The message: ``She's out.''

It was so abrupt that a large-scale poster of Ms. Van Susteren, who
routinely beat the cable competition in her 7 p.m. time slot, was still
displayed outside Fox's Manhattan building when the announcement went
out. (The poster was removed later on Tuesday.) Inside the channel's
Washington bureau, newspapers sat untouched outside Ms. Van Susteren's
still-full office.

Ms. Van Susteren had
\href{http://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2016/07/08/business/media/gretchen-carlson-suit-against-fox-news-head-forces-network-to-face-changing-mores.html}{initially
defended Mr. Ailes}, calling Ms. Carlson ``disgruntled'' and saying that
the timing of her lawsuit ``is very suspicious.'' But on Tuesday, in
\href{https://www.facebookcorewwwi.onion/greta/photos/a.162242790457256.36266.158671177481084/1423804617634394/?type=3\&theater}{a
farewell post} on Facebook, Ms. Van Susteren wrote: ``Fox has not felt
like home to me for a few years.''

Mr. Coale, in the interview, echoed that sentiment. ``There's so much
chaos'' at Fox, he said. ``It's very hard to work there.''

Image

Roger Ailes.Credit...Charles Sykes/Invision, via Associated Press

Asked why his wife had exercised the exit clause, Mr. Coale said,
``There's more than meets the eye,'' adding that there ``might be
litigation in the future.'' But he provided no further details. Ms. Van
Susteren, on Facebook, wrote that she had to leave the network now
because of a time limit on her exit clause.

Brit Hume, a veteran Fox political anchor, took over hosting duties for
Ms. Van Susteren's show on Tuesday and is expected to continue through
the election. ``I count Greta a friend and I'm sorry to see her go,''
Mr. Hume said at the conclusion of Tuesday's broadcast.

Although she has been a Fox fixture since 2002, Ms. Van Susteren does
not command the same star power as Ms. Kelly or Mr. O'Reilly. Fox News
executives on Tuesday dismissed the notion that her departure signaled
tough times ahead, noting that the channel has scored record ratings
this year. ``Fox News has never been stronger,'' the network's
co-presidents, Jack Abernethy and Bill Shine, said in a statement.

Ms. Van Susteren's exit was viewed by Fox officials as a less
consequential development than the company's settlement with Ms.
Carlson, whose suit initially faced a legal challenge from Mr. Ailes.

The evidence that Ms. Carlson had against Mr. Ailes was damning,
according to another person with knowledge of the settlement: For a year
and a half, she had recorded her meetings with Mr. Ailes on her mobile
phone. (In an
\href{http://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2016/07/13/business/media/gretchen-carlson-fox-news-interview.html}{interview
with The New York Times} in July, Ms. Carlson said she recalled
``between six and 10'' conversations with Mr. Ailes when the chairman
made provocative comments.)

Most of the remarks that she attributed to Mr. Ailes in her lawsuit ---
including lines like, ``I think you and I should have had a sexual
relationship a long time ago, and then you'd be good and better and I'd
be good and better'' --- were taken straight from those recordings, the
person said.

Officials at 21st Century Fox became aware of the recordings about three
weeks after Ms. Carlson filed her lawsuit, the person said, after Ms.
Carlson's lawyers spoke to investigators from Paul, Weiss, Rifkind,
Wharton \& Garrison, the law firm hired to look into the accusations
against Mr. Ailes. (About 20 women at Fox have come forward during the
firm's inquiry to describe inappropriate behavior by Mr. Ailes.)

Settlement talks started shortly thereafter, and a deal was reached in
mid-August, the person said. Ms. Carlson sued Mr. Ailes alone, but 21st
Century Fox, which acts as Mr. Ailes's corporate indemnifier, will pay
the settlement. As part of the arrangement, which was first
\href{http://www.vanityfair.com/news/2016/09/fox-news-settles-with-gretchen-carlson-for-20-million}{reported
on Tuesday by Vanity Fair}, Ms. Carlson signed a confidentiality
agreement.

In a sign that Ms. Carlson is not going to shrink from the spotlight,
she recently hired the power publicist Cindi Berger of PMK BNC to
represent her. She issued a statement on Tuesday saying she was ``ready
to move on to the next chapter of my life, in which I will redouble my
efforts to empower women in the workplace.''

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{Â©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
