Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}A Sketch Artist's View of
Trump's Impeachment Trial

\url{https://nyti.ms/3ajKng8}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{a-sketch-artists-view-of-trumps-impeachment-trial}{%
\section{A Sketch Artist's View of Trump's Impeachment
Trial}\label{a-sketch-artists-view-of-trumps-impeachment-trial}}

Text by
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/alicia-parlapiano}{Alicia
Parlapiano}Updated Feb 5, 2020, 8:10 PM ET

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2020/01/16/impeach-trial-sketches/assets/images/Impeach20021wide-2000.jpg}

Art Lien for The New York Times

Because no photos or videos are
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/01/13/us/politics/senate-photography.html}{allowed
to be taken in the Senate chamber}, the public's only view of the Senate
floor is a feed provided to C-SPAN from cameras that are operated by
government employees.

That is, unless someone seated in the gallery can draw.

Art Lien is a courtroom sketch artist who has primarily covered the
Supreme Court --- another body that does not allow cameras --- since
1976. But for the extent of the impeachment trial of President Trump,
Mr. Lien will be walking across the street to the Capitol to capture
moments that we might not see on television.

\hypertarget{wednesday-feb-5}{%
\subsection{Wednesday, Feb. 5}\label{wednesday-feb-5}}

Hours before the final votes in the Senate, Mitt Romney, Republican of
Utah,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/02/05/us/politics/mitt-romney-impeachment-speech-transcript.html}{announced
in an emotional floor speech} that he had decided to cross party lines
and vote to convict Mr. Trump on the abuse of power charge, saying that
the president was ``guilty of an appalling abuse of public trust.''

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2020/01/16/impeach-trial-sketches/assets/images/Impeach200205_Romney2-2000.jpg}

Art Lien for The New York Times

Senator Mitch McConnell, the Republican majority leader who had promised
a swift trial and acquittal of the president, gave the final speech in
the chamber before the voting commenced.

``The United States Senate was made for moments like this,'' Mr.
McConnell said, adding that the framers of the Constitution created the
Senate to safeguard against ``factional fever'' that might dominate in
the House. ``This partisan impeachment will end today,'' he declared.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2020/01/16/impeach-trial-sketches/assets/images/Impeach200205_McConnell-2000.jpg}

Art Lien for The New York Times

Just after 4 p.m., Mr. Trump
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/02/05/us/politics/trump-acquitted-impeachment.html}{was
acquitted} by the Senate of both articles of impeachment,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/02/05/us/politics/impeachment-vote-results.html}{52
to 48} on the abuse of power charge and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/02/05/us/politics/impeachment-vote-results.html}{53
to 47} on obstruction of justice, bringing his trial to a close.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2020/01/16/impeach-trial-sketches/assets/images/Impeach200205wide_vote-2000.jpg}

Art Lien for The New York Times

\hypertarget{tuesday-feb-4}{%
\subsection{Tuesday, Feb. 4}\label{tuesday-feb-4}}

After
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/02/03/us/politics/trump-impeachment-trial-final-arguments.html}{closing
arguments} by House managers and the president's lawyers on Monday,
senators took turns on the Senate floor to
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/02/04/us/politics/senate-impeachment-vote.html}{announce
their positions} before Wednesday's final votes on the articles of
impeachment.

Because the speeches were not part of the formal impeachment trial,
senators were not required to be in attendance, leaving the chamber
mostly empty.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2020/01/16/impeach-trial-sketches/assets/images/Senate200204_Collins-2000.jpg}

Art Lien for The New York Times

On the other side of the Capitol, House members staked out seats for Mr.
Trump's State of the Union address that evening. Some lawmakers were
seen reserving their positions along the aisle more than seven hours
before the speech.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2020/01/16/impeach-trial-sketches/assets/images/SOTU200204_saving-seats-2000.jpg}

Art Lien for The New York Times

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2020/01/16/impeach-trial-sketches/assets/images/SOTU200204_press-gallery-2000.jpg}

Art Lien for The New York Times

In his
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/02/04/us/politics/state-of-the-union-address.html}{speech
promoting a ``Great American Comeback,''} Mr. Trump did not address his
impeachment or the upcoming vote in the Senate. Some of the Democratic
House impeachment managers sat near the front of the chamber, with
copies of the U.S. Constitution in hand.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2020/01/16/impeach-trial-sketches/assets/images/SOTU200204_House-managers-2000.jpg}

Art Lien for The New York Times

\hypertarget{friday-jan-31}{%
\subsection{Friday, Jan. 31}\label{friday-jan-31}}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/01/31/us/politics/impeachment-vote.html?action=click\&module=Spotlight\&pgtype=Homepage}{The
Senate voted} to block the admission of new witnesses and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/trump-impeachment-trial-01-31?action=click\&module=Spotlight\&pgtype=Homepage\#senators-schedule-trial}{agreed
to a schedule} that would end the trial on Wednesday. Democrats needed
four Republicans to join them in supporting the motion on additional
evidence, but only two senators, Mitt Romney of Utah and Susan Collins
of Maine, broke with their party to vote for it.

Lisa Murkowski, Republican of Alaska, was considered another potential
defector, but she
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/trump-impeachment-trial-01-31\#murkowski-witnesses}{ultimately
decided} to vote ``no.''

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2020/01/16/impeach-trial-sketches/assets/images/Impeach200131_Murkowski-2000.jpg}

Art Lien for The New York Times

Before the vote on witnesses, the Senate
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/trump-impeachment-trial-01-31?action=click\&module=Spotlight\&pgtype=Homepage\#senate-leadership-negotiates}{conducted
a break} called a ``quorum call'' in order for party leaders to
negotiate next steps. Senator Kyrsten Sinema, a Democrat from Arizona
who could break with her party by voting to acquit the president, could
be seen chatting with her Republican colleagues.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2020/01/16/impeach-trial-sketches/assets/images/Impeach200131_Sinema-2000.jpg}

Art Lien for The New York Times

Outside the Capitol, a group of demonstrators weighed in.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2020/01/16/impeach-trial-sketches/assets/images/Impeach200131_protesters-2000.jpg}

Art Lien for The New York Times

\hypertarget{thursday-jan-30}{%
\subsection{Thursday, Jan. 30}\label{thursday-jan-30}}

Senators convened for the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/trump-impeachment-trial-01-30}{second
day of posing questions} to House impeachment managers and Mr. Trump's
lawyers.

Early in the session, a question submitted by Senator Rand Paul of
Kentucky
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/trump-impeachment-trial-01-30?action=click\&module=Top\%20Stories\&pgtype=Homepage\#chief-justice-declines-a-question-from-rand-paul-that-could-have-identified-the-whistle-blower}{was
rejected} by Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr. because it mentioned the
person widely believed to be the whistle-blower who sparked the
impeachment inquiry.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2020/01/16/impeach-trial-sketches/assets/images/Impeach200130_Paul-2000.jpg}

Art Lien for The New York Times

Republicans
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/trump-impeachment-trial-01-30\#republicans-are-getting-where-we-need-to-be-on-the-witness-vote-senator-says}{expressed
optimism} that they would be able to block the passage of a
Democratic-supported proposal to call new witnesses. At least four
Republican senators and every Democrat would need to vote ``yes'' for it
to pass.

Senator Patrick J. Toomey of Pennsylvania appeared open to the idea of
new witnesses earlier in the week, but on Wednesday he said that he was
``very, very skeptical'' that any witness would change his decision.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2020/01/16/impeach-trial-sketches/assets/images/Impeach200130_Toomey1-2000.jpg}

Art Lien for The New York Times

Cory Gardner of Colorado, who is facing a tough re-election and had not
committed to a position, said on Wednesday that
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/impeachment-trial-live-01-29\#cory-gardner-witnesses-documents}{he
would not vote for witnesses and documents}.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2020/01/16/impeach-trial-sketches/assets/images/Impeach200130_Gardner1-2000.jpg}

Art Lien for The New York Times

If the Senate rejects new witnesses in the trial, and Democrats are
unable to
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/trump-impeachment-trial-01-30\#schumer-hints-at-a-tactic-to-delay-votes-to-acquit-trump}{delay
the proceedings}, votes on whether to convict or acquit Mr. Trump could
take place this week.

One Democratic senator, Doug Jones of Alabama,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/trump-impeachment-trial-01-30?action=click\&module=Top\%20Stories\&pgtype=Homepage\#trump-could-win-a-bipartisan-acquittal}{has
indicated} that he might vote to acquit the president of the obstruction
of justice charge. Other centrist Democrats, like Senators Kyrsten
Sinema of Arizona and Joe Manchin III of West Virginia, could also
defect.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2020/01/16/impeach-trial-sketches/assets/images/Impeach200130_Jones_Sinema-2000.jpg}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2020/01/16/impeach-trial-sketches/assets/images/Impeach200130_Manchin-2000.jpg}

Art Lien for The New York Times

\hypertarget{wednesday-jan-29}{%
\subsection{Wednesday, Jan. 29}\label{wednesday-jan-29}}

The
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/impeachment-trial-live-01-29}{next
phase of the trial began}, with senators submitting questions for the
House managers and the president's defense, who had five minutes to
respond at the lectern.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2020/01/16/impeach-trial-sketches/assets/images/Impeach200129_question-cards-2000.jpg}

Art Lien for The New York Times

The question cards were ferried by Senate pages to the parliamentarian,
who gave them to Chief Justice Roberts to be read aloud.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2020/01/16/impeach-trial-sketches/assets/images/Impeach200129_page-2000.jpg}

Art Lien for The New York Times

Senators
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/impeachment-trial-live-01-29?action=click\&module=Top\%20Stories\&pgtype=Homepage\#senators-home-team}{mostly}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/impeachment-trial-live-01-29?action=click\&module=Top\%20Stories\&pgtype=Homepage\#senators-home-team}{asked}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/impeachment-trial-live-01-29?action=click\&module=Top\%20Stories\&pgtype=Homepage\#senators-home-team}{questions}
of the side they aligned with --- Republicans for the defense, and
Democrats for House managers.

``You want to control the dynamic,'' explained Senator Mike Braun,
Republican of Indiana.

Senator Chuck Schumer, the minority leader, was one of several Democrats
to pose questions to the managers. ``They needed the chance to rebut the
false arguments, the fallacious reasoning, the half-truths and even no
truths that the three days of the president's counsel made,'' he said.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2020/01/16/impeach-trial-sketches/assets/images/Impeach200129_Schiff-2000.jpg}

Art Lien for The New York Times

Four Democratic senators running for president --- Senators Bernie
Sanders, Elizabeth Warren, Amy Klobuchar and Michael Bennet ---
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/01/25/us/politics/joe-biden-cindy-axne-iowa.html}{have
been dashing} between the campaign trail and the trial in Washington.

The frantic schedule appeared to be catching up with Mr. Sanders, who is
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/01/27/us/politics/iowa-democrats-bernie-sanders.html}{leading
recent polls in Iowa}.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2020/01/16/impeach-trial-sketches/assets/images/Impeach200129_Sanders-2000.jpg}

Art Lien for The New York Times

\hypertarget{tuesday-jan-28}{%
\subsection{Tuesday, Jan. 28}\label{tuesday-jan-28}}

As Mr. Trump's defense team concluded their opening arguments, new
revelations from an unpublished manuscript by John R. Bolton, the former
national security adviser,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/01/27/us/politics/john-bolton-impeachment-witness.html}{fueled
a push by Democrats} to call witnesses in the trial.

Senator Lamar Alexander, Republican of Tennessee, has said that he will
decide whether to support calling witnesses after the upcoming question
and answer phase of the trial. But he has previously
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/01/25/us/politics/lamar-alexander-witnesses-impeachment.html}{expressed
openness} to the idea, and the White House has regarded him as a wild
card.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2020/01/16/impeach-trial-sketches/assets/images/Impeach200128_Alexander-2000.jpg}

Art Lien for The New York Times

Senator Mitt Romney, Republican of Utah, has garnered attention as the
only one in his party who has
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/01/27/us/politics/john-bolton-impeachment-witness.html}{publicly
committed} to voting `yes' on calling witnesses.

Mr. Romney caught the spotlight for another reason on Tuesday, when he
was seen momentarily breaking Senate rules by entering the chamber with
a bottle of chocolate milk. He promptly exited and returned with the
milk in a glass.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2020/01/16/impeach-trial-sketches/assets/images/Impeach200128_Romney-2000.jpg}

Art Lien for The New York Times

After six days of arguments in which they were confined to their seats
in silence, members took the opportunity to
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/impeachment-trial-live-01-28\#what-c-span-viewers-didnt-see-once-the-defense-ended-its-arguments}{mingle
on the Senate floor.}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2020/01/16/impeach-trial-sketches/assets/images/Impeach200128_Portman-Burr-Cotton-2000.jpg}

Art Lien for The New York Times

\hypertarget{monday-jan-27}{%
\subsection{Monday, Jan. 27}\label{monday-jan-27}}

The trial
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/01/27/us/politics/impeachment-live.html}{continued
Monday} with presentations by Mr. Trump's defense team,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/01/17/us/politics/ken-starr-impeachment-trump-clinton.html}{which
includes Ken Starr}, the former independent counsel whose investigation
led to President Bill Clinton's impeachment.

Mr. Lien sketched from his perch in the press gallery overlooking the
Senate floor, jotting down notes about color, because he must exit the
chamber to use his watercolor kit.

He uses a very thin (.03mm) mechanical pencil with soft 2B lead.
``People move around and things change, so it's nice to be able to
erase,'' he said.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2020/01/16/impeach-trial-sketches/assets/images/Impeach200127_Starr.01crop-2000.jpg}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2020/01/16/impeach-trial-sketches/assets/images/Impeach200127_Starr-crop-2000.jpg}

Art Lien for The New York Times

During a presentation by Michael Purpura, one of the president's
lawyers, Mr. Lien noticed several senators missing from their desks.
Luckily, staff members in the Senate press gallery provide a diagram for
reference.

``I do keep the seating chart handy and consult it frequently,'' said
Mr. Lien.

\hypertarget{saturday-jan-25}{%
\subsection{Saturday, Jan. 25}\label{saturday-jan-25}}

Mr. Trump's defense team kicked off their arguments on Saturday morning,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/impeachment-trial-live-01-25/trumps-defense-team-seeks-to-sow-reasonable-doubt\#live-blog-list}{attempting
to sow doubt} on the Democrats' case by accusing them of
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/impeachment-trial-live-01-25/cipollone-leads-off-for-white-house-legal-team\#live-blog-list}{cherry-picking
evidence} and trying ``to remove President Trump from the ballot.''

Jay Sekulow, one of the president's personal lawyers, accused the House
managers of
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/impeachment-trial-live-01-25/lawyers-zero-in-on-the-mueller-inquiry\#live-blog-list}{engaging
in a partisan attack} on the president by having ``tried once again to
re-litigate the Mueller case.''

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2020/01/16/impeach-trial-sketches/assets/images/Impeachment200125_Sekulow-2000.jpg}

Art Lien for The New York Times

In the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/01/25/us/politics/trump-impeachment-hearings-saturday.html}{abbreviated
two-hour session}, the defense emphasized that they would not subject
senators to the same long presentations as the House managers. Each side
has been allotted 24 hours over as many as three days.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2020/01/16/impeach-trial-sketches/assets/images/Impeach200125_Rubio-2000.jpg}

Art Lien for The New York Times

In the press gallery, more than one sketch artist was at work.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2020/01/16/impeach-trial-sketches/assets/images/Impeach200125_Hennessy-2000.jpg}

Art Lien for The New York Times

\hypertarget{friday-jan-24}{%
\subsection{Friday, Jan. 24}\label{friday-jan-24}}

Senators settled in for the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/01/24/us/politics/trump-impeachment-hearings-today.html?action=click\&module=Top\%20Stories\&pgtype=Homepage}{third
day of arguments} from the House managers, who made their case that Mr.
Trump sought to cover up his pressure campaign on Ukraine.

Senator Rob Portman, Republican of Ohio, was spotted with a cell phone
---
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/01/17/us/politics/senate-impeachment-trial-furniture.html}{contraband
during the trial} --- but put it away when proceedings began.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2020/01/16/impeach-trial-sketches/assets/images/Impeach200124_phone-2000.jpg}

Art Lien for The New York Times

Other senators have
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/01/23/us/politics/senators-impeachment-scene.html}{tested
the rules of the trial} over the course of the week, with many stepping
out of the chamber to use the bathroom, make calls or even appear on
television.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2020/01/16/impeach-trial-sketches/assets/images/Impeach200124_Sanders_exit-2000.jpg}

Art Lien for The New York Times

Lawmakers did appear to stick to the
\href{https://www.google.com/url?q=https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/01/22/us/senate-candy-desk-impeachment.html\&sa=D\&ust=1579918389860000\&usg=AFQjCNEIOwzbED7eInN7snmNi2g6uUo8aQ}{approved
beverages}, water and milk. Senate pages, high school students appointed
by members as helpers, refreshed their glasses.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2020/01/16/impeach-trial-sketches/assets/images/Impeach200124_page-2000.jpg}

Art Lien for The New York Times

Reporters looked down from the press gallery, located directly above the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/01/23/us/politics/impeachment-senate-chamber-diagram.html}{wood-and-marble
rostrum} where Chief Justice Roberts is presiding.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2020/01/16/impeach-trial-sketches/assets/images/Impeach200124wide-2000.jpg}

Art Lien for The New York Times

Although Connie Shultz is a Pulitzer Prize-winning columnist, she was
seated in the adjacent gallery, a special viewing section for guests of
lawmakers. Ms. Schultz is married to Senator Sherrod Brown, Democrat of
Ohio.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2020/01/16/impeach-trial-sketches/assets/images/Impeach200124_Schultz-2000.jpg}

Art Lien for The New York Times

\hypertarget{thursday-jan-23}{%
\subsection{Thursday, Jan. 23}\label{thursday-jan-23}}

In their
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/01/23/us/politics/trump-impeachment-hearing-today.html}{second
day of arguments}, the House managers presented their case for the first
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/12/10/us/politics/articles-impeachment-document-pdf.html}{article
of impeachment} against Mr. Trump --- abuse of power. But their
presentations on the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/impeachment-trial-live-01-23/nadler-gives-a-history-lesson-in-arguing-that-no-crime-is-needed-for-impeachment\#live-blog-list}{history
of constitutional law},
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/impeachment-trial-live-01-23/democrats-make-a-strategic-decision-in-focusing-on-the-bidens-trumps-lawyer-sees-a-mistake\#live-blog-list}{the
Bidens' work in Ukraine} and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/impeachment-trial-live-01-23/house-managers-trump-evidence\#live-blog-list}{Mr.
Trump's motives} did not appear to capture the entire audience's
attention.

At one point in the day, there were
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/impeachment-trial-live-01-23/republicans-and-democrats-treat-the-rule-to-stay-in-their-seats-rather-liberally\#live-blog-list}{19
empty seats on the floor}, as Republican and Democratic senators
disregarded the rules of decorum and took short breaks from the chamber.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2020/01/16/impeach-trial-sketches/assets/images/Impeach200123_leaving-2000.jpg}

Art Lien for The New York Times

Some members took up a second activity, like fidget spinning or
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/impeachment-trial-live-01-23/rand-paul-takes-a-break-from-doodling-to-silently-make-a-point\#live-blog-list}{doodling}.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2020/01/16/impeach-trial-sketches/assets/images/Impeach200123_fidget-spinner-2000.jpg}

Art Lien for The New York Times

Two moderate Republicans who have signaled they may be
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/01/14/us/politics/republicans-impeachment-witnesses.html}{open
to calling witnesses}, Susan Collins of Maine and Lisa Murkowski of
Alaska, appeared more engaged. In 1999, Ms. Collins voted against her
party to acquit President Bill Clinton during his impeachment trial.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2020/01/16/impeach-trial-sketches/assets/images/Impeach200123_Collins_Murkowski-2000.jpg}

Art Lien for The New York Times

\hypertarget{wednesday-jan-22}{%
\subsection{Wednesday, Jan. 22}\label{wednesday-jan-22}}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/01/22/us/impeachment-managers.html}{House
impeachment managers}, led by Representative Adam B. Schiff of
California, have 24 hours over three days to present opening arguments
in their case for convicting and removing Mr. Trump from office. They
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/01/22/us/politics/trump-impeachment.html?action=click\&module=Top\%20Stories\&pgtype=Homepage\#link-14ff5bde}{spent
the first day} narrating the events surrounding the allegations.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2020/01/16/impeach-trial-sketches/assets/images/Impeach200122_Schiff-2000.jpg}

Art Lien for The New York Times

The public viewing galleries were only partially filled.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2020/01/16/impeach-trial-sketches/assets/images/Impeach200122_public-2000.jpg}

Art Lien for The New York Times

Around 6:20 p.m., a protester burst into the chamber and interrupted the
presentation of Representative Hakeem Jeffries, Democrat of New York. He
was escorted away by Capitol Police officers.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2020/01/16/impeach-trial-sketches/assets/images/Impeach200122_demonstrator-2000.jpg}

Art Lien for The New York Times

Reporters worked (or took a break) in the press room just outside the
chamber.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2020/01/16/impeach-trial-sketches/assets/images/Impeach200122_magnometer-2000.jpg}

Art Lien for The New York Times

\hypertarget{tuesday-jan-21}{%
\subsection{Tuesday, Jan. 21}\label{tuesday-jan-21}}

The trial began in earnest Tuesday, with a debate between House
impeachment managers and the president's defense team over the rules
that will govern the proceedings. Per
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/01/21/us/politics/senate-impeachment.html}{decorum
guidelines} issued by Senate leadership ahead of the trial, members were
confined to their desks in silence, without the use of their phones.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2020/01/16/impeach-trial-sketches/assets/images/Impeach200121_Burr_Loeffler-2000.jpg}

Art Lien for The New York Times

Throughout the day, the C-SPAN cameras were primarily trained on those
speaking at the podium, which allowed some members to rest their eyes
out of view.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2020/01/16/impeach-trial-sketches/assets/images/Impeach200121_Risch-2000.jpg}

Art Lien for The New York Times

Members of the press, who observed the debate from the galleries, were
also
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/01/19/business/media/senate-impeachment-trial-media.html}{operating
under stricter rules} for the trial. Reporters were issued tickets
corresponding to assigned seats and required to line up for a
magnetometer meant to prevent electronics from being smuggled into the
chamber.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2020/01/16/impeach-trial-sketches/assets/images/Impeach200121_press-2000.jpg}

Art Lien for The New York Times

\hypertarget{thursday-jan-16}{%
\subsection{Thursday, Jan. 16}\label{thursday-jan-16}}

In a
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/trump-impeachment-01-16/silence-in-the-senate-as-managers-present-the-articles\#live-blog-list}{ceremonial
display} at noon, newly appointed House impeachment managers made their
way to the Senate chamber to formally present the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/12/10/us/politics/articles-impeachment-document-pdf.html}{charges
against Mr. Trump} to the Senate. Representative Adam B. Schiff,
Democrat of California, read the charges on the floor.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2020/01/16/impeach-trial-sketches/assets/images/Senate200116_House_managers-2000.jpg}

Art Lien for The New York Times

Procedural tasks continued later in the afternoon, when Senator Charles
E. Grassley, Republican of Iowa,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/01/16/us/politics/impeachment-trial.html\#link-459e7e1d}{swore
in Chief Justice Roberts} to preside over the trial.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2020/01/16/impeach-trial-sketches/assets/images/Senate200116_Roberts_oath-2000.jpg}

Art Lien for The New York Times

Chief Justice Roberts in turn swore in the members of the Senate, who
were then called to the front of the chamber to sign an oath book.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2020/01/16/impeach-trial-sketches/assets/images/Senate200116_McConnell_Schumer-2000.jpg}

Art Lien for The New York Times

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2020/01/16/impeach-trial-sketches/assets/images/Senate200116_Klobuchar-2000.jpg}

Art Lien for The New York Times

\emph{We will be updating this page as the trial continues.}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
