Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/style}{Style}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/style}{Style}\textbar{}How `Keeping Up With the
Kardashians' Changed Everything

\url{https://nyti.ms/3m9jRMk}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/spotlight/at-home?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=at_home_menu}{At
Home}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/07/travel/route-66.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=at_home_menu}{Cruise
  Along: Route 66}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/04/dining/sheet-pan-chicken.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=at_home_menu}{Roast:
  Chicken With Plums}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/04/arts/television/dark-shadows-stream.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=at_home_menu}{Watch:
  Dark Shadows}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/at-home/even-more-reporters-editors-diaries-lists-recommendations.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=at_home_menu}{Explore:
  Reporters' Google Docs}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{how-keeping-up-with-the-kardashians-changed-everything}{%
\section{How `Keeping Up With the Kardashians' Changed
Everything}\label{how-keeping-up-with-the-kardashians-changed-everything}}

The reality show shaped not only TV but celebrity, beauty and
entrepreneurship.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/09/13/fashion/09KARDASHIAN1/merlin_176742624_726b903f-530f-40ac-acc8-4d17bd97dfea-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By The Styles Desk

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Sept. 9, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

This week, the Kardashian-Jenner family
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/08/arts/television/kim-kardashian-keeping-up-with-the-kardashians.html}{announced}
that after 20 seasons, their namesake reality TV show, ``Keeping Up With
the Kardashians,'' would come to an end in 2021.

When the program first aired in 2007, the leading family was known for
its late patriarch, an attorney who represented O.J. Simpson; the
Olympian who married in; and a daughter whose personal life was exposed
in a pornographic video leak. But within years of the premiere on E!,
the women of the family and their
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2015/05/10/magazine/where-would-the-kardashians-be-without-kris-jenner.html}{matriarch
``momager''} became, in their own right,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/03/30/style/kardashians-interview.html}{some
of the most famous and influential people in the world}.

For the show's loyal fans, its final season means the end of an era of
entertainment and access to the stars' personal lives, which the show
has documented in sometimes unsparing detail. Even for non-watchers, the
show's impact may be felt; after all, the influence of ``K.U.W.T.K.'' on
celebrity, beauty, entrepreneurship and status can be seen on magazine
covers and social media, in shopping malls and e-commerce, and on
people's faces.

Here are a few of the ways the show changed not only TV, but culture at
large:

\hypertarget{it-made-celebrities-of-a-regular-rich-family}{%
\subsection{It Made Celebrities of a Regular-Rich
Family}\label{it-made-celebrities-of-a-regular-rich-family}}

In its early seasons, the self-aware tackiness of ``Keeping Up With the
Kardashians'' was evinced in the opening credits. The family, dressed in
sequins and satin, stands against a cityscape backdrop. A goofy
whistling tune plays as they pose for the camera and jockey for
attention. These people, with their generously sized home and seemingly
relaxed work schedules, are clearly well-off. But they're also striving.

Fast forward seven years, and Kim is on the cover of Vogue with her
husband, Kanye West. A few more years, and Kylie, the youngest, is named
a billionaire (a designation since amended, but still, she's loaded).
All of them are owners of multi-million-dollar homes, followed by
multiple millions of people on social media, and vastly rich in
entrepreneurial ventures.

It's easy to say it could have happened to any family; even now, the
idea that the Kardashians are ``famous for doing nothing'' remains
persistent. But it wasn't any family. And the numbers keep getting
bigger. \emph{BONNIE WERTHEIM}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/09/13/fashion/09KARDASHIAN4/merlin_164625618_bc12eef9-c37e-4476-a755-f54331733ac0-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\hypertarget{it-built-a-multi-brand-empire}{%
\subsection{It Built a Multi-Brand
Empire}\label{it-built-a-multi-brand-empire}}

First there was the store (R.I.P. Dash). Then the beauty collections
(Kylie Cosmetics taught the world about ``lip kits''); a hit video game
(Kim Kardashian: Hollywood); the clothing lines (Skims; Good American;
Kendall + Kylie, for the younger fans; and the Kardashian Kollection,
for the thriftier ones, sold at Sears); the sci-fi books (thank Kendall
and Kylie for those); a prepaid credit card; and countless brand
collaborations.

It's not unusual for celebrities and influencers to create products that
bear their names. What makes the Kardashians different is their
promotion of said brands, which were woven into the show as well as the
publicized interpersonal conflicts and life changes that made viewers
feel close to the family. Looks like it paid off.

Now the landscape has changed, mostly by their own doing. They don't
need a TV show to hawk their wares like they may have when
``K.U.W.T.K.'' debuted over a decade ago. The power is in their hands.
When you can reach your followers directly on social media, control your
public image \emph{and} make millions?
(\href{https://www.forbes.com/sites/chasewithorn/2020/05/29/inside-kylie-jennerss-web-of-lies-and-why-shes-no-longer-a-billionaire/\#5ee6a92725f7}{Billions}?)
That's a sweet deal. \emph{LINDSEY UNDERWOOD}

\emph{\emph{\emph{{[}}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/03/30/style/kardashians-interview.html}{\emph{Read
more on the mogul-ization of the Kardashian-Jenner clan.}}}{]}}**

\hypertarget{it-set-new-unrealistic-standards-of-beauty}{%
\subsection{It Set New, Unrealistic Standards of
Beauty}\label{it-set-new-unrealistic-standards-of-beauty}}

Have the Kardashian sisters gone under the knife? The family line,
\href{https://www.harpersbazaar.com.au/beauty/kardashian-surgery-17663}{with
a couple of exceptions}, is no. They say that their ever-changing bodies
are sculpted and whittled and plumped through nonsurgical means:
Instagram filters, dermal fillers, contour powder, squats. The claim is
both ludicrous and shrewd.

A triumph of the Kardashian marketing regime has been selling the
appearance of extreme, even campy body modification as an accessible
consumer experience, one sold through spa trips on ``Keeping Up With the
Kardashians,'' makeup-chair selfies on Instagram, and branded products
like Kylie's
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/11/19/style/kylie-jenner-coty-cosmetics.html}{lip
kits} and Kim's
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/02/06/style/kim-kardashian-has-learned-restraint.html}{shapewear}.

``Plastic surgery'' has long been shorthand for the interplay between
Hollywood wealth and glamour, but for the Kardashians --- creatures
birthed by reality television and raised by the internet --- the idea of
scalpel on skin feels too old-school, too fleshy, too human for the
brand.

The Kardashians were the prototypes for the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/02/04/arts/fembot-poppy-lil-miquela-kylie-jenner.html}{uncanny
cyborg look} that has since colonized social media. They exist less as
fixed images than as a blur of constant technological upgrades. They
refashioned femininity into a computer prompt: enhance, enhance,
enhance. \emph{AMANDA HESS}

Image

Caitlyn Jenner at the Vanity Fair Oscars Party in 2016.Credit...Emily
Berl for The New York Times

\hypertarget{it-gave-america-language-to-talk-about-transitions}{%
\subsection{It Gave America Language to Talk About
Transitions}\label{it-gave-america-language-to-talk-about-transitions}}

Caitlyn Jenner --- despite having married Elvis's ex (you know her as
the mom of Brandon and Brody, those princes of Malibu) --- often gave
the appearance of being the least spectacular one of the family.

But if the extended Kardashian ecosystem has taught us nothing else,
it's that we should also always look beneath a surface. Caitlyn and Kris
Jenner each have six children. The Venn diagram of those 12 contains
two, Kendall and Kylie --- who some believe are the most potent of the
species.

Of the extended family's skills that Kendall and Kylie and their kin
have mastered --- wonderful portraiture of the self, a native sense for
the exploitation of brand identity, the ability to dance with stars, an
incredible gift for argument and persuasion --- Caitlyn may be the one
who has studied the hardest.

The announcement of her gender transition ate a significant amount of
the news cycle of the middle of 2015, an otherwise
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2015/02/28/science/white-or-blue-dress.html}{uneventful
year} apparently. She began secretly meeting with Buzz Bissinger for a
profile in Vanity Fair in February; she
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2015/04/25/business/media/bruce-jenner-says-he-identifies-as-a-woman.html}{confided}
publicly in Diane Sawyer in April. The
\href{https://www.vanityfair.com/hollywood/2015/06/caitlyn-jenner-bruce-cover-annie-leibovitz}{Annie
Leibovitz portraits} were
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2015/06/02/business/media/jenner-reveals-new-name-in-vanity-fair-article.html}{released
in June} for the July cover of Vanity Fair. The reality show
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2016/08/17/arts/television/i-am-cait-has-been-canceled.html}{called}
``I Am Cait'' premiered at the end of July to millions.

It was a rollout of extreme finesse in which everyone went home
delighted. (``All stories are part of some coordinated rollout,''
shrugged the former Vanity Fair editor Graydon Carter
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2015/06/02/business/media/jenner-reveals-new-name-in-vanity-fair-article.html}{to}
this paper at the time.)

Caitlyn brought all the extreme ferocious professionalism and resources
of the family to bear, and for good personal reason. But she also did
something for the rest of us. In setting the framing of the
conversation, she
\href{https://journals.sagepub.com/doi/10.1177/1532673X20906460}{may
have changed} hearts and minds among older and more conservative and
more transphobic Americans. \emph{CHOIRE SICHA}

\hypertarget{it-shaped-reality-tv-as-we-know-it}{%
\subsection{It Shaped Reality TV As We Know
It}\label{it-shaped-reality-tv-as-we-know-it}}

At this point, we all know that the reality we see on reality TV is not
real. But when ``Keeping Up With The Kardashians'' premiered in 2007,
the lines were a little more opaque.

It was around the time of ``Laguna Beach,'' and ``The Hills,'' shows
famous for making viewers question whether it all was scripted. There
were the youths on the ``The Real World'' who weren't going to be polite
anymore and ``The Real Housewives'' wreaking havoc on Orange County. But
then came the Kardashians --- sharing their worst moments (cheating, sex
tapes, robberies) and their best (weddings, births, brands).

Of course, we knew. We knew this was all a karefully kreated koncoction.
You can't kontrol everything. Real parts of their lives started to
reveal themselves through social media and the celebrity news media.
Maybe it's better to keep up with them there.

The question now for most of these shows and the stars they spawned is
what they provide that we can't see for free in real time. Surely they
will find a way. \emph{LINDSEY UNDERWOOD}

Image

Kanye West at Paris Fashion Week with Kim Kardashian West, Kourtney
Kardashian and Kris Jenner. He joined ``Keeping Up With the
Kardashians'' in 2012, the year he started dating Kim.Credit...Caroline
Blumberg/EPA, via Shutterstock

\hypertarget{it-showed-us-another-side-of-kanye}{%
\subsection{It Showed Us Another Side of
Kanye}\label{it-showed-us-another-side-of-kanye}}

Kanye West began appearing on ``Keeping Up With the Kardashians'' in
2012, the year he started dating Kim Kardashian. He was visibly
uncomfortable with the camera. He wouldn't sit for confessionals. But he
was there.

In \href{https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8E9lNF9bhYU}{a memorable early
appearance}, Kanye came to Kim's house to rearrange her wardrobe. Kim,
explaining why she would let her boyfriend mutilate her closet, told the
camera: ``He's a fashion designer and he loves clothes, so I'm excited
to collaborate with him to see what his take on fashion is.''

Kanye's design aspirations had been clear to his fans for some time. But
for the show's massive audience, Kim's words meant something. They were
actualizing. The following year, Kanye signed a deal with Adidas, which
led to the creation of the Yeezy brand, a line of shoes and apparel
worth billions.

The show has helped Kanye promote himself not only as a designer, but as
a visionary aesthete, as
\href{https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=d93rqA0qzQ0}{a
husband},\href{https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=y-FjjvkbP2g}{as a father
and as a Christian}. It has provided a counterpoint to those who have
scorned his ambitions and
\href{https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=W6dgqgoSDFY\&ab_channel=E\%21Entertainment}{a
public relations platform in times of crisis.}

Since 2012, he has grown far more comfortable on camera, and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/03/30/style/kardashians-interview.html}{significantly
more involved behind the scenes} of the show. And in 2019, he appeared
in his first confessional. He was inspired to do so, he said, by the
Pixar film ``The Incredibles,'' which opens with seated interviews.
``The wife got a big butt,'' he told the camera, explaining the
similarities. ``And I just see our life becoming more and more and more
like `The Incredibles' until we can finally fly.'' \emph{JONAH ENGEL
BROMWICH}

\hypertarget{it-created-a-power-broker}{%
\subsection{It Created a Power Broker}\label{it-created-a-power-broker}}

When Kim Kardashian West announced, in 2019, that she was pursuing a law
degree, critics were quick to dismiss her aspirations. She clapped back
with a few self-referential
\href{https://www.instagram.com/p/B4SlVlyg_0G/?utm_source=ig_embed}{``Legally
Blonde''}
\href{https://twitter.com/KimKardashian/status/1189956773374939136}{jokes}.

It's true that her path was unusual: She didn't graduate from college
and had no plans to enroll in law school. (California is one of four
states where a degree is not required to take the bar exam; Kim will be
eligible once she completes an apprenticeship.) Still, despite the
unconventional means, her investment in criminal-justice reform was
demonstrably real.

The previous year, she paid a visit to the White House to speak with
Donald J. Trump about Alice Marie Johnson, a grandmother in her 60s who
had received a life sentence for a nonviolent drug offense and had been
in prison for 20 years. Kim learned about her case on social media.
After the meeting, Mr. Trump granted Ms. Johnson clemency.

Over the last few years, Kim has made calls to politicians, written
letters of support for clemency petitioners and paid legal fees for
people seeking release. This spring, she headlined a documentary about
incarcerated felons seeking a second chance and recently landed a deal
for a podcast on the same subject. It would be easy to write off these
efforts as an extension of her brand and influence, which they are. But
they're working. \emph{BONNIE WERTHEIM}

\emph{\emph{\emph{{[}}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/02/arts/television/kim-kardashian-prison-reform.html}{\emph{How
Kim Kardashian West became a political force in prison reform.}}}{]}}**

Image

Kim Kardashian West speaking at the White House in 2019.Credit...Mandel
Ngan/Agence France-Presse --- Getty Images

\hypertarget{it-introduced-the-world-to-an-entire-universe-of-supporting-characters}{%
\subsection{It Introduced the World to an Entire Universe of Supporting
Characters}\label{it-introduced-the-world-to-an-entire-universe-of-supporting-characters}}

If the Kardashians proved anything during their long run on television,
it's that fame is an endless resource that can be harnessed by anyone
who knows how to work a camera. Kim, for one, began her ascent to
stardom in the early 2000s as
\href{https://www.bustle.com/p/this-kim-kardashian-paris-hilton-timeline-captures-the-ups-downs-of-their-friendship-8271056}{Paris
Hilton's friend and assistant}.

Their brigade of on-screen best friends includes the
``\href{https://www.instagram.com/foodgod/?hl=en}{Foodgod}'' Jonathan
Cheban; \href{https://www.instagram.com/malika/?hl=en}{Malika Haqq},
Khloe's longtime BFF; and
\href{https://www.instagram.com/stassiebaby/?hl=en}{Anastasia
Karanikolaou} (a.k.a. ``Stassie''), who's often hanging around Kendall
and Kylie.

Other characters have spun less favorable attention. Jordyn Woods was
known as Kylie's best friend until rumors surfaced about her and the
basketball player Tristan Thompson, who was Khloe's boyfriend at the
time.

Then there's the sprawling network of exes, which includes Scott Disick
(Kourtney's ex-boyfriend, with whom she has three children); Kris
Humphries (Kim's ex-husband of 72 days); Blac Chyna (Rob's ex-fiancée,
with whom he has a daughter); Tyga (Kylie's ex-boyfriend, who
\emph{also} has a child with Blac Chyna); Travis Scott (Kylie's
on-and-off boyfriend, with whom she has a daughter); and Lamar Odom
(Khloe's ex-husband).

Though many of these people were famous in their own right before making
cameos on the show, anyone who enters the Kardashian limelight is given
the launchpad of a lifetime. \emph{JULIA CARMEL}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
