<div id="suggestions" class="suggestions messenger nocontent robots-nocontent" style="display:none;">

<div class="message-bed">

<div class="message-container last-message-container">

<div class="message">

<span class="message-content"> **<span class="message-title">NYTimes.com
no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your
browser.</span> [LEARN MORE
»](http://www.nytimes.com/content/help/site/ie9-support.html)
</span>

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div id="shell" class="shell">

<div class="container">

<div class="quick-navigation button-group">

**<span class="button-text">Sections</span>

**<span class="button-text">Home</span>

**<span class="button-text">Search</span>

</div>

<div class="branding">

## [<span class="visually-hidden">The New York Times</span>](http://www.nytimes.com/)

</div>

<div class="story-meta">

###### <span class="kicker-label"> [Technology](https://www.nytimes.com/section/technology) </span> <span class="pipe">|</span>How Game Apps That Captivate Kids Have Been Collecting Their Data

</div>

<div class="user-tools">

<div id="sharetools-masthead" class="sharetools theme-classic sharetools-masthead" data-aria-label="tools" data-role="group" data-shares="facebook,twitter,email,show-all,save" data-url="https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2018/09/12/technology/kids-apps-data-privacy-google-twitter.html" data-title="How Game Apps That Captivate Kids Have Been Collecting Their Data" data-author="By Jennifer Valentino-DeVries, Natasha Singer, Aaron Krolik and Michael H. Keller" data-media="https://static01.nyt.com/images/icons/t_logo_291_black.png" data-description="A lawsuit by New Mexico’s attorney general accuses a popular app maker, as well as online ad businesses run by Google and Twitter, of violating children’s privacy law." data-publish-date="September 12, 2018">

<div class="ad sharetools-inline-article-ad hidden nocontent robots-nocontent">

</div>

</div>

<div class="user-tools-button-group button-group">

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="search-flyout-panel flyout-panel">

**<span class="visually-hidden">Close search</span>

## Site Search Navigation

<div class="control">

<div class="label-container visually-hidden">

Search NYTimes.com

</div>

<div class="field-container">

**<span id="clear-search-input" class="visually-hidden">Clear this text
input</span>

<div class="auto-suggest" style="display: none;">

</div>

Go

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div id="notification-modals" class="notification-modals">

</div>

<span class="story-short-url"><https://nyti.ms/2MpFuoG></span>

## Site Navigation

## Site Mobile Navigation

<div id="page" class="page">

<div id="main" class="main" data-role="main">

<div class="story-meta">

# How Game Apps That Captivate Kids Have Been Collecting Their Data

<div class="story-meta-footer interactive-meta-footer">

<div class="interactive-byline">

<span class="byline" itemprop="author creator" itemscope="" itemtype="http://schema.org/Person">
By
<span class="byline-author" data-byline-name="JENNIFER VALENTINO-DEVRIES" itemprop="name">JENNIFER
VALENTINO-DEVRIES</span>
</span><span class="byline" itemprop="author creator" itemscope="" itemtype="http://schema.org/Person">
<span class="byline-author" data-byline-name="NATASHA SINGER" itemprop="name">NATASHA
SINGER</span>
</span><span class="byline" itemprop="author creator" itemscope="" itemtype="http://schema.org/Person">
<span class="byline-author" data-byline-name="AARON KROLIK" itemprop="name">AARON
KROLIK</span>
</span><span class="byline" itemprop="author creator" itemscope="" itemtype="http://schema.org/Person">
<span class="byline-author" data-byline-name="MICHAEL H. KELLER" itemprop="name">MICHAEL
H. KELLER</span> </span> SEPT. 12, 2018

</div>

<span class="summary-text">A lawsuit by New Mexico’s attorney general
accuses a popular app maker, as well as online ad businesses run by
Google and Twitter, of violating children’s privacy
law.</span>

</div>

</div>

<div id="kids-apps-data-privacy-google-twitter" class="interactive-graphic">

<div class="rad-article" data-slug="13kidapps">

<div class="rad-cover stacked-cover" style="background-color:#FFFFFF">

![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)

<div class="rad-header-wrapper">

# How Game Apps That Captivate Kids Have Been Collecting Their Data

A lawsuit by New Mexico’s attorney general accuses a popular app maker,
as well as online ad businesses run by Google and Twitter, of violating
children’s privacy law.

<span class="rad-byline">By JENNIFER VALENTINO-DeVRIES, [NATASHA
SINGER](http://www.nytimes.com/by/natasha-singer), AARON KROLIK and
MICHAEL H. KELLER</span> SEPT. 12, 2018

</div>

</div>

<div class="rad-story-body">

Before Kim Slingerland downloaded the Fun Kid Racing app for her
then-5-year-old son, Shane, she checked to make sure it was in the
family section of the Google Play store and rated as age-appropriate.
The game, which lets children race cartoon cars with animal drivers, has
been downloaded millions of times.

Until last month, the app also shared users’ data, sometimes including
the precise location of devices, with more than a half-dozen advertising
and online tracking companies. On Tuesday evening, New Mexico’s attorney
general filed a lawsuit claiming that the maker of Fun Kid Racing had
violated a federal children’s privacy law through dozens of Android apps
that shared children’s data.

“I don’t think it’s right,” said Ms. Slingerland, a mother of three in
Alberta, Canada. “I don’t think that’s any of their business, location
or anything like
that.”

![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)

The suit accuses the app maker, Tiny Lab Productions, along with online
ad businesses run by Google, Twitter and three other companies, of
flouting a law intended to prevent the personal data of children under
13 from falling into the hands of predators, hackers and manipulative
marketers. The suit also contends that Google misled consumers by
including the apps in the family section of its store.

*\[Read the [full
complaint](https://int.nyt.com/data/documenthelper/295-new-mexico-kid-apps-complaint/206d4ea39896e264fe3a/optimized/full.pdf#page=1?action=click&module=Intentional&pgtype=Article)\]*

An analysis by The New York Times found that children’s apps by other
developers were also collecting data. The review of 20 children’s apps —
10 each on Google Android and Apple iOS — found examples on both
platforms that sent data to tracking companies, potentially violating
children’s privacy law; the iOS apps sent less data over all.

These findings are consistent with those [published this
spring](https://blues.cs.berkeley.edu/wp-content/uploads/2018/04/popets-2018-0021.pdf)
by academic researchers who analyzed nearly 6,000 free children’s
Android apps. They reported that more than half of the apps, including
those by Tiny Lab, shared details with outside companies in ways that
may have violated the law.

Although federal law doesn’t provide many digital privacy protections
for adults, there are safeguards for children under 13. The [Children’s
Online Privacy Protection
Act](https://www.ftc.gov/tips-advice/business-center/privacy-and-security/children%27s-privacy)
protects them from being improperly tracked, including for advertising
purposes. Without explicit, verifiable permission from parents,
children’s sites and apps are prohibited from collecting personal
details including names, email addresses, geolocation data and tracking
codes like “cookies” if they’re used for targeted ads.

But the New Mexico lawsuit and the analyses of children’s apps suggest
that some app developers, ad tech companies and app stores are falling
short in protecting children’s privacy.

“These sophisticated tech companies are not policing themselves,” the
New Mexico attorney general, Hector Balderas, said. “The children of
this country ultimately pay the
price.”

![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)

Jessica Rich, a former consumer protection director at the Federal Trade
Commission, called the findings “significant and disturbing.” They
suggest, she said, “that the ‘safe spaces’ for kids in the apps stores
aren’t safe at all.”

A Google spokesman, Aaron Stein, said that developers are responsible
for declaring whether their apps are primarily for children, and that
apps in the store’s family section “must comply with more stringent
policies.”

A Twitter spokesman said that the company’s ad platform, MoPub, does not
allow its services to be used to collect information from children’s
apps for targeted advertising and that it suspended the maker of Fun Kid
Racing in September of 2017 for violating its policies.

Jonas Abromaitis, founder of the Lithuania-based Tiny Lab, said he
believed he had followed the law and Google’s requirements, because the
app asked for users’ ages and tracked those who identified as over 13.
“We thought we were doing everything the right way,” he said.

#### A Market for Tracking

Dozens of companies now track consumers on their phones to build
behavioral profiles that help tailor the ads they see. Two of the
largest are AdMob and MoPub.

To make money, app developers generally have two options: publish free
apps supported by ads, or charge users. But children don’t have the
money to make purchases, and under federal law they can’t be tracked for
ad
targeting.

<div id="interactive-13kidapps-embed" class="rad-interactive full_bleed" data-id="100000006100834" data-slug="13kidapps-embed">

<div class="rad-interactive-wrapper">

## How companies track children's personal data to target ads

<div id="g-graphic" data-preview-slug="2018-09-11-location-embed">

</div>

By Anjali Singhvi and Rich Harris | Source:

</div>

</div>

The app industry has had trouble adapting to children, said Dylan
Collins, the chief executive of [SuperAwesome, a technology
firm](https://www.superawesome.tv/about-us) that helps companies build
apps for children without tracking them.

Mr. Collins said some top children’s app makers had started charging
parents for subscriptions or showing ads that didn’t use tracking. But,
he noted, small developers typically sell fewer subscriptions and don’t
always sell enough ads using only child-friendly ad networks. “As a
result, there’s still a huge amount of data being collected on kids,” he
said.

In 2013 Apple introduced a children’s section in its App Store. It [told
developers](https://asciiwwdc.com/2014/sessions/717) that, to be listed
there, they could “do no tracking across sites or across apps.” Apple
[tells parents](https://www.apple.com/families/) that it reviews each
app in the section “to make sure it does what it says it
does.”

![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)

Google introduced a similar program, Designed for Families, in 2015. The
company [informed Android
developers](https://web.archive.org/web/20180526145142/https://developer.android.com/distribute/google-play/families)
that apps that were “primarily child-directed must participate” in the
program and that developers must confirm that their apps complied with
the children’s privacy law. Google has said it developed its family
section to help parents find [“suitable, trusted, high-quality
apps”](https://web.archive.org/web/20180507231711/https://developer.android.com/distribute/google-play/families)
for their children.

#### ‘For Children’ vs. ‘for Families’

Mr. Abromaitis, the Tiny Lab founder, created Fun Kid Racing in 2013,
after searching unsuccessfully for a racing game to play with his
3-year-old nephew. Other Tiny Lab apps include simple games with titles
such as Run Cute Little Pony.

Still, Mr. Abromaitis said in an interview, the company’s apps were
directed at “mixed audiences,” with children under 13 forming only part
of the market.

The distinction is important: Under privacy law, apps aimed at younger
children are prohibited from tracking any users for ads without parental
consent, but those intended for a general audience can ask players their
age and track older users.

When Tiny Lab submitted apps to Google’s store, it indicated they were
for families, not just children, and Google accepted the apps.

In The Times’s tests of Fun Kid Racing in July, the app asked that
players select their birth year from a list. But with the default set
between 2000 and 2001, a young child eager to get to the next screen
could simply tap through quickly and be counted as a teenager. In the
tests, the app didn’t collect location data if the player identified as
under 13.

In early June, emails show, the [academic
researchers](https://www.appcensus.mobi/) who had done the earlier study
informed Google that app developers “seem to have an incentive to
mischaracterize” their children’s apps as “not primarily directed to
children,” freeing them to track users for targeted ads. They cited 84
apps from Tiny Lab as examples and said they had identified nearly 3,000
apps in all that appeared to be similarly
mislabeled.

![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)

In July, a Google manager responded that the company had investigated
the Tiny Lab apps and had found they had not violated the privacy law.
Google, he said, did not consider “these apps to be designed primarily
for children, but for families in general.”

A month later, Google appeared to reverse course: The company told Mr.
Abromaitis it had identified a Tiny Lab app that should be designated
for children. Google gave Tiny Lab a week to change that app and any
others like it. Tiny Lab labeled 10 of its apps for children and used ad
networks in them designed for children’s apps. Google approved the
updates but flagged more apps at the end of August, Mr. Abromaitis said,
so he made another round of changes.

Then, this week, after inquiries from The Times, Google terminated Tiny
Lab’s account and removed all of its apps from the Play store, citing
multiple policy violations.

Asked about the earlier emails, Google said the statements were made in
error and that it doesn’t certify whether apps in the Play store comply
with the children’s privacy law.

Mr. Abromaitis said he hoped to work with Google to get back into the
store.

#### Widespread Tracking of Children

The study this spring showed not only that more than half of children’s
apps on Android were sharing tracking ID numbers but also that 5 percent
collected children’s location or contact information without their
parents’ permission.

To evaluate tracking on iOS as well as Android, The Times conducted a
small study, looking at 10 apps on each platform. The Times chose a mix
of the most popular children’s apps and smaller apps that had been
flagged in the academics’ research for sharing data, to test whether the
apps had problems on iOS and whether they had been fixed on Android.

Although it is difficult to know whether companies are actually
violating the federal rules, six of the Android apps shared data such as
precise location, IP addresses and tracking IDs in ways that could be
problematic. On iOS, five apps sent IDs to tracking companies in
questionable
ways.

![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)

In addition to Fun Kid Racing, the tests showed one other Android app
sending precise location data to other companies: Masha and the Bear:
Free Animal Games for Kids, an animated game app with millions of
downloads. The iOS version sent advertising ID codes to a company that
generally prohibits children’s apps from using its network.

In an email, Indigo Kids, the Cyprus-based maker of the Masha app, said
it was not responsible for harvesting children’s information because
third-party companies collected the data. “We, as a company, do not
collect or store any data of our users,” the company said.

Other apps with data practices that could violate the children’s privacy
rules sent data to multiple tracking companies that don’t allow
children’s apps, or sent the data with notes in the computer code
incorrectly indicating that it hadn’t come from children.

Several apps reviewed by The Times also sent the advertising ID to other
companies but said this was for specific purposes allowed under the law,
such as preventing an ad from being shown too many times.

Tom Neumayr, an Apple spokesman, said that children’s privacy in apps
“is something we take very seriously” and that developers must follow
strict guidelines about tracking in children’s apps.

#### Enforcing the Law

Since the federal children’s online privacy law was enacted in 1998, the
Federal Trade Commission has brought nearly 30 cases alleging violations
by companies including [Sony BMG Music
Entertainment](https://www.ftc.gov/news-events/press-releases/2008/12/sony-bmg-music-settles-charges-its-music-fan-websites-violated)
and
[Yelp](https://www.ftc.gov/news-events/press-releases/2014/09/yelp-tinyco-settle-ftc-charges-their-apps-improperly-collected).
All of those firms ultimately settled with the agency.

“The F.T.C. has made enforcement of the Children’s Online Privacy
Protection Act a high priority,” said Juliana Gruenwald, an agency
spokeswoman.

But the New Mexico lawsuit is different. The state is not just going
after a single app maker or ad company; it’s also implicating the ad
platforms of Google and Twitter, and the vetting process of Google’s app
store.

“Google knows that Tiny Lab’s apps track children unlawfully,” the
complaint said. “Google’s bad acts are compounded because it represents
to parents” that Tiny Lab’s apps comply with the children’s privacy law
and are “safe for children.”

The case is particularly fraught [for
Google](https://www.ftc.gov/news-events/press-releases/2012/08/google-will-pay-225-million-settle-ftc-charges-it-misrepresented)
[and](https://www.ftc.gov/news-events/press-releases/2011/03/ftc-accepts-final-settlement-twitter-failure-safeguard-personal-0)[Twitter](https://www.ftc.gov/news-events/press-releases/2011/03/ftc-accepts-final-settlement-twitter-failure-safeguard-personal-0),
which are each already subject to federal settlements over consumer
privacy or security violations. Those settlements prohibit the companies
from misrepresenting their consumer data protections, and violations
could trigger hefty fines.

“I don’t see any way that anything would change unless there are
enforcement actions,” said Serge Egelman, a researcher at the University
of California, Berkeley, who helped lead the study this spring.

New Mexico’s attorney general said he hoped the F.T.C. and others in
Washington would follow his lead. “This is as much a black eye on the
federal government as the tech space,” Mr. Balderas said. “I’m trying to
get lawmakers at the federal level to wake
    up.”

</div>

<div class="rad-article-credits">

</div>

</div>

<div class="rad-series-box">

## Related Coverage

<div class="rad-series-link-wrapper">

  - [](https://www.nytimes.com/2018/08/26/technology/tech-industry-federal-privacy-law.html)
    <div class="promo-image">
    ![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)
    </div>
    <div class="promo-info">
    ### Tech Industry Pursues a Federal Privacy Law, on Its Own Terms
    Aug. 26,
    2018
    </div>
  - [](https://www.nytimes.com/2018/06/28/technology/california-online-privacy-law.html)
    <div class="promo-image">
    ![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)
    </div>
    <div class="promo-info">
    ### California Passes Sweeping Law to Protect Online Privacy
    June 28,
    2018
    </div>
  - [](https://www.nytimes.com/2018/05/19/technology/phone-apps-stalking.html)
    <div class="promo-image">
    ![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)
    </div>
    <div class="promo-info">
    ### Hundreds of Apps Can Empower Stalkers to Track Their Victims
    May 19,
    2018
    </div>
  - [](https://www.nytimes.com/2018/07/29/business/for-sale-survey-data-on-millions-of-high-school-students.html)
    <div class="promo-image">
    ![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)
    </div>
    <div class="promo-info">
    ### For Sale: Survey Data on Millions of High School Students
    July 29,
2018
    </div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div id="related-coverage" class="section related-coverage nocontent robots-nocontent">

<div class="nocontent robots-nocontent">

## More on NYTimes.com

</div>

</div>

<div id="BottomAd" class="ad bottom-ad nocontent robots-nocontent">

<div class="accessibility-ad-header">

Advertisement

</div>

</div>

</div>

## Site Information Navigation

  - [©
    <span itemprop="copyrightYear">2020</span><span itemprop="copyrightHolder provider sourceOrganization" itemscope="" itemtype="http://schema.org/Organization" itemid="http://www.nytimes.com"><span itemprop="name">
    The New York Times
    Company</span></span>](https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice)
  - [Home](https://www.nytimes.com)
  - [Search](https://www.nytimes.com/search/)
  - Accessibility concerns? Email us at <accessibility@nytimes.com>. We
    would love to hear from you.
  - [Contact
    Us](https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us)
  - [Work with us](https://www.nytco.com/careers/)
  - [Advertise](https://nytmediakit.com/)
  - [Your Ad
    Choices](https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014892108-Privacy-policy#pp)
  - [Privacy](https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014892108-Privacy-policy)
  - [Terms of
    Service](https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service)
  - [Terms of
    Sale](https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale)

## Site Information Navigation

  - [Site Map](https://spiderbites.nytimes.com)
  - [Help](https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us)
  - [Site
    Feedback](https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us?redir=myacc)
  - [Subscriptions](https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW)

</div>

</div>

<div id="Inv1" class="ad inv1-ad hidden">

</div>

<div id="Inv2" class="ad inv2-ad hidden">

</div>

<div id="Inv3" class="ad inv3-ad hidden">

</div>

<div id="ab1" class="ad ab1-ad hidden">

</div>

<div id="ab2" class="ad ab2-ad hidden">

</div>

<div id="ab3" class="ad ab3-ad hidden">

</div>

<div id="prop1" class="ad prop1-ad hidden">

</div>

<div id="prop2" class="ad prop2-ad hidden">

</div>

<div id="Anchor" class="ad anchor-ad hidden">

</div>

<div id="ADX_CLIENTSIDE" class="ad adx-clientside-ad hidden">

</div>
