Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}Fact-Checking Joe Biden
Before the Iowa Caucuses

\url{https://nyti.ms/2TYvzOw}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/09/08/us/elections/results-new-hampshire-primary-elections.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{New
  Hampshire Results}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/08/us/trump-vs-biden?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Election
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/election-states-biden-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Paths
  to 270}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/31/us/politics/vote-by-mail-deadlines.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Voting
  by Mail}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/us/elections/2020-presidential-election-calendar.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Key
  Dates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Politics
  Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

Fact Check

\hypertarget{fact-checking-joe-biden-before-the-iowa-caucuses}{%
\section{Fact-Checking Joe Biden Before the Iowa
Caucuses}\label{fact-checking-joe-biden-before-the-iowa-caucuses}}

The former vice president has made inaccurate claims this month about
his record on Social Security, race and foreign policy.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/linda-qiu}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/06/12/multimedia/author-linda-qiu/author-linda-qiu-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/linda-qiu}{Linda Qiu}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Jan. 26, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. remains atop most national
polls before the first votes are cast next month in the Democratic
presidential primary. Before the Iowa caucuses, The New York Times
reviewed recent statements he made defending his decades-long career,
stressing his standing in the black community and highlighting his
perceived strength on foreign policy. Here's a fact check.

what the facts are

\hypertarget{mr-biden-tried-to-defend-his-record-on-social-security-and-birth-control-with-questionable-claims}{%
\subsection{Mr. Biden tried to defend his record on Social Security and
birth control with questionable
claims.}\label{mr-biden-tried-to-defend-his-record-on-social-security-and-birth-control-with-questionable-claims}}

What Was Said

\emph{Antonia Hylton, a reporter for Vice News: ``Do you think, though,
that it's fair for voters to question your commitment to Social Security
when in the past you've proposed a freeze to it?''}

\emph{Mr. Biden: ``No, I didn't propose a freeze.''}\\
\emph{---}
\href{https://www.facebookcorewwwi.onion/vicenews/videos/2770644399662900/}{at
the Brown \& Black Democratic Presidential Forum last week in Iowa}

\textbf{False.} In 1984, faced with budget deficits under the Reagan
administration, Mr. Biden was a
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/1984/05/03/us/senators-reject-spending-freeze.html}{co-sponsor
of an amendment} with two Republican senators that froze for one year
nearly all military and domestic spending, including cost-of-living
adjustments to Social Security benefits.

Pressed by Ms. Hylton after his inaccurate denial, Mr. Biden said that
his proposal came ``in the context of we saved Social Security during
the Reagan administration'' and noted that Senator Edward M. Kennedy of
Massachusetts, a liberal stalwart, voted for the plan.

When President Ronald Reagan entered office in 1981, Social Security was
running low on funding and Mr. Reagan did propose to make deep
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/1981/05/13/us/first-major-cuts-in-social-security-proposed-in-detailed-reagan-plan.html}{cuts
to benefits}. But he ultimately endorsed and signed bipartisan
\href{https://www.ssa.gov/policy/docs/ssb/v46n7/v46n7p3.pdf}{legislation}
in 1983 --- which Mr. Biden and Mr. Kennedy
\href{https://www.ssa.gov/history/tally1983.html}{both voted for} --- to
assure the fund's continuing solvency. Changes included postponing
cost-of-living adjustments, and the Biden campaign said that the former
vice president was referring to this episode.

``It is easy to believe Biden thought minor cuts in the program in the
short run would represent a better outcome than the much bigger cuts
President Reagan and his advisers seemed to favor,'' Gary Burtless, a
senior fellow at the Brookings Institution, said. ``In those days,
`compromise' was not a dirty word in the eyes of most members of
Congress.''

Mr. Biden's own freeze plan, though, came ``well after the Social
Security rescue was over,'' said Paul C. Light, a professor at New York
University who wrote
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/1985/04/21/books/concealing-dealing.html}{a
book on the 1983 effort.}

Rather, the plan was another step in a decades-long ``mating dance
between centrist Democrats and Republicans to come up with a grand
bargain on the deficit,'' said Eric Laursen, author of ``The People's
Pension: The Struggle to Defend Social Security Since Reagan.''

Mr. Biden
\href{https://www.govinfo.gov/content/pkg/GPO-CRECB-1984-pt7/pdf/GPO-CRECB-1984-pt7-4.pdf\#page=13}{said}
as much in April 1984, as he decried ``gargantuan deficits'' and argued
that not accepting a one-year freeze to cost-of-living adjustments would
lead to a ``a fundamental debate over whether or not there should be
COLAs in Social Security'' at all. The amendment that he co-sponsored
ultimately failed by
\href{https://www.govtrack.us/congress/votes/98-1984/s456}{a vote of 65
to 33} (Mr. Kennedy voted against it).

Mr. Biden's overall record on Social Security includes both actions that
would slow or reduce spending and those that would protect benefits.

He
\href{https://www.senate.gov/legislative/LIS/roll_call_lists/roll_call_vote_cfm.cfm?congress=104\&session=1\&vote=00098}{voted}
for an amendment in 1995 to require a balanced federal budget that
\href{https://www.c-span.org/video/?63039-1/senate-session\&start=11230}{he}
and other
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/1995/03/03/us/104th-congress-balanced-budget-senate-rejects-amendment-balancing-budget-close.html}{Democrats}
warned would endanger the Social Security fund. He
\href{http://www.nbcnews.com/id/18381961/ns/meet_the_press/t/mtp-transcript-april/\#.Xh5r4VNKhhE}{was
open to}
\href{http://www.nbcnews.com/id/21012138/ns/politics/t/biden-unveils-plan-protect-retirement-savings/\#.Xh5rUVNKhhE}{raising}
the eligibility age for Social Security in 2007. And he
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2010/12/08/us/politics/08deal.html}{brokered
a deal}with Republican lawmakers in 2010 that extended the Bush-era tax
cuts and created a holiday for the payroll tax, which funds Social
Security, that temporarily reduced the tax by two percentage points.

But Mr. Biden also
\href{https://www.senate.gov/legislative/LIS/roll_call_lists/roll_call_vote_cfm.cfm?congress=104\&session=1\&vote=00065}{voted
for} an amendment to that balanced budget legislation in 1995 that would
have excluded Social Security from its aims. From 2001 to 2008, he
repeatedly voted against privatizing Social Security and for improving
the trust fund's solvency,
\href{https://retiredamericans.org/voting-record/}{according to the
Alliance for Retired Americans}, an affiliate of the A.F.L.-C.I.O. that
represents union retirees. In 2008, Mr. Biden's last year in the Senate,
he received a lifetime score of
\href{https://retiredamericans.org/wp-content/uploads/2016/02/2008VRFinal.pdf}{96}
out of 100 from the group. He spoke out against Social Security
privatization in the
\href{https://www.npr.org/2012/10/11/162754053/transcript-biden-ryan-vice-presidential-debate}{2012
vice-presidential debate} and his current plan
\href{https://joebiden.com/older-americans/}{vows to protect the safety
net.}

What Was Said

\emph{Lauren Kelley, New York Times Editorial Board member: ``You also
originally argued for greater exemptions to the contraception mandate in
Obamacare. So I think there's some concern out there ---''}

\emph{Mr. Biden: ``No, I didn't, by the way.''}\\
--- in an
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/01/17/opinion/joe-biden-nytimes-interview.html?action=click\&module=Opinion\&pgtype=Homepage}{interview}
with The New York Times Editorial Board published Jan. 17

\textbf{This is disputed.} The Obama administration
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2012/01/21/health/policy/administration-rules-insurers-must-cover-contraceptives.html?action=click\&module=RelatedCoverage\&pgtype=Article\&region=Footer}{announced}
in January 2012 a rule requiring most insurance plans to cover birth
control free of charge, including for the employees of hospitals,
schools and charities run by Catholic groups.

The making of the rule sparked an internal debate in the White House.
Reporting from news outlets cast Mr. Biden as part of the camp arguing
for a less stringent rule.

\href{https://abcnews.go.com/blogs/politics/2012/02/policy-and-politics-of-contraception-rule-fiercely-debated-within-white-house/\#.TzR5kgDpy50.twitter}{According
to ABC News} and
\href{http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-08/obama-weighed-religious-politics-before-taking-decision-on-contraceptives.html}{Bloomberg},
the vice president and William Daley, then the chief of staff to
President Barack Obama, warned of the political fallout with Catholic
voters who backed Mr. Obama in the 2008 election and argued that the
issue would be framed as an attack on religious liberty. The Times
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2012/02/11/health/policy/obama-to-offer-accommodation-on-birth-control-rule-officials-say.html}{reported}
that officials had initially sought a year to work out a compromise, but
``a group of advisers had bested Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. and
others and sold the president on a stricter rule.''

The announcement fueled a fierce
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2012/01/30/health/policy/law-fuels-contraception-controversy-on-catholic-campuses.html}{backlash}
from Catholic organizations and Republicans. As the Obama administration
contemplated the fallout, Mr. Biden did not publicly oppose or defend
the rule, but hinted during
\href{https://abcnews.go.com/blogs/politics/2012/02/biden-on-contraception-controversy-we-can-work-it-out}{a
radio interview} that it would be softened.

``There's going to be a significant attempt to work this out, and
there's time to do that,'' he said on Feb. 9, 2012. ``And as a
practicing Catholic, you know, I am of the view that this can be worked
out and should be worked out and I think the president, I know the
president, feels the same way.''

Mr. Biden also said in the interview that the administration wanted to
``make sure women who need access to birth control are not denied
that,''
\href{https://www.wsj.com/articles/SB10001424052970203646004577213652436066894}{according
to The Wall Street Journal}.

A day later, the administration
\href{https://khn.org/news/obama-contraception-rule-faq/}{revised the
rule} to shift the responsibility of providing contraception to
insurers, rather than the religiously affiliated institutions
themselves.

what the facts are

\hypertarget{mr-biden-overstated-his-support-among-young-black-voters-and-his-role-in-the-civil-rights-movement}{%
\subsection{Mr. Biden overstated his support among young black voters
and his role in the civil rights
movement.}\label{mr-biden-overstated-his-support-among-young-black-voters-and-his-role-in-the-civil-rights-movement}}

What Was Said

\emph{Ms. Hylton: ``Why is Senator Sanders leading you with voters under
age 35?''}

\emph{Mr. Biden: ``He is not leading me with black voters under the age
--- look, just all I know is, I am leading everybody, combined, with
black voters.''}\\
--- at the Brown \& Black forum

\textbf{This is exaggerated.} Mr. Biden is correct that in
\href{https://d25d2506sfb94s.cloudfront.net/cumulus_uploads/document/alq58zq5zt/econTabReport.pdf}{most}
\href{http://www.surveyusa.com/client/PollReport.aspx?g=b4747822-277e-4d2c-b896-eb4e04672c09}{polls},
he leads Democratic candidates among black voters overall, but he is
wrong to deny Senator Bernie Sanders' edge with younger African
Americans.

A
\href{https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/biden-holds-wide-lead-among-black-voters-in-democratic-presidential-race-post-ipsos-poll-finds/2020/01/11/76ecff08-3325-11ea-a053-dc6d944ba776_story.html}{January
poll} conducted by The Washington Post and Ipsos, a nonpartisan research
firm, found that Mr. Biden held a wide lead among black Democrats with
48 percent support, but Mr. Sanders led with those between age 18 and 34
at 42 percent while Mr. Biden placed second at 30 percent.

An Ipsos
\href{https://www.vice.com/en_us/article/z3bnvw/exclusive-poll-just-as-many-african-americans-say-theyd-consider-voting-for-bernie-sanders-as-joe-biden}{survey}
conducted with Vice this month asked black Americans who they would
consider voting for and found that 56 percent would consider voting for
Mr. Sanders and 54 percent for Mr. Biden, a statistical tie. Among those
between ages 18 and 34, Mr. Sanders' support increased to 81 percent
compared with 65 percent for Mr. Biden, according to a breakdown
provided by Chris Jackson, the vice president of Ipsos Public Affairs.

In a
\href{https://www.politico.com/f/?id=0000016e-fc61-d978-a9ee-feff6f6c0000}{poll}
by the political action committee BlackPac and released in December, Mr.
Biden led all black voters with 38 percent, but trailed Mr. Sanders in
support among black voters between ages 18 and 24 at 14 percent compared
to 30 percent for Mr. Sanders. Support for the two candidates was nearly
identical among black voters between the ages of 25 and 39, with 24
percent supporting Mr. Biden and 25 percent supporting Mr. Sanders.

The Sanders campaign also pointed to an array of surveys demonstrating
the same generational gap: a fall
\href{https://iop.harvard.edu/fall-2019-poll}{poll} from Harvard Kennedy
School's Institute of Politics where Mr. Sanders was the
\href{https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1eLnFSQUAIc5uxT571PXFF217xJX0yleD3T1YebBVOq0/edit\#gid=578521403\&range=A374}{first
choice} of black voters between ages 18 and 29, a January
\href{https://www.chegg.com/press/college-election-tracker/}{poll} from
the Chegg/College Pulse Student Election Tracker where Mr. Sanders led
with black college students with 43 percent and a September
\href{https://www.essence.com/feature/black-womens-roundtable-survey-results-2019/}{survey}
from Essence Magazine where Mr. Sanders had the most support of black
women between ages 18 and 34 with 19 percent.

What Was Said

\emph{``I was involved in the civil rights movement.''}\\
--- at the Brown \& Black forum

\textbf{This is exaggerated.} Over his long political career, Mr. Biden
has occasionally suggested he played a greater role in the civil rights
movement of the 1960s than he actually did. While there are accounts of
Mr. Biden participating in a few desegregation events, he has also said
he would not consider himself an activist in the movement.

Mr. Biden has said that he protested a segregated movie theater in
demonstrations in Wilmington, Del. at the Rialto Theater in the early
1960s. His account is
\href{https://blavity.com/op-ed-the-joe-we-know-and-why-we-continue-to-stand-by-him?category1=politics}{backed}
by a former president of the state chapter of the National Association
for the Advancement of Colored People and a former president of the
Delaware A.F.L.-C.I.O.

A 1987 edition of ``Current Biography Yearbook,'' a magazine that
profiles American figures,
\href{https://archive.org/stream/currentbiogr198700mori\#page/42}{noted}
that Mr. Biden had participated in ``anti-segregation sit-ins at
Wilmington's Town Theatre during his high school years.''

During his
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/06/03/us/politics/biden-1988-presidential-campaign.html}{first
bid for president}, Mr. Biden wrongly said in 1987 that he had ``marched
with tens of thousands of others'' in the civil rights movement. Later,
a spokesman for Mr. Biden clarified that he had participated in actions
to ``desegregate one restaurant and one movie theater.'' Mr. Biden
himself conceded that
``\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/1987/09/18/us/biden-admits-plagiarism-in-school-but-says-it-was-not-malevolent.html}{I
was not an activist}.''

``I worked at an all-black swimming pool in the east side of Wilmington,
Del. I was involved in what they were thinking, what they were feeling.
But I was not out marching,'' he said in a
\href{https://www.c-span.org/video/?c4803839/user-clip-biden-comments-marching-civil-rights-movement}{news
conference} that fall. ``I was not down in Selma. I was not anywhere
else. I was a suburbanite kid who got a dose of exposure to what was
happening to black Americans.''

He struck a similar tone in interviews with the journalist Jules
Witcover, who wrote the book ``Joe Biden: A Life of Trial and
Redemption.''

``I didn't do any big deal, but I marched a couple of times to
desegregate the movie theaters in downtown Wilmington,'' Mr. Biden said
in the book. But he acknowledged that ``I wasn't part of any great
movement.''

what the facts are

\hypertarget{mr-biden-inaccurately-characterized-one-element-of-president-trumps-north-korea-policy}{%
\subsection{Mr. Biden inaccurately characterized one element of
President Trump's North Korea
policy.}\label{mr-biden-inaccurately-characterized-one-element-of-president-trumps-north-korea-policy}}

What Was Said

\emph{``The president showed up, met with them, gave him legitimacy,
weakened these sanctions we have against him.''}\\
--- at the Democratic presidential debate in January

\textbf{This is misleading.} Mr. Biden is referring to Mr. Trump's
efforts to engage diplomatically with North Korea's leader, Kim Jong-un.
There is a widespread consensus that the president's willingness to meet
with him provided Mr. Kim with additional credibility at home and abroad
without giving the United States and its allies much in return.

At the same time, Mr. Trump's meetings with the North Koreans
\href{https://foreignpolicy.com/2020/01/07/trump-avoids-north-korea-sanctions-missile-tests/}{have
increased support from China and Russia} for
\href{https://www.reuters.com/article/us-northkorea-usa-un-china-analysis/u-s-led-pressure-fractures-as-china-russia-push-for-north-korea-sanctions-relief-idUSKBN1YL0OX}{easing
United Nations sanctions on North Korea}, as the Biden campaign pointed
out. Soo Kim, a policy analyst at the RAND Corporation, a research
group, pointed out that South Korea has also recently been testing the
waters for securing sanctions relief for its northern neighbor.

But the Trump administration itself has not lifted the United States'
own sanctions and has opposed the calls from China and Russia to ease
the international sanctions.

``As far as I know, sanctions have not been eased,'' said Jim Walsh of
the Security Studies Program at the Massachusetts Institute of
Technology. ``Certainly the international U.N. sanctions continue
unabated, and I am unaware of any significant sanctions relief granted
by the administration.''

A spokeswoman for the Treasury Department said Mr. Biden's statement was
inaccurate and that the agency ``has sanctioned 261 individuals and
entities under its North Korea authorities, accounting for more than
half of North Korea-related sanctions ever imposed.''

Nearly every month from March 2017 to March 2018, the department
announced sanctions on North Korean nationals and companies, as well
people and entities around the world linked to North Korea. After Mr.
Trump's summit with Mr. Kim in Singapore in June 2018, Treasury imposed
more sanctions in
\href{https://home.treasury.gov/news/press-releases/sm454}{August},
\href{https://home.treasury.gov/news/press-releases/sm481}{September},
\href{https://www.treasury.gov/resource-center/sanctions/OFAC-Enforcement/Pages/20181004.aspx}{October},
\href{https://home.treasury.gov/news/press-releases/sm552}{November} and
\href{https://home.treasury.gov/news/press-releases/sm568}{December} of
that year.

In March 2019, shortly after Mr. Trump met again with Mr. Kim in Hanoi,
Vietnam, the president issued a
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/03/22/world/asia/north-korea-sanctions.html}{confusing
statement on Twitter} announcing that he had rolled back newly imposed
sanctions on North Korea, though restrictions announced a day earlier on
two Chinese companies linked to North Korea were not actually revoked.
The White House press secretary at the time, Sarah Huckabee Sanders,
\href{https://www.c-span.org/video/?459128-1/sarah-sanders-reacts-release-mueller-report\&start=392}{explained}
that Mr. Trump ``doesn't feel it's necessary to add additional sanctions
at this time.''

A month later, Mr. Trump said the sanctions on North Korea are
``\href{https://www.cnn.com/2019/04/11/politics/north-korea-white-house-meeting/index.html}{at
a fair level}'' and should remain in place. More were announced in
\href{https://home.treasury.gov/index.php/news/press-releases/sm712}{June},
\href{https://home.treasury.gov/index.php/news/press-releases/sm762}{August}
and
\href{https://home.treasury.gov/news/press-releases/sm774}{September}.
The United States
\href{https://www.reuters.com/article/us-northkorea-usa-un/china-russia-propose-lifting-of-some-u-n-sanctions-on-north-korea-idUSKBN1YK20W}{opposed}
lifting United Nations sanctions on North Korea in December and
sanctioned two more entities
\href{https://home.treasury.gov/news/press-releases/sm874}{January}.

Mr. Biden's theory that Mr. Trump's personal appeals to Mr. Kim has
weakened the resolve of other countries to enforce sanctions is a matter
of interpretation.

This line of argument ``was trotted out every time Obama engaged in
diplomacy,'' Mr. Walsh said. ``We don't know if diplomacy with North
Korea has had the effect of reducing the impact of sanctions. Maybe. But
as with all things North Korea, it's hard to say.''

Curious about the accuracy of a claim? Email
\href{mailto:factcheck@NYTimes.com}{\nolinkurl{factcheck@NYTimes.com}}.

\hypertarget{our-2020-election-guide}{%
\section{Our 2020 Election Guide}\label{our-2020-election-guide}}

Updated ~Sept. 8, 2020

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

\begin{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{the-latest}{%
  \subsection{The Latest}\label{the-latest}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    President Trump and his party are using a playbook that aims to
    alarm people about crime in their backyards. It didn't work in 2018,
    but
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/08/us/politics/trump-republicans-fear-strategy.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{both
    parties think it could resonate more this year}.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{how-to-win-270}{%
  \subsection{How to Win 270}\label{how-to-win-270}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Joe Biden and Donald Trump need 270 electoral votes to reach the
    White House. Try building
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/election-states-biden-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{your
    own coalition of battleground states}~to see potential outcomes.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{voting-by-mail}{%
  \subsection{Voting by Mail}\label{voting-by-mail}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Will you have enough time to vote by mail in your state? Yes, but
    it's risky to procrastinate.
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/31/us/politics/vote-by-mail-deadlines.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Check
    your state's deadline.}
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/joe-biden.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{}

    \hypertarget{joe-biden}{%
    \section{Joe Biden}\label{joe-biden}}

    \hypertarget{democrat}{%
    \subsection{Democrat}\label{democrat}}

    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/donald-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{}

    \hypertarget{donald-trump}{%
    \section{Donald Trump}\label{donald-trump}}

    \hypertarget{republican}{%
    \subsection{Republican}\label{republican}}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \hypertarget{keep-up-with-our-coverage}{%
  \subsection{Keep Up With Our
  Coverage}\label{keep-up-with-our-coverage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Get an
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{email}~recapping
    the day's news
  \item
    Download our mobile app on
    \href{https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nytimes/id284862083?ls=1\&mat_click_id=5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\&referrer=mat_click_id\%3D5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\%26link_click_id\%3D722930677036718082}{iOS}~and
    \href{http://a.localytics.com/android?id=com.nytimes.android\&referrer=utm_source\%3Dother_nyt_mobile_web\%26utm_medium\%3DWeb\%2520page\%26utm_term\%3DGeneral\%2520Mobile\%2520Page\%26utm_campaign\%3DNYT\%2520Mobile\%2520General\%2520Page}{Android}~and
    turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
