Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}Steve Bullock Drops Out of
2020 Presidential Race

\url{https://nyti.ms/37Zu1bi}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Election
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/biden-vice-president-2020.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Biden's
  V.P. Search}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/07/24/us/politics/trump-biden-campaign-donors.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Map
  of Donations}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/elections/delegate-count-primary-results.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Delegate
  Count}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2019/us/politics/2020-presidential-candidates.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{The
  Candidates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Politics
  Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{steve-bullock-drops-out-of-2020-presidential-race}{%
\section{Steve Bullock Drops Out of 2020 Presidential
Race}\label{steve-bullock-drops-out-of-2020-presidential-race}}

Mr. Bullock, who won two terms as governor in a red state, didn't catch
on with Democratic primary voters. An aide said he would not run for
Senate in Montana, as many Democrats have hoped.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2019/12/02/us/politics/02bullock-out-02/02bullock-out-02-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/reid-j-epstein}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2019/06/25/reader-center/author-reid-epstein/9e877853d8234217b58e5762253aa771-thumbLarge.png}}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/matt-stevens}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2019/04/03/multimedia/author-matt-stevens/author-matt-stevens-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/reid-j-epstein}{Reid J. Epstein} and
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/matt-stevens}{Matt Stevens}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Dec. 2, 2019
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

CHARLESTON, S.C. --- Gov. Steve Bullock of Montana, who argued
relentlessly that his track record of winning in a deep red state made
him the Democrat best positioned to beat President Trump in 2020,
announced on Monday that he would end his presidential bid.

``While there were many obstacles we could not have anticipated when
entering this race,'' Mr. Bullock said in a statement, ``it has become
clear that in this moment, I won't be able to break through to the top
tier of this still-crowded field of candidates.''

An aide said Mr. Bullock would not challenge Senator Steve Daines, a
Montana Republican facing re-election in 2020, as has been the hope of
many Democrats in Washington.

Mr. Bullock, 53, was unable to overcome a late and slow start that
hobbled his campaign. Democratic voters never bought into his argument
that winning election in a state carried by Mr. Trump was sufficient
evidence that he should be the party's presidential nominee.

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2019/us/politics/2020-presidential-candidates.html}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2019/01/20/us/2020-presidential-candidates-promo-1548014688187/2020-presidential-candidates-promo-1548014688187-articleLarge-v68.png}

\hypertarget{whos-running-for-president-in-2020}{%
\subsection{Who's Running for President in
2020?}\label{whos-running-for-president-in-2020}}

The field of Democratic presidential candidates has been historically
large, but all have dropped out except Joe Biden, the presumptive
Democratic nominee to challenge President Trump.

Having started without a national fund-raising list or much exposure
outside his home state's one million residents, Mr. Bullock failed to
break out of the third-tier pack of candidates. He never registered more
than 1 percent support in the dozens of polls the Democratic National
Committee used to determine which candidates qualified for the party's
televised debates.

Mr. Bullock's pragmatic message of Trump-state success didn't catch on
with the party's donors, either. He had raised
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2019/10/16/us/elections/democratic-q3-fundraising.html}{just}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2019/10/16/us/elections/democratic-q3-fundraising.html}{\$4.4
million}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2019/10/16/us/elections/democratic-q3-fundraising.html}{by
the end of September}, a pittance for a modern national campaign. Former
Representative Beto O'Rourke, who
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/11/01/us/politics/beto-orourke-drops-out.html}{dropped
out} of the race last month,
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/03/18/us/politics/beto-o-rourke-fundraising.html}{raised
more on his first day} as a candidate.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-2020-election}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: 2020
Election}}{Latest Updates: 2020 Election}}\label{latest-updates-2020-election}}

Updated 2020-08-01T01:26:45.732Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-29fdff45}{Kamala
  Harris, a top vice-presidential contender, confronts double
  standards.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-13ec3d9c}{Karen
  Bass and Susan Rice are rising on Biden's vice-presidential
  shortlist.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-49e9a016}{Trump
  says Russian bounties to kill U.S. troops `never took place.'}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

The failure of Mr. Bullock's campaign illustrates how presidential
primaries have been nationalized in recent cycles. Bill Clinton was able
to rise from a small-state governorship to the presidency --- in a race
with a Republican incumbent --- by concentrating on New Hampshire early
in the 1992 contest. But Mr. Bullock, who focused on Iowa this year,
barely got noticed by Democrats there, even though he is a popular
two-term governor with accomplishments that included pushing a Medicaid
expansion through a Republican-controlled state legislature --- a task
that delayed his entry into the race.

Even one of Iowa's highest-profile endorsements, from Attorney General
Tom Miller, could not move the needle for Mr. Bullock among Iowa
Democrats, many of whom
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/06/09/us/politics/iowa-democrats-2020.html}{had
been saying for months that they were overwhelmed} by the number of
candidates in the race.

Mr. Bullock flew from his home in Helena, Mont., to Des Moines on Sunday
to inform his staff personally there that he was ending his campaign.

``I entered this race as a voice to win back the places we lost, bridge
divides and rid our system of the corrupting influence of dark money,''
Mr. Bullock said Monday. ``While the concerns that propelled me to enter
in the first place have not changed, I leave this race filled with
gratitude and optimism, inspired and energized by the good people I've
had the privilege of meeting over the course of the campaign.''

Mr. Bullock in May became the
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/05/14/us/politics/steve-bullock-2020.html}{22nd
Democrat to enter the 2020 presidential race} --- and both the size of
the field and his relatively belated decision to join it contributed to
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/06/26/us/politics/steve-bullock-democrats-2020.html}{his
exclusion from the first Democratic debate} the next month.

Without that chance at exposure, he was forced to play catch-up. He
focused much of his agenda on overhauling the campaign finance system
and promised to make Democrats competitive in the country's interior.

Mr. Bullock participated in the party's second debate in July and
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/07/31/us/politics/who-won-democratic-debate.html}{introduced
himself to voters}, but he did not qualify for any other debates. He
griped about his exclusion in his campaign's online videos and to
reporters, but said he was putting his faith in Iowa caucusgoers, not
party officials.

``My expectation is it's not D.N.C. rules that will decide this,'' Mr.
Bullock said after a September campaign stop in Manchester, Iowa. ``It's
not nationalized, it's folks here in Iowa that take this all very, very
seriously.''

A Columbia University-educated lawyer who had served as Montana's
attorney general, Mr. Bullock made his name as a pragmatist who was able
to win Republican support for liberal priorities. He was twice elected
governor of a state that President Trump carried by more than 20
percentage points.

Mr. Bullock brandished those credentials on the trail, often reminding
voters that he was the only candidate in the
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2019/02/14/us/politics/2020-democratic-candidates-president.html}{historically
large} field who had ``won a Trump state.'' He cautioned voters that the
party's leading contenders, including Senators Elizabeth Warren and
Bernie Sanders, were focused on issues like calling for a single-payer
health care system that he warned would cost Democrats in a general
election against Mr. Trump.

``Many of the issues that folks are talking about through this primary,
they sound good through the primary, but I don't know that that's what's
going to be able to win this overall election,'' he said in the
September interview in Iowa. ``I have grave concerns that we're already
on our way to losing this election.''

Mr. Bullock's campaign was marked by cheeky publicity stunts and his
regular calls for reducing the influence of money in politics. When
Michael R. Bloomberg, the billionaire former mayor of New York,
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/11/22/us/politics/bloomberg-ads-2020-race.html}{spent
tens of millions of dollars on television ads} for his own presidential
campaign last month, Mr. Bullock issued one of his final campaign pleas.

``The Democratic primary isn't for sale --- and a billionaire spending
hundreds of millions of dollars to buy an election isn't going to fix
our political system,'' he said.

But Mr. Bullock would soon become the 12th Democrat to drop out of the
race, following former Representative Joe Sestak of Pennsylvania, who
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/12/01/us/politics/joe-sestak-ends-presidential-campaign.html}{ended
his campaign} on Sunday. Sixteen candidates remain.

On Monday, Senator Michael Bennet of Colorado, who like Mr. Bullock has
struggled to qualify for the Democratic debates, decried what he called
``unfair'' rules that have kept both of them off the stage for months,
while praising the governor in a tweet as ``a proven leader who got
money out of politics \& expanded Medicaid.''

\href{https://sosmt.gov/elections/term_limits/}{Term limits prevent} Mr.
Bullock from seeking a third term as governor, and
\href{https://www.politico.com/story/2019/05/14/steve-bullock-senate-2020-1321058}{some
Democrats have held out hope that he will eventually run for the
Senate}.

The governor, however, has repeatedly said that he has no desire to do
so. His spokeswoman, Galia Slayen, said Monday that Mr. Bullock would
complete his term as governor and would not seek to challenge Mr.
Daines.

``While he plans to work hard to elect Democrats in the state and across
the country in 2020, it will be in his capacity as a governor and a
senior voice in the Democratic Party --- not as a candidate for U.S.
Senate,'' Ms. Slayen said.

Reid J. Epstein reported from Charleston, and Matt Stevens from New
York.

\hypertarget{our-2020-election-guide}{%
\section{Our 2020 Election Guide}\label{our-2020-election-guide}}

Updated July 31, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{the-latest}{%
  \subsection{The Latest}\label{the-latest}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    President Trump's assault on the Postal Service is intersecting with
    his attacks on mail-in voting.
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/politics/trump-usps-mail-delays.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Voting
    rights groups say it is a recipe for disaster.}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{bidens-vp-search}{%
  \subsection{Biden's V.P. Search}\label{bidens-vp-search}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/biden-vice-president-2020.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Here
    are 13 women} who have been under consideration to be Joe Biden's
    running mate, and why each might be chosen --- and might not be.
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{keep-up-with-our-coverage}{%
  \subsection{Keep Up With Our
  Coverage}\label{keep-up-with-our-coverage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Get an
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{email}
    recapping the day's news
  \end{itemize}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Download our mobile app on
    \href{https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nytimes/id284862083?ls=1\&mat_click_id=5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\&referrer=mat_click_id\%3D5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\%26link_click_id\%3D722930677036718082}{iOS}
    and
    \href{http://a.localytics.com/android?id=com.nytimes.android\&referrer=utm_source\%3Dother_nyt_mobile_web\%26utm_medium\%3DWeb\%2520page\%26utm_term\%3DGeneral\%2520Mobile\%2520Page\%26utm_campaign\%3DNYT\%2520Mobile\%2520General\%2520Page}{Android}
    and turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
