Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/opinion}{Opinion}\textbar{}What You Don't Know Can't Hurt
Trump

\url{https://nyti.ms/3jsqlVA}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

\href{/section/opinion}{Opinion}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{what-you-dont-know-cant-hurt-trump}{%
\section{What You Don't Know Can't Hurt
Trump}\label{what-you-dont-know-cant-hurt-trump}}

``Slow the testing down,'' he said, and it's happening.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/paul-krugman}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/04/02/opinion/paul-krugman/paul-krugman-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/paul-krugman}{Paul
Krugman}

Opinion Columnist

\begin{itemize}
\item
  July 20, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/07/20/opinion/20krugmanWeb/20krugmanWeb-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

We're now at the stage of the Covid-19 pandemic where Donald Trump and
his allies are trying to suppress information about the coronavirus's
spread --- because, of course, they are. True to form, however, they're
far behind the curve. From a political point of view (which is all they
care about), their disinformation efforts are too little, too late.

Where we are: In just a few days millions of Americans are going to see
a
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/16/opinion/coronavirus-economy-unemployment.html}{drastic
fall in their incomes}, as enhanced unemployment benefits expire. This
calls for urgent action; but avoiding economic calamity was always going
to be hard, because Republicans in general have balked at providing the
aid workers idled by the pandemic need.

But now it turns out that there's another obstacle to action: An
intra-G.O.P. dispute over funding for
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/18/us/politics/trump-virus-testing-relief-congress.html}{testing}
and tracing of infected individuals. Even Senate Republicans support
increased testing, which is desperately needed given our current
situation: Surging cases have created a testing backlog, and test
results are taking
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/19/health/coronavirus-testing-viral-spread.html}{so
long} to come back that they're effectively
\href{https://medicalxpress.com/news/2020-07-contact-useless-speedy.html}{useless}.

But Trump officials are opposed to any new money for testing. They're
barely even trying to offer excuses for their opposition, since Trump
himself explained the strategy a month ago at his Tulsa rally: When you
expand testing, he
\href{https://www.nbcnews.com/politics/2020-election/trump-tells-tulsa-crowd-he-wanted-slow-down-covid-19-n1231658}{declared},
``you're going to find more cases, so I said to my people, `Slow the
testing down, please.'''

In other words, what you don't know can't hurt Trump.

Nobody should be surprised that the Trump team is trying to suppress bad
news about the pandemic. This was completely predictable given the Law
of Obama Projection: Every right-wing conspiracy theory about President
Barack Obama was an indication of what Republicans wanted to do
themselves, and would do once they had the power.

Remember, for example, wild claims about an imminent
\href{https://www.vox.com/2015/5/6/8559577/jade-helm-conspiracy}{military
takeover} of Texas, lent credence by senior Republicans? Now we have
unidentified Department of Homeland Security agents in
\href{https://www.npr.org/2020/07/17/892277592/federal-officers-use-unmarked-vehicles-to-grab-protesters-in-portland}{unmarked
vehicles} seizing people off the streets of Portland, Ore. Remember
claims that the government was secretly constructing
\href{https://www.splcenter.org/fighting-hate/intelligence-report/2010/fear-fema}{concentration
camps}? Thousands of migrants are now immured in
\href{https://www.nbcnews.com/politics/immigration/thousands-immigrants-suffer-solitary-confinement-u-s-detention-centers-n1007881}{detention
centers}, often under horrifying conditions.

And the current war on Covid-19 testing was prefigured by constant
claims that the Obama administration was suppressing bad economic news.
``\href{https://theweek.com/articles/444851/why-wont-inflation-conspiracy-theories-just-die-already}{Inflation
truthers}'' insisted that the feds were hiding the runaway inflation
that right-wingers predicted, but that never arrived.
\href{https://ritholtz.com/2016/02/donald-trump-and-other-republicans-are-unemployment-truthers/}{Unemployment
truthers} --- including, notably, one Donald Trump --- declared that
official job numbers showing a steadily improving economy were fake, and
that unemployment was actually much higher than reported.

It was inevitable, then, that the Trumpists would do what they falsely
accused Obama of doing, and try to hide bad pandemic numbers. Efforts to
hold down testing are only part of the story.

The Trump administration recently ordered hospitals to
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/14/us/politics/trump-cdc-coronavirus.html}{stop
reporting} Covid-19 data to the Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention, sending it to a private contractor instead. As a result,
hospitalization data, a key pandemic indicator,
\href{https://www.washingtonpost.com/health/2020/07/16/coronavirus-hospitalization-data-outcry/}{disappeared}
from the C.D.C. website before being reinstated after a widespread
outcry.

And some Republican-controlled states, notably Georgia, have for months
been \href{https://t.co/qxtnHTyOKS?amp=1}{massaging} coronavirus data,
presenting it in misleading ways that understate the problem.

The puzzle is why the latest attack on testing came so late. Pro tip: If
you're trying to conceal bad epidemiological news, you should start the
cover-up before everyone realizes that the pandemic is spiraling out of
control.

A fascinating Times
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/18/us/politics/trump-coronavirus-response-failure-leadership.html?action=click\&module=Well\&pgtype=Homepage\&section=Politics}{post-mortem}
on Trump's failed coronavirus response helps us understand what
happened. And I do mean mortem: Americans are
\href{https://www.washingtonpost.com/health/2020/07/19/coronavirus-us-failure/}{dying
of Covid-19} at a rate eight times that in Canada, 10 times that in
Europe.

The Times account makes it clear that the Trump team never seriously
considered trying to deal with the pandemic's reality. It also makes it
clear, however, that officials convinced themselves back in April that
they were getting away with this abdication of responsibility, that the
coronavirus was going away.

And by the time they realized that the virus wasn't playing along with
their political games, it was too late to hide the truth.

At this point it's not even clear what purpose obstructing testing is
supposed to serve. The attempt to engineer an economic boom before the
election has already failed, as reopened states are
\href{https://twitter.com/econjared/status/1285206998439600130}{reversing
course}. And Trump has already
\href{https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/trump-faces-rising-disapproval-and-widespread-distrust-on-coronavirus-post-abc-poll-finds/2020/07/16/04aa9db2-c79d-11ea-a99f-3bbdffb1af38_story.html}{squandered}
all credibility on the coronavirus; even if the numbers on reported
cases suddenly started to look much better, who besides his hard-core
supporters would believe them?

So this doesn't look like a political strategy as much as an attempt to
soothe the boss's fragile ego. Trump keeps insisting, falsely, that the
only reason we're seeing so many cases is too much testing, so his aides
are trying to mollify him by holding testing down.

And if this cripples America's pandemic response, making a
test-trace-isolate strategy impossible, well, actually dealing with the
virus was never part of the plan.

\emph{The Times is committed to publishing}
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/01/31/opinion/letters/letters-to-editor-new-york-times-women.html}{\emph{a
diversity of letters}} \emph{to the editor. We'd like to hear what you
think about this or any of our articles. Here are some}
\href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014925288-How-to-submit-a-letter-to-the-editor}{\emph{tips}}\emph{.
And here's our email:}
\href{mailto:letters@NYTimes.com}{\emph{letters@NYTimes.com}}\emph{.}

\emph{Follow The New York Times Opinion section on}
\href{https://www.facebookcorewwwi.onion/nytopinion}{\emph{Facebook}}\emph{,}
\href{http://twitter.com/NYTOpinion}{\emph{Twitter (@NYTopinion)}}
\emph{and}
\href{https://www.instagram.com/nytopinion/}{\emph{Instagram}}\emph{.}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{Â©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
