Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}In Republican-Leaning
Districts, Lawmakers Shy Away From Broaching Impeachment

\url{https://nyti.ms/2ZDpytJ}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{in-republican-leaning-districts-lawmakers-shy-away-from-broaching-impeachment}{%
\section{In Republican-Leaning Districts, Lawmakers Shy Away From
Broaching
Impeachment}\label{in-republican-leaning-districts-lawmakers-shy-away-from-broaching-impeachment}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2019/08/30/us/politics/01dc-impeachment1/merlin_159898065_b2c7c2d4-f32f-4dea-b752-2b3446f91ba0-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/julie-hirschfeld-davis}{Julie
Hirschfeld Davis} and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/emily-cochrane}{Emily
Cochrane}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Sept. 1, 2019
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

HOWELL, Mich. --- The message printed on a pair of handmade
wood-and-cardboard placards could not have been clearer as
Representative Elissa Slotkin gazed out on a crowd of about 300 of her
constituents who gathered for a town hall-style meeting to discuss their
biggest concerns: ``IMPEACHMENT INQUIRY NOW.''

``I just want her to know that some of her constituents are there,''
said Patricia Onelio, 61, who staked out seats with her husband in the
front row, determined for their demands to be seen by their
congresswoman, a Democrat in a Republican-leaning district who has
resisted calls to impeach President Trump. ``He gets more emboldened by
the minute, so I just think it's important for us to show up and let her
know where we stand.''

Here in this town about an hour northwest of Detroit that Mr. Trump
carried by seven points in 2016, and in similar districts throughout the
country where Democratic victories last year handed the party control of
the House, lawmakers like Ms. Slotkin hardly need the reminder.

But while attendees had scrawled enough questions about impeachment on
the index cards provided that the moderator immediately raised the
topic, and returned to it a second time, there was little pushback to
Ms. Slotkin's wait-and-see approach.

``I want to be very honest, that I believe impeachment is a very big
step --- I believe it is something that should not be taken lightly ---
and it has to be something where we bring people along,'' she said. If
the Trump administration fails to respond to the many subpoenas that
have been issued by the Judiciary Committee, she added, ``we may be in a
different world.''

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2019/08/30/us/politics/01dc-impeachment2/merlin_159897885_ec4ee834-1cd0-4aec-b4f8-0f884a75c4e8-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Despite the efforts of pro-impeachment activist groups to transform
August into a Tea Party-style series of grass-roots revolts that might
force Democrats of all stripes to throw their support behind
impeachment, the groundswell has yet to reach this politically crucial
group of lawmakers in Republican-leaning districts. Instead, they are
staying cautious and, in some cases, even trying to avoid mentioning the
word, and many of their constituents --- even impeachment supporters ---
appear willing, at least for now, to tolerate that reluctance.

In more than two dozen interviews in districts like these in three
states over the past week, some voters said they wished their
representative in Congress would hurry up and endorse an impeachment
inquiry in order to send an unmistakable signal that Mr. Trump's actions
were illegal and unacceptable. But most were either strongly opposed or
said they understood the reluctance to set the process in motion, given
the degree to which it could divide the country, the likelihood of
failure given Republican control of the Senate and the political stakes
for their representatives if they backed it.

``The main issue is letting it play out in the 2020 election,'' said
Blaise Molitoris, Ms. Onelio's sign-toting husband, who called Ms.
Slotkin's circumspection``fair'' and said he understood her stance
despite his own eagerness to see Mr. Trump impeached. ``It's not good
for the country --- just the divisiveness --- but leaving it as is and
not holding the president accountable for his actions just can't stand
in my book.''

To be sure, many Democrats in districts around the country have
confronted strident calls from constituents over their six-week August
vacation to endorse impeachment, and some of them have heeded the
message.
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/05/31/us/politics/trump-impeachment-congress-list.html}{One
hundred and thirty Democrats now support} impeaching Mr. Trump, a number
that has grown in the weeks since the recess began. A coalition of
progressive groups has mounted a campaign --- called ``Impeachment
August'' --- to use the break to try to win over converts, texting
280,000 constituents in more than 70 congressional districts to notify
them about lawmakers' events and encourage constituents to show up and
demand it.

At an event near Pittsburgh, constituents
\href{https://www.wesa.fm/post/constituents-press-lamb-impeachment-gun-control-town-hall\#stream/0}{pressed
Representative Conor Lamb} about impeaching Mr. Trump, asking why he was
``lagging behind'' his colleagues on the issue, according to a report by
the local NPR affiliate. Representative Andy Kim was heckled during a
gathering last month in Riverside, N.J., with shouts of ``Do your job''
and ``Why's it taking so long --- I want him gone!'' according to
\href{https://www.burlingtoncountytimes.com/news/20190731/constituents-push-for-trump-impeachment-at-rep-andy-kim-town-hall}{local}
news
\href{https://www.inquirer.com/politics/new-jersey/andy-kim-town-hall-impeachment-economy-trump-climate-guns-20190815.html}{reports}.

Image

In an interview after an event in Forked River, N.J., Representative
Andy Kim, Democrat of New Jersey, was careful never to utter the word
``impeachment'' even as he was asked about it.Credit...Bryan Anselm for
The New York Times

But in an interview last week, Mr. Kim said he was hearing far more from
his constituents about gun safety, the economy and health care as well
as local issues. During a 90-minute town hall-style meeting Thursday
evening that Mr. Kim held in a middle school cafeteria in Forked River,
attendees stuck to the topic advertised --- the dismantling of a nearby
nuclear plant, which has generated controversy among residents --- and
there was not a single question or interruption about impeachment.

``These are not issues that can wait till the next election; I mean,
this is happening right now,'' Mr. Kim said in an interview after the
session, careful never to utter the word ``impeachment'' even as he was
asked about it. ``I've seen what happens when we have just massive
gridlock in Washington, and how it just paralyzes everything else that
we do. So, you know, I worry about that side of things. I want to make
sure we can keep delivering on health care and other issues.''

Activists who showed up with signs supporting the Democratic plan for a
single-payer, government-backed health care system known as ``Medicare
for All'' said they also favored impeaching the president. But they had
not come to bend Mr. Kim's ear on that.

``My point of view is Medicare for all and the Green New Deal are 10
times more important,'' said Tom Cannavo, 59, a retired prosecutor from
Beachwood, N.J.

It is a sentiment that resonates with Speaker Nancy Pelosi, who has
staunchly refused to rush into an impeachment proceeding she says
neither Congress nor the country is ready to pursue, in part out of
concern for the political fortunes of lawmakers in districts like these
whose constituents are not clamoring for the move. In a conference call
with her caucus in recent weeks, Ms. Pelosi said the public ``isn't
there on impeachment,'' adding that Democrats have to balance ``our
responsibility to protect and defend the Constitution, and to be
unifying and not dividing.''

Image

Representative Kendra Horn, Democrat of Oklahoma, at a town hall-style
meeting last week, faced questions about veterans' issues and
pharmaceutical costs rather than impeachment.Credit...Joseph Rushmore
for The New York Times

In Oklahoma City, where voters helped elect Representative Kendra Horn
as the first Democrat to represent the state's Fifth District in nearly
half a century, at least one of her events last week was targeted by
activists, as Mr. Kim's and Ms. Slotkin's were, as part of ``Impeachment
August,'' in a bid to encourage activists to show up and pressure the
lawmakers to endorse the step.

But on Wednesday, as guests of the Northwest Oklahoma City Chamber asked
Ms. Horn questions over plates of pasta and glasses of iced tea, no one
raised the topic. Instead, a veteran rose to press about support for
veterans in the community. Another man, his breathing tube in one hand,
asked about efforts to control pharmaceutical costs. An immigration
advocate wanted to know about the potential for moving forward with
immigration overhaul.

``Impeachment would not be good in this district,'' said Peter G. Pierce
III, 69, who had asked about prescription drugs. A Democratic supporter
of Ms. Horn, he said he would prefer to get rid of Mr. Trump ``the
old-fashioned way, and vote him out.''

``You don't wound the king,'' he added, ``you kill him.''

Ms. Horn, without mentioning the ``i'' word in an interview on Thursday,
said the forum was typical of what she had heard from voters across her
Republican-leaning district --- and what she had not.

``People are asking me what we can do about my student loans. `How can
we get a doctor in our community?''' she said. ``These are the things
that can literally make a difference in somebody's life on a day-to-day
basis.''

``We've got to talk about and do the work that matters to people,'' she
said.

In a district where Mr. Trump won by nearly 14 percent, many voters are
wary of the consequences of an impeachment inquiry.

``If they were able to get it through, would it set a precedent for
future administrations that instead of working the problems out, we
impeach?'' asked Marvin Hazel, an Oklahoma City pastor and an
independent who voted for Mr. Trump in 2016 and is a fan of Ms. Horn.
``That would be a bad precedent to start.''

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
