Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/opinion}{Opinion}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/opinion}{Opinion}\textbar{}Democratic Convention: Best
and Worst Moments of Night 3

\url{https://nyti.ms/3aGNVcT}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{comments}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{commentsContainer}{Comments}}{Comments}}\label{comments}}

\href{}{Democratic Convention: Best and Worst Moments of Night
3}\href{}{Skip to Comments}

The comments section is closed. To submit a letter to the editor for
publication, write to
\href{mailto:letters@NYTimes.com}{\nolinkurl{letters@NYTimes.com}}.

\href{/section/opinion}{Opinion}

\hypertarget{democratic-convention-best-and-worst-moments-of-night-3}{%
\section{Democratic Convention: Best and Worst Moments of Night
3}\label{democratic-convention-best-and-worst-moments-of-night-3}}

By The New York Times OpinionAug. 20, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
  \emph{1096}
\end{itemize}

Overall scores out of 10

4

6

7

8

8.5

9

Failure

Overall Rankings

Success

4/10

6/10

7/10

8/10

8.5/10

9/10

Cottle

Price

Bruenig

McCarthy

Ali

Bouie

Bruni

Mair

Tobar

Hemmer

Swartz

Goldberg

Wehner

Wilkinson

Welcome to Opinion's commentary for Night 3 of the Democratic National
Convention. In this special feature, Times Opinion writers rank the
evening on a scale of 1 to 10: 1 means the night was a disaster for
Democrats; 10 means it could lead to a big polling bump for
Biden-Harris. Here's what our columnists and contributors thought of the
event, which highlighted Gabrielle Giffords, Elizabeth Warren, Barack
Obama and Kamala Harris.

See rankings from the second night of the Democratic National Convention
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/19/opinion/democratic-convention-best-worst-night-2.html}{here}.

\hypertarget{best-moment}{%
\subsubsection{Best moment}\label{best-moment}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/20/opinion/20scorecardgiffords/20scorecardgiffords-articleLarge.jpg}

Gabby Giffords, a gun control advocate and former congresswoman,
endorsed Joe Biden for president. Democratic National Convention, via
Associated Press

\textbf{Wajahat Ali}~~ Democrats revealed their values and policies
through the real stories of women: Gabby Giffords, a gun violence
survivor, playing ``America (My Country, 'Tis of Thee)'' on the French
horn; and an undocumented mother sitting with her daughters.

\textbf{Jamelle Bouie}~~ Elizabeth Warren's call for universal child
care. Warren is one of the most skilled speakers in the Democratic
Party, and she used all of her powers in this short speech, weaving
biography together with policy (and partisan attack) in a compelling
call for the United States to treat caregiving like any other vital
infrastructure. It was very impressive. (The ``Black Lives Matter''
Easter egg in the background was fun, too.)

\textbf{Elizabeth Bruenig}~~ **** It was ladies' night at the Democratic
National Convention, with every vignette in the final act giving a nod
to the girls. Only Elizabeth Warren felt sharp and focused. It's tough,
at times, to be a woman --- but the fix isn't some species of
girlbossery, it's subsidized child care, universal health care and paid
parental leave.

\textbf{Frank Bruni}~~ The immediate buildup to Kamala Harris's
climactic appearance with a montage of family members and other
Americans whose palpable elation over her selection as the Democratic
vice presidential nominee beautifully personalized her and communicated
the excitement of her history-making ascent.

\textbf{Michelle Cottle}~~ Duh. Obama.
\href{https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oaalF5y2P0k}{Pull up the clip now}
and watch --- or rewatch --- the whole thing.

\textbf{Michelle Goldberg}~~ Barack Obama is known for his Spock-like
steadiness, so it was bracing to see that he is, like so many of us,
afraid and heartsick for our democracy --- he seemed to have tears in
his eyes. He spoke directly to the cynicism and hopelessness that Donald
Trump's presidency has engendered, reminding us of the Black civil
rights activists who were failed by America but still insisted on
realizing its ideals. ``If anyone had a right to believe that this
democracy did not work, and could not work, it was those Americans, our
ancestors,'' he said. Trump tweeted angrily through it. I'm glad he was
watching.

\textbf{Nicole Hemmer}~~ Gabby Giffords has toiled for years to regain
her ability to speak after being shot. As she said in
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/video/us/elections/100000007297620/gabrielle-giffords-speaks-dnc.html}{her
short, powerful speech}, ``I struggle to speak, but I have not lost my
voice.'' Thank god she hasn't --- every word testified to what gun
violence took from her and what she's taken back.

\textbf{Liz Mair}~~ The obvious answer is Obama's speech, and it was
truly good. But the more heart-wrenching and human example of great
communication was the video featuring the little girl whose dad was a
Marine and whose mom was deported. Immigration is no longer being
treated as an abstract policy issue by the Democratic Party. Now it is
personal.

\textbf{Daniel McCarthy}~~ The first third of Elizabeth Warren's speech,
which put working- and middle-class economics front and center. Jobs
have otherwise been peripheral, a footnote to climate change and green
energy. Warren's themes could win Trump voters.

\textbf{Melanye Price}~~ Women ruled the night. All the best moments
involved them. Clearly the future of the Democratic Party is women, but
especially women of color.

\textbf{Mimi Swartz}~~ Former President Barack Obama. Breaking with the
tradition of circumspect former presidents, he seized the moment to tell
the harsh truth about his successor and to lay out the desperate stakes
we face. Remember leadership? For a few minutes, yes.

\textbf{HÃ©ctor Tobar}~~ The convention's gatekeepers did something
uncharacteristically bold. They gave voice to 11 million people who
cannot vote and who have been vilified by Donald Trump --- the
undocumented. They even allowed some of them to speak in Spanish: That
was a sweet sound to this son of Latin American immigrants.

\textbf{Peter Wehner}~~ Barack Obama's speech was brilliant: elegant,
educational, passionate and persuasive. His words about his ``brother''
Joe Biden were generous, and his case against Trump was withering. I
also appreciate his appeal to active citizenship. Obama's speech was a
reminder of what a rare and remarkable political talent he is.

\textbf{Will Wilkinson}~~ ``Now my mom is gone, and she's been taken
from us for no reason at all.''
\href{https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1EiPUIv7C8g}{Eleven-year-old
Estella's letter} explaining to the president the unspeakable cruelty of
his administration's deportation of her mother made me furious with
grief and hunger for vengeance.

\hypertarget{worst-moment}{%
\subsubsection{Worst moment}\label{worst-moment}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/20/opinion/20scorecard1/merlin_175922016_c5b09193-97b3-4efd-87bf-ee6556ec2448-articleLarge.jpg}

Hillary Clinton used part of her address to relitigate her 2016
presidential election loss. Democratic National Convention, via
Associated Press

\textbf{Wajahat Ali}~~ Where was the Muslim speaker? Trump's anti-Muslim
bigotry and his Muslim ban are hallmarks of his campaign and presidency.
Trump just supported the anti-Muslim extremist Laura Loomer, who won her
Republican congressional primary. A missed opportunity.

\textbf{Jamelle Bouie}~~ I thought Kamala Harris's acceptance address
was fine in content and delivery but what did not work was the setting.
Without a crowd to clap or cheer, speaking from that kind of formal
podium looks stilted and unnatural. I would have preferred something
more casual or at least more intimate.

\textbf{Elizabeth Bruenig}~~ Hillary Clinton appeared to beam in from
heaven to relitigate her 2016 loss. She's still miffed that voters let
her down, and she still seems to think winning the Electoral College was
some kind of underhanded maneuver on Trump's part, but whatever: If I'm
H.R.C., I'm prosecuting that grudge forever. You go, girl.

\textbf{Frank Bruni}~~ The immediate aftermath of Harris's remarks, when
she, her husband and the Bidens beamed and waved at . . . what? A video
grid of voters' faces? A dark void? That near-empty auditorium was a
brutal setting for a big speech. Better not even to approximate the
usual convention tableau.

\textbf{Michelle Cottle}~~ Hillary Clinton's speech wasn't bad exactly.
It was just meh, mostly because the delivery was oddly flat --- as if
maybe she were reading it for the first time. Secretary Clinton is an
icon who means a lot to a lot of women. She shoulda, coulda brought more
oomph to the moment.

\textbf{Michelle Goldberg}~~ I have nothing negative to say about Night
3, other than that it's heartbreaking that Kamala Harris had to give her
history-making speech to an almost empty room when she should have been
bathed in cheers.

\textbf{Nicole Hemmer}~~ Michelle Lujan Grisham had the misfortune of
following a tear-streaked nearly 10 minutes on gun violence with some
boosterism for New Mexico's environmental policy. Rather than making her
a recognizable national figure,
\href{https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rztcI-DFFQA}{her speech} ended up
serving as an emotional palate cleanser.

\textbf{Liz Mair}~~ Elizabeth Warren's speech was policy-heavy and
clunky. It was pigeonholing, stereotyping and patronizing to women, a
lefty twist on Phyllis Schlafly's views of womanhood.

\textbf{Daniel McCarthy}~~ Barack Obama is smooth, but when he says,
``Political opponents aren't un-American just because they disagree with
you'' only to criticize ``those who enable him'' --- anyone who votes
for Donald Trump? --- in the next breath, he proves why the unity he
symbolized in 2009 turned to national division and defeat for his party
in 2016.

\textbf{Melanye Price}~~ I think the worst moment was probably had by
Donald Trump. He had to watch his worst nightmare: a diverse America
that wasn't used to scare the hell out of white people.

\textbf{Mimi Swartz}~~ I wasn't sure we needed Billie Eilish, but if
\href{https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sly78aDTjFo}{her performance} gets
millennials to the polls, O.K.

\textbf{HÃ©ctor Tobar}~~ Hillary Clinton. More than any other speaker at
this convention, she needed an auditorium filled with cheering people.
Absent the love of her true believers, her charisma deficit became all
the more obvious.

\textbf{Peter Wehner}~~ It wasn't what happened at the D.N.C. so much as
what it catalyzed. Seeing the effect Obama's speech had on the current
president, who is so psychologically broken and emotionally unstable
that he was repeatedly rage tweeting in ALL CAPS. The contrast between
Obama's refinement and Trump's crudeness is almost painful.

\textbf{Will Wilkinson}~~ It's nice that President Obama punked Vice
President Joe Biden with a surprise Presidential Medal of Freedom (with
distinction!), but I could have done without five minutes of watching
the back of somebody's head blocking Biden's lachrymose aw-shucks mug.

\hypertarget{what-else-mattered}{%
\subsubsection{What else mattered}\label{what-else-mattered}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/20/opinion/20Scorecard-EstellaObama/20Scorecard-EstellaObama-articleLarge.jpg}

Speaking at different times during the evening, President Barack Obama
and 11-year-old Estella addressed President Trump's policies. Democratic
National Convention, via Associated Press

\textbf{Wajahat Ali}~~ This was very likely the first convention where
the call to vote was not just to rally the base but rather to ring the
alarm, warning all Americans about the threat Trump and Republicans pose
to our democracy. To remind us all of what's at stake, Obama had to
stand in front of the Constitution and drag Trump.

\textbf{Jamelle Bouie}~~ Barack Obama's speech, or should I say warning,
about the stakes of the election. He didn't just call on Americans to
vote; he called on them to save their democracy from Trump. Obama cast
his successor as a destructive authoritarian figure. This was a very
different Obama from the one we've seen in the past, speaking in a tone
that one reserves for war and disaster --- which is probably the most
appropriate tone to take in this moment.

\textbf{Elizabeth Bruenig}~~ Biden is running on a return to normal, and
judging by Republicans' outlandish attacks on Harris as a far-left
fundamentalist (if only!), they realize it's his best bet, too. A
reclusive, grandfatherly presidency will probably lower national blood
pressure somewhat, but it's hard not to mourn that that's all we can
hope for.

\textbf{Frank Bruni}~~ It's commonplace --- a clichÃ© --- for leaders to
talk about their stubborn faith in America, about how great we truly
are. But to hear that from Hillary Clinton, in an upbeat voice, after
what went down in 2016? It was genuinely moving. It made you want to
prove her right.

\textbf{Michelle Cottle}~~ The overarching, oft-repeated message of the
evening was vote, vote, vote. It doesn't matter how, when or why, just
do it. This cannot be hammered home enough. As President Obama pleaded,
``Do not let them take away your power.''

\textbf{Michelle Goldberg}~~ This was the night that the Democratic
Party spoke directly to every parent in America whose life has been
wrecked by public school shutdowns. Elizabeth Warren, like Jill Biden
before her, didn't just speak from a classroom because she was a teacher
but because empty classrooms are some of the most devastating reminders
of what this president has cost us.

\textbf{Nicole Hemmer}~~ Conventions have featured moving speakers in
the past, but never has a modern convention been stacked with so many
deeply emotional moments. Credit the medium: You don't get this kind of
intimacy on a convention stage.

\textbf{Liz Mair}~~ Gabby Giffords --- it's great to see how hard she
has fought to recover and how successful she has been. Probably a good
reminder to all of us who are whining our way through the coronavirus
pandemic and struggling to deal with things like distance learning and
going to the grocery store that there are much worse things. If Gabby
Giffords can come back from that and play the French horn, maybe all of
us complaining about the changes of this year really need to suck it up.

\textbf{Daniel McCarthy}~~ Billie Eilish's performance was genuinely
good and a breath-catching break from politics --- but her song's last
lines might be a grim prophecy for Biden and the Democrats: ``I'm in
love, but not with anybody here. I'll see you in a couple years.''

\textbf{Melanye Price}~~ All the women who watched from home know how
hard it was to get women to this point in American politics.

\textbf{Mimi Swartz}~~ I have been waiting for more Latinx
representation. Better tonight than the first two, Eva Longoria
notwithstanding. Estella for president, 2045!

\textbf{HÃ©ctor Tobar}~~ This was a night to stir up the base. Exit the
sympathetic Republicans, enter Nancy Pelosi, Elizabeth Warren, Barack
Obama and ordinary folk speaking to an array of progressive and women's
issues.

\textbf{Peter Wehner}~~ When the D.N.C. ends, Democrats are going to
have quite a let down, realizing that they have to go to battle against
Trump with Biden rather than Obama. Their enthusiasm for Obama is deep
and visceral; their enthusiasm for Biden is much more manufactured and
obligatory.

\textbf{Will Wilkinson}~~ ``No Drama'' Obama isn't prone to hyperbole,
which made his dark warning that ``this administration has shown it will
tear our democracy down if that's what it takes to win'' all the more
chilling --- and fortifying.

\emph{The Times is committed to publishing}
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/01/31/opinion/letters/letters-to-editor-new-york-times-women.html}{a
diversity of letters} \emph{to the editor. We'd like to hear what you
think about this or any of our articles. Here are some}
\href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014925288-How-to-submit-a-letter-to-the-editor}{tips}.
And here's our email:
\href{mailto:letters@NYTimes.com}{\nolinkurl{letters@NYTimes.com}}.

Follow The New York Times Opinion section on
\href{https://www.facebookcorewwwi.onion/nytopinion}{Facebook}\emph{,}
\href{http://twitter.com/NYTOpinion}{Twitter (@NYTopinion)} \emph{and}
\href{https://www.instagram.com/nytopinion/}{Instagram}\emph{.}

\textbf{About the authors}

Jamelle Bouie, Frank Bruni and Michelle Goldberg are Times columnists.

Wajahat Ali
(\href{https://twitter.com/WajahatAli?ref_src=twsrc\%5Egoogle\%7Ctwcamp\%5Eserp\%7Ctwgr\%5Eauthor}{@WajahatAli})
is a playwright, lawyer and contributing opinion writer.

Elizabeth Bruenig (\href{https://twitter.com/ebruenig}{@ebruenig}) is a
Times opinion writer.

Michelle Cottle (\href{https://twitter.com/mcottle}{@mcottle}) is a
member of the Times editorial board.

Nicole Hemmer
(\href{https://twitter.com/pastpunditry?ref_src=twsrc\%5Egoogle\%7Ctwcamp\%5Eserp\%7Ctwgr\%5Eauthor}{@pastpunditry})
is an associate research scholar at Columbia University and the author
of ``Messengers of the Right: Conservative Media and the Transformation
of American Politics.''

Liz Mair (\href{https://twitter.com/LizMair}{@LizMair}), a strategist
for campaigns by Scott Walker, Roy Blunt, Rand Paul, Carly Fiorina and
Rick Perry, is the founder and president of Mair Strategies.

Daniel McCarthy
(\href{https://twitter.com/ToryAnarchist}{@ToryAnarchist}) is the editor
of \href{https://home.isi.org/modern-age}{Modern Age: A Conservative
Quarterly}.

Melanye Price (\href{https://twitter.com/ProfMTP}{@ProfMTP}), a
professor of political science at Prairie View A\&M University in Texas,
is the author, most recently, of
``\href{https://nyupress.org/9781479819256/the-race-whisperer/}{The Race
Whisperer: Barack Obama and the Political Uses of Race}.''

Mimi Swartz (\href{https://twitter.com/mimiswartz}{@mimiswartz}), an
executive editor at Texas Monthly, is a contributing opinion writer.

HÃ©ctor Tobar
(\href{https://twitter.com/TobarWriter?ref_src=twsrc\%5Egoogle\%7Ctwcamp\%5Eserp\%7Ctwgr\%5Eauthor}{@TobarWriter}),
an associate professor at the University of California, Irvine, is the
author of ``Deep Down Dark: The Untold Stories of 33 Men Buried in a
Chilean Mine, and the Miracle That Set Them Free'' and a contributing
opinion writer.

Peter Wehner
(\href{https://twitter.com/Peter_Wehner?ref_src=twsrc\%5Egoogle\%7Ctwcamp\%5Eserp\%7Ctwgr\%5Eauthor}{@Peter\_Wehner}),
a senior fellow at the Ethics and Public Policy Center, served in the
previous three Republican administrations, is a contributing opinion
writer and the author of
``\href{https://www.harpercollins.com/9780062820792/the-death-of-politics/}{The
Death of Politics}: How to Heal Our Frayed Republic After Trump.''

Will Wilkinson
(\href{https://twitter.com/willwilkinson}{@willwilkinson}), the vice
president for research at the Niskanen Center, is a contributing opinion
writer.

Read 1096 Comments

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{Â©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
