Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}Elizabeth Warren Stands by
DNA Test. But Around Her, Worries Abound.

\url{https://nyti.ms/2zNU4Tv}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/20/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{D.N.C.
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/20/us/politics/biden-presidential-nomination-dnc.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Biden's
  Speech}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/us/elections/2020-presidential-election-calendar.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Election
  Calendar}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/11/us/politics/vote-by-mail-us-states.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Voting
  by Mail}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Politics
  Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{elizabeth-warren-stands-by-dna-test-but-around-her-worries-abound}{%
\section{Elizabeth Warren Stands by DNA Test. But Around Her, Worries
Abound.}\label{elizabeth-warren-stands-by-dna-test-but-around-her-worries-abound}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/12/07/us/politics/07WarrenDNA-print/01WarrenDNA1-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/astead-w-herndon}{Astead
W. Herndon}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Dec. 6, 2018
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

WASHINGTON --- The plan was straightforward: After years of being
challenged by President Trump and others about a decades-old claim of
Native American ancestry, Senator Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts
would take a DNA test to prove her stated family origins in the Cherokee
and Delaware tribes.

But nearly two months after Ms. Warren released the test results and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/10/15/us/politics/elizabeth-warren-dna-ancestry.html}{drew
hostile reactions} from prominent tribal leaders, the lingering cloud
over her likely presidential campaign has only darkened. Conservatives
have continued to ridicule her. More worrisome to supporters of Ms.
Warren's presidential ambitions, she has yet to allay criticism from
grass-roots progressive groups, liberal political operatives and other
potential 2020 allies who complain that she put too much emphasis on the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/10/17/us/politics/elizabeth-warren-dna-test.html}{controversial
field of racial science} --- and, in doing so, played into Mr. Trump's
hands.

Advisers close to Ms. Warren say she has privately expressed concern
that she may have damaged her relationships to Native American groups
and her own standing with activists, particularly those who are racial
minorities. Several outside advisers are even more worried: They say
they believe a plan should be made to repair that damage, possibly
including a strong statement of apology.

The advisers say Ms. Warren will have to confront the issue again if she
announces a presidential campaign, which is expected in the coming
weeks, and several would like her to act soon.

Publicly, at this point, the senator isn't second-guessing her actions.

``There have been a lot of thoughtful conversations about this, and I
appreciate that,'' Ms. Warren said in an interview. ``I believe for
everyone in public life that transparency is crucial.''

Asked if the criticism of the test has inspired any regret, Ms. Warren
said: ``I put it out there. It's on the internet for anybody to see.
People can make of it what they will. I'm going to continue fighting on
the issues that brought me to Washington.''

For some Warren allies and progressive groups, Ms. Warren's standing by
the DNA test amounts to profoundly poor judgment. Some said she was too
reactive to Mr. Trump's attacks --- test results would never silence a
president who often disregards facts, they said --- and created a
distraction from her own trademark message of economic populism. The
president revels in repeatedly slurring Ms. Warren as ``Pocahontas,''
and conservative commentators like Howie Carr of The Boston Herald have
enjoyed holding the DNA issue over the senator's head.

``The biggest risk in engaging a bully is that bullies don't usually
stop, regardless of what the truth is,'' said Charles Chamberlain,
executive director for the progressive political group Democracy for
America. Mr. Chamberlain's group had, in 2014, launched a ``Run Warren
Run'' campaign to encourage her to seek the 2016 presidential
nomination.

``When you can't win an argument,'' he added, ``then sometimes it's not
worth having that argument.''

Ms. Warren's allies also say she unintentionally made a bigger mistake
in treading too far into the fraught area of racial science --- a field
that has, at times, been used to justify the subjugation of racial
minorities and Native Americans.

Ms. Warren has also troubled advocates of racial equality and justice,
who say her attempt to document ethnicity with a DNA test gave validity
to the idea that race is determined by blood --- a bedrock principle for
white supremacists and others who believe in racial hierarchies. Native
American critics, including Kim TallBear, a prominent scholar from the
University of Alberta,
\href{https://twitter.com/KimTallBear/status/1051906470923493377}{said
in October} that Ms. Warren's actions relied on ``settler-colonial''
definitions of who is an indigenous American and amounted to a haughty
refusal to hear out her longstanding critics.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/12/01/us/politics/01WarrenDNA2/merlin_134492352_aa7ca068-e1c4-4bad-9fe0-5fc58d201c34-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

This line of criticism has particularly stung Ms. Warren, who has made a
point to hold several private talks with Native leaders since taking the
DNA test, emphasizing her respect for tribal sovereignty and making
clear she does not claim tribal citizenship.

Three people close to senior members of Ms. Warren's team, who were
granted anonymity to speak freely on the issue, said they were
``shocked'' and ``rattled'' by the senator's decision to take the DNA
test, which they described as an unequivocal misstep that could have
lasting consequences, even on 2020 staffing. One former adviser, who
also asked not to be named, called it a ``strategic failure'' that was
``depressing and unforgettable.''

\hypertarget{latest-updates-2020-election}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/19/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: 2020
Election}}{Latest Updates: 2020 Election}}\label{latest-updates-2020-election}}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/19/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#night-3-featured-more-policy-a-focus-on-women-and-a-full-throated-rejection-of-trump-by-his-predecessor}{7h
ago}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/19/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#night-3-featured-more-policy-a-focus-on-women-and-a-full-throated-rejection-of-trump-by-his-predecessor}{Night
3 featured more policy, a focus on women and a full-throated rejection
of Trump by his predecessor.}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/19/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#trump-live-tweeted-obamas-speech-tonight-hell-appear-on-fox-news-right-before-bidens-tomorrow}{9h
ago}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/19/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#trump-live-tweeted-obamas-speech-tonight-hell-appear-on-fox-news-right-before-bidens-tomorrow}{Trump
live-tweeted Obama's speech tonight. He'll appear on Fox News right
before Biden's tomorrow.}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/19/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#advocates-for-domestic-violence-survivors-praised-biden-in-a-video}{9h
ago}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/19/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#advocates-for-domestic-violence-survivors-praised-biden-in-a-video}{Advocates
for domestic violence survivors praised Biden in a video.}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/19/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

Jennifer Epps-Addison*,* co-director for the Center for Popular
Democracy, a group that has previously been supportive of Ms. Warren,
said, ``If she wants to be considered the leader of our party or the
leader of the progressive movement, she needs a reconciliation.''

``And that reconciliation should center Native voices and make sure that
their stories of loss and theft of identity come front and center, not,
you know, one white woman's tale of understanding her DNA,'' Ms.
Epps-Addison said.

Ms. Warren's claim to Native American heritage first became an issue in
her 2012 race for Senate, when The Herald reported that Harvard had once
identified her as a member of a minority group when she was a law
professor there. The Warren campaign at the time also confirmed she had
listed herself as a minority member in a legal directory, but said she
had done nothing wrong and said Native American ancestry
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2012/05/01/us/politics/elizabeth-warrens-ancestry-irrelevant-in-hiring-law-schools-say.html}{had
been part of her ``family lore.''} Her Republican opponent that year,
Scott Brown, seized on the disclosures; she ultimately won the race by
seven percentage points, but Republicans like Mr. Trump have continued
to accuse her of misrepresenting herself for years.

The new chapter marks unfamiliar territory for Ms. Warren, who has
rarely, if ever, been so vocally criticized by leaders and activists on
the left. Some white progressives have
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2015/07/19/us/protesters-confront-candidates-on-race-at-netroots-nation-conference.html}{stumbled
on issues of race and identity}, but before the DNA test was released,
Ms. Warren had built a reservoir of good will among liberals on these
issues. She received praise for lending her national platform to
highlighting injustice against Native Americans recently and, in one
high-profile incident, she impressed social justice activists when she
refused to backtrack after calling the American criminal justice system
``racist'' from ``front to back.''

Few think that this good will has completely disappeared, but the last
month has seen even individuals who had previously been bullish on Ms.
Warren's potential candidacy reconsider their position. The questioning
comes from a place of disappointment, because many of Ms. Warren's
backers believe she is better on issues of racial justice and identity
than her handling of this issue may imply.

``Democratic candidates have a long history of not striking back fast
enough when it comes to false narratives against them,'' said Rebecca
Katz, the New York-based progressive strategist. ``Warren should get
some credit for trying and pushing back hard, but we all have to be
wide-eyed when it comes to race.''

``Our 2020 candidates need to understand race and identity in a way that
tripped up candidates in 2016,'' she said.

Progressive groups also lament that Ms. Warren kept the decision to take
the test so closely guarded. Several said that if a greater diversity of
stakeholders had been included in the conversation, including people
whom Ms. Warren often consults during policy rollouts, much of the
current fallout could have been avoided.

In interviews, several left-leaning groups wondered if Ms. Warren's
decision to take the DNA test was indicative of a larger problem for
several prospective presidential candidates: that their inner circles of
advisers don't reflect the racial diversity of the Democratic
electorate.

Image

Ms. Warren would begin among the front-runners for the Democratic
presidential nomination if she chooses to run.Credit...T.J. Kirkpatrick
for The New York Times

``Race is a true third rail in American politics, and you can make a lot
of mistakes when we don't have a diverse set of folks who are in the
room and empowered to make decisions,'' said Eric Lundy, program
director of Inclusv, a group that pushes for more diversity in political
campaign staffs.

But as Ms. Warren inches closer to a presidential run, even critics of
her decision to take the DNA test believe she is well positioned to
shore up support. In the past week she has received heaps of praise for
a foreign policy speech at American University, and she remains one of
the party's top fund-raisers and surrogates.

Allies in Boston pointed out that, in Ms. Warren's recent re-election
effort in Massachusetts, there was no evidence that the DNA announcement
hurt her standing among voters. Those close to Ms. Warren also note they
had several allies in the progressive and Native American communities
who supported their decision from the outset.

Deb Haaland, the newly elected House member from New Mexico who will be
one of the first Native American women to serve in Congress, said she
believed the senator was seeking to learn more about her past. Other
tribal leaders, including those from the Lenape Indian Tribe in Delaware
and the Eastern Band of Cherokee in North Carolina, have also supported
Ms. Warren's decision. Ms. Warren's DNA test, which was conducted by the
renowned geneticist Carlos Bustamante and released by her office, showed
strong evidence that Ms. Warren has Native American pedigree ``6-10
generations ago.''

``I absolutely respect tribes' authority to determine who are tribal
members,'' Ms. Haaland said. ``But I don't think that's what Elizabeth
Warren was doing. She was merely looking to find a connection to her
past and that's exactly what she did.''

This is not a view universally shared. The Cherokee Nation declined
repeated requests for comment, but in a previous statement, tribal
leaders said Ms. Warren's decision dishonored ``legitimate tribal
governments and their citizens, whose ancestors are well documented and
whose heritage is proven.''

Ian Haney López, the law and racial justice professor at the University
of California, Berkeley, said Ms. Warren made a ``naïve'' error by not
seeming to grasp the attack strategy of conservatives. Just as Mr. Trump
used his so-called ``birther'' campaign to depict former President
Barack Obama as a foreign-born immigrant, Mr. Trump was not seeking to
make a factual claim against Ms. Warren but to brand her as an outsider,
Mr. López said.

Twila Barnes, a Cherokee genealogist who has thoroughly tracked Ms.
Warren's claims of native ancestry since it became national news in
2012, said her ``jaw was on the floor'' when she saw Ms. Warren's
decision to take the DNA test, and
\href{https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RHzbdZuVyAM}{the slick video} that
accompanied the announcement of the results.

Ms. Barnes said Ms. Warren had an opportunity to teach the broader
public about how genetic testing has historically been used as a weapon
against Native communities, but instead she ``helped perpetuate a very
dangerous idea.''

It has pushed Ms. Barnes, a self-described liberal, to make something of
a personal pledge: She will never vote for Ms. Warren under any
circumstance, including in an election against Mr. Trump.

Not even an apology --- at this point --- would help.

``She's had six years to apologize,'' she said.

\hypertarget{our-2020-election-guide}{%
\section{Our 2020 Election Guide}\label{our-2020-election-guide}}

Updated Aug. 20, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{convention-recap}{%
  \subsection{Convention Recap}\label{convention-recap}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Joe Biden accepted the Democratic nomination, urging Americans to
    have faith that they could
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/20/us/politics/Joe-Biden-accepts-democratic-nomination.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{``overcome
    this season of darkness.''}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{news-analysis}{%
  \subsection{News Analysis}\label{news-analysis}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Looming over Mr. Biden's nomination was the ever-present shadow of
    another man who's poised to dominate the campaign:
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/20/us/politics/biden-dnc-speech-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Donald
    J. Trump}.
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{keep-up-with-our-coverage}{%
  \subsection{Keep Up With Our
  Coverage}\label{keep-up-with-our-coverage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Get an
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{email}
    recapping the day's news
  \end{itemize}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Download our mobile app on
    \href{https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nytimes/id284862083?ls=1\&mat_click_id=5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\&referrer=mat_click_id\%3D5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\%26link_click_id\%3D722930677036718082}{iOS}
    and
    \href{http://a.localytics.com/android?id=com.nytimes.android\&referrer=utm_source\%3Dother_nyt_mobile_web\%26utm_medium\%3DWeb\%2520page\%26utm_term\%3DGeneral\%2520Mobile\%2520Page\%26utm_campaign\%3DNYT\%2520Mobile\%2520General\%2520Page}{Android}
    and turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
