Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/world/europe}{Europe}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/world/europe}{Europe}\textbar{}Spain's Coronavirus Crisis
Accelerated as Warnings Went Unheeded

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{the-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=558520d0-f1c9-11ea-8e0c-1398ceb9913f\&variant=undefined}{The
Coronavirus
Outbreak}}{The Coronavirus Outbreak}}\label{the-coronavirus-outbreak}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  live\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/08/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=558520d1-f1c9-11ea-8e0c-1398ceb9913f\&variant=undefined}{Latest
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=558547e0-f1c9-11ea-8e0c-1398ceb9913f\&variant=undefined}{Maps
  and Cases}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=558547e1-f1c9-11ea-8e0c-1398ceb9913f\&variant=undefined}{Vaccine
  Tracker}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/02/your-money/eviction-moratorium-covid.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=558547e2-f1c9-11ea-8e0c-1398ceb9913f\&variant=undefined}{Eviction
  Moratorium}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/09/02/magazine/food-insecurity-hunger-us.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=558547e3-f1c9-11ea-8e0c-1398ceb9913f\&variant=undefined}{American
  Hunger}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{spains-coronavirus-crisis-accelerated-as-warnings-went-unheeded}{%
\section{Spain's Coronavirus Crisis Accelerated as Warnings Went
Unheeded}\label{spains-coronavirus-crisis-accelerated-as-warnings-went-unheeded}}

The Spanish epidemic has become a painful example of the tendency of one
government after another to ignore the experiences of countries where
the virus has already struck.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/04/03/world/00virus-spain11/merlin_171225345_54494245-b49a-41cf-8100-203e6f388980-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/raphael-minder}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/10/15/multimedia/author-raphael-minder/author-raphael-minder-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/raphael-minder}{Raphael
Minder}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Published April 7, 2020Updated Aug. 31, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

MADRID --- At the end of January, a German tourist became
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/31/world/europe/coronavirus-covid-spain-second-wave.html}{Spain's}
first
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/23/world/europe/spain-coronavirus-reopening.html}{coronavirus}
patient. At the time, the health threat seemed for the nation as remote
as the tiny Spanish island of La Gomera, where he was treated. Two weeks
later, the German walked out of hospital, and Spain celebrated being
again
``\href{https://www.lavanguardia.com/vida/20200215/473560105026/espana-coronavirus-libre-alta-casos-registrados.html}{virus
free}.''

It proved a very brief respite. But even as more cases surfaced, Spanish
officials continued to stress that the coronavirus was being imported,
notably onto another island
by\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/02/26/world/europe/spain-coronavirus.html}{tourists
from Italy}, where hospitals were already under siege. The story line
was that Spain faced an external threat, but did not risk a domestic
epidemic.

But then on Feb. 26, a resident of Seville, who had not done any
\href{https://www.eldiario.es/sociedad/positivo-coronavirus-Sevilla-contagio-Espana_0_999850843.html}{traveling},
tested positive. A week later, another man in the region of Valencia
became Spain's first coronavirus victim, starting a grim count that is
approaching 14,000 dead. Spain now ranks second in the world, behind the
United States, in total number of cases.

Spain's crisis has demonstrated that one symptom of the virus, by now as
persistent as the fevers, aches and labored breathing it brings, has
been the tendency of one government after another to ignore the
experiences of countries where the virus has struck before it.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/04/01/world/00virus-spain7/merlin_170502510_00070eb2-c0ab-408e-936b-0808c913c32c-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Starting with China, the virus has skipped across the globe, crossing
the threshold of one million infections worldwide last week. But as in
most nations, the Spanish authorities initially treated the virus as an
external threat, rather than considering that their country could be the
next domino to fall.

\emph{{[}Update:}
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/07/world/asia/wuhan-coronavirus.html}{\emph{China
ends Wuhan lockdown, but normal life remains a distant
dream}}\emph{.{]}}

The epidemic has now forced Spaniards to confront the kind of struggle
that could be recalled only by those old enough to have lived through
the Spanish Civil War of the 1930s.

Health care unions are taking the authorities to court for not
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/video/world/europe/100000007051789/coronavirus-ppe-shortage-health-care-workers.html}{protecting
them}--- more of their members have been infected in Spain than anywhere
else in the world, sometimes even forcing doctors and nurses to use
garbage bags in place of medical gowns. Patients have been sleeping in
hospital corridors.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/04/02/world/europe/COVER-3/COVER-3-videoSixteenByNineJumbo1600.jpg}

In Madrid, the country's largest skating rink became an emergency morgue
while its main exhibition center was turned into a field hospital, which
opened in what health unions described as disastrous
\href{https://elpais.com/espana/madrid/2020-03-30/sanitarios-y-sindicatos-denuncian-el-desastre-del-gran-hospital-de-campana-de-ifema.html}{work
conditions}. In one of the most gruesome episodes in this crisis,
Spanish soldiers found older residents abandoned or dead in their
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/25/world/europe/Spain-coronavirus-nursing-homes.html}{nursing
home beds}.

``It's been shocking for a society to face a situation only known to
those who remember Spain coming out of the war,'' said Cristina Monge, a
professor of sociology at the University of Zaragoza. For many others,
she added, ``this kind of scenario was until now pure science fiction.''

Image

The Spanish Army was deployed in a remote village near Toledo to
disinfect an outpatient clinic in March.Credit...Gianfranco Tripodo for
The New York Times

As a result, the government of Prime Minister Pedro SÃ¡nchez has faced
criticism for not prohibiting mass gatherings sooner, and for not
stockpiling medical equipment as soon as the number of cases reached
several hundred in northern Italy in late February.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-the-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/08/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: The Coronavirus
Outbreak}}{Latest Updates: The Coronavirus Outbreak}}\label{latest-updates-the-coronavirus-outbreak}}

Updated 2020-09-08T11:04:36.368Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/08/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-4a77847f}{As
  senators return to Washington, an impasse over a virus relief package
  looms.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/08/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-679303d7}{Nine
  drugmakers pledge to thoroughly vet any coronavirus vaccine.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/08/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-1c973131}{`The
  lockdown killed my father': Farmer suicides add to India's virus
  misery.}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/08/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

More live coverage:
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/08/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Markets}

Spanish officials have defended their actions by highlighting the
shortcomings of other nations, and there is no doubt that Spain has
company in its tragedy. But the progress of the virus in Spain has not
been forgiving of the government's response.

Even as Italy
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/08/world/europe/italy-coronavirus-quarantine.html}{locked
down its northern regions on March 8}, Spain's first coronavirus
\href{https://elpais.com/sociedad/2020-03-06/mas-de-60-personas-se-contagiaron-a-la-vez-en-un-funeral-en-vitoria.html}{cluster}had
already emerged among participants of a funeral service. Mr. SÃ¡nchez's
government did not put the country under the highest
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/13/world/europe/spain-coronavirus-emergency.html}{level
of alert} and impose a nationwide lockdown until March 14.

\emph{{[}Analysis:}
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/03/world/europe/coronavirus-language-confusion.html}{\emph{Peaks,
testing and lockdowns: How coronavirus vocabulary causes
confusion}}\emph{.{]}}

Opposition politicians have since charged that it was too late. ``Late
in comparison with which countries?'' Prime Minister SÃ¡nchez challenged
lawmakers in Congress.

Italy, Britain and France, he noted, declared their own lockdowns only
once they had more infections than Spain. He stressed that International
Women's Day, when 120,000 gathered in Madrid on March 8, had also been
celebrated on the streets of Brussels, Berlin, Vienna and Paris.

The event has widely been blamed for catapulting the spread of the virus
in the capital. Three Spanish government ministers who led the women's
rally later tested positive for the virus, as did Mr. SÃ¡nchez's wife and
mother.

``It is evident that with what we know today, all of us would have acted
differently,'' Mr. SÃ¡nchez said.

No doubt, the government's response to the virus was complicated by the
diffuse nature of Spain's political system, in which the country's 17
regions progressively gained more autonomy, including the management of
hospitals, after Spain adopted a new Constitution in 1978.

Image

Even as the virus was spreading, the government allowed some 120,000
people to gather in Madrid to celebrate International Women's Day last
month.Credit...Pierre-Philippe Marcou/Agence France-Presse --- Getty
Images

It also did not help that the emergency was foisted on a new and fragile
coalition government, Spain's first. Mr. SÃ¡nchez barely scraped into
office in January, after an inconclusive national election, and his
Socialists now share power with their erstwhile rivals, the far-left
Unidas Podemos party.

The coalition partners bickered over how much financial support Spain
could afford to give to those left idle if ordered to stay home. By the
time Mr. SÃ¡nchez declared a national lockdown, several regional
politicians had already announced their own clampdown measures.

The gap between regional and national decision-making also encouraged
many wealthy Madrid residents to hurry to their
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/29/world/europe/rich-coronavirus-second-homes.html?searchResultPosition=1\&fbclid=IwAR0YsBYnhBLvSmo73JjCjfG73mNYyFpq6eCF_KCZQSzumlZa0v7yK6y2ORA}{seaside
homes}, once all Madrid schools had been shut, at the risk of further
spreading a virus that was already firmly embedded in Spain's capital.

``A new and fragmented government starts with a huge disadvantage in
this kind of crisis situation, because it requires quick and forceful
decisions to be taken without constantly worrying about whether somebody
else is gaining a political advantage,'' said Toni RoldÃ¡n, a Spanish
economist and former lawmaker from the Ciudadanos party.

As a measure of the difficulties, Quim Torra, the separatist leader in
northeastern Catalonia, refused even to sign a joint declaration with
Madrid on coordinating the lockdown with the national government.

Fernando RodrÃ­guez Artalejo, an epidemiologist and university professor,
said Spain should not be judged harshly over its response to a pandemic
that every government had passively watched unfold in a neighboring
country ``as if watching a movie.''

Spain watched Italy, he acknowledged, but with the mitigating factor
that many scientists believed until recently that asymptomatic people
were probably not contagious.

``The idea was that the authorities just needed to track the cases and
identify the people whom they had been in contact with,'' he said.
``This doctrine is now gone, but too late for Spain.''

Even so, Spain's main neighbor has fared much better so far. Despite
sharing a 750-mile border with Spain, Portugal passed 200 coronavirus
deaths last week just as Spain reached 10,000.

There, another Socialist minority government leader, Prime Minister
AntÃ³nio Costa, has seen opposition politicians close ranks behind him.
Mr. Costa has been warning that Portugal could face more pain, but Dr.
RodrÃ­guez Artalejo said that Portugal so far deserved admiration.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{}

\hypertarget{the-coronavirus-outbreak-}{%
\subsubsection{The Coronavirus Outbreak
âº}\label{the-coronavirus-outbreak-}}

\hypertarget{frequently-asked-questions}{%
\paragraph{Frequently Asked
Questions}\label{frequently-asked-questions}}

Updated September 4, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{what-are-the-symptoms-of-coronavirus}{%
  \paragraph{What are the symptoms of
  coronavirus?}\label{what-are-the-symptoms-of-coronavirus}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    In the beginning, the coronavirus
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/coronavirus-facts-history.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq\#link-6817bab5}{seemed
    like it was primarily a respiratory illness}~--- many patients had
    fever and chills, were weak and tired, and coughed a lot, though
    some people don't show many symptoms at all. Those who seemed
    sickest had pneumonia or acute respiratory distress syndrome and
    received supplemental oxygen. By now, doctors have identified many
    more symptoms and syndromes. In April,
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/27/health/coronavirus-symptoms-cdc.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{the
    C.D.C. added to the list of early signs}~sore throat, fever, chills
    and muscle aches. Gastrointestinal upset, such as diarrhea and
    nausea, has also been observed. Another telltale sign of infection
    may be a sudden, profound diminution of one's
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/22/health/coronavirus-symptoms-smell-taste.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{sense
    of smell and taste.}~Teenagers and young adults in some cases have
    developed painful red and purple lesions on their fingers and toes
    --- nicknamed ``Covid toe'' --- but few other serious symptoms.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{why-is-it-safer-to-spend-time-together-outside}{%
  \paragraph{Why is it safer to spend time together
  outside?}\label{why-is-it-safer-to-spend-time-together-outside}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/15/us/coronavirus-what-to-do-outside.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{Outdoor
    gatherings}~lower risk because wind disperses viral droplets, and
    sunlight can kill some of the virus. Open spaces prevent the virus
    from building up in concentrated amounts and being inhaled, which
    can happen when infected people exhale in a confined space for long
    stretches of time, said Dr. Julian W. Tang, a virologist at the
    University of Leicester.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{why-does-standing-six-feet-away-from-others-help}{%
  \paragraph{Why does standing six feet away from others
  help?}\label{why-does-standing-six-feet-away-from-others-help}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    The coronavirus spreads primarily through droplets from your mouth
    and nose, especially when you cough or sneeze. The C.D.C., one of
    the organizations using that measure,
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/14/health/coronavirus-six-feet.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{bases
    its recommendation of six feet}~on the idea that most large droplets
    that people expel when they cough or sneeze will fall to the ground
    within six feet. But six feet has never been a magic number that
    guarantees complete protection. Sneezes, for instance, can launch
    droplets a lot farther than six feet,
    \href{https://jamanetwork.com/journals/jama/fullarticle/2763852}{according
    to a recent study}. It's a rule of thumb: You should be safest
    standing six feet apart outside, especially when it's windy. But
    keep a mask on at all times, even when you think you're far enough
    apart.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{i-have-antibodies-am-i-now-immune}{%
  \paragraph{I have antibodies. Am I now
  immune?}\label{i-have-antibodies-am-i-now-immune}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    As of right
    now,\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/22/health/covid-antibodies-herd-immunity.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{~that
    seems likely, for at least several months.}~There have been
    frightening accounts of people suffering what seems to be a second
    bout of Covid-19. But experts say these patients may have a
    drawn-out course of infection, with the virus taking a slow toll
    weeks to months after initial exposure.~People infected with the
    coronavirus typically
    \href{https://www.nature.com/articles/s41586-020-2456-9}{produce}~immune
    molecules called antibodies, which are
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/07/health/coronavirus-antibody-prevalence.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{protective
    proteins made in response to an
    infection}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/07/health/coronavirus-antibody-prevalence.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{.
    These antibodies may}~last in the body
    \href{https://www.nature.com/articles/s41591-020-0965-6}{only two to
    three months}, which may seem worrisome, but that's~perfectly normal
    after an acute infection subsides, said Dr. Michael Mina, an
    immunologist at Harvard University. It may be possible to get the
    coronavirus again, but it's highly unlikely that it would be
    possible in a short window of time from initial infection or make
    people sicker the second time.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{what-are-my-rights-if-i-am-worried-about-going-back-to-work}{%
  \paragraph{What are my rights if I am worried about going back to
  work?}\label{what-are-my-rights-if-i-am-worried-about-going-back-to-work}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Employers have to provide
    \href{https://www.osha.gov/SLTC/covid-19/standards.html}{a safe
    workplace}~with policies that protect everyone equally.
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/coronavirus-money-unemployment.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{And
    if one of your co-workers tests positive for the coronavirus, the
    C.D.C.}~has said that
    \href{https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/community/guidance-business-response.html}{employers
    should tell their employees}~-\/- without giving you the sick
    employee's name -\/- that they may have been exposed to the virus.
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

``I think they acted efficiently and at the same time as us, but when
their epidemic was not so widespread,'' he said.

Image

Passeig de Gracia, one of the most famous touristic sights of Barcelona,
was nearly empty on March 14 after the government declared a nationwide
lockdown.Credit...Maria Contreras Coll for The New York Times

The same solidarity has been sorely missing in Spain. As Madrid
accounted for half of the nationwide death toll, Salvador Illa, the
health minister, made ``a call for solidarity with the Madrid region.''

But that did not lead to a significant shift of medical equipment from
other regions, nor was there any follow-up on his suggestion that Madrid
patients could be moved to less affected regions.

By contrast, France's government has been evacuating some patients by
\href{https://www.france24.com/en/20200326-france-stages-first-train-evacuation-of-coronavirus-patients}{high-speed
train} from Paris and other saturated regions.

``I think each region has acted independently, and that makes any
coordination or solidarity initiative very difficult,'' said Carlos Rus,
the president of ASPE, an association that represents Spain's private
hospitals.

The procurement of emergency equipment has been especially dire. The
problem was highlighted when the health ministry acquired, via an
undisclosed Spanish intermediary, 640,000 test kits from a Chinese
company whose initial shipment proved unusable.

``We are working within a robust and large health care system that
unfortunately gets slowed down by plenty of bureaucracy, including when
it comes to buying anything,'' said Ãngela HernÃ¡ndez Puente, a doctor
and labor union official in Madrid.

The coronavirus has spurred a worldwide debate about how each government
measures its impact, particularly since many countries have done minimal
testing for the virus. Governments have also differed in how they count
their coronavirus dead, for instance by ignoring those who never entered
a hospital.

But even amid such confusion, Spain's testing regime has been opaque.

Guadalupe Moreno, who works for Statista, a German data company, said
she considered Spain's testing data to be too incomplete to feature in
her comparative research.

``It seems that the Spanish authorities are themselves no longer clear
about how many tests are being conducted in Spain,'' she said.

Even so, about 15 percent of Spain's population is estimated to already
have been infected --- by far the highest proportion among 11 European
countries included in a
\href{https://www.imperial.ac.uk/media/imperial-college/medicine/sph/ide/gida-fellowships/Imperial-College-COVID19-Europe-estimates-and-NPI-impact-30-03-2020.pdf}{recent
study} by scientists from Imperial College London.

The biggest victims of the confused response, beyond those left sickened
or dead by the virus, are Spain's doctors and nurses, who themselves
have been infected in staggering numbers.

Image

Medical workers in Barcelona returning applause to residents who have
applauded them. Health care professionals have denounced the failure of
their authorities to protect them adequately.Credit...Samuel Aranda for
The New York Times

They have received an outpouring of solidarity and daily applause from
the balconies of Spain's 47 million confined residents, the vast
majority of whom have respected a strict lockdown that will last until
at least April 26.

``This crisis is likely to strengthen the horizontal bonds in our
society, between citizens who are making big sacrifices, while weakening
further the vertical one with the leadership at the top,'' forecast
Narciso Michavila, a sociologist and the president of GD3, a Spanish
polling firm.

Damage from the distrust may already have been done. In one of his
company's recent surveys, published in the newspaper ABC, almost
two-thirds of people accused the government of
\href{https://www.abc.es/espana/abci-cada-tres-espanoles-creen-gobierno-esta-ocultando-informacion-202003300248_noticia.html}{hiding
information}about the epidemic.

``No politician can be held responsible for creating this crisis,'' Mr.
Michavila said. ``But some probably will be blamed for pouring oil
rather than using a bucket of water to put out the fire.''

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{Â©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
