Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}Joe Biden's Campaign Was
Cash Poor. He Seized Control of the Nomination Anyway.

\url{https://nyti.ms/33E0OAV}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/11/us/trump-vs-biden?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Election
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/election-states-biden-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Paths
  to 270}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/us/elections/2020-presidential-election-calendar.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Key
  Dates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/31/us/politics/vote-by-mail-deadlines.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Voting
  by Mail}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Politics
  Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{joe-bidens-campaign-was-cash-poor-he-seized-control-of-the-nomination-anyway}{%
\section{Joe Biden's Campaign Was Cash Poor. He Seized Control of the
Nomination
Anyway.}\label{joe-bidens-campaign-was-cash-poor-he-seized-control-of-the-nomination-anyway}}

New figures show just how big a financial hole the former vice president
was in before he pulled off a remarkable turnaround in the Democratic
race.

\hypertarget{how-much-the-candidates-raised-and-spent}{%
\subsubsection{How Much the Candidates Raised and
Spent}\label{how-much-the-candidates-raised-and-spent}}

By Rachel Shorey and Denise Lu·Note: Numbers are cumulative. Amount
raised is from individual contributors. Mr. Biden entered the race in
the second quarter of 2019. \textbar{} Source: Federal Election
Commission

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/shane-goldmacher}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/07/27/multimedia/author-shane-goldmacher/author-shane-goldmacher-thumbLarge.png}}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/rachel-shorey}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/06/13/multimedia/author-rachel-shorey/author-rachel-shorey-thumbLarge.jpg}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/shane-goldmacher}{Shane
Goldmacher} and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/rachel-shorey}{Rachel
Shorey}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  March 21, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. has taken command of the
Democratic primary for president despite running on a shoestring budget
in a contest where Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont raised more money
in February alone, \$47.6 million, than Mr. Biden had spent in his
previous five months combined, new federal records show.

The latest disclosures from the Federal Election Commission reveal in
stark detail just how badly Mr. Biden was outspent by his rivals before
a decisive victory in South Carolina on Feb. 29 turned around his
candidacy. Days later, Mr. Biden routed Mr. Sanders and others on Super
Tuesday, and he has since built a nearly insurmountable delegate lead.

``These races tend to have a moment where the thing just breaks,'' said
Steve Schale, a Democratic strategist and executive director of a
pro-Biden super PAC.

Outgunned on the airwaves and out-organized on the ground, Mr. Biden's
campaign succeeded in large part because of the overwhelming focus of
Democratic voters on beating President Trump and the firm belief among
many that Mr. Biden would be the party's strongest challenger.

For months, Biden advisers had said they just needed enough cash to
compete, and all the way through the end of February, Mr. Biden was
racing to conserve that cash.

He spent only \$13.1 million~last month --- less than the billionaire
Michael R. Bloomberg was spending on average per day. During the same
period, Mr. Sanders spent more than twice as much on digital and
television ads alone as Mr. Biden spent on his entire campaign operation
---~his payroll, his ads, his consultants, his events.

In fact, Mr. Biden spent the least money in February of the seven
candidates who had qualified to be on the debate stage. For the duration
of the campaign, Mr. Biden ranks as only the sixth-biggest spender in
the Democratic field as of the end of February. The weak fund-raising in
Mr. Biden's first 10 months as a candidate --- he had only \$12.1
million in the bank entering March --- could be a concern for Democrats
headed into a general election against President Trump's campaign
operation, which has steadily banked money for the last three years.

Mr. Trump's campaign alone --- not counting his joint operations with
the Republican National Committee --- reported more than \$94 million
still in his treasury at the end of February, more than Mr. Biden had
raised in total since he entered the race in April 2019.

In addition, the coronavirus pandemic has
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/12/us/politics/coronavirus-2020-campaign.html}{put
on hold indefinitely Mr. Biden's ability to host in-person fund-raisers}
and is widely expected to sharply slow the pace of small online
donations, as well.

In the Democratic race, Mr. Bloomberg, the former New York City mayor,
had spent the most,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/20/us/politics/bloomberg-campaign-900-million.html}{a
record-setting \$907 million}, including accrued bills. Mr. Bloomberg's
sum --- in only 100 days --- is more than what President Barack Obama
spent on his entire 2012 re-election campaign.

Mr. Bloomberg spent more than double
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/08/27/us/politics/tom-steyer-debate.html}{the
billionaire Tom Steyer} (\$338 million), who spent more than double Mr.
Sanders (\$163 million), who spent more than double Mr. Biden (\$76
million).

Senator Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts (\$111 million) and former
Mayor Pete Buttigieg of South Bend, Ind. (\$91 million), also both had
spent more than Mr. Biden by the end of February, records show.

All but Mr. Sanders have since dropped out.

Advisers to Mr. Sanders have said he is assessing the future of his
campaign after lopsided losses last Tuesday in Florida, Arizona and
Illinois. Mr. Sanders has since ceased advertising on Facebook and
stopped directly asking supporters to give money to his campaign. He
instead raised \$2 million from his supporters for charities helping
those affected by the coronavirus.

\hypertarget{how-much-cash-candidates-had-at-the-beginning-of-each-month}{%
\subsubsection{How Much Cash Candidates Had at the Beginning of Each
Month}\label{how-much-cash-candidates-had-at-the-beginning-of-each-month}}

By Rachel Shorey and Denise Lu·Note: Mr. Biden entered the race in the
second quarter of 2019. \textbar{} Source: Federal Election Commission

There are a seemingly endless number of ways to measure Mr. Biden's
financial disadvantages in a Democratic primary he is now the
prohibitive favorite to win.

Mr. Biden's fund-raising was so bad in February that he fell behind
Senator Amy Klobuchar of Minnesota that month, as well. She had raised
\$18.7 million before dropping out ahead of Super Tuesday; Mr. Biden had
raised \$18.1 million.

Mr. Biden had begun last month with a disappointing fourth-place finish
in Iowa, dropped to fifth place in New Hampshire and nudged upward to
second in Nevada. Big donors sat on the sidelines, drawn to the idea of
the self-funding Mr. Bloomberg, at least until his own
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/02/20/us/politics/bloomberg-nevada-debate.html}{disastrous
debate performance}. Small contributors were filling the coffers of Mr.
Biden's rivals.

Mr. Biden had been on a trajectory for an even worse fund-raising
showing in February until a surge following his South Carolina win. He
said that he had raised \$5 million in the 24 hours around that Feb. 29
election, lifting his fund-raising total substantially.

His advisers say that his financial fortunes have shifted since South
Carolina. Mr. Biden said last Sunday that he had raised \$33 million in
the first 15 days of March --- far more than he had raised in any full
previous month.

``A lot of the people who always gave us money didn't because they were
doubters,'' said Steve Cozen, a friend of Mr. Biden's for decades and a
fund-raiser for both his campaign and super PAC. ``They were doubters
until South Carolina and Super Tuesday. Now they've opened their
pocketbooks, and we're doing great.''

Still, the severity of the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/21/business/economy/coronavirus-recession.html}{economic
impact} of the coronavirus could significantly affect campaigns going
forward.

Mr. Biden's campaign has made one notable shift this week: He has begun
to actively raise general election funds, allowing all the donors who
had previously contributed the maximum \$2,800 for the primary to give
another \$2,800 for the general election.

Mr. Biden received relatively little assistance from the super PAC Unite
the Country during the crucial month of February. The group spent about
\$3.8 million and raised \$4.2 million that month, with about half of
that money coming on Feb. 28 in the form of two \$1 million checks, one
from Reid Hoffman, the Silicon Valley entrepreneur who is a co-founder
of LinkedIn, and one from Yaron Minsky, a programmer at the
stock-trading firm Jane Street.

The biggest super PAC donations in February went to Ms. Warren,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/02/27/us/politics/elizabeth-warren-super-pac.html}{who
had been one of the party's most outspoken critics of the influence of
big money.} Just ahead of the Nevada caucuses, a mysterious super PAC
spent more than \$15 million on her behalf.

The donors to that group were unmasked late Friday, and almost all the
money --- \$14.6 million of it --- came from a single donor: Karla
Jurvetson, a Silicon Valley contributor who is a board member of Emily's
List, the group that supports Democratic women.

\hypertarget{our-2020-election-guide}{%
\section{Our 2020 Election Guide}\label{our-2020-election-guide}}

Updated ~Sept. 11, 2020

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

\begin{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{the-latest}{%
  \subsection{The Latest}\label{the-latest}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Joe Biden and President Trump put
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/11/us/politics/shanksville-trump-biden.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{hostilities
    on hold today to travel to ground zero and then to Shanksville, Pa.,
    where they separately honored 9/11 victims}.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{how-to-win-270}{%
  \subsection{How to Win 270}\label{how-to-win-270}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Joe Biden and Donald Trump need 270 electoral votes to reach the
    White House. Try building
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/election-states-biden-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{your
    own coalition of battleground states}~to see potential outcomes.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{voting-by-mail}{%
  \subsection{Voting by Mail}\label{voting-by-mail}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Will you have enough time to vote by mail in your state? Yes, but
    it's risky to procrastinate.
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/31/us/politics/vote-by-mail-deadlines.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Check
    your state's deadline.}
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/joe-biden.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{}

    \hypertarget{joe-biden}{%
    \section{Joe Biden}\label{joe-biden}}

    \hypertarget{democrat}{%
    \subsection{Democrat}\label{democrat}}

    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/donald-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{}

    \hypertarget{donald-trump}{%
    \section{Donald Trump}\label{donald-trump}}

    \hypertarget{republican}{%
    \subsection{Republican}\label{republican}}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \hypertarget{keep-up-with-our-coverage}{%
  \subsection{Keep Up With Our
  Coverage}\label{keep-up-with-our-coverage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Get an
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{email}~recapping
    the day's news
  \item
    Download our mobile app on
    \href{https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nytimes/id284862083?ls=1\&mat_click_id=5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\&referrer=mat_click_id\%3D5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\%26link_click_id\%3D722930677036718082}{iOS}~and
    \href{http://a.localytics.com/android?id=com.nytimes.android\&referrer=utm_source\%3Dother_nyt_mobile_web\%26utm_medium\%3DWeb\%2520page\%26utm_term\%3DGeneral\%2520Mobile\%2520Page\%26utm_campaign\%3DNYT\%2520Mobile\%2520General\%2520Page}{Android}~and
    turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
