Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/nyregion}{New York}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/nyregion}{New York}\textbar{}De Blasio Quits Presidential
Race; Trump Gloats

\url{https://nyti.ms/32SQLX9}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Election
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/biden-vice-president-2020.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Biden's
  V.P. Search}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/07/24/us/politics/trump-biden-campaign-donors.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Map
  of Donations}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/elections/delegate-count-primary-results.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Delegate
  Count}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2019/us/politics/2020-presidential-candidates.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{The
  Candidates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Politics
  Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{de-blasio-quits-presidential-race-trump-gloats}{%
\section{De Blasio Quits Presidential Race; Trump
Gloats}\label{de-blasio-quits-presidential-race-trump-gloats}}

Mayor Bill de Blasio of New York City, whose run for the Democratic
nomination was often described as quixotic, never gained traction.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2019/09/21/nyregion/21deblasio1-prinjt/20deblasioNEW-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/jeffery-c-mays}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/07/18/multimedia/author-jeffery-c-mays/author-jeffery-c-mays-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/jeffery-c-mays}{Jeffery C. Mays}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Sept. 20, 2019
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Mayor Bill de Blasio, who entered the Democratic presidential race on
the premise that his brand of liberal urban leadership in New York City
could appeal on a national scale, said on Friday that he was ending his
candidacy.

Mr. de Blasio had hoped to seize the progressive energy rippling through
the Democratic Party, using his accomplishments in New York ---
including the introduction of universal prekindergarten and paid sick
leave and raising the minimum wage --- to make his case.

But he remained in the bottom tier among nearly two dozen candidates,
unable to match the popularity of Senators Bernie Sanders and Elizabeth
Warren, the prime architects of his party's leftward shift.

Mr. de Blasio said on Friday that he was satisfied that his message
seemed to resonate with people he met on the campaign trail. But his
continued candidacy, in the face of dismal poll and fund-raising
numbers, drew criticism from many circles, especially in New York.

``I feel like I've contributed all I can to this primary campaign, and
it's clearly not my time,'' he said during an appearance on MSNBC's
``Morning Joe'' program. ``I'm going to end my presidential campaign,
continue my work as mayor of New York City, and I'm going to keep
speaking up for working people.''

Mr. de Blasio had focused his run on trying to improve the lives of
those people, proposing a
\href{https://www.buzzfeednews.com/article/billdeblasio/bill-de-blasio-working-peoples-bill-of-rights}{``workers'
Bill of Rights''} to guarantee Americans paid time off and medical
leave, and vowing to \href{https://www.taxthehell.com/}{``tax the
hell''} out of wealthy people to pay for his plan.

He tried to position himself as the most suitable Democrat to take on
President Trump, given his familiarity with Mr. Trump as a New York real
estate magnate. Mr. de Blasio branded the president ``Con Don,'' and
highlighted how he had already fought the Trump administration on issues
like climate change and immigration.

None of it worked.

Mr. de Blasio's campaign, seen
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/05/10/nyregion/de-blasio-2020-president-ny.html}{as
a quixotic, 100-to-1 shot} from its inception, never gained traction,
not even in New York. Fliers appeared at the gym in Park Slope, Brooklyn
where he works out, urging him not to run (and to wipe down the
equipment after he finished using it).

A recent poll of registered New York State Democrats by Siena College
found that fewer than 1 percent favored the mayor as the Democratic
nominee.

Mr. Trump greeted the news with sarcasm, characterizing Mr. de Blasio's
withdrawal as ``really big political news, perhaps the biggest story in
years!''

``NYC is devastated," the president wrote on Twitter. ``He's coming
home!''

At a news conference in the Oval Office, Mr. Trump continued to needle
Mr. de Blasio, calling him a ``part-time mayor'' who could now ``work a
little bit harder.''

\hypertarget{latest-updates-2020-election}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: 2020
Election}}{Latest Updates: 2020 Election}}\label{latest-updates-2020-election}}

Updated 2020-08-01T01:26:45.732Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-29fdff45}{Kamala
  Harris, a top vice-presidential contender, confronts double
  standards.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-13ec3d9c}{Karen
  Bass and Susan Rice are rising on Biden's vice-presidential
  shortlist.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-49e9a016}{Trump
  says Russian bounties to kill U.S. troops `never took place.'}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

``He dropped out of the presidential race a little while ago,'' Mr.
Trump told reporters. ``Too bad, he had tremendous potential. He only
had one real asset. You know what it was? Height. Other than that, he
had nothing going.''

Mr. de Blasio's initial campaign finance filing showed that he had
raised only \$1.1 million, with much of the money coming from the sole
city union supporting him. The union --- like some of Mr. de Blasio's
other donors --- had, or could in the future have, business before the
city.

In one fund-raising period, another Democratic presidential hopeful,
Mayor Pete Buttigieg of South Bend,
Ind.\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/03/25/nyregion/pete-buttigieg-2020-de-blasio-mayor.html}{raised
twice as much money from New York City residents} as Mr. de Blasio
raised nationally.

Even as better-financed rivals like Senator Kirsten Gillibrand of New
York
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/aponline/2019/08/28/us/politics/ap-us-election-2020-gillibrand.html}{dropped
out of the race} after concluding that it was ``important to know when
it's not your time,'' Mr. de Blasio held on and argued that one viral
moment on social media could give his campaign a lift.

``People go from unheard-of to totally famous in 72 hours in America
now,'' Mr. de Blasio said at a news conference in September, when he
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/09/04/nyregion/de-blasio-2020-president.html}{first
acknowledged} that the end of his candidacy might be in sight.

But it soon became apparent to the mayor that he would not qualify for
the fourth Democratic debate next month after failing to qualify for the
previous debate, in September.

``As we went over the last few weeks, every day that passed, it got
tougher,'' Mr. de Blasio said at a news conference outside Gracie
Mansion on Friday, standing next to his wife, Chirlane McCray. ``There
wasn't more progress. We were watching the polling to see if anything
was moving. It just wasn't moving.''

Combative
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/08/08/nyregion/de-blasio-sean-hannity-fox-news.html?rref=collection\%2Fbyline\%2Fjeffery-c.-mays\&action=click\&contentCollection=undefined\&region=stream\&module=stream_unit\&version=latest\&contentPlacement=7\&pgtype=collection}{interviews
with the Fox News hosts Sean Hannity} and Tucker Carlson did not
increase his standings in the polls or his ability to raise money.
Protesters, upset that Mr. de Blasio had refused to fire the police
officer who placed Eric Garner in a chokehold before he died,
interrupted both a national debate and a CNN town hall where the mayor
was a participant.

``This is what democracy looks like and no one said it was pretty,'' the
mayor wrote on Twitter in response to the protest in July at the second
Democratic debate.

Even Mr. de Blasio's successes on the campaign trail were marred by
mishaps. After being praised for his performance at the first debate, in
Miami,
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/06/28/nyregion/de-blasio-che-guevara.html}{Mr.
de Blasio quoted the Cuban revolutionary Che Guevara}, during a union
protest the next day, angering members of the local anti-Castro Cuban
community.

New Yorkers repeatedly questioned whether Mr. de Blasio should travel
from rural Iowa to the Nevada desert to address small groups about the
travails of working people when the largest city in the United States
was facing serious problems like rising homelessness and a
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/01/31/nyregion/hud-nycha-deal.html}{public
housing crisis}.

The mayor's whereabouts became an issue in July, when a 13,000-volt
cable fire caused 72,000 New Yorkers to
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/07/15/nyregion/nyc-blackout-con-edison.html}{lose
power} in Manhattan. At the time, Mr. de Blasio was delivering a stump
speech at a union hall in Waterloo, Iowa, and
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/07/14/nyregion/bill-de-blasio-nyc-blackout.html?rref=collection\%2Fbyline\%2Fjeffery-c.-mays\&action=click\&contentCollection=undefined\&region=stream\&module=stream_unit\&version=latest\&contentPlacement=6\&pgtype=collection}{fretted}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/07/14/nyregion/bill-de-blasio-nyc-blackout.html?rref=collection\%2Fbyline\%2Fjeffery-c.-mays\&action=click\&contentCollection=undefined\&region=stream\&module=stream_unit\&version=latest\&contentPlacement=6\&pgtype=collection}{about
returning to the city}.

He offered a live update on CNN, and allowed Corey Johnson, the City
Council speaker
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/06/06/nyregion/corey-johnson-bill-deblasio.html}{and
a would-be successor}to Mr. de Blasio, to provide New Yorkers with
constant and precise updates via social media. The mayor was unable to
return to New York until the next day, hours after power had already
been restored.

``New Yorkers want their mayor to be a national figure, but they want
him to do it from the steps of City Hall because they want the garbage
picked up,'' said Sid Davidoff, a supporter of Mr. de Blasio's who was
deputy campaign manager for John V. Lindsay, the last person to run for
president while being New York City's mayor.

Scott M. Stringer, the New York City comptroller who plans to run for
mayor in 2021, said that Mr. de Blasio's presidential candidacy had
damaged his mayoralty.

``I think it's a genuine setback,'' Mr. Stringer said in an interview.
``He was chasing this notion of being a national progressive political
icon, but that ship had sailed in the name of Elizabeth Warren and
Bernie Sanders. He has the greatest job in the greatest city in the
world. He needs to come back and just govern the hell out of New York
City.''

Mr. de Blasio expressed no regrets over his failed campaign, asserting
that he was one of a few progressive candidates who had helped move the
Democratic agenda to the left.

Jon Paul Lupo, Mr. de Blasio's campaign manager, said that the mayor
would continue to try to influence national politics. Mr. Lupo said he
would now lead the mayor's federal fund-raising entity, Fairness PAC, as
Mr. de Blasio sought to raise money for progressive Democrats. It was
unclear whether the mayor would still travel the country.

On Thursday, the Federal Election Commission sent Mr. de Blasio's
campaign
\href{https://docquery.fec.gov/pdf/058/201909190300048058/201909190300048058.pdf}{a
letter} asking for an explanation of its use of money from his state
political action committee, NY Fairness PAC. A New York State ethics
panel is also
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/09/19/nyregion/de-blasio-2020-ethics.html?rref=collection\%2Fbyline\%2Fjeffery-c.-mays\&action=click\&contentCollection=undefined\&region=stream\&module=stream_unit\&version=latest\&contentPlacement=2\&pgtype=collection}{investigating}
the mayor's fund-raising practices.

As for his campaign, Mr. de Blasio said that if he had it to do again,
there was only one thing he would do differently: Enter the race sooner.

``I wish I had more time,'' he said. ``I wish I had more resources. I
think that would have made a difference. Earlier is better.''

\hypertarget{our-2020-election-guide}{%
\section{Our 2020 Election Guide}\label{our-2020-election-guide}}

Updated July 31, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{the-latest}{%
  \subsection{The Latest}\label{the-latest}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    President Trump's assault on the Postal Service is intersecting with
    his attacks on mail-in voting.
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/politics/trump-usps-mail-delays.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Voting
    rights groups say it is a recipe for disaster.}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{bidens-vp-search}{%
  \subsection{Biden's V.P. Search}\label{bidens-vp-search}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/biden-vice-president-2020.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Here
    are 13 women} who have been under consideration to be Joe Biden's
    running mate, and why each might be chosen --- and might not be.
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{keep-up-with-our-coverage}{%
  \subsection{Keep Up With Our
  Coverage}\label{keep-up-with-our-coverage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Get an
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{email}
    recapping the day's news
  \end{itemize}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Download our mobile app on
    \href{https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nytimes/id284862083?ls=1\&mat_click_id=5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\&referrer=mat_click_id\%3D5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\%26link_click_id\%3D722930677036718082}{iOS}
    and
    \href{http://a.localytics.com/android?id=com.nytimes.android\&referrer=utm_source\%3Dother_nyt_mobile_web\%26utm_medium\%3DWeb\%2520page\%26utm_term\%3DGeneral\%2520Mobile\%2520Page\%26utm_campaign\%3DNYT\%2520Mobile\%2520General\%2520Page}{Android}
    and turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
