Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}Republicans Aid Kanye West's
Bid to Get on the 2020 Ballot

\url{https://nyti.ms/2EOmhil}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/04/us/elections/results-arizona-kansas-michigan-missouri-primaries.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Latest
  Results}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/biden-vice-president-2020.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Biden's
  V.P. Search}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/07/24/us/politics/trump-biden-campaign-donors.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Map
  of Donations}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/delegate-count-primary-results.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Delegate
  Count}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/us/politics/2020-presidential-candidates.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{The
  Candidates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Politics
  Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{republicans-aid-kanye-wests-bid-to-get-on-the-2020-ballot}{%
\section{Republicans Aid Kanye West's Bid to Get on the 2020
Ballot}\label{republicans-aid-kanye-wests-bid-to-get-on-the-2020-ballot}}

At least four people involved in the effort to get Kanye West's name
before voters in several states have G.O.P. connections, renewing
questions about the aim of his campaign.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/04/us/politics/04KANYE/merlin_174748251_b5592810-884e-4313-95a3-a327a0a3c5a3-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Aug. 4, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

By Danny Hakim and Maggie Haberman

At least four people who have been active in Republican politics are
linked to Kanye West's attempt to get on the presidential ballot this
year. The connection raises questions about the aims of the
entertainer's effort and whether it is regarded within the G.O.P. as a
spoiler campaign that could aid President Trump, even as those close to
Mr. West have expressed concerns about his mental health as he enters
the political arena.

One operative, Mark Jacoby, is an executive at a company called Let the
Voters Decide, which has been collecting signatures for the West
campaign in
\href{https://www.tmz.com/2020/08/02/kanye-makes-play-to-get-on-presidential-ballot-in-ohio/}{three
states}. Mr. Jacoby
\href{https://www.cbsnews.com/news/signature-gatherer-arrested-in-voter-fraud/}{was
arrested} on voter fraud charges in 2008 while he was doing work for the
California Republican Party, and he later pleaded guilty to a
misdemeanor.

Mr. Jacoby, in a statement, said his company was nonpartisan and worked
for all political parties. ``We do not comment on any current clients,
but like all Americans, anyone who is qualified to stand for election
has the right to run,'' he said.

New York Magazine
\href{https://nymag.com/intelligencer/2020/08/two-people-linked-to-kanye-wests-campaign-have-ties-to-gop.html}{reported
Monday} evening on the campaign's links to two other people with
partisan ties. One is Gregg Keller, the former executive director of the
American Conservative Union, who has been
\href{https://twitter.com/Bencjacobs/status/1290368066946203648}{listed
as a contact} for the campaign in Arkansas. Mr. Keller, who did not
respond to a message seeking comment, is a Missouri-based strategist. He
was under consideration to be Mr. Trump's campaign manager in 2015, a
role that was ultimately filled by Corey Lewandowski, according to a
former campaign official.

Another person linked to the West campaign is Chuck Wilton, who
\href{https://www.vtgop.org/presidential-convention}{is listed} as a
convention delegate for Mr. Trump from Vermont and as an elector with
the West operation who could potentially cast an Electoral College vote
for Mr. West. Mr. Wilton could not be reached. He and his
\href{https://www.fsa.usda.gov/state-offices/Vermont/index}{wife,
Wendy}, a
\href{https://www.fsa.usda.gov/state-offices/Vermont/news-releases/2017/trump-administration-appoints-wendy-wilton-to-serve-as-state-executive-director-for-usdas-farm-service-agency-in-vermont}{Trump
appointee} at the United States Department of Agriculture, have been
\href{https://vermontdailychronicle.com/2020/05/05/maga-vt-campaign-endorses-candidates-to-national-convention/}{political
supporters} of the president. She hung up immediately when called at her
office.

Late Tuesday, a
\href{https://twitter.com/mattsmith_news/status/1290770377627631617}{local
reporter} in Madison, Wis., recorded a woman dropping off ballot
signatures for Mr. West. A
\href{https://slack-redir.net/link?url=https\%3A\%2F\%2Fwww.vice.com\%2Fen_us\%2Farticle\%2Fakzy3b\%2Fa-well-connected-gop-strategist-is-helping-kanye-west-get-on-the-ballot-in-wisconsin}{report
in Vice} identified the woman as a Republican elections lawyer, Lane
Ruhland. Ms. Ruhland worked for the Republican National Committee during
the 2016 presidential election recount in Wisconsin. A spokesman for the
law firm where she works, Husch Blackwell, said she was unavailable for
comment.

``It appears that the Kanye West campaign made a smart decision by
hiring an experienced election attorney,'' said Alesha Guenther, a
spokeswoman for the Wisconsin state Republican Party. ``We welcome Kanye
West and all other candidates who qualified for ballot access to the
race.''

\hypertarget{latest-updates-2020-election}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/04/us/elections/primary-election-michigan-arizona-kansas.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: 2020
Election}}{Latest Updates: 2020 Election}}\label{latest-updates-2020-election}}

Updated 2020-08-05T03:23:56.561Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/04/us/elections/primary-election-michigan-arizona-kansas.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-3924dd44}{Two
  G.O.P. Senate primaries offer --- what else? --- a test of loyalty to
  Trump.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/04/us/elections/primary-election-michigan-arizona-kansas.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-62a8e06b}{The
  military-style uniforms of federal agents who responded to the unrest
  in Portland will be replaced.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/04/us/elections/primary-election-michigan-arizona-kansas.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-32b39e33}{President
  Trump is suddenly a big supporter of mail-in voting --- in Florida.}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/04/us/elections/primary-election-michigan-arizona-kansas.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

The nature of the financial relationships between the West campaign and
the operatives, if any, was not immediately clear.

Mr. West was until recently a fervent supporter of Mr. Trump and said
they shared a
``\href{https://www.theguardian.com/music/2018/apr/25/kanye-west-donald-trump-dragon-energy}{dragon
energy},'' but he declared early last month that he would run for
president himself. A few days later, Mr. Trump
\href{https://thehill.com/homenews/administration/506875-trump-shouldnt-be-hard-for-kanye-west-to-take-away-votes-from-biden}{retweeted
a post}that said Mr. West could siphon votes from Joseph R. Biden Jr.,
who has clinched the Democratic nomination. ``That shouldn't be hard,''
Mr. Trump wrote. ``Corrupt Joe has done nothing good for Black people!''

Mr. West developed a relationship with Jared Kushner, the president's
son-in-law, after Mr. West's wife, Kim Kardashian West, worked with the
president on criminal justice reform efforts. Mr. Kushner declined to
comment, but a person close to him said that while Mr. West had
periodically reached out to him, Mr. Kushner hadn't been stoking a run
to divert votes away from Mr. Biden.

To be sure, if Mr. West's goal is to disrupt the general election
between Mr. Biden and Mr. Trump, he is going about it in a strange way.
For instance, some of the states where he has filed to get on the ballot
have been solidly red states, like Arkansas, where his presence would
almost certainly do little to change the general election equation. But
other states he is targeting, like Wisconsin, are seen as pivotal.

Soon after his announcement,
\href{https://www.forbes.com/sites/randalllane/2020/07/08/kanye-west-says-hes-done-with-trump-opens-up-about-white-house-bid-damaging-biden-and-everything-in-between/\#7c02799647aa}{he
explained} that he was going to use a Wakanda-like management approach,
referring to the fictional country from ``Black Panther.'' His running
mate, Michelle Tidball, is a self-described
``\href{https://www.vanityfair.com/style/2020/07/kanye-west-vice-president-michelle-tidball}{biblical
life coach}'' based in Cody, Wyo., where the Wests have a ranch. Ms.
Tidball,
\href{https://www.tmz.com/2020/07/11/kanye-west-vp-michelle-tidball-mental-health-background-audio-bio/}{according
to TMZ}, once advocated making beds and doing dishes as a way to treat
mental illness.

Mr. West has missed the filing deadlines in a number of states, and on
Tuesday he appeared to have
\href{https://www.courthousenews.com/kanye-west-withdraws-petition-to-get-on-njs-2020-ballot/}{abandoned
efforts} to get on the ballot in New Jersey, but he could still be a
spoiler in other states. Mr. Jacoby said he hoped that news media
attention underscored the complexity of getting on the ballot and ``the
need to modernize such ballot access laws to make it easier for every
American who wants to serve.''

During an appearance in South Carolina last month, Mr. West
\href{https://people.com/politics/kanye-west-first-campaign-rally-south-carolina/}{broke
down crying}. He
\href{https://pagesix.com/2020/07/20/kanye-west-says-kim-kardashian-tried-to-lock-me-up-in-twitter-rant/}{later
tweeted} that his wife, Ms. Kardashian West, ``tried to bring a doctor
to lock me up.'' Amid his erratic behavior, his wife has
\href{https://www.cnn.com/2020/07/22/entertainment/kim-kardashian-kanye-west-mental-health-statement/index.html}{spoken
out} about her husband's struggles with mental illness, and Mr. West has
\href{https://twitter.com/kanyewest/status/1287128322959237120}{publicly
apologized} to his wife for some of his comments.

So with little resemblance to a viable campaign, it is unclear why
ballots are still being gathered on Mr. West's behalf. A spokeswoman for
Mr. West referred questions to the campaign, which did not respond to
requests for comment. A spokeswoman for the Kardashian family also had
no immediate comment.

During the 2016 campaign, Mr. Trump's staff
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2016/10/28/us/politics/donald-trump-campaign-voter-suppression.html}{aimed
to depress turnout}
\href{https://www.theatlantic.com/politics/archive/2016/10/trumps-black-voter-dilemma/505586/}{among
Black voters} after determining that its own appeal to African-Americans
was slim. His appeal to Black voters that year was, ``What do you have
to lose?''

A
\href{https://host2.advertisinganalyticsllc.com/admo/viewer/2343047}{recent
commercial} by the Trump campaign demonstrates that this continues to be
part of its strategy. The ad focuses on tough-on-crime legislation
supported by Mr. Biden during his Senate career, claiming that ``Joe
Biden's policies destroyed millions of Black lives,'' while
\href{https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2020-07-27/trump-tailors-conflicting-ads-to-blacks-whites-on-biden-record}{ads
aimed at whites} claim that Democrats are too soft on crime.

The strategy of depressing turnout among Black voters has also
\href{https://theintercept.com/2017/03/06/facts-are-in-the-eye-of-the-beholder-says-roger-stone-trump-confidante-in-exclusive-interview/}{been
a favorite} of Roger Stone, Mr. Trump's longtime political adviser; Mr.
Trump
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/10/us/politics/trump-roger-stone-clemency.html}{commuted
Mr. Stone's prison sentence} earlier this year after his conviction on
seven felony charges.

Mr. Stone, who has maintained his innocence and who has vowed to help
the president win re-election, has also previously focused on
third-party national candidates, and he helped Gary Johnson, the former
governor of New Mexico, as a Libertarian Party candidate in the 2012
race.

But he said he was not involved in whatever Mr. West was doing.

``I really like Kanye West --- I like his Christianity, and I like his
rejection of identity politics,'' Mr. Stone said. But he added that it
was ``too late to launch either an independent or a third-party
candidacy, because more than half the state deadlines have passed'' and
getting access in the remaining states would be ``expensive and
difficult.''

Mr. Stone added that if Mr. West's efforts were ``intended to draw Black
votes from Joe Biden, Joe Biden's own role in the 1994 crime bill,'' a
hard-line measure, would do that.

Some of those who oppose Mr. Trump have been suspicious of Mr. West's
candidacy, to say the least. And they have expressed concerns that he
could play a role similar to that of Jill Stein, the 2016 Green Party
candidate whom many Clinton supporters still see as having siphoned
votes away from the Democratic nominee.

The political commentator \href{https://twitter.com/ananavarro}{Ana
Navarro-Cárdenas} recently tweeted that voters should ``pay no
attention'' to Mr. West and likened him to Ms. Stein, saying such
candidates ``come in a variety of colors and gender.''

Kitty Bennett contributed research, and Stephanie Saul contributed
reporting.

\hypertarget{our-2020-election-guide}{%
\section{Our 2020 Election Guide}\label{our-2020-election-guide}}

Updated Aug. 4, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{the-latest}{%
  \subsection{The Latest}\label{the-latest}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Kris Kobach, a polarizing figure in Kansas politics,
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/04/us/politics/kobach-tlaib.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{lost
    the Senate primary there}, relieving G.O.P. officials who feared he
    could jeopardize a safe seat.
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{bidens-vp-search}{%
  \subsection{Biden's V.P. Search}\label{bidens-vp-search}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/biden-vice-president-2020.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Here
    are 13 women} who have been under consideration to be Joe Biden's
    running mate, and why each might be chosen --- and might not be.
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{keep-up-with-our-coverage}{%
  \subsection{Keep Up With Our
  Coverage}\label{keep-up-with-our-coverage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Get an
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{email}
    recapping the day's news
  \end{itemize}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Download our mobile app on
    \href{https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nytimes/id284862083?ls=1\&mat_click_id=5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\&referrer=mat_click_id\%3D5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\%26link_click_id\%3D722930677036718082}{iOS}
    and
    \href{http://a.localytics.com/android?id=com.nytimes.android\&referrer=utm_source\%3Dother_nyt_mobile_web\%26utm_medium\%3DWeb\%2520page\%26utm_term\%3DGeneral\%2520Mobile\%2520Page\%26utm_campaign\%3DNYT\%2520Mobile\%2520General\%2520Page}{Android}
    and turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
