Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}Meet the Official Accused of
Helping Trump Politicize Homeland Security

\url{https://nyti.ms/2Xqukby}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/george-floyd-protests-minneapolis-new-york-los-angeles?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Race
and America}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/07/03/us/george-floyd-protests-crowd-size.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Black
  Lives Matter Movement}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/06/28/us/i-cant-breathe-police-arrest.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{History
  of `I Can't Breathe'}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/06/10/upshot/black-lives-matter-attitudes.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{How
  Public Opinion Shifted}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/07/16/us/black-lives-matter-protests-louisville-breonna-taylor.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{45
  Days in Louisville}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{meet-the-official-accused-of-helping-trump-politicize-homeland-security}{%
\section{Meet the Official Accused of Helping Trump Politicize Homeland
Security}\label{meet-the-official-accused-of-helping-trump-politicize-homeland-security}}

Chad F. Wolf joined the Department of Homeland Security in its infancy
to help prevent another 9/11. Now he is helping President Trump use it
to achieve his political ambitions.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/04/world/04dc-unrest-dhs3/merlin_169518027_abcb011b-c157-4051-81b6-b16fa05ffa57-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/zolan-kanno-youngs}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2019/12/13/reader-center/author-zolan-kanno-youngs/author-zolan-kanno-youngs-thumbLarge.png}}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/jesse-mckinley}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/02/20/multimedia/author-jesse-mckinley/author-jesse-mckinley-thumbLarge.jpg}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/zolan-kanno-youngs}{Zolan
Kanno-Youngs} and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/jesse-mckinley}{Jesse
McKinley}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Aug. 4, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

WASHINGTON --- It took only 24 hours after President Trump attacked New
York City in his State of the Union address for the president's man at
the Department of Homeland Security to act.

Chad F. Wolf had joined the department nearly two decades before as a
midlevel staff member to help the sprawling new agency gear up to
protect Americans after the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks. But in February, as
the new
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/11/01/us/politics/trump-chad-wolf-dhs.html}{acting
secretary} of homeland security, Mr. Wolf introduced himself to most in
the United States by announcing on Fox News that New Yorkers were
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/02/06/us/politics/dhs-new-york-global-entry.html}{suspended
from enrolling in expedited air traveler programs} because their state
had barred federal immigration enforcement agencies from gaining access
to Department of Motor Vehicle records.

``It's particularly interesting coming from New York again, from where
9/11 occurred,'' Mr. Wolf said in a later appearance on the network.
``We want to make sure we share information and not continue to withhold
information.''

Only after thousands of New Yorkers were suspended from the programs did
the department
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/23/nyregion/trusted-traveler-homeland-security.html}{admit
in court last month} that what Mr. Wolf had said to justify his action
was untrue. Several states and territories were not allowing the agency
access to motor vehicle records, yet New York had been singled out
because, Mr. Wolf had insisted, ``New York is the only state, and I
think that bears repeating, the only state that prohibits information
sharing.''

That false statement came at a pivotal turn of Mr. Wolf's long ascent at
the department he now heads. His initial post at the federal
government's newly created Transportation Security Administration,
within the Department of Homeland Security, was aimed at stopping
terrorists from again exploiting the nation's commercial aviation
industry to kill Americans.

But as Mr. Trump has bent the department's focus to match his own, Mr.
Wolf has bent with it, including on
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/01/31/us/politics/trump-travel-ban.html}{travel
bans},
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/20/us/politics/trump-border-coronavirus.html}{illegal
immigration},
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/28/us/federal-agents-portland-seattle-protests.html}{domestic
protests} and the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/10/us/politics/homeland-security-statues-trump.html}{protection
of federal property}.

That shift has caused even some former Department of Homeland Security
officials as well as members of Congress to question whether in their
haste to create the agency, they neglected to include safeguards to
prevent a campaigning president and a compliant homeland security chief
from using the department's arsenal to fulfill their political
ambitions.

``The idea of having a Department of Homeland Security wasn't inherently
bad, but the way it was done was shoddy, and now we are paying the
price,'' said Russell D. Feingold, a former Democratic senator who
opposed the creation of the department in 2002.

At the time, Congress believed broadly that a single department was
needed to improve communication between national security agencies and
state and local governments to prevent another terrorist attack, and it
set out to enact the largest reorganization of the federal government
since the Truman administration restructured the military in 1947.

The department would employ about 170,000 workers across 22 agencies,
including the Coast Guard, the Secret Service, federal immigration
agencies and the Federal Emergency Management Agency, as well as a new
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/01/us/politics/brian-murphy-homeland-security-protesters.html}{intelligence
division} to analyze criminal threats. The political fight over its
creation was not over the concentration of resources in the hands of one
cabinet secretary but over Republican demands that new federal employees
should not be in a union.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/03/world/04dc-unrest-dhs/03dc-unrest-dhs-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

``That was the whole notion, that we would have a way to protect our
citizens if there was a terror attack,'' said Barbara Boxer, a former
Democratic senator who voted for the department's creation and now says
she regrets it. ``Somehow, this has developed into the president's
private military.''

The Trump administration has defended its deployment of tactical teams
to Portland, Ore., and the officers' aggressive tactics by citing
\href{https://www.law.cornell.edu/uscode/text/40/1315}{a federal
statute} bolstered by the law that created the Department of Homeland
Security. That statute allows the secretary to deputize agents within
the department's various agencies to protect federal property, like the
courthouse in Portland.

Ms. Boxer took the point. ``I view it as a real wake-up call to analyze
all of our laws to see if they could be abused to the point that could
really injure our own people,'' she said.

Alexei Woltornist, a spokesman for the department, rejected that it was
``punishing cities led by Democrats.''

``The mission of D.H.S. changes as the threats change,'' he said, noting
that the agency has focused on carrying out Mr. Trump's immigration
policies. ``When violent rioting began to emerge throughout the country,
again the threat changed and the department responded.''

Judd Gregg, a former Republican senator and a sponsor of the act, backed
the department's actions against ``a disruption of the orderly
society,'' even as he acknowledged that Congress paid little attention
to the decision in the Homeland Security Act to transfer authority to
protect federal property from the low-key General Services
Administration to the more political homeland security secretary.

``I don't think it was focused on at all,'' he said, adding, ``we were
looking at the much bigger issue of how terrorists would attack us
next.''

The Department of Homeland Security has struggled with its identity
since its creation. James M. Loy, the first head of the Transportation
Security Administration, recalled that ``it was a patchwork quilt kind
of thing.''

``Here we are 18 years later,'' he added, ``the department is still
maturing in how it carries out its missions.''

Mr. Wolf, a Plano, Texas, native, went to college on a tennis
scholarship before heading to Washington to work on Capitol Hill, then
at the T.S.A. He rose at the agency to assistant administrator until
2005, when Thomas Blank, one of his mentors at the aviation security
agency, recruited him to Wexler \& Walker, a now defunct lobbyist firm.

Mr. Wolf spent the Obama administration lobbying, including for a new
carry-on luggage screening device that would cost the T.S.A. hundreds of
millions of dollars.
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2017/04/15/us/politics/trump-appointees-potential-conflicts.html}{He
returned to the agency as chief of staff in 2017 as it tested the
product} --- it is now used at most airports.

After Kirstjen Nielsen became homeland security secretary in December
2017, she tapped Mr. Wolf to be her chief of staff.

The agency has been at the center of convulsive policies that banned
travel from predominantly Muslim countries, transferred money from the
Defense Department to build a border wall and restricted the ability of
migrants to obtain asylum at the southwestern border. Mr. Wolf was also
crucial to carrying out a policy that led to the separation of more than
2,800 migrant children from their parents in 2018.

When he testified in June 2019 to be confirmed as the department's under
secretary for strategy, policy and plans, Mr. Wolf said he learned of
the family separations policy late, just before the attorney general at
the time, Jeff Sessions, announced it. Emails obtained by Senator Jeff
Merkley, Democrat of Oregon, showed that Mr. Wolf actually included the
separation of families in
\href{https://www.nbcnews.com/politics/immigration/watchdog-group-trump-dhs-pick-made-false-claims-about-role-n1078171}{a
list of policy recommendations} that he sent to the Justice Department
in December 2017.

Mr. Woltornist said that Mr. Wolf was not directly involved in the
policymaking and that there were dozens of proposals circulating between
the Departments of Justice and Homeland Security.

Before he was made acting secretary, Mr. Wolf was more of a
behind-the-scenes operator than a public defender of Mr. Trump. In
September 2019, Mr. Wolf refused to go on Fox News to speak on the
department's efforts to crack down on terrorism because the host might
ask about the administration's immigration agenda, according to a former
administration official.

Mr. Woltornist denied that account, saying that Mr. Wolf repeatedly goes
on television to back the president.

After the White House
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/04/08/us/politics/randolph-alles-secret-service.html}{purged
the department's leadership} last spring, it began to
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/09/05/us/politics/ken-cuccinelli-immigration-trump.html}{install
others} who had proved more willing to boost Mr. Trump's immigration
policies on television, all of them in an acting capacity to avoid the
Senate confirmation process. Mr. Wolf adjusted accordingly.

Michael Chertoff, a homeland security secretary under President George
W. Bush, said the number of vacant positions and acting roles has left
the agency vulnerable for politicization.

Senate-confirmed officials ``have a certain ability to push back a
little bit in a firm and polite way,'' Mr. Chertoff said. Now at the
department, he said, the leadership ``will basically never be
nominated.''

``The message they are getting is, `You are here on sufferance,''' he
added.

Mr. Wolf is stepping into the spotlight in ways his predecessors would
not, including by now being a frequent visitor of the conservative
television shows that Mr. Trump follows.

He has even embraced the hard-liner image that the president values.
Before Mr. Wolf agreed last week to **** withdraw the tactical teams
from the courthouse on the condition that state police handle the
protests, he flew to the city and stood for photographs alongside
officers in front of graffiti-laced walls at the federal courthouse ---
even as officials in the department addressed
\href{https://int.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/data/documenttools/dh-stacticalagent-memo1/d490e392eab7d7d6/full.pdf}{a
memo} to him warning that the tactical teams did not have the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/18/us/portland-protests.html}{proper
training to quell the protests.}

Image

In recent weeks, Mr. Wolf has emerged as the face of the Trump
administration's intervention in cities like Portland, Ore., where last
week, federal agents stood guard outside a federal
courthouse.Credit...Brandon Bell for The New York Times

Ms. Nielsen, rather, was often admonished by Mr. Trump for focusing on
department responsibilities like cybersecurity, instead of on illegal
border crossings. Kevin K. McAleenan, her successor, complained about
the anti-immigrant messaging and confrontational tone of Kenneth T.
Cuccinelli II, the acting deputy secretary, and Mark Morgan, the acting
commissioner of Customs and Border Protection.

``Chad Wolf works much better with these individuals,'' Brandon Judd,
the president of the National Border Patrol Council and a close ally of
Mr. Trump's, said this year.

Mr. Wolf's suspension of New Yorkers from Trusted Traveler Programs like
Global Entry prompted more than a dozen meetings with New York State
officials. Mr. Wolf often let Mr. Cuccinelli press Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo
and his staff to modify the state law that banned immigration
enforcement agencies from gaining access to motor vehicle records,
according to those familiar with the meetings.

Mr. Cuomo said repeatedly at the time that federal officials could get
the criminal histories they were looking for from existing F.B.I.
databases and that the administration was really after data on
undocumented immigrants.

``They didn't even have a patina of credibility in what they did,'' Mr.
Cuomo said in an interview after the release of the court documents that
showed that Department of Homeland Security leaders had made false
statements.

``My sense is they're so aggressive in their politics that there's not
even a specific target,'' he said, adding, ``It's just a generalized
blast of disagreements.''

Since the Global Entry suspension in February, Mr. Wolf has stood with
Mr. Trump to mark 200 miles of completed border wall and has echoed the
president's critique of protesters that targeted statues and monuments.
In recent weeks, Mr. Wolf has emerged as the face of the
administration's intervention in cities like Portland.

``I don't need invitations by state mayors or state governors to do our
job,'' Mr. Wolf said last month on Fox News. ``We're going to do that
whether they like us there or not.''

The original point of the department --- to break down the barriers
between federal, state and local law enforcement --- has taken on new
meaning.

Zolan Kanno-Youngs reported from Washington, and Jesse McKinley from
Albany, N.Y.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
