Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}What Is QAnon: Explaining
the Internet Conspiracy Theory That Showed Up at a Trump Rally

\url{https://nyti.ms/2n438Nn}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{what-is-qanon-explaining-the-internet-conspiracy-theory-that-showed-up-at-a-trump-rally}{%
\section{What Is QAnon: Explaining the Internet Conspiracy Theory That
Showed Up at a Trump
Rally}\label{what-is-qanon-explaining-the-internet-conspiracy-theory-that-showed-up-at-a-trump-rally}}

Do you remember Pizzagate? It's a little like that: a web of baseless
conspiracy theories. And its supporters were highly visible at an event
for the president in Florida.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/08/02/us/politics/02QAnon1/merlin_141917688_aea548af-cbd7-43d7-87da-41f80de247a3-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/justin-bank}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/06/12/multimedia/author-justin-bank/author-justin-bank-thumbLarge.png}}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/liam-stack}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/10/22/multimedia/author-liam-stack/author-liam-stack-thumbLarge.png}}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/daniel-victor}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/06/14/multimedia/author-daniel-victor/author-daniel-victor-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/justin-bank}{Justin Bank},
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/liam-stack}{Liam Stack} and
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/daniel-victor}{Daniel Victor}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Aug. 1, 2018
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Those watching President Trump's rally in Tampa on Tuesday couldn't help
but be exposed to a fringe movement that discusses several loosely
connected and vaguely defined --- and baseless --- conspiracy theories.

In one shot on Fox News, the president was
\href{https://twitter.com/AndrewKirell/status/1024438025391099904?ref_src=twsrc\%5Etfw\%7Ctwcamp\%5Etweetembed\%7Ctwterm\%5E1024438025391099904\&ref_url=https\%3A\%2F\%2Fsplinternews.com\%2Fajax\%2Finset\%2Fiframe\%3Fid\%3Dtwitter-1024438025391099904\%26autosize\%3D1}{partially
obscured by a sign} in the crowd reading ``We Are Q.'' In another shot
during the president's speech, a sign promoting
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/13/business/fox-news-seth-rich-lawsuit.html}{the
debunked Seth Rich conspiracy theory}, with the hashtag
\#\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/14/us/politics/qanon-politicians-candidates.html}{Qanon},
came into focus in the center of the screen. Some attendees wore
T-shirts with a blocky Q. Others
\href{https://twitter.com/drunkintheam/status/1024449381414522880}{held
up signs} with the letter.

They were all self-described ``followers of Q,'' an anonymous person or
group of people who claim to be privy to government secrets. That
supposedly classified information has been revealed on the 4chan and
8chan message boards and spread around mainstream internet platforms
like YouTube, Facebook and Twitter. Q has attracted people --- the exact
number is hard to know --- eager to consume his ``bread crumbs,'' or new
details in a sprawling web of conspiracy theories.

What is going on?

\hypertarget{just-give-me-the-basics-so-i-can-minimally-understand-whats-going-on}{%
\subsection{Just give me the basics so I can minimally understand what's
going
on}\label{just-give-me-the-basics-so-i-can-minimally-understand-whats-going-on}}

Here is the short version: Q claims to be a government insider exposing
an entrenched, international bureaucracy that is secretly plotting all
sorts of nefarious schemes against the Trump administration and its
supporters. The character uses lingo that implies that he or she has a
military or intelligence background.

It's a stew of various, but connecting, conspiracy theories that
generally hold Mr. Trump as a conquistador battling a cabal of
anti-American saboteurs who have taken over government, industry, media
and various other institutions of public life in a plan to \ldots{}
well, the overarching goals of the nefarious actors are not clear.

Image

A woman holding a ``Q'' sign at a Trump rally in Florida on Tuesday
night.Credit...Rod Millington/EPA, via Shutterstock

Image

Credit...Rod Millington/EPA, via Shutterstock

\hypertarget{the-slightly-longer-version}{%
\subsection{The slightly longer
version}\label{the-slightly-longer-version}}

A growing group of people (more on the scale and scope of that community
below) are coalescing around a collection of theories and half-thoughts
that they believe reveal an untold story of current world events. To
decode what they believe is actually happening, followers of Q sift
through the president's tweets, government data sets or news articles.

Ben Decker, a research fellow at the Shorenstein Center on Media,
Politics and Public Policy at Harvard, described followers of the QAnon
narrative as ``an interactive conspiracy community.''

Sometimes followers of Q just look for signs that he exists. A popular
Rosetta Stone they use is to look for uses of the number 17 (the letter
Q's placement in the alphabet). So when Alabama's football team
presented Mr. Trump with a jersey with the number 17, it was
\href{https://www.reddit.com/r/greatawakening/comments/8bc0ft/why_does_he_keep_picking_17_for_jerseys_shouldnt/}{taken
as coded signaling of Q's influence}. (The team was visiting the White
House as the champions of the 2017 college football season and had
\href{https://detroit.cbslocal.com/2013/04/16/president-obama-expects-to-see-alabama-at-the-white-house-again/}{presented
President Barack Obama with a jersey bearing the number 15} when it
visited after winning a championship in 2015.)

Q's followers ascribe secret coordination and hidden motives to an
endless parade of politicians, journalists, and leaders of industry and
other institutions. Often, their theories are wildly at odds with
reality.

The community uses the language of mind-bending pop culture alternate
realities like ``The Matrix'' or ``Alice in Wonderland.'' It is common
to tell stories of how followers have been
``\href{https://www.urbandictionary.com/define.php?term=red\%20pill}{redpilled},''
or have come to believe that observable reality is false and the QAnon
narrative is real.

The shared rush to interpret clues from a ``drop'' of information from Q
resembles something close to what video gamers call an MMO, or massive
multiplayer online game.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2017/01/29/podcasts/the-daily-album-art/the-daily-album-art-articleInline-v2.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\hypertarget{listen-to-the-daily-the-strange-case-of-qanon}{%
\subsubsection{Listen to `The Daily': The Strange Case of
QAnon}\label{listen-to-the-daily-the-strange-case-of-qanon}}

A fringe online movement makes a front-and-center appearance at a
televised event for President Trump.

\hypertarget{why-should-i-care-about-a-fringe-corner-of-the-internet}{%
\subsection{Why should I care about a fringe corner of the
internet?}\label{why-should-i-care-about-a-fringe-corner-of-the-internet}}

Because QAnon is not limited to a fringe corner of the internet. In
addition to its front-and-center presence at Mr. Trump's rally, it has
been promoted by celebrities including
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/05/29/arts/television/twitter-posts-roseanne-barr.html}{Roseanne
Barr} and
\href{https://www.thedailybeast.com/curt-schilling-backs-pro-trump-qanon-conspiracy-theory}{Curt
Schilling}, the former baseball star who has a podcast for Breitbart.

The paranoid worldview has crossed over from the internet into the real
world several times in recent months. On more than one occasion, people
believed to be followers of QAnon have shown up --- sometimes with
weapons --- in places that the character told them were somehow
connected to anti-Trump conspiracies.

``The biggest danger is you are one mentally unstable person away from
the next massive incident that defines whatever happens next,'' Mr.
Decker said. ``The next Pizzagate, which for better or worse did define
the political conversation for a while.''

In June, a man armed with a rifle and a handgun
\href{https://www.buzzfeednews.com/article/skbaer/qanon-believer-arrested-hoover-dam}{drove
an armored vehicle to the Hoover Dam} on what he said was a mission from
QAnon: to demand that the government release the Justice Department's
report from its inspector general on the conduct of F.B.I. agents during
the investigation into Hillary Clinton's use of a private email server.

The report had actually been released the day before, but Q's followers
believed there was a secret, second report that contained far more
damning information about the F.B.I. There is no indication that such a
report exists. The man was arrested after a standoff with the police.

Most recently, a suspicious and possibly armed man showed up at the law
offices of Michael Avenatti, the lawyer for Stephanie Clifford, the
adult film performer known as Stormy Daniels, after Q posted a link to
Mr. Avenatti's website and a picture of the office building. The man did
not enter the premises.

In an interview, Mr. Avenatti said he had received a large number of
threatening emails and social media posts in recent months, ``but this
one we have significant reason to believe posed a significant threat.''
He said local law enforcement was investigating the incident.

``I do think it is dangerous, absolutely,'' Mr. Avenatti said. ``And I
think it is incumbent upon the president to quash this nonsense as
opposed to feeding it.''

Mr. Decker said the prominence of QAnon T-shirts and signs at Mr.
Trump's televised rally in Tampa, and the elevation of that imagery via
cable news coverage of the rally, were troubling. ``In a sense, the
internet won,'' he said.

``These are communities craving attention, they're craving media
appearances, they're craving exposure so they can further
propagate**,''** he said. **``**It is very concerning to exponentially
increase the audience of this content to eight-, nine- or 10-figure
populations.''

\hypertarget{what-else-can-we-say-about-the-size-and-scope-of-this-community}{%
\subsection{What else can we say about the size and scope of this
community?}\label{what-else-can-we-say-about-the-size-and-scope-of-this-community}}

The \href{https://www.reddit.com/r/greatawakening/}{/r/GreatAwakening}
subreddit board vibrantly shares memes with 49,000 followers, making it
a medium-size board. There are Facebook groups, one of the most popular
of which has nearly 40,000 members sharing hundreds of posts with one
another a day.

Video explainers of Q followers talking through potential connected
topics have
\href{https://www.youtube.com/results?search_query=qanon\&sp=CANCBAgBEgA\%253D}{racked
up millions of views on YouTube}, and the numbers of tweets out there
are too numerous to count (and the difficulty in discerning genuine
posts versus bot activity makes Twitter a poor measuring stick anyway).

But perhaps the greatest signal of the sustained, dedicated audience for
this discussion can be found in the seismic traffic to websites and apps
set up to collect and curate preferred 4chan posts about Q.

In April 2018, an app called ``QDrops'' was among the 10 most downloaded
paid iOS apps in the Apple Store, according to an
\href{https://www.nbcnews.com/tech/tech-news/exclusive-apple-google-cashed-pizzagate-offshoot-conspiracy-app-n891726}{NBC
report} that cited an analytics site.

The Qanon.pub site was
\href{https://www.whois.com/whois/qanon.pub}{created} in March 2018 and
has quickly established an audience of over seven million visits a
month,
\href{https://www.similarweb.com/website/qanon.pub\#overview}{according}
to the web analytics company SimilarWeb.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
