\href{/}{}\href{/travel}{}

\href{/travel/destinations}{Destinations}\href{/travel/food-and-drink}{Food
\&
Drink}\href{/travel/news}{News}\href{/travel/stay}{Stay}\href{/travel/videos}{Video}

Search

Menu

\hypertarget{what-happened-when-i-tried-to-become-french}{%
\section{What happened when I tried to become
French}\label{what-happened-when-i-tried-to-become-french}}

Channon Hodge, CNN • Published 8th July 2020

FacebookTwitterEmail

\includegraphics{https://dynaimage.cdn.cnn.com/cnn/e_blur:500,q_auto:low,w_50,c_fill,g_auto,h_28,ar_16:9/http\%3A\%2F\%2Fcdn.cnn.com\%2Fcnnnext\%2Fdam\%2Fassets\%2F200617231145-tcml-southern-france-paris.jpg}

View Gallery

10 Pictures

(CNN) --- Julien was a tennis instructor with steel shoulders, blue eyes
and two terraces we could never sit on because he stuffed them both with
his marijuana plants.

Everyone back home in New York City told me that if I'd move to France
I'd fall for some French guy, and that French guy was Julien. (Well...
at first it was a guy named, Nico, but he had a girlfriend.)

It was the summer of 2008, and I was 28 years old and I'd done the crazy
thing and moved to Montpellier, France. My rent was 250 euros a month. I
munched an entire crusty baguette each and every single day. I got tan
on Mediterranean beaches and I got drunk on bottles of pale French beer
at open-air boîtes de nuit (night clubs.)

Very quickly, I'd become that girl, dating that French guy and living
exactly that French dream we all think will be so damn beautiful.

And it really is...

... until it really isn't.

If I'd stayed in Montpellier, I might still be that French girl. After
several months, though, I couldn't get the French dream to match the
French reality, and that damn return ticket was always there waiting for
me.

\hypertarget{escape-from-new-york}{%
\subsubsection{Escape from New York}\label{escape-from-new-york}}

\href{/travel/article/trip-changed-my-life-southern-france/index.html?gallery=6}{}

\includegraphics{https://dynaimage.cdn.cnn.com/cnn/e_blur:500,q_auto:low,w_50,c_fill,g_auto,h_28,ar_16:9/http\%3A\%2F\%2Fcdn.cnn.com\%2Fcnnnext\%2Fdam\%2Fassets\%2F200706162335-montpellier-france.jpg}

Turns out Montpellier is France's seventh largest city.

PASCAL GUYOT/AFP via Getty Images

I'd been living in New York City for eight years in one insect-ridden
apartment after another. I had a job in television programming my
coworker described as "moving color bars around a screen all day."

I was tired of the crowded expensive city and I needed much more than a
two-week vacation. I have dual American and French citizenship thanks to
my Caribbean dad, and I was thinking the French life would be for me.

So, I decided to attend a language school. All across Europe you'll find
these small, non-credit, unofficial schools which offer three or so
hours of conversational classes per day. They help students find housing
and organize group activities. They're probably meant for European
college students, but they attract anyone looking for a short escape.

In my case, it was a crutch to a new start in French life.

Related content

\href{/travel/article/escape-to-paris/index.html}{A new way to travel to
Paris}

Once I bank transferred my 1,000 euros for my first month of classes at
\href{https://www.institut-europeen.com/}{Odyssea Language School}, I
got on the web to buy a one-way British Airways ticket leaving in June.
Then I panicked. I clicked instead on a refundable round trip returning
in October. If my savings ran out, and I couldn't find a job, the return
was already paid for.

The school was in the
\href{https://money.cnn.com/gallery/retirement/2015/07/24/retire-abroad/4.html}{Languedoc
region} in southern France. From the online photos, the town looked
blissfully suburban compared to New York and Boston (my college town.)

In fact, Montpellier is France's seventh largest city.

\hypertarget{my-creamy-colored-heaven}{%
\subsubsection{My creamy colored
heaven}\label{my-creamy-colored-heaven}}

\href{/travel/article/trip-changed-my-life-southern-france/index.html?gallery=5}{}

\includegraphics{https://dynaimage.cdn.cnn.com/cnn/e_blur:500,q_auto:low,w_50,c_fill,g_auto,h_28,ar_16:9/http\%3A\%2F\%2Fcdn.cnn.com\%2Fcnnnext\%2Fdam\%2Fassets\%2F200706161538-avignon1.jpg}

Day trips from my French school included an outing to the historic city
of Avignon.

AFP Contributor / Contributor

When I arrived, I stashed my stuff in a closet-sized room in a tiny
apartment the school hooked me up with. I shared it with a girl who
spoke not much English and not much French.

With no help from her, I somehow figured out how to explore the town on
my own before my classes started.

Montpellier is actually a sprawling little city known for big
universities that bring in 50,000-plus students seasonally.

Tall clusters of apartment buildings and department stores dot the
outskirts and a small metro snakes in and out of the town center. The
central square, or Place de la Comédie, is paved in white and
cream-colored stones and anchors a maze of tiny shops and restaurants.

\includegraphics{https://dynaimage.cdn.cnn.com/cnn/e_blur:500,q_auto:low,w_50,c_fill,g_auto,h_28,ar_16:9/http\%3A\%2F\%2Fcdn.cnn.com\%2Fcnnnext\%2Fdam\%2Fassets\%2F200617225952-tcml-southern-france-friends.jpg}

Every friend in this photo comes from different ends of the Earth:
Italy, Hong Kong, Canada, US and Germany.

Channon Hodge

There were too many historical buildings to count, but I vividly
remember walking by a plaque commemorating one of the first medical
schools in France. It had been there since before the United States was
even a concept. That's when my decade spent studying American History
seemed rather trite.

On a tour the school organized, I learned about Europe's southern
history before borders carved it up. Some of the townspeople still speak
a Catalan language and love explaining the region's ties to Spain before
it became part of France. They made sure Catalan names were etched on
signs along with the French ones and their independent spirit was a
precursor of what I would eventually encounter when I finally found a
job.

\hypertarget{the-spaniards-taught-us-how-to-play-merde}{%
\subsubsection{The Spaniards taught us how to play
'Merde'}\label{the-spaniards-taught-us-how-to-play-merde}}

\includegraphics{https://dynaimage.cdn.cnn.com/cnn/e_blur:500,q_auto:low,w_50,c_fill,g_auto,h_28,ar_16:9/http\%3A\%2F\%2Fcdn.cnn.com\%2Fcnnnext\%2Fdam\%2Fassets\%2F200617234144-tcml-southern-france-party.jpg}

Open-air clubs were everywhere in a region where summers are long and
winters are mild.

Channon Hodge

The school organized wine and cheese "meet and greets" for new students
and bus trips to Avignon and Carcassonne. They organized trivia nights
at the local British pub, The Shakespeare, and made sure everyone
gathered for outdoor watch parties to see the French lose out in the
World Cup.

The social part seemed as equally important to the language classes. I'd
taken French in high school, college and even doled out \$500 for
classes at New York's \href{https://fiaf.org/}{Alliance Francaise}. My
entrance exam at Odyssea informed me that none of that effort put me
above "advanced-beginner."

I could answer "Comment allez-vous?" but I couldn't have a conversation
for more than two minutes before becoming mentally exhausted.

\includegraphics{https://dynaimage.cdn.cnn.com/cnn/e_blur:500,q_auto:low,w_50,c_fill,g_auto,h_28,ar_16:9/http\%3A\%2F\%2Fcdn.cnn.com\%2Fcnnnext\%2Fdam\%2Fassets\%2F200617222933-tcml-southern-france-school.jpg}

Odyssea - Institut Européen de Français - Language schools attract
European students who can take long breaks to learn a language. My
friends did not feel the pressure to graduate from university in four
years and thought nothing of a long break.

Picasa 3.0

No worries. These schools have no set term start or end dates. You
simply roll in any week at all, get placed with students at your level
and "graduate" up if your teacher feels you are ready. That open
acceptance helped me make all manner of new friends, including:

Jim -\/- An American film editor determined to pick up a language in
between contracts.

Marianna -\/- A vivacious, gorgeous, curly haired Russian Italian who
refused to wait in any line ever.

Hannah -\/- An adventurous Canadian who'd eventually convince me to
scramble down an off-limits cliff in Marseilles because we'd heard the
waters were crystalline blue (they were, and they were freezing).

Felippa -\/- A smiley Swede who shockingly explained that Ikea product
names actually have real meanings and who would become my roommate in a
much bigger and nicer flat.

A young German couple who'd just had a baby and who were spending their
year of parental leave hopping around Europe.

Plus a gaggle of young dance-loving Singaporeans on exchange, a
party-hardy group of Italian nuclear scientists sponsored by their
company, and a rowdy group of Spaniards.

\href{/travel/article/trip-changed-my-life-southern-france/index.html?gallery=9}{}

\includegraphics{https://dynaimage.cdn.cnn.com/cnn/e_blur:500,q_auto:low,w_50,c_fill,g_auto,h_28,ar_16:9/http\%3A\%2F\%2Fcdn.cnn.com\%2Fcnnnext\%2Fdam\%2Fassets\%2F200617224833-tcml-southern-france-beach.jpg}

We'd spent so many days on the beach, we once foolishly tried spending
the night on one. We were frozen by midnight and fled home at 4 a.m.

Channon Hodge

A bunch of us would spend our afternoons biking out to the beach in a
town nearby. I'd found a massive red checkered sheet on our apartment's
clothesline and we'd sprawl out on the sand while everyone turned out
offerings of cheese, sliced meats, chips, fruits and baguettes.

The Spaniards had a car, they smoked like a coal factory, and they soon
taught us a card game they insisted was called "Merde!" (S-\/-t!)

We sadly mostly fell into speaking the more mutually understood English.
Try as we might, French all day was simply exhausting. Eventually,
though, I did get the accent down straight. That's all thanks to a lot
of fruit and a questionable pick up line.

Related content

\href{/travel/article/backpacking-italy-mess/index.html}{We went
backpacking with suitcases in Italy and it was a mess}

\hypertarget{framboise-fraise-and-frozen-juice}{%
\subsubsection{Framboise, fraise and frozen
juice}\label{framboise-fraise-and-frozen-juice}}

After a few weeks, I realized if I wanted to stay in Montpellier for a
long time I'd need a job. The euro was nearly double the value of the
dollar then and my savings were dwindling fast.

Unfortunately, it was nearly impossible to find a job as unemployment
for young people was around 20\%. Businesses were loath to take on news
part-time employees because once they had you, they were stuck with you
because of labor laws.

\includegraphics{https://dynaimage.cdn.cnn.com/cnn/e_blur:500,q_auto:low,w_50,c_fill,g_auto,h_28,ar_16:9/http\%3A\%2F\%2Fcdn.cnn.com\%2Fcnnnext\%2Fdam\%2Fassets\%2F200617234911-tcml-southern-france-crepe-making.jpg}

At this organized social event, we learned how to make crepes and a
local favorite - bread with goat cheese, honey and herbs de provence.
Events cost extra, and the euro's value was double the dollar then.

Channon Hodge

The Russian Italian convinced me to try working for an Irish bar in town
by pretending that my first name, Channon, gave me some Irish cred with
the owner. That failed as soon as he realized I was African American.

Instead, he offered me about 15 hours per week making frozen juice at
his new Jus Plus store in the mall. It was a new concept in France,
then, and I suppose I looked like I could handle a blender.

I easily learned the frozen mixes, mostly based in apple juice, and
quickly blended them together before calling out the drink orders to
guests.

"FRRREZ!"

"FRRRRAMBWAZE!"

(Fraise = strawberry, framboise = raspberry)

Customers stared back at me dumbfounded and I didn't know why. My dear
coworkers Stella and Charles helped me to realize that a hard American
"r" doesn't really work in French. I quickly learned to make the correct
and softer sound using the middle of my tongue and the roof of my mouth.
I describe it as a mix between: a soft g, w, and que.

"Fgwquezzeeee"

"Fgwquambwazzee"

It worked! Stella also kindly forced me to speak French. Charles was a
musician and he loved to explain all the rights I then had as a worker
and all the great ways young people were starting revolutions.

The "mec" taught me something else entirely.

\hypertarget{le-mec-et-la-petite-amie-the-guy-and-the-girlfriend}{%
\subsubsection{Le mec et la petite amie (the guy and the
girlfriend)}\label{le-mec-et-la-petite-amie-the-guy-and-the-girlfriend}}

\includegraphics{https://dynaimage.cdn.cnn.com/cnn/e_blur:500,q_auto:low,w_50,c_fill,g_auto,h_28,ar_16:9/http\%3A\%2F\%2Fcdn.cnn.com\%2Fcnnnext\%2Fdam\%2Fassets\%2F200617225333-tcml-southern-france-the-mec.jpg}

I've been told French relationships can become serious rather quickly,
which is completely at odds with what I'd assumed about French
promiscuity.

Channon Hodge

French people do indeed drink lots of wine and eat lots of bread and
cheese. But they also guzzle down cheap beer and stock up on tinned
meats, packaged toasts, bags of processed cookies and cartons of highly
processed milk.

I was drinking beer with a group of friends at a café (which is, in
fact, a bar), when a guy named Julien walked up to me and asked in
English:

"Where are you from?"

"New York," I said.

"Oh really?" he asked and then added: "I thought you were from
paradise."

Maybe it was the French accent? Maybe it was the tennis instructor body?
I was immediately in like.

We had one date. He kept texting me and after a few weeks he referred to
me as his "petit amie'" I quickly learned relationships can really form
that easily in France.

Julien had lived off chômage (French unemployment) for nearly two years
and would gasp when I used all his beurre on my baguette. He knew not
much more English than he'd used to pick me up, so our relationship was
mostly about what you think it was mostly about.

One day he did manage to scrounge some cash for gas and we went out to
the beach, swimming out as the waters turned choppy and filled my nose
with salt.

My days were all free and clear and sunny, until I suddenly couldn't
breathe.

\hypertarget{the-french-way----no-bills-no-laws-no-worries}{%
\subsubsection{The French way -\/- No bills, no laws, no
worries!}\label{the-french-way----no-bills-no-laws-no-worries}}

\href{/travel/article/trip-changed-my-life-southern-france/index.html?gallery=8}{}

\includegraphics{https://dynaimage.cdn.cnn.com/cnn/e_blur:500,q_auto:low,w_50,c_fill,g_auto,h_28,ar_16:9/http\%3A\%2F\%2Fcdn.cnn.com\%2Fcnnnext\%2Fdam\%2Fassets\%2F200617225632-tcml-southern-france-calanques.jpg}

It was completely against the law to scramble down the dangerous cliffs
to the water in Marseille, France. Even moms with little children
ignored the signage.

Picasa 3.0

I'll never know if it was all that saltwater, but a week or so after the
beach trip my lungs started shrinking. I could barely wheeze. One day it
got so bad, I woke up in a panic sinking to the floor beside my bed
feeling like my throat had become a red cocktail straw.

When I walked into a doctor's office, I signed my name on a slip of
paper because there was no receptionist, just him. He took a listen to
my sad lungs and gave me a prescription for expectorant and a calming
agent at the pharmacy. When I asked about the bill, I mentioned my
French citizenship, but I admitted I hadn't worked long enough to get a
medical card.

"Well, you're French so you're not supposed to pay," he told me,
politely letting me go.

The medicine cost me around 15 euros, but over the next several weeks
the infected lungs never quite went away. I never spoke again in France
without coughing.

Related content

\href{/travel/article/trip-that-changed-my-life-thailand-motorbike-accident/index.html}{Sent
home in stitches: 20 years ago, a motorbike accident put an end to my
Thailand adventures}

\hypertarget{the-beautiful-haze-grows-hazy}{%
\subsubsection{The beautiful haze grows
hazy}\label{the-beautiful-haze-grows-hazy}}

\includegraphics{https://dynaimage.cdn.cnn.com/cnn/e_blur:500,q_auto:low,w_50,c_fill,g_auto,h_28,ar_16:9/http\%3A\%2F\%2Fcdn.cnn.com\%2Fcnnnext\%2Fdam\%2Fassets\%2F200617233838-tcml-southern-france.jpg}

My typical morning started with café au lait, baguette with cheese, and
French magazines. I lived in four different apartments over the season.
My last room cost me €250 per month.

Channon Hodge

The weather got cold and crisp and the beach lost its charm. Then my
friends began to leave, one by one returning to their home countries.
The Spaniards left, then the Canadian, then the Russian Italian. My
cheap summer room had to be turned back over to the fall student I'd
sublet it from.

Then the strikes started. First the wine growers protested land taxes.
Then the metro stopped working for weeks in the name of metro worker's
rights. The strikes caused chaos and brought attention to a cause, but
they always ended without much progress.

To truly improve her French, my roommate enrolled in a real university
for the fall and she wanted me to join her. But I couldn't stomach the
idea of being a college student again living in a dorm at then 29. (I've
only realized now, of course, that 29 is still so young.)

I grew tired of never completely understanding anyone and only getting
the gist. I hated all the money I'd spent buying tickets for the wrong
day, and having packages sent to the wrong destination. I was frustrated
that I couldn't have a real conversation with Julien.

And it was so hard to shout "fgwquambwazzee!" while coughing.

\includegraphics{https://dynaimage.cdn.cnn.com/cnn/e_blur:500,q_auto:low,w_50,c_fill,g_auto,h_28,ar_16:9/http\%3A\%2F\%2Fcdn.cnn.com\%2Fcnnnext\%2Fdam\%2Fassets\%2F200617230406-tcml-southern-france-greve.jpg}

While the news in France was full of les grèves (strikes) and the
financial crises, the news in the US was becoming more hopeful. Senator
Barack Obama was quickly gaining speed as the nominee for President of
the United States.

Channon Hodge

At one point I realized I was a lot funnier back in New York. I just
didn't get French humor. I didn't understand why movies never had a real
ending but were instead vaguely unsatisfying. I didn't get all the
constant anger at the government.

Then my coworker Charles started his own revolution in our little shop.
He and my British boss screamed at each other over shift changes until
he stormed off one day and I lost him, too.

But I still had that return ticket.

\hypertarget{just-a-tourist-again}{%
\subsubsection{Just a tourist again}\label{just-a-tourist-again}}

\includegraphics{https://dynaimage.cdn.cnn.com/cnn/e_blur:500,q_auto:low,w_50,c_fill,g_auto,h_28,ar_16:9/http\%3A\%2F\%2Fcdn.cnn.com\%2Fcnnnext\%2Fdam\%2Fassets\%2F200618152839-tcml-southern-france-paris-2.jpg}

Jardin du Luxembourg. I spent my days wandering the beautiful parks of
Paris and headed home each night to my dear aunt in Villejuif before
nightfall hit.

Channon Hodge

Late September, I left Montpellier and took the TGV up to Paris to stay
with my aunt for a few weeks before my flight out. As I rode the smooth
train north, I gazed out at vineyards whipping by with their grapes hung
low to the ground waiting to be picked and crushed.

In the city, every morning my dear aunt made me a bowl of café au lait
along with pâté smeared on bread. She sent me out into the city with a
thin paper booklet called "Balades a Paris." I climbed the bright
Montmartre hill, learned Notre Dame's secrets from a volunteer tour
guide and bought a classic leather Cassandra bag at the Marche aux
puces.

My mom and my brother joined me for my final two weeks and we were
dazzled by the marbled figures at the Musee d'Orsay. We loved the thick
chocolate at Angelina cafe. We drove down to see the Loire Valley's
castles.

As the date of my return flight drew closer, I realized I was dreading
finding a new job in New York and starting my life there over again.
Moving to France hadn't been so hard after all. What had been difficult
was staying there, building up a real life. That's the work you have to
do wherever you choose to go and wherever you try to stay.

I realized too late that you never pick up a language. It simply drags
you along till you're standing.

For a short time, I had been that girl, dating that French guy, living
that French dream, but eventually I became just another American in
Paris and a return ticket took me home.

\href{//www.cnn.com/interactive/travel/best-beaches}{}

A year of the world'sBest BeachesThere's a perfect beach for every week
of the year. Join us on a 12-month journey to see them all

Go to the best beaches

\includegraphics{https://dynaimage.cdn.cnn.com/cnn/e_blur:500,q_auto:low,w_50,c_fill,g_auto,h_28,ar_16:9/http\%3A\%2F\%2Fcdn.cnn.com\%2Fcnnnext\%2Fdam\%2Fassets\%2F171220172042-best-beaches-promo.jpg}

Search

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{/us}{US}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{/specials/us/crime-and-justice}{Crime + Justice}
  \item
    \href{/specials/us/energy-and-environment}{Energy + Environment}
  \item
    \href{/specials/us/extreme-weather}{Extreme Weather}
  \item
    \href{/specials/space-science}{Space + Science}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \href{/world}{World}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{/africa}{Africa}
  \item
    \href{/americas}{Americas}
  \item
    \href{/asia}{Asia}
  \item
    \href{/australia}{Australia}
  \item
    \href{/china}{China}
  \item
    \href{/europe}{Europe}
  \item
    \href{/india}{India}
  \item
    \href{/middle-east}{Middle East}
  \item
    \href{/uk}{United Kingdom}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \href{/politics}{Politics}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{/specials/politics/president-donald-trump-45}{45}
  \item
    \href{/specials/politics/congress-capitol-hill}{Congress}
  \item
    \href{/specials/politics/supreme-court-nine}{SCOTUS}
  \item
    \href{/specials/politics/fact-check-politics}{Facts First}
  \item
    \href{/specials/politics/2020-election-coverage}{2020}
  \item
    \href{/election/2020/candidates}{Candidates}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \href{/business}{Business}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{https://money.cnn.com/data/markets/}{Markets}
  \item
    \href{/business/tech}{Tech}
  \item
    \href{/business/media}{Media}
  \item
    \href{/business/success}{Success}
  \item
    \href{/business/perspectives}{Perspectives}
  \item
    \href{/business/videos}{Videos}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \href{/opinions}{Opinion}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{/specials/opinion/opinion-politics}{Political Op-Eds}
  \item
    \href{/specials/opinion/opinion-social-issues}{Social Commentary}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \href{/health}{Health}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{/specials/health/food-diet}{Food}
  \item
    \href{/specials/health/fitness-excercise}{Fitness}
  \item
    \href{/specials/health/wellness}{Wellness}
  \item
    \href{/specials/health/parenting}{Parenting}
  \item
    \href{/specials/health/vital-signs}{Vital Signs}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \href{/entertainment}{Entertainment}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{/entertainment/celebrities}{Stars}
  \item
    \href{/entertainment/movies}{Screen}
  \item
    \href{/entertainment/tv-shows}{Binge}
  \item
    \href{/entertainment/culture}{Culture}
  \item
    \href{/business/media}{Media}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \href{/business/tech}{Tech}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{/specials/tech/innovate}{Innovate}
  \item
    \href{/specials/tech/gadget}{Gadget}
  \item
    \href{/specials/tech/mission-ahead}{Mission: Ahead}
  \item
    \href{/specials/tech/upstarts}{Upstarts}
  \item
    \href{/specials/tech/work-transformed}{Work Transformed}
  \item
    \href{/specials/tech/innovative-cities}{Innovative Cities}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \href{/style}{Style}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{/style/arts}{Arts}
  \item
    \href{/style/design}{Design}
  \item
    \href{/style/fashion}{Fashion}
  \item
    \href{/style/architecture}{Architecture}
  \item
    \href{/style/luxury}{Luxury}
  \item
    \href{/style/beauty}{Beauty}
  \item
    \href{/style/videos}{Video}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \href{/travel}{Travel}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{/travel/destinations}{Destinations}
  \item
    \href{/travel/food-and-drink}{Food \& Drink}
  \item
    \href{/travel/news}{News}
  \item
    \href{/travel/stay}{Stay}
  \item
    \href{/travel/videos}{Videos}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \href{http://bleacherreport.com}{Sports}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{http://bleacherreport.com/nfl}{Pro Football}
  \item
    \href{http://bleacherreport.com/college-football}{College Football}
  \item
    \href{http://bleacherreport.com/nba}{Basketball}
  \item
    \href{http://bleacherreport.com/mlb}{Baseball}
  \item
    \href{http://bleacherreport.com/world-football}{Soccer}
  \item
    \href{/specials/sport/winter-olympics-2018}{Olympics}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \href{/videos}{Videos}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{//cnn.it/go2}{Live TV}
  \item
    \href{/specials/digital-studios}{Digital Studios}
  \item
    \href{/specials/videos/digital-shorts}{CNN Films}
  \item
    \href{/specials/videos/hln}{HLN}
  \item
    \href{/tv/schedule/cnn}{TV Schedule}
  \item
    \href{/specials/tv/all-shows}{TV Shows A-Z}
  \item
    \href{/vr}{CNNVR}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \href{//coupons.cnn.com}{Coupons}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{/cnn-underscored/}{CNN Underscored}
  \item
    \href{/specials/cnn-underscored/explore/}{Explore}
  \item
    \href{/specials/cnn-underscored/wellness/}{Wellness}
  \item
    \href{/specials/cnn-underscored/gadgets/}{Gadgets}
  \item
    \href{/specials/cnn-underscored/lifestyle/}{Lifestyle}
  \item
    \href{//store.cnn.com/?utm_source=cnn.com\&utm_medium=referral\&utm_campaign=navbar}{CNN
    Store}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \href{/more}{More}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{/specials/photos}{Photos}
  \item
    \href{/specials/cnn-longform}{Longform}
  \item
    \href{/specials/cnn-investigates}{Investigations}
  \item
    \href{/specials/profiles}{CNN Profiles}
  \item
    \href{/specials/more/cnn-leadership}{CNN Leadership}
  \item
    \href{/email/subscription}{CNN Newsletters}
  \item
    \href{https://www.turnerjobs.com/search-jobs?orgIds=1174\&ac=19299}{Work
    for CNN}
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

Follow CNN

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{/terms}{Terms of Use}
\item
  \href{/privacy}{Privacy Policy}
\item
  \href{/accessibility}{Accessibility \& CC}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{}{AdChoices}
\item
  \href{/about}{About Us}
\item
  \href{/tour}{CNN Studio Tours}
\item
  \href{/msa}{Modern Slavery Act Statement}
\item
  \href{https://commercial.cnn.com}{Advertise with us}
\item
  \href{//store.cnn.com}{CNN Store}
\item
  \href{/newsletters}{Newsletters}
\item
  \href{/transcripts}{Transcripts}
\item
  \href{/collection}{License Footage}
\item
  \href{http://cnnnewsource.com}{CNN Newsource}
\item
  \href{https://www.cnn.com/sitemap.html}{Sitemap}
\end{itemize}

© 2020 Cable News Network.\href{//www.turner.com}{Turner Broadcasting
System, Inc.}All Rights Reserved.CNN Sans ™ \& © 2016 Cable News
Network.
