Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/us}{U.S.}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/us}{U.S.}\textbar{}The Coronavirus Becomes a Battle Cry
for U.S. Extremists

\url{https://nyti.ms/2zKMMmf}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{the-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=60dbe170-f4cc-11ea-a1cc-1b2d192d3c31\&variant=undefined}{The
Coronavirus
Outbreak}}{The Coronavirus Outbreak}}\label{the-coronavirus-outbreak}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  live\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/11/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=60dbe171-f4cc-11ea-a1cc-1b2d192d3c31\&variant=undefined}{Latest
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=60dbe172-f4cc-11ea-a1cc-1b2d192d3c31\&variant=undefined}{Maps
  and Cases}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=60dc0880-f4cc-11ea-a1cc-1b2d192d3c31\&variant=undefined}{Vaccine
  Tracker}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/10/us/politics/fda-coronavirus-vaccine.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=60dc0881-f4cc-11ea-a1cc-1b2d192d3c31\&variant=undefined}{F.D.A.
  Regulators' Self-Defense}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/09/upshot/coronavirus-surprise-test-fees.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=60dc0882-f4cc-11ea-a1cc-1b2d192d3c31\&variant=undefined}{Surprise
  Test Fees}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{the-coronavirus-becomes-a-battle-cry-for-us-extremists}{%
\section{The Coronavirus Becomes a Battle Cry for U.S.
Extremists}\label{the-coronavirus-becomes-a-battle-cry-for-us-extremists}}

White supremacists seek to stoke the fear and disruption caused by the
pandemic to push their agenda and to recruit.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/05/02/us/00virus-extremists-swap/00virus-extremists-swap-articleLarge-v2.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/neil-macfarquhar}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/10/15/multimedia/author-neil-macfarquhar/author-neil-macfarquhar-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/neil-macfarquhar}{Neil
MacFarquhar}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  May 3, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

America's extremists are attempting to turn the coronavirus pandemic
into a potent recruiting tool both in the deep corners of the internet
and on the streets of state capitals by twisting the public health
crisis to bolster their white supremacist, anti-government agenda.

Although the protests that have broken out across the country have drawn
out a wide variety of people pressing to lift stay-at-home orders, the
presence of extremists cannot be missed, with their anti-immigrant and
anti-Semitic signs and coded messages aimed at inspiring the faithful,
say those who track such movements.

April is typically a busy month for white supremacists. There is
Hitler's birthday, which they contort into a celebration. There is
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/19/us/Timothy-McVeigh-Oklahoma-City-Bombing-Coronavirus.html}{the
anniversary of the Oklahoma City bombing}, the domestic attack 25 years
ago that killed 168 people and still serves as a rallying call for new
extremist recruits.

But this April, something else overshadowed those chilling milestones.
It was the coronavirus, and the disruption it wreaked on society, that
became the extremists' battle cry.

Embellishing Covid-19 developments to fit their usual agenda, extremists
spread disinformation on the transmission of the virus and disparage
stay-at-home orders as ``medical martial law'' --- the long-anticipated
advent of a totalitarian state.

``They are being very effective in capitalizing on the pandemic,'' said
Devin Burghart, a veteran researcher of white nationalists who runs the
Institute for Research and Education on Human Rights, a Seattle-based
research center on far right movements.

What success the groups have had in finding fresh recruits is not yet
clear, but new research indicates a significant jump in people consuming
extremist material while under lockdown. Various violent incidents have
been linked to white supremacist or anti-government perpetrators enraged
over aspects of the pandemic.

\href{https://www.njhomelandsecurity.gov/covid19}{The New Jersey Office
of Homeland Security and Preparedness} said in March that white
supremacists have encouraged followers to conduct attacks during the
crisis to incite fear and target ethnic minorities and immigrants. ``We
have noticed domestic extremist groups taking advantage of the Covid-19
pandemic by spreading disinformation,'' Jared M. Maples, its director,
said in a statement. The coronavirus has been dismissed as a hoax,
painted as a Jewish-run conspiracy and, alternatively, described as a
disease spread by nonwhite immigrants, he said.

Last month, the Department of Homeland Security warned law enforcement
officials throughout the United States of the mobilization of violent
extremists in response to stay-at-home measures, according to a senior
law enforcement official and a congressional staff member, who were not
authorized to discuss the warning publicly.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-the-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/11/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: The Coronavirus
Outbreak}}{Latest Updates: The Coronavirus Outbreak}}\label{latest-updates-the-coronavirus-outbreak}}

Updated 2020-09-12T07:09:04.082Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/11/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-dfb8a16}{Fauci
  cautions the virus could disrupt life in the U.S. until `maybe even
  towards the end of 2021.'}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/11/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-7104d154}{From
  Asia to Africa, China promotes its vaccine candidates to win friends.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/11/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-393ad215}{The
  other way the virus will kill: hunger.}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/11/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

More live coverage:
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/11/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Markets}

A department memo dated April 23 noted the recent arrests of individuals
who had threatened government officials imposing coronavirus-related
regulations. The memo was distributed to law enforcement ``fusion
centers'' that counter terrorism nationwide and to congressional
committees, the officials said.

Extremist organizations habitually try to exploit any crisis to further
their aims. While not monolithic, a spectrum of organizations --- from
anti-immigrant groups to those with a variety of grievances and those
that overtly espouse violence --- found something to like about the
coronavirus.

``They view it as a chance to turn people,'' said Megan Squire, a
professor at Elon University in North Carolina who tracks online
extremist chatter.

New material sprouts regularly on Facebook, Twitter and YouTube, while
those exiled from mainstream platforms migrate to less-policed venues,
including Telegram, Reddit, 4chan and gaming sites.

One subculture known as
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/01/22/us/white-supremacy-the-base.html}{``accelerationists''}
lives in constant expectation of a race war that will topple the federal
government. The pandemic became the latest in a long line of possible
igniters.

Some label their expected second civil war ``the boogaloo,'' and experts
have tracked a spike in interest in the term on social media, plus a
proliferation of advice on how to prepare.

The name is a pop culture reference derived from a 1984 movie flop that
became a cult classic called ``Breakin' 2: Electric Boogaloo.'' It went
through various mutations and emerged sometimes as the ``Big Igloo'' or
the ``Big Luau.'' That is why adherents sometimes wear Hawaiian shirts,
say those who track them. Many such shirts were in evidence when armed
protesters stormed the state capital in Lansing, Mich., Thursday and
they have appeared in rallies across the country.

Enthusiasts riff on the name, calling themselves ``boojihadeen'' or
``the boog.'' Not all those in the ``boogaloo'' movement are white
supremacists, but groups who track hate culture find some overlap in
terms of Nazi iconography and other extremist symbols.

There are some 125 such groups on Facebook, more than 60 percent created
this year, according to
\href{https://www.techtransparencyproject.org/articles/extremists-are-using-facebook-to-organize-for-civil-war-amid-coronavirus}{a
report from the Tech Transparency Project} of the Campaign for
Accountability, a nonprofit watchdog group.

Facebook, which had previously said it wrestled with the term because it
is also the name of a popular music genre, issued a statement on Friday
saying it would remove posts that link the term to violence. ``We're
updating our policies to prohibit the use of these terms when
accompanied by statements and images depicting armed violence,'' said a
Facebook spokesman, who spoke on the condition of not being identified,
as per company policy.

A common thread found on the internet is that Americans might soon be
pitted against their government. In one YouTube video called ``Top 5
Boogaloo Guns,'' which has more than 340,000 views, the host warns of
``a tyrannical government and you have got to take to the streets and
take care of business.'' The speaker was wearing a Hawaiian shirt
decorated with pineapples and grenades.

Engagement with violent extremist content online in states with extended
stay-at-home orders grew 21 percent in early April compared with the
eight previous months, according to a report by Moonshot CVE,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/12/30/us/white-supremacy-moonshot-google-ads.html}{a
start-up that monitors extremist searches} on Google.

ISD Global, a London think tank that studies American social media,
found that
\href{https://www.isdglobal.org/isd-publications/covid-19-disinformation-briefing-no-2/}{subscriptions
to extremist channels} also jumped markedly.

There is special concern that impressionable adolescents, bored and
spending countless hours online, will be swayed by the hateful material.

This concern was amplified by the revelation in the Estonian newspaper
Eesti Ekspress that a leader of a neo-Nazi organization called the
Feuerkrieg Division was 13 years old. He had discussed setting up a
terrorist training camp, shared bomb-making information and vehemently
opposed a proposed merger with the Atomwaffen Division, another
accelerationist group that endorses violence.

After President Trump tweeted that he was temporarily stopping
immigration in response to the pandemic, the mood among white power
advocates ranged from jubilation to cautious optimism.

When Mr. Trump's suspension proved temporary, some still celebrated that
a once fringe talking point had gone mainstream, while others expressed
disappointment online.

``Whoop-dee-do,'' wrote one critic on a Telegram channel frequented by
white supremacists.

Several recent plots have been linked to people who frequented such
discussions.

Timothy R. Wilson, 36, an extremist suspected of planning an attack on a
Missouri hospital, was
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/25/us/politics/coronavirus-fbi-shooting.html}{killed
in a shootout with F.B.I. agents} in late March. An F.B.I. statement
said he was ``motivated by racial, religious, and anti-government
animus.''

The federal government sought to harness the pandemic as an ``excuse to
destroy our people,'' Mr. Wilson wrote on an online channel for violent
neo-Nazi groups, Dr. Squire said, while also describing it as a Jewish
``power grab.''

An Arkansas man, Aaron Swenson, 36, had used an alias to ``like'' more
than a dozen ``boogaloo'' Facebook pages, said the Tech Transparency
Project report. He then went on Facebook Live on April 12 to announce
that he was hunting for a law enforcement officer to ambush and execute
in Texarkana, Texas, where the police arrested him, according to a
police statement.

Mr. Swenson, who remains in jail on \$85,000 bail, was charged with
making terroristic threats, evading capture and carrying a weapon
illegally. He plans to enter a plea of not guilty, said Rick Shumaker,
the chief public defender for Bowie County, Texas. No court date has
been set.

In a twist, the coronavirus prompted at least one white supremacist to
reinvent himself as a disease expert.

Previously, Tom Kawczynski advocated turning New England into a
white-run monarchy. After the pandemic erupted, he recast himself as a
virus expert, starting a ``Coronavirus Central'' podcast that is among
the most popular on coronavirus themes offered by Apple.

Mr. Kawczynski's former sentiments did not entirely disappear. With
virus cases expanding in New York and elsewhere nearby in early April,
he suggested on Twitter that New England had to work ``independently for
survival.''

Zolan Kanno-Youngs contributed reporting.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
