Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/nyregion}{New York}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/nyregion}{New York}\textbar{}Prince Andrew and U.S.
Prosecutor in Nasty Dispute Over Epstein Case

\url{https://nyti.ms/30yvRPt}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{prince-andrew-and-us-prosecutor-in-nasty-dispute-over-epstein-case}{%
\section{Prince Andrew and U.S. Prosecutor in Nasty Dispute Over Epstein
Case}\label{prince-andrew-and-us-prosecutor-in-nasty-dispute-over-epstein-case}}

The spat over whether the prince is willing to help in a sex-trafficking
inquiry escalated, with a top federal prosecutor effectively calling the
British royal a liar.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/06/08/nyregion/08ANDREW/merlin_169146945_82e12a00-a556-44bb-8367-de34f5a475d6-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/alan-feuer}{Alan Feuer}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  June 8, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

For four months, federal prosecutors in New York have been locked in a
nasty public spat with Prince Andrew of Britain about what they say is
his refusal to aid their investigation into allegations of sex
trafficking and other crimes by the financier Jeffrey Epstein and his
associates.

In March, Geoffrey S. Berman, the United States attorney in Manhattan,
took the unusual step of announcing at a news conference that the
British royal had
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/09/nyregion/jeffrey-epstein-prince-andrew.html}{``completely
shut the door''} on helping with the inquiry. The comments came two
months after Mr. Berman complained that the prince was offering
``\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/01/27/nyregion/jeffrey-epstein-prince-andrew.html}{zero
cooperation}'' in the case.

On Monday, the trans-Atlantic sniping escalated, with the prince's
lawyers saying in a statement from London that he had agreed three times
to help the New York prosecutors, though on his terms, with a written
statement, and not by sitting for an interview.

In the statement, the prince's lawyers accused Mr. Berman by name of
misleading the public with ``inaccurate'' comments about the prince that
``should not have been made.'' They also suggested that Mr. Berman and
other U.S. prosecutors hoped to bask in the limelight by loudly and
repeatedly attacking Prince Andrew.

``They are perhaps seeking publicity rather than accepting the
assistance proffered,'' the prince's lawyers wrote.

Within hours, Mr. Berman shot back, issuing a statement of his own in
which he effectively called Prince Andrew, the Duke of York, a liar.

``Today, Prince Andrew yet again sought to falsely portray himself to
the public as eager and willing to cooperate with an ongoing federal
criminal investigation into sex trafficking and related offenses,'' Mr.
Berman wrote.

``If Prince Andrew is, in fact, serious about cooperating with the
ongoing federal investigation,'' Mr. Berman added, ``our doors remain
open, and we await word of when we should expect him.''

The dueling missives emerged as the British media reported that Mr.
Berman's office had raised the stakes in its scuffle with the prince by
issuing a formal request to the British Home Office seeking its help in
obtaining an interview with him.

U.S. prosecutors in New York and Washington would not confirm whether
such a request, which is known officially as a mutual legal assistance
application, had been made. (In an interview with Fox News on Monday,
Attorney General William P. Barr said there were no plans to extradite
the prince, but that federal prosecutors hoped to have him ``provide
some evidence.'')

If British officials were to grant such an application, Mr. Berman and
his members of his staff could avoid the complexities of trying to
subpoena testimony from Prince Andrew, a foreign citizen who lives
outside of U.S. jurisdiction.

Under mutual legal assistance treaties, the British government could
compel the prince to submit to an interview with its own officials if he
were to persist in refusing to grant one to the federal prosecutors in
New York.

The stalemate has been in effect since November, when Prince Andrew gave
what was widely seen as
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/11/20/world/europe/prince-andrew-quits-epstein.html}{a
disastrous television interview to the BBC} about his long relationship
with Mr. Epstein, who
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/12/02/world/europe/prince-andrews-Virginia-Roberts-Giuffre-bbc.html}{killed
himself last summer} at a federal jail in Manhattan while awaiting trial
on sex trafficking and conspiracy charges. Mr. Epstein had previously
pleaded guilty to state sex crime charges in 2008 and had been sentenced
to 13 months in prison at the time.

Prince Andrew, 60, said in the BBC interview that he could not ``shed
light'' for U.S. law enforcement officers on Mr. Epstein's activities
because the two had spent only a few days at a time together. He also
said he would have to consult with his lawyers before testifying under
oath about his relationship with Mr. Epstein.

The prince's answers in the interview shocked many viewers, who said
that his denials of sexual misconduct were unpersuasive and that he
seemed to have little sympathy for Mr. Epstein's alleged victims.

After the interview was broadcast, the prince abruptly announced that he
was stepping back from public life, apparently out of a concern that the
BBC appearance could threaten the reputation and charitable work of the
entire British royal family.

In a public statement at the time, he also said, ``Of course, I am
willing to help any appropriate law enforcement agency with their
investigations, if required.''

Shortly after Mr. Epstein's death, Mr. Berman
\href{https://www.justice.gov/usao-sdny/pr/statement-manhattan-us-attorney-death-defendant-jeffrey-epstein}{said
in a statement} that the inquiry into an alleged sex-trafficking
conspiracy that led to the new charges against the financier had not yet
finished and that prosecutors were committed to standing up for the
``brave young women'' whom Mr. Berman said Mr. Epstein had abused. Mr.
Barr has also vowed to bring criminal charges against anyone who helped
Mr. Epstein in any sex-trafficking scheme.

American prosecutors may also want to speak with Prince Andrew because
of his friendship with Ghislaine Maxwell, a British socialite and Mr.
Epstein's onetime girlfriend. She has been accused in lawsuits filed by
women who say they were Mr. Epstein's victims of acting as his top
recruiter, procuring girls and young women for him to sexually abuse.

Ms. Maxwell, who has denied any wrongdoing, was one of four women who
were named as possible co-conspirators and
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/07/10/us/politics/acosta-epstein.html}{granted
immunity from prosecution in a widely criticized plea bargain} that Mr.
Epstein struck with federal prosecutors in Florida in a case that
preceded his 2008 conviction.

Mr. Berman's latest assertion that Prince Andrew has acted in bad faith
in presenting himself publicly as cooperative drew an angry reaction
from the prince's advisers. They accused Mr. Berman of breaching his own
confidentiality rules a third time and of further eroding the prince's
trust in the Justice Department's willingness to deal with him honestly.

``It's frankly bewildering,'' one of the prince's advisers said.

Mark Landler contributed reporting from London.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{Â©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
