Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}Jordan Brings Pugnacious
Style to Impeachment Defense of Trump

\url{https://nyti.ms/2QmZAWj}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{jordan-brings-pugnacious-style-to-impeachment-defense-of-trump}{%
\section{Jordan Brings Pugnacious Style to Impeachment Defense of
Trump}\label{jordan-brings-pugnacious-style-to-impeachment-defense-of-trump}}

For Representative Jim Jordan, acting as President Trump's chief
defender in the impeachment inquiry is a chance to redeem himself with
Republican leaders.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2019/11/14/nyregion/14dc-jordan/merlin_164329827_8f374c65-d2ae-4d3d-b931-3981af05b326-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/sheryl-gay-stolberg}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/11/26/multimedia/author-sheryl-gay-stolberg/author-sheryl-gay-stolberg-thumbLarge.png}}

By
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/sheryl-gay-stolberg}{Sheryl
Gay Stolberg}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Nov. 15, 2019
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

WASHINGTON --- Representative Jim Jordan, a scrappy former wrestler and
firebrand founder of the conservative House Freedom Caucus, has always
relished a fight. So it was no surprise this week when, as President
Trump's chief defender in the impeachment inquiry, he interrupted the
staid tone of the first public hearing and let it rip.

``And you're their star witness?'' he thundered at William B. Taylor
Jr., the top diplomat in Ukraine, after prodding Mr. Taylor on Wednesday
to say that he had never met the president, and that his information was
secondhand. ``You're their first witness! You're the guy?! I've seen
church prayer chains that are easier to understand than this.''

For Mr. Jordan of Ohio, it was both an attention-grabbing moment and a
chance to redeem himself with Republican leaders after years of being on
the outs. The party is relying on him to frame the narrative Republicans
offer to the public as Mr. Trump faces the gravest threat yet to his
presidency.

It is one in which the president is a victim, witnesses are trafficking
in hearsay at best, and working to undercut the duly elected president
at worst, and Mr. Trump's campaign to press Ukraine to investigate his
political rivals was a perfectly appropriate exercise of executive
power.

On Friday, Mr. Jordan's gloves-off style --- part pit bull, part
rat-a-tat auctioneer --- was put to the test when Marie L. Yovanovitch,
the ousted ambassador to Ukraine,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/11/15/us/politics/trump-yovanovitch.html?action=click\&module=Top\%20Stories\&pgtype=Homepage}{testified
in deeply personal terms} about how she felt ``threatened'' by Mr. Trump
after it emerged that he had told President Volodymyr Zelensky of
Ukraine that she was ``bad news'' and would ``go through some things.''

Mr. Jordan, apparently working to avoid appearing to bully her, treaded
relatively lightly in addressing Ms. Yovanovitch. He reserved his tart
tongue for the chairman of the House Intelligence Committee,
Representative Adam B. Schiff, who tried to force the Ohio congressman
to wrap up his questioning as he blew through the five-minute limit.

``My indulgence is wearing out,'' Mr. Schiff said.

``Our indulgence wore out with you a long time ago, Mr. Chairman,'' Mr.
Jordan shot back. A rumble emerged from the audience, which uttered a
collective ``Oooooh.''

Mr. Jordan was installed on the intelligence panel at the last minute by
Representative Kevin McCarthy, the Republican leader, so that he could
take a prominent role in the public questioning. He and other
Republicans on the panel spent part of Thursday in ``murder boards'' ---
mock hearings --- to prepare.

``It's just like adding a pinch-hitter or a relief pitcher,'' Mr.
McCarthy said in an interview.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2019/11/15/nyregion/15dc-jordan3/merlin_163996017_0649e808-1d87-4e78-bd66-424ccc03377c-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

With polls showing the public deeply split on whether Mr. Trump deserves
to be impeached, and views hardening along party lines, Mr. Jordan is
unlikely to change any minds. But for now, his presence on the panel is
assuaging the Republican base, which is looking for someone tough to go
up against
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/11/03/us/politics/adam-schiff-trump-impeachment.html}{Mr.
Schiff, Democrat of California, a strait-laced former federal
prosecutor}.

``I think it is helpful in a setting dominated by Schiff to have
somebody who's willing to be the equivalent of a middle linebacker in
football,'' said Newt Gingrich, who was speaker during the impeachment
of President Bill Clinton. ``He's willing to plunge in and make the
tough case, and do it in very understandable language.''

Technically, Representative Devin Nunes, the ranking Republican on the
intelligence panel, is Mr. Schiff's counterpart. But during weeks of
closed-door depositions, Mr. Jordan, the top Republican on the House
Committee on Oversight and Reform, took the lead in questioning
witnesses.

``If you didn't know better, you would think he was a prosecutor,'' said
Representative Steve Scalise, the No. 3 House Republican.

A former state legislator and law school graduate who never took the
bar, Mr. Jordan is a two-time N.C.C.A. Division 1 wrestling champion in
the 134-pound (lightweight) class. He rarely wears a suit jacket, and
his failure to don one on Wednesday drew the attention of Robin Givhan,
the fashion critic for The Washington Post.

``It's his power move,''
\href{https://www.washingtonpost.com/lifestyle/2019/11/13/love-dignity-civility-jim-jordan-put-jacket/}{she
wrote.} ``His sartorial chest thump.''

But Mr. Jordan seemed unable to rattle Mr. Taylor, a seasoned diplomat
with a full head of gray hair and a stentorian voice that evoked
memories of Walter Cronkite.

\href{https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JCSBd580P2A}{Reading Mr. Taylor's
own testimony back to him}, Mr. Jordan reminded the witness that he had
said it was his ``clear understanding'' that Ukraine would not receive
nearly \$400 million in military aid from the United States until Mr.
Zelensky announced the investigations. That is the essence of Democrats'
case that Mr. Trump abused his power.

``Now with all due respect ambassador, your clear understanding was
obviously wrong, because it didn't happen,'' Mr. Jordan said sharply,
going on to note that Mr. Zelensky never made such an announcement and
that the aid was ultimately released. (He neglected to say that Mr.
Trump released it under pressure from lawmakers on Capitol Hill.)

``So I'm wondering, where'd you get this clear understanding?'' Mr.
Jordan said, wrapping up. Mr. Taylor was unbowed: ``As I testified, Mr.
Jordan, this came from Mr. Sondland,'' he said, referring to Gordon D.
Sondland, the ambassador to the European Union and an ally of Mr. Trump.

Mr. Jordan, in a brief interview, said he was simply trying to get at
the truth --- at least as Republicans see it.

``Our job is to get out the facts, the truth, and let the American
people know that the facts are on the president's side, strongly on the
president's side, and let the American people see what they already
know, which is that the process is unfair,'' he said. ``We will just
keep doing that.''

Democrats, both here in Washington and in his home state of Ohio, see
Mr. Jordan as bomb-thrower who is more interested in theatrics and
obfuscation than substance. Julian Epstein, who served as the Democrats'
lead counsel in the impeachment of Mr. Clinton, called Mr. Jordan a
``carnival barker who peddles dopamine to the base.''

Image

Mr. Jordan, in a brief interview, said he was simply trying to get at
the truth --- at least as Republicans see it.Credit...Erin Schaff/The
New York Times

Jerry Austin, a Democratic strategist in Ohio, called Mr. Jordan ``a
colossal jerk,'' adding, ``He basically is an actor, playing the part of
this right-wing conservative congressman that whatever Donald Trump
does, he's defending.''

At home in Ohio, Mr. Jordan is the subject of controversy, amid
complaints from former college wrestlers who say that when he was a
young assistant wrestling coach at Ohio State University, he
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/07/06/us/politics/jim-jordan-sexual-misconduct.html?module=inline}{turned
a blind eye to allegations} that a team doctor was abusing the athletes.
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/05/17/us/politics/jim-jordan-sexual-abuse-ohio-state.html}{Mr.
Jordan has said he did not know of the abuse}, and heard no locker-room
talk about it, though an investigation commissioned by the university
found it was an ``open secret.''

Many of the wrestlers who accused him argue the congressman, then in his
early 20s, should not be blamed because he could not have done much to
protect them. One outspoken wrestler, Dunyasha Yetts, said that Mr.
Jordan in fact did the right thing and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/05/17/us/politics/jim-jordan-sexual-abuse-ohio-state.html}{confronted
the doctor} about being too hands-on with the students.

But they were privately disappointed that Mr. Jordan sought to deflect
any accusations of wrongdoing by arguing that wrestlers who came forward
were politically motivated and part of the so-called deep state --- a
defense that sounds much as if it could have come from the president he
is defending now.

That Mr. Jordan is in his current role reflects how the once-fractured
Republican conference has come together in the Trump era. When
Republicans were in the majority, Mr. Jordan and his fellow
conservatives made trouble for the Republican leadership, often balking
at their legislative agenda.

After Republicans lost the majority last year, Mr. Jordan challenged Mr.
McCarthy for the top leadership spot --- and lost. That generated what
another member of leadership, Representative Patrick T. McHenry of North
Carolina, called ``bad blood'' between them.

Despite that, Mr. McCarthy gave Mr. Jordan the ranking position on the
oversight panel, a plum job. The two men were freshmen lawmakers
together --- both were elected in 2006 --- and Mr. McCarthy said he
admired Mr. Jordan's ``work ethic'' and tenacity. He gave Mr. Jordan the
job, he said, over the strong objections of others in Republican
leadership who warned him that he would regret it.

He said he has not.

Catie Edmondson and Nicholas Fandos contributed reporting.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
