Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{/section/technology}{Technology}\textbar{}How Your Airbnb Host Is
Feeling the Pain of the Coronavirus

\url{https://nyti.ms/39ETpDX}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{The
Coronavirus Outbreak}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  live\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/03/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Latest
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Maps
  and Cases}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Vaccine
  Tracker}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/02/us/covid-college-reopening.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{College
  Reopening}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/03/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Economy}
\end{itemize}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/03/10/business/10airbnb/merlin_170301099_797a4ae7-489f-4af6-90c3-ae770228117a-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\hypertarget{how-your-airbnb-host-is-feeling-the-pain-of-the-coronavirus}{%
\section{How Your Airbnb Host Is Feeling the Pain of the
Coronavirus}\label{how-your-airbnb-host-is-feeling-the-pain-of-the-coronavirus}}

Online travel sites, including Booking.com and Airbnb, are facing a
world of hurt as people all but stop taking trips.

Empty walkways in Shibuya, a major commercial and business center in
Tokyo.Credit...Loulou d'Aki for The New York Times

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/erin-griffith}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2019/06/18/reader-center/author-erin-griffith/author-erin-griffith-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/erin-griffith}{Erin
Griffith}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  March 10, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

SAN FRANCISCO --- Livia De Felice, who owns two vacation rental
properties and manages four others across Italy, has seen all of her
bookings for March canceled, leaving her ``extremely worried,'' she
said.

Austin Mao, who hosts 2,000 guests a month in his Las Vegas network of
mansions, has slashed prices on the properties by 10 percent and plans
to keep cutting as visitors dwindle.

And Tracey Northcott and her husband, who manage 12 vacation apartments
in Tokyo, said the occupancy rate had gone from 80 percent to zero since
January.

``I've got to keep paying my mortgage somehow,'' said Ms. Northcott, who
employs three full-time and five part-time cleaners and administrators
and has started dipping into her retirement savings to pay the bills.

Ms. De Felice, Mr. Mao and Ms. Northcott are part of a network of people
behind seven million rental listings on Airbnb, the home-sharing and
rental site, who are now feeling the brunt of the coronavirus fallout.
With travel screeching to a halt in many places to limit the outbreak's
spread, the problems facing Airbnb and other online travel sites, such
as Booking.com and VRBO, have rapidly escalated.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/03/10/business/10airbnb1/merlin_170278044_cbeb127c-40c8-402d-8d03-bafd34e00dd2-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

The toll that the virus is taking on the \$688 billion online travel
industry is shared by airlines and big hotel chains. But unlike the
Marriotts and Hiltons or
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/05/business/coronavirus-airline-industry.html}{carriers
like United and JetBlue}, many online travel sites are underpinned by
listings from individual homeowners and smaller hotel operators, who
typically have fewer resources to withstand a prolonged slump.

The pain is already widespread. Booking.com, which has 6.3 million
listings for ``alternative accommodations,'' including apartments and
vacation homes, pulled its financial forecast on Monday. The company
said worsening conditions made it impossible to ``reliably quantify''
the impact of the virus on its business, which also sells hotel stays
and plane tickets.

``The world has changed, and we have to adjust,'' Glenn Fogel,
Booking.com's chief executive, said in a recent interview, adding that
his company had also pulled back on advertising.

Expedia Group, which owns VRBO, Hotels.com and more than a dozen other
travel sites, has said it expected a \$30 million to \$40 million hit to
operating profit in the first quarter. The company recently laid off 12
percent of its work force, or more than 3,000 employees, which it said
was part of a previously planned restructuring.

Image

Barry Diller, Expedia's chairman. The company expects a drop in
operating profit of \$30 million to \$40 million in the first
quarter.~Credit...Harry Eelman for The New York Times

``It truly is an unknown,'' Barry Diller, Expedia's chairman, said of
the coronavirus on an investor call last month. ``All we're trying to do
is separate what we absolutely believe is the effect of the virus from
our ongoing business, so we can prepare ourselves and make that ongoing
business as strong as possible when this thing is over.''

One of the hardest hit may be Airbnb, where millions of hosts have
listed their properties for short stays since the company was founded in
2008. (Airbnb takes a cut of their fee.) Over the years, Airbnb hosts
have become increasingly sophisticated, with mini-economies springing up
to cater to the hosts' needs for cleaning and management of the
properties. Competitors like Booking.com followed by moving into rentals
of vacation homes.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-economy}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/03/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates:
Economy}}{Latest Updates: Economy}}\label{latest-updates-economy}}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/03/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#the-chicago-fed-president-says-its-up-to-congress-to-save-the-economy}{11h
ago}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/03/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#the-chicago-fed-president-says-its-up-to-congress-to-save-the-economy}{The
Chicago Fed president says it's up to Congress to save the economy.}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/03/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#faa-says-boeing-has-effectively-mitigated-defects-in-the-737-max}{11h
ago}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/03/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#faa-says-boeing-has-effectively-mitigated-defects-in-the-737-max}{F.A.A.
says Boeing has `effectively mitigated' defects in the 737 Max.}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/03/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#small-businesses-got-emergency-loans-but-not-what-they-expected}{14h
ago}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/03/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#small-businesses-got-emergency-loans-but-not-what-they-expected}{Small
businesses got emergency loans, but not what they expected.}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/03/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

More live coverage:
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/03/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Global}

Now Airbnb finds itself on strategically tricky ground.

The San Francisco company, valued at \$31 billion by private investors,
said in September that it
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/09/19/technology/airbnb-ipo-2020.html}{planned
to go public this year} --- even though the initial public offering
market for high-profile, money-losing start-ups
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/09/26/business/tech-ipo-market.html}{has
been rocky}. Airbnb has indicated that it planned to go public via an
unusual method known as a direct listing, where no new shares are sold.
And it is under pressure to complete a listing this year because some of
its current and former employees' shares in the company
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/09/20/technology/airbnb-employees-ipo-payouts.html}{will
otherwise expire}.

The offering may now be in question. Nick Papas, an Airbnb spokesman,
would only refer to the company's previous announcement that it planned
to go public this year. But stock market volatility and a big blow to
business from the virus may make it unthinkable for any company to go
public soon.

Last week, Brian Chesky,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2014/10/12/business/brian-chesky-of-airbnb-on-scratching-the-itch-to-create.html}{Airbnb's
chief executive}, sent an email to employees outlining the company's
response to the virus. In the message, he said Airbnb would grant some
refunds to customers and establish a \$10 million fund to support
Chinese rental operators while tourism to the country, where the
outbreak started, has halted.

``Airbnb was born during a global crisis,'' Mr. Chesky wrote, referring
to the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2008/09/19/news/19iht-19oxan-CRISIS.16311607.html}{2008
financial crisis} and without mentioning the company's I.P.O. plans.
``It didn't stop us then, and it won't stop us now.''

Image

``Airbnb was born during a global crisis,'' Brian Chesky, the company's
chief executive, said in a memo to employees last week.Credit...Jeenah
Moon for The New York Times

Airbnb faces other coronavirus fallout, including a sponsorship of the
Tokyo Olympics this summer that may be in peril
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/05/sports/olympics/coronavirus-tokyo.html}{if
the event is canceled}. The International Olympic Committee has said it
is fully committed to holding the games, and will follow the advice of
the World Health Organization.

Most of all, Airbnb is dealing with a potential decline in revenue
because travelers are canceling stays with their hosts.

Jasper Ribbers, who runs a company called Get Paid for Your Pad in
Sofia, Bulgaria, that provides coaching for Airbnb hosts, has advised
those in regions affected by the virus to reduce nightly prices, cut
costs and seek alternative uses for their spaces, like finding long-term
renters.

``Some hosts are doing events or letting local artists use the
apartments for photo shoots,'' he said.

Mr. Mao, the Airbnb host in Las Vegas, began cutting prices on his
properties last month and said he would continue doing so as bookings
slowed. Each of his homes had been bringing around \$10,000 a month,
with fixed costs of just \$3,500. While he saw only a slight dip in
bookings in early March, he said, he expects that to deepen as fear of
the coronavirus intensifies.

Mr. Mao said he also had stopped work at a construction business he
runs, where he employs 10 people who renovate homes for renting.

``I believe this is a harbinger of the next great recession, so I think
it's risky to expand,'' he said.

Image

Airbnb headquarters in San Francisco.Credit...Jason Henry for The New
York Times

In Tokyo, Ms. Northcott, who has been an Airbnb host for eight years,
said she had been trying to find other work for her cleaners, who are
paid by the job. Her business, Tokyo Family Stays, lost around \$2,000
worth of bookings in January, \$10,000 in February, \$25,000 so far in
March and \$40,000 for April, which is normally the biggest month of the
year.

If the virus spreads, she and her husband may try to find corporate
jobs, she said.

``It seems that it is always the small businesses who are left to figure
things out for themselves,'' she said.

Mr. Papas declined to disclose details on the costs of Airbnb's
virus-related cancellations. The company has let people traveling to and
from China, South Korea and parts of Italy cancel their bookings with
full refunds. It said it was individually evaluating other situations,
including people whose flights were canceled or who were restricted from
traveling.

On Tuesday, Airbnb announced a program called More Flexible
Reservations, which will allow hosts to more easily offer refunds to
guests. Service fees on trips booked now through June 1 that do not fall
under the company's extenuating-circumstances policy will also be
refundable with travel coupons for a future journey.

Some customers who booked trips before the new program took effect are
unhappy. Dr. Peter Shields, a cancer researcher at Ohio State
University, booked a two-week trip to Japan for this month with nearly
\$10,000 of reservations at two Airbnbs for his family. After the
outbreak worsened and his employer restricted foreign travel, he
canceled.

But because Japan does not fall under Airbnb's extenuating-circumstances
policy, Dr. Shields struggled to secure refunds. He tussled with
Airbnb's customer support, emailed Mr. Chesky directly and filed a
Better Business Bureau complaint. He was eventually refunded for one
reservation and 70 percent of the other --- but was then told that the
first one had been done by mistake.

``The answer I'm getting is: You're out of luck,'' he said.

Airbnb said 60 percent of its reservations had policies that allowed for
half or full refunds. It added of Dr. Shields, ``We apologize for this
error and have taken action to address this matter and help ensure these
kinds of issues don't happen again in the future.''

In his memo to employees, Mr. Chesky tried to stay optimistic.

``Travel always bounces back,'' he wrote. ``It is one of the most
resilient industries in the world.''

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
