Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/world}{World}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/world}{World}\textbar{}Infections Swamp the U.S., Which
Recorded 42\% of All Its Coronavirus Cases in July

\url{https://nyti.ms/2D8Ek2l}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{The
Coronavirus Outbreak}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  live\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/03/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Latest
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Maps
  and Cases}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Vaccine
  Tracker}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/02/us/covid-college-reopening.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{College
  Reopening}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/03/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Economy}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{infections-swamp-the-us-which-recorded-42-of-all-its-coronavirus-cases-in-july}{%
\section{Infections Swamp the U.S., Which Recorded 42\% of All Its
Coronavirus Cases in
July}\label{infections-swamp-the-us-which-recorded-42-of-all-its-coronavirus-cases-in-july}}

Thousands in Berlin protest Germany's coronavirus measures. The virus is
picking up speed in the Midwest. A summer camp in Georgia apologizes for
hosting a retreat after hundreds who attended were infected.

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Published Aug. 1, 2020Updated Aug. 2, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

\emph{This briefing has ended.}
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/02/world/coronavirus-updates.html}{\emph{Click
here for the latest updates.}}

\hypertarget{heres-what-you-need-to-know}{%
\subsubsection{Here's what you need to
know:}\label{heres-what-you-need-to-know}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-34047410}{The U.S. reels as July cases more
  than double the total of any other month.}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-780ec966}{Top U.S. officials work to break an
  impasse over the federal jobless benefit.}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-2bc8948}{Its outbreak untamed, Melbourne goes
  into even greater lockdown.}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-25930521}{Thousands in Berlin protest
  Germany's coronavirus measures.}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-71e54361}{Another U.S. lawmaker tests positive
  for the coronavirus.}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-1e0cb5f3}{Florida, already reeling from the
  virus, faces a new threat from Tropical Storm Isaias.}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-45c905e3}{A golfer tests positive midway
  through a PGA Tour event, withdrawing while tied for second place.}
\end{itemize}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/01/business/01virus-briefing-midwest/merlin_175126203_832a9469-7dba-42ab-8e86-a7f2b05a10d3-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\hypertarget{the-us-reels-as-july-cases-more-than-double-the-total-of-any-other-month}{%
\subsection{The U.S. reels as July cases more than double the total of
any other
month.}\label{the-us-reels-as-july-cases-more-than-double-the-total-of-any-other-month}}

The United States recorded more than 1.9 million new infections in July,
nearly 42 percent of the more than 4.5 million cases reported nationwide
since the pandemic began and more than double the number documented in
any other month, according to
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html?action=click\&module=Top\%20Stories\&pgtype=Homepage\#map}{data
compiled by The New York Times}. The previous monthly high came in
April, when more than 880,000 new cases were recorded.

The virus is picking up dangerous speed in much of the Midwest --- and
in states from Mississippi to Florida to California that thought they
had already seen the worst of it.

Gone is any sense that the country may soon get ahold of the pandemic.
The seven-day average for daily new infections has hovered around 65,000
for the past two weeks, more than doubling the peak average from the
spring, when the country experienced what was essentially its first
wave.

In many states, distressed government officials are re-tightening
restrictions on residents and businesses, and sounding warnings about a
rise in virus-related hospitalizations.

Across the country, deaths from the virus continued to rise after a
steep drop from the mid-April peaks of about 2,200 a day. At the start
of July, the average death toll was about 500 per day. Over the last
week, it has averaged more than 1,000 daily, with many of those
concentrated in Sun Belt states.

The Northeast, once the virus's biggest hot spot, has improved
considerably since its peak in April. Yet cases are now increasing
slightly in New Jersey, Rhode Island and Massachusetts, as residents
move around more freely and gather more frequently in groups.

The picture is similarly distressing overseas, where even governments
that would seem well suited to combating the virus are seeing surges.

New daily infections in Japan, a country with a long tradition of
wearing face masks, rose more than 50 percent in July. Australia, which
can cut itself off from the rest of the world more easily than most, is
battling a wave of infections in and around Melbourne. Hong Kong, Israel
and Spain are also fighting second waves.

None of those places has an infection rate as high as the one in the
United States, which has the most cases and deaths in the world.

\hypertarget{top-us-officials-work-to-break-an-impasse-over-the-federal-jobless-benefit}{%
\subsection{Top U.S. officials work to break an impasse over the federal
jobless
benefit.}\label{top-us-officials-work-to-break-an-impasse-over-the-federal-jobless-benefit}}

Image

The Food Bank for New York City giving out goods in New York on Friday.
Joblessness remains at record levels, with some 30 million Americans
receiving unemployment benefits.Credit...Scott Heins/Getty Images

Hours after unemployment benefits for tens of millions of Americans
lapsed, administration officials arrived on Capitol Hill on Saturday
morning for a rare meeting with top congressional Democrats to discuss a
coronavirus relief package and work to break an impasse over new aid as
the American economy continues to shudder.

Speaker Nancy Pelosi of California, who hosted the meeting with Senator
Chuck Schumer of New York in her Capitol Hill suite, emerged after three
hours and said the discussion ``was productive in terms of moving us
forward,'' but they remained far apart on a number of issues. They
declined to offer specifics, but said that staff would meet on Sunday
and that the principal negotiators would again convene on Monday for
another meeting.

``Here we have this drastic challenge and what they were saying before
is, `We're going to cut your benefit,'' Ms. Pelosi said. ``That's, shall
we say, the discussions we're having.''

``This is not a usual discussion, because the urgency is so great
healthwise, financial health-wise,'' she added.

Also in attendance were Mark Meadows, the White House chief of staff,
and Steven Mnuchin, the Treasury secretary. (Mr. Mnuchin observed before
entering Ms. Pelosi's suite that it was ``just another working day in
the Capitol.'')

Among the largest sticking points in the discussion is a \$600 weekly
federal jobless benefit that became a lifeline for tens of millions of
unemployed Americans, while also helping prop up the economy. The aid
expired at midnight as officials in Washington failed to agree on a new
relief bill, but Mr. Meadows and Mr. Mnuchin said there were signs that
the two sides could begin to reach common ground, including on reviving
a federal moratorium on evictions and funding for schools and child
care.

``There's things we agree on. There's things we don't agree on,'' Mr.
Mnuchin said after the meeting. ``We're trying to narrow down the things
we don't agree on. Obviously any negotiation is a compromise.''

Joblessness remains at record levels, with some 30 million Americans
receiving unemployment benefits. More than 1.4 million
\href{https://oui.doleta.gov/press/2020/073020.pdf}{newly filed for
state unemployment benefits last week} --- the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/30/business/economy/q2-gdp-coronavirus-economy.html}{19th
straight week that the tally had exceeded one million,}an unheard-of
figure before the pandemic.

Nearly 11 percent of Americans have said that they live in households
where there is not enough to eat, according to a
\href{https://www.census.gov/programs-surveys/household-pulse-survey/data.html?utm_campaign=20200727mspuls1ccdtanl\&utm_medium=email\&utm_source=govdelivery}{recent
Census Bureau survey}, and more than a quarter have missed a rent or
mortgage payment.

The benefit's expiration will force Louise Francis, who worked as a
banquet cook at the Sheraton Hotel in New Orleans for nearly two decades
before being furloughed last
spring,\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/30/business/economy/q2-gdp-coronavirus-economy.html}{to
get by on just state unemployment benefits, which for her come to \$247
a week.}

``With the \$600, you could see your way a little bit,'' said Ms.
Francis, 59. ``You could feel a little more comfortable. You could pay
three or four bills and not feel so far behind.''

The aid lapsed as Republicans and Democrats in Washington
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/28/us/politics/coronavirus-relief-bills-house-senate.html}{remained
far apart on what the next round of virus relief should look like}.

Democrats wanted to extend the \$600 weekly payments through the end of
the year, as part of an expansive \$3 trillion aid package that would
also help state and local governments. Republicans, worried that the
\$600 benefit left some people with more money than when they were
working, sought to scale it back to \$200 per week as part of a \$1
trillion proposal and have begun to push the prospect of doing a
short-term package that deals with just a few issues, including the
unemployment insurance benefit.

``They've made clear that there's a desire on their part to do an entire
package,'' Mr. Mnuchin said of Democrats. ``We've made clear that we're
really willing to deal with the short-term issues, pass something
quickly and come back to the larger issues so we're at an impasse on
that.''

Democrats have rejected a short-term proposal.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html}{Tracking
the Coronavirus~›}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html}{}

\hypertarget{where-cases-are-rising-fastest}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{Where cases are \textbf{rising}
fastest}{Where cases are rising fastest}}\label{where-cases-are-rising-fastest}}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/hawaii-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

Hawaii

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/rhode-island-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

R.I.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/new-jersey-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

N.J.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/massachusetts-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

Mass.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/nebraska-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

Neb.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/missouri-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

Mo.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/alaska-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

Alaska

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/oklahoma-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

Okla.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/south-dakota-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

S.D.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/new-hampshire-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

N.H.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/illinois-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

Ill.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/montana-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

Mont.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html}{}

\hypertarget{us-hot-spots-}{%
\subsubsection{U.S. hot spots~›}\label{us-hot-spots-}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2020/03/16/coronavirus-maps/b51a1199676bcbc2847cd5292490df572d07e0cb/images/orphan_usa-threeByTwoSmallAt2X.png}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/world/coronavirus-maps.html}{}

\hypertarget{worldwide-}{%
\subsubsection{Worldwide~›}\label{worldwide-}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2020/03/16/coronavirus-maps/b51a1199676bcbc2847cd5292490df572d07e0cb/images/orphan_world-threeByTwoSmallAt2X.png}

\hypertarget{its-outbreak-untamed-melbourne-goes-into-even-greater-lockdown}{%
\subsection{Its outbreak untamed, Melbourne goes into even greater
lockdown.}\label{its-outbreak-untamed-melbourne-goes-into-even-greater-lockdown}}

Image

A curfew, from 8 p.m. to 5 a.m., went into effect in Melbourne on
Sunday.Credit...William West/Agence France-Presse --- Getty Images

Officials in Melbourne, Australia's second-largest city,
\href{https://www.premier.vic.gov.au/statement-changes-melbournes-restrictions}{announced
stricter measures} on Sunday in an effort to stem an outbreak that is
still raging despite a lockdown that began four weeks ago.

For six weeks starting Sunday, residents of metropolitan Melbourne will
be under curfew from 8 p.m. to 5 a.m. except for purposes of work or
giving and receiving care.

As under the current lockdown, acceptable reasons for leaving the house
include shopping for essential goods and services, medical care and
caregiving, and necessary exercise, work and study. But food shopping is
now limited to one person per household per day and outdoor exercise is
limited to one hour per person per day, both within five kilometers of
home. Public gatherings are limited to two people, including household
members.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-global-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/03/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: Global Coronavirus
Outbreak}}{Latest Updates: Global Coronavirus Outbreak}}\label{latest-updates-global-coronavirus-outbreak}}

Updated 2020-08-04T05:55:16.339Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/03/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-4547638f}{Fauci
  defends Birx after she is criticized by Trump.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/03/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-15e7f995}{Trump
  derides Democrats as lawmakers and administration officials try to
  break stimulus impasse.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/03/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-e5a2cda}{The
  deadline for 2020 census counting has been moved up by a month.}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/03/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

More live coverage:
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/03/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Markets}

In explaining the new measures, Premier Daniel Andrews said that the
high rate of community transmission, including 671 new cases reported in
the state of Victoria on Sunday, suggested the virus was even more
widespread than known.

``You've got to err on the side of caution and go further and go
harder,'' he said.

Less stringent restrictions are being introduced in the rest of the
state starting at midnight on Wednesday, and further measures regarding
businesses will be announced on Monday.

Victoria has had a total of 11,557 cases, almost all of them in
metropolitan Melbourne, and 123 deaths.

Global roundup

\hypertarget{thousands-in-berlin-protest-germanys-coronavirus-measures}{%
\subsection{Thousands in Berlin protest Germany's coronavirus
measures.}\label{thousands-in-berlin-protest-germanys-coronavirus-measures}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/01/business/01virus-briefing-protest/merlin_175197072_6c6f2dc3-e3cc-4f60-a729-b3757acafdcb-videoSixteenByNine3000.jpg}

An estimated 17,000 Germans packed the heart of Berlin on Saturday,
defying public health requirements to maintain a safe distance from one
another, or cover their noses and faces, before Berlin police moved to
break up the demonstration against the country's efforts to fight the
spread of coronavirus.

The protest, under the motto ``Day of Freedom'' --- a title shared by a
1935 Nazi propaganda film by Leni Riefenstahl --- was supported by known
neo-Nazi groups and conspiracy theorists, along with Germans who say
they are fed up with the government-imposed restrictions on public life.
Germany enforced a strict lockdown from mid-March that has been lifted
in stages since the end of April, but large public gatherings are still
banned and requirements for wearing masks on public transportation and
in all stores remain.

A majority of Germans support the measures, but public health officials
worry that people are becoming more lax, as the past weeks have seen a
rise in new infections. On Saturday,
\href{https://www.rki.de/DE/Content/InfAZ/N/Neuartiges_Coronavirus/Situationsberichte/2020-08-01-en.pdf?__blob=publicationFile}{955}
new cases were reported, compared with 580 two weeks ago.

Protesters at the demonstration blew whistles, heckled and jeered anyone
wearing a mask, and carried the red, white and black flag of the
19th-century German Empire. They also carried signs equating the
government-imposed restrictions to the Nazis' forcing Jews to wear
yellow stars. One
\href{https://twitter.com/BenjAlvarez1/status/1289490832815345665/photo/1}{banner},
emblazoned with images of Chancellor Angela Merkel, her health minister
and leading German public health officials, as well as Bill Gates,
demanded: ``Lock Them Up Already!''

Here are some other developments from around the globe:

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \textbf{South Africa} on Saturday surpassed 500,000 coronavirus
  infections, \href{https://coronavirus.jhu.edu/map.html}{according to
  Johns Hopkins University and Medicine}, fifth most in the world. More
  than 10,100 new cases had been recorded,
  \href{https://twitter.com/HealthZA/status/1289655436455510016}{South
  Africa's Department of Health said}, adding virus-related deaths had
  risen to 8,153. South Africa in March quickly
  became\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/27/world/africa/south-africa-coronavirus.html}{Africa's
  first epicenter} and the first country on the continent to impose a
  severe lockdown, restricting travel between provinces.
\item
  \textbf{Belgium} on Saturday
  \href{https://www.info-coronavirus.be/en/news/the-number-of-confirmed-cases-of-covid-19-has-doubled-in-one-week/}{announced}
  that its number of confirmed coronavirus infections had doubled in one
  week. On average about 448 people per day tested positive from July 22
  to July 28, the Belgian health authorities said. The city of Antwerp
  was of particular concern, officials said.
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \textbf{Kuwait} on Saturday began to resume some commercial flights
  after a five-month suspension. It announced that flights would remain
  suspended from 31 countries, including India, China and Brazil.
  Flights are also still barred from some countries that were once major
  hot spots, such as Spain and Italy, but not the United States, which
  remains a global epicenter. Kuwait, with its relatively small
  population, has one of the highest infection rates in the world. Its
  1,618 cases per 100,000 people is the sixth highest globally,
  according to a New York Times database.
\item
  Prime Minister Boris Johnson of \textbf{Britain} announced that
  lockdown measures that were set to be lifted Saturday would continue
  for two more weeks, as case numbers in the country rise. Restrictions
  remain on indoor performances, casinos, wedding receptions and other
  gatherings, which Mr. Johnson said he knew would come as a ``real
  blow'' to some people. But it was necessary to apply the ``brake
  pedal,'' he said, in order to stem the spread of the virus.
\item
  In \textbf{Vietnam}, the city of Danang plans to test its entire
  population for the coronavirus, the local authorities said, after
  dozens of cases there showed how the disease can stalk even places
  that were thought to have eradicated the virus. As the country went
  more than three months without reporting any local transmission or
  even a single death from the virus, up to 800,000 domestic tourists
  flocked to Danang, a coastal city known for its golden beaches.
  Vietnam has now recorded three deaths and almost 600 cases, although
  many are returnees in quarantine.
\item
  As of Saturday night, \textbf{Mexico}'s confirmed death toll **** of
  47,472 was
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/world/americas/mexico-coronavirus-cases.html}{the
  world's third highest} behind the United States and Brazil.
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/world/europe/united-kingdom-coronavirus-cases.html}{Britain
  ranked fourth}, with 495 fewer deaths. The number of new reported
  infections in Mexico has been climbing since May and topped 9,000 for
  the first time on Saturday, bringing the country's caseload to nearly
  435,000.
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Officials in \textbf{Poland} are considering new lockdown restrictions
  after the country reported record numbers of new coronavirus cases for
  three days in a row. The health minister
  \href{https://news.yahoo.com/poland-reports-record-rise-virus-090641415.html}{told
  a local radio station} this could include reducing the number of
  people allowed to attend weddings, according to Reuters. The country
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/world/coronavirus-maps.html\#countries}{has
  reported 46,346 total cases and 3,650 deaths}.
\item
  Thirty-six crew members aboard \textbf{a Norwegian cruise ship} tested
  positive for the virus, Hurtigruten, the ship's operator,
  \href{https://presse.hurtigruten.no/pressreleases/33-hurtigruten-crew-members-tested-positive-for-covid-19-3024215}{said
  in a statement over the weekend}. None of those who tested positive
  showed any symptoms, the statement said. According to the company, 387
  guests who may have been exposed to infected crew members during two
  trips on the ship in July will self-quarantine in accordance with
  Norway's public health regulations.
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{another-us-lawmaker-tests-positive-for-the-coronavirus}{%
\subsection{Another U.S. lawmaker tests positive for the
coronavirus.}\label{another-us-lawmaker-tests-positive-for-the-coronavirus}}

Image

Representative Raúl M. Grijalva at the Capitol on Wednesday. He is among
nearly a dozen lawmakers who have tested positive.Credit...Pool photo by
Michael Reynolds

Representative Raúl M. Grijalva, Democrat of Arizona, has tested
positive for the coronavirus three days after isolating because he came
into contact with another lawmaker who had contracted it.

Mr. Grijalva, who has no symptoms, is the 11th lawmaker to test
positive, according to a
\href{https://slack-redir.net/link?url=https\%3A\%2F\%2Fwww.govtrack.us\%2Fcovid-19\%23legislators}{tally
maintained by GovTrack}.

It is unclear where he contracted the virus, but Mr. Grijalva has been
in self-isolation since Wednesday, when Representative Louie Gohmert, a
Texas Republican who has frequently spurned wearing a mask during the
pandemic, said
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/29/us/politics/louie-gohmert-positive-coronavirus-mask.html}{he
had tested positive}. Mr. Grijalva said he had had extended contact with
Mr. Gohmert during a congressional hearing held by the Natural Resources
Committee, the panel that he leads.

``While I cannot blame anyone directly for this, this week has shown
that there are some members of Congress who fail to take this crisis
seriously,'' Mr. Grijalva, 72, said in a statement on Saturday, in what
appeared to be a veiled reference to Mr. Gohmert. ``Numerous Republican
members routinely strut around the Capitol without a mask to selfishly
make a political statement at the expense of their colleagues, staff,
and their families.''

A spokesman for Mr. Grijalva said he would quarantine for two weeks in
Washington, and some of the representative's staff would also be tested.

Mr. Grijalva's diagnosis comes as lawmakers --- and the many aides and
staff members who shuttle in and out of the Capitol daily --- are
grappling with
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/30/us/politics/gohmert-coronavirus-congress.html}{the
lack of consistent procedures} for protecting one another. Speaker Nancy
Pelosi of California and Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the
majority leader, have so far rejected enforcing a rapid-test system for
Capitol Hill
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/01/us/politics/coronavirus-testing-senate-white-house.html}{similar
to the one used at the White House}, particularly given testing
shortages and delays around the country.

In addition to the lawmakers who have tested positive, the virus has
spread among the workers who quietly power the Capitol. At least 27
Capitol Police employees, 33 contractors on a construction site and 25
employees of the Architect of the Capitol have tested positive, and
dozens more have entered voluntary isolation because of exposure,
according to a tally from Republicans on the House Administration
Committee.

\hypertarget{florida-already-reeling-from-the-virus-faces-a-new-threat-from-tropical-storm-isaias}{%
\subsection{Florida, already reeling from the virus, faces a new threat
from Tropical Storm
Isaias.}\label{florida-already-reeling-from-the-virus-faces-a-new-threat-from-tropical-storm-isaias}}

Image

Storm clouds from Tropical Storm Isaias beginning to move over Miami on
Saturday.Credit...Joe Raedle/Getty Images

Florida, home to one of the worst coronavirus outbreaks in the United
States, braced for the arrival of Isaias on Saturday.

The state's battle with the virus could make evacuating homes and
entering community shelters especially risky. Friday was the third
consecutive day that Florida broke its record for the most deaths
reported in a single day, according to a New York Times database.

Floridians spent Saturday preparing for wind gusts up to 80 miles per
hour and dangerous coastal surf.

The storm was downgraded from a Category 1 hurricane to a tropical
storm, after it
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/31/us/hurricane-isaias.html}{raked
parts of Puerto Rico} and the Dominican Republic and battered the
Bahamas. State officials said Isaias would probably regain its strength
as the evening progressed. ``Don't be fooled by the downgrade,'' warned
Gov. Ron DeSantis at a news conference.

Mr. DeSantis said that the division of emergency management had been
working at
\href{https://www.floridadisaster.org/sert/eoc-activation-levels/}{its
most active level} since March, ``allowing them to actively plan for
hurricane season even while responding to the Covid-19 pandemic.''

Early in the pandemic, he added, the division created a reserve of
protective equipment for hurricane season, including 20 million masks,
22 million gloves and 1.6 million face shields.

Forecasters said Saturday that the storm's projected path had shifted
slightly eastward, and that the storm could potentially make landfall
over Palm Beach, Jacksonville and other coastal cities.

Up the coast, officials in Georgia, South Carolina and North Carolina
--- states where there has been a dramatic rise in new reported
coronavirus cases since mid-June --- were closely monitoring the storm.

Earlier, the storm hit the Bahamas as it is grappling with a
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/04/world/americas/virus-caribbean-hurricane.html}{rapid
increase} in the number of coronavirus infections that has only
accelerated in recent days, in what health officials are calling a
second wave.

\hypertarget{a-golfer-tests-positive-midway-through-a-pga-tour-event-withdrawing-while-tied-for-second-place}{%
\subsection{A golfer tests positive midway through a PGA Tour event,
withdrawing while tied for second
place.}\label{a-golfer-tests-positive-midway-through-a-pga-tour-event-withdrawing-while-tied-for-second-place}}

Image

Branden Grace during the first round of the Barracuda Championship in
Truckee, Calif., on Thursday.Credit...Jed Jacobsohn/Getty Images

Branden Grace wasn't feeling well on Friday night, after the second
round of the Barracuda Championship in Truckee, Calif., so he contacted
PGA Tour officials and arranged to be tested for the coronavirus on
Saturday morning.

When the test came back positive, Grace had to withdraw from the
tournament while he was tied for second place.

``Given my position on the leaderboard it was a difficult decision, but
nonetheless, the correct one for my fellow competitors \& the
volunteers,'' Grace, a 32-year-old South African who has won one event
in his career on the tour, wrote in a statement
\href{https://twitter.com/BrandenGrace/status/1289689928180404230?s=20}{he
posted on Twitter}.

Grace's infection will prevent him from participating next weekend in
the P.G.A. Championship in San Francisco, the first men's major
tournament of the year, which was postponed for three months.

Since the PGA Tour resumed in early June after a three-month shutdown,
several golfers --- including the highly ranked Brooks Koepka and Webb
Simpson ---
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/26/sports/golf/pga-golfer-positive-tests.html}{have
had to withdraw} from tournaments because they, their caddies or a close
relative tested positive.

The disruption, however, has not been nearly as broad as the one in
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/01/sports/baseball/coronavirus-cardinals.html}{Major
League Baseball}, which on Saturday announced four more positive tests
among members of the St. Louis Cardinals' traveling party --- one player
and three staff members --- and postponed the team's weekend series with
the Milwaukee Brewers.

The Cardinals, who also had two players receive positive tests on
Friday, now have six positives in their traveling party and have become
the second team, after the Miami Marlins, to experience an outbreak less
than two weeks into the truncated M.L.B. season. The Marlins have had 20
people, including 18 players, test positive since last Sunday.

And the Boston Red Sox announced that starting pitcher Eduardo
Rodriguez, 27, who had been infected before the start of the season,
will not play this year after developing myocarditis, or inflammation of
the heart.

\hypertarget{the-ymca-in-georgia-apologizes-for-hosting-a-summer-camp-after-hundreds-who-attended-were-infected}{%
\subsection{The YMCA in Georgia apologizes for hosting a summer camp
after hundreds who attended were
infected.}\label{the-ymca-in-georgia-apologizes-for-hosting-a-summer-camp-after-hundreds-who-attended-were-infected}}

The hosts of a summer camp in Georgia said over the weekend that they
regretted hosting the lakeside retreat in June, after health officials
said more than three-quarters of tested campers and staffers had been
infected.

The virus
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/31/health/coronavirus-children-camp.html}{quickly
spread through} Camp High Harbour, which is run by the YMCA of
Metropolitan Atlanta, in June, after a teenage counselor got chills and
later tested positive. The camp began sending children home the next
day, and shut down not long after, but at that point, about 260 campers
and staff members had already been infected, according to
a\href{https://www.cdc.gov/mmwr/volumes/69/wr/mm6931e1.htm?s_cid=mm6931e1_w}{report
issued Friday} by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. The
report said that the C.D.C. had data for 344 campers and staffers who
were tested, and that there were about 250 more whose data the C.D.C.
did not have.

The C.D.C. did not name the camp, but the YMCA of Metropolitan Atlanta
soon acknowledged that it was Camp High Harbour, which is held in
northern Georgia.

Parrish Underwood, the YMCA branch's chief advancement officer, said the
YMCA had hosted the camp at the request of some parents who hoped it
would allow for ``normalcy'' in their children's lives.

``This weighed heavily in our decision to open, a decision in retrospect
we now regret,'' Mr. Underwood said in a statement.

All campers passed screenings of some kind, he said, and the counselor
who first tested positive for the coronavirus had provided a negative
test and had no symptoms when he first arrived.

The C.D.C. said the camp had required staff members to wear masks but
did not require the children to do so. The report found that the camp
also did not open windows and doors to increase circulation and that
campers stayed overnight in cabins, with an average of 15 people
sleeping in each.

Georgia was
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/20/us/coronavirus-us-hot-spots-reopening.html}{one
of the first states to reopen} restaurants, movie theaters and other
public gathering places in April. Gov. Brian Kemp has recently been
urging districts to reopen their classrooms, and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/27/us/covid-georgia-schools-masks.html}{one
high school opened on Friday}, its scheduled start date.

Since mid-June, the state has had a sharp rise in coronavirus cases, and
it is now reporting an
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/georgia-coronavirus-cases.html}{average
of more than 3,000 cases and 45 deaths} each day.

U.S. Roundup

\hypertarget{maryland-contact-tracing-data-offers-clues-as-to-where-people-may-have-gotten-the-virus}{%
\subsection{Maryland contact-tracing data offers clues as to where
people may have gotten the
virus.}\label{maryland-contact-tracing-data-offers-clues-as-to-where-people-may-have-gotten-the-virus}}

Image

Outdoor seating at a restaurant in Bethesda, Md., last month. A
contract-tracing initiative in the state found that 23 percent of people
who tested positive had dined outdoors at a restaurant.Credit...Sarah
Silbiger/Getty Images

One of the most important aspects of curtailing the spread of the virus
is understanding where people are being infected. This week the Maryland
Department of Health released new data from its contact-tracing program
that provides an informative --- if limited --- view of the patterns of
behavior of people who tested positive.

The numbers do not show where virus transmission occurred --- only what
activities people had engaged in. After conducting contact-tracing
interviews with people with the virus, the state found:

\begin{itemize}
\item
  44 percent had attended a family gathering.
\item
  23 percent had attended a house party.
\item
  23 percent had dined indoors at a restaurant.
\item
  23 percent had dined outdoors at a restaurant.
\item
  54 percent worked outside the home.
\item
  25 percent worked in health care.
\end{itemize}

The health department did not say how many patients were interviewed, or
when people had attended the events.

``I'm really excited to see that they're putting data on this out,''
said Dr. Crystal Watson, an assistant professor in the department of
environmental health and engineering at the Johns Hopkins Bloomberg
School of Public Health. ``But it's a little hard to interpret.''

Dr. Watson said it would help to know if people had worn masks at the
family gatherings and practiced social distancing. She said she was
struck by the fact that only 12 percent of the people interviewed were
workers in the restaurant and food service industry, given the risks of
exposure.

Here are some other developments from around the United States:

\begin{itemize}
\item
  The cumulative death toll in \textbf{Florida} surpassed 7,000 on
  Saturday after a surge in deaths in the state over the past week.
  Florida recorded 257 deaths on Friday, a single-day record that also
  represented nearly one-fifth of all the deaths reported in the United
  States that day.
\item
  Three staffers and one player for \textbf{the St. Louis Cardinals}
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/01/sports/baseball/coronavirus-cardinals.html}{tested
  positive} for the virus, prompting the team to postpone a game on
  Saturday against the Milwaukee Brewers for the second day in a row.
  The team had announced that two other players tested positive on
  Friday.
\item
  Single-day records for cases were reported in Oklahoma and Puerto
  Rico, each with over 1,000.
\item
  The Navajo Nation Council
  \href{https://apnews.com/d8322c62b4f30f5c92ad234bb1f575e0https://apnews.com/d8322c62b4f30f5c92ad234bb1f575e0}{passed
  a \$651 million bill} responding to the economic crisis created by the
  pandemic. The bill includes funding for water projects, power lines,
  broadband and casino employees who have been laid off. The funding for
  the bill comes from the Navajo Nation's share of \$8 billion in
  federal coronavirus relief funding that was designated for tribes.
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/09/us/coronavirus-navajo-nation.html}{The
  situation has been stark in the Navajo Nation}, where high infection
  rates have created a crisis in the largest reservation in the United
  States.
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{a-wealthy-indian-family-is-betting-big-on-a-coronavirus-vaccine}{%
\subsection{A wealthy Indian family is betting big on a coronavirus
vaccine.}\label{a-wealthy-indian-family-is-betting-big-on-a-coronavirus-vaccine}}

Image

Technicians from a German company installing a new high-speed vaccine
assembly line on the Serum Institute's campus in Pune,
India.Credit...Atul Loke for The New York Times

\href{https://www.seruminstitute.com/index.php}{The Serum Institute},
which started out years ago as a horse farm and is exclusively
controlled by a small and fabulously rich Indian family, is doing what
few other companies in the race for a vaccine are doing: mass-producing
hundreds of millions of doses of a vaccine candidate that might not even
work.

But if it does, Adar Poonawalla, Serum's chief executive and the only
child of the company's founder, will become one of the most tugged-at
men in the world. He will have what everyone wants, possibly in greater
quantities before anyone else.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{}

\hypertarget{the-coronavirus-outbreak-}{%
\subsubsection{The Coronavirus Outbreak
›}\label{the-coronavirus-outbreak-}}

\hypertarget{frequently-asked-questions}{%
\paragraph{Frequently Asked
Questions}\label{frequently-asked-questions}}

Updated August 3, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{im-a-small-business-owner-can-i-get-relief}{%
  \paragraph{I'm a small-business owner. Can I get
  relief?}\label{im-a-small-business-owner-can-i-get-relief}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    The
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/small-business-loans-stimulus-grants-freelancers-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{stimulus
    bills enacted in March} offer help for the millions of American
    small businesses. Those eligible for aid are businesses and
    nonprofit organizations with fewer than 500 workers, including sole
    proprietorships, independent contractors and freelancers. Some
    larger companies in some industries are also eligible. The help
    being offered, which is being managed by the Small Business
    Administration, includes the Paycheck Protection Program and the
    Economic Injury Disaster Loan program. But lots of folks have
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/05/07/business/small-business-loans-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{not
    yet seen payouts.} Even those who have received help are confused:
    The rules are draconian, and some are stuck sitting on
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/02/business/economy/loans-coronavirus-small-business.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{money
    they don't know how to use.} Many small-business owners are getting
    less than they expected or
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/10/business/Small-business-loans-ppp.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{not
    hearing anything at all.}
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{what-are-my-rights-if-i-am-worried-about-going-back-to-work}{%
  \paragraph{What are my rights if I am worried about going back to
  work?}\label{what-are-my-rights-if-i-am-worried-about-going-back-to-work}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Employers have to provide
    \href{https://www.osha.gov/SLTC/covid-19/standards.html}{a safe
    workplace} with policies that protect everyone equally.
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/coronavirus-money-unemployment.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{And
    if one of your co-workers tests positive for the coronavirus, the
    C.D.C.} has said that
    \href{https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/community/guidance-business-response.html}{employers
    should tell their employees} -\/- without giving you the sick
    employee's name -\/- that they may have been exposed to the virus.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{should-i-refinance-my-mortgage}{%
  \paragraph{Should I refinance my
  mortgage?}\label{should-i-refinance-my-mortgage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/coronavirus-money-unemployment.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{It
    could be a good idea,} because mortgage rates have
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/16/business/mortgage-rates-below-3-percent.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{never
    been lower.} Refinancing requests have pushed mortgage applications
    to some of the highest levels since 2008, so be prepared to get in
    line. But defaults are also up, so if you're thinking about buying a
    home, be aware that some lenders have tightened their standards.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{what-is-school-going-to-look-like-in-september}{%
  \paragraph{What is school going to look like in
  September?}\label{what-is-school-going-to-look-like-in-september}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    It is unlikely that many schools will return to a normal schedule
    this fall, requiring the grind of
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/05/us/coronavirus-education-lost-learning.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{online
    learning},
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/29/us/coronavirus-child-care-centers.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{makeshift
    child care} and
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/03/business/economy/coronavirus-working-women.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{stunted
    workdays} to continue. California's two largest public school
    districts --- Los Angeles and San Diego --- said on July 13, that
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/13/us/lausd-san-diego-school-reopening.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{instruction
    will be remote-only in the fall}, citing concerns that surging
    coronavirus infections in their areas pose too dire a risk for
    students and teachers. Together, the two districts enroll some
    825,000 students. They are the largest in the country so far to
    abandon plans for even a partial physical return to classrooms when
    they reopen in August. For other districts, the solution won't be an
    all-or-nothing approach.
    \href{https://bioethics.jhu.edu/research-and-outreach/projects/eschool-initiative/school-policy-tracker/}{Many
    systems}, including the nation's largest, New York City, are
    devising
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/26/us/coronavirus-schools-reopen-fall.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{hybrid
    plans} that involve spending some days in classrooms and other days
    online. There's no national policy on this yet, so check with your
    municipal school system regularly to see what is happening in your
    community.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{is-the-coronavirus-airborne}{%
  \paragraph{Is the coronavirus
  airborne?}\label{is-the-coronavirus-airborne}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    The coronavirus
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/04/health/239-experts-with-one-big-claim-the-coronavirus-is-airborne.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{can
    stay aloft for hours in tiny droplets in stagnant air}, infecting
    people as they inhale, mounting scientific evidence suggests. This
    risk is highest in crowded indoor spaces with poor ventilation, and
    may help explain super-spreading events reported in meatpacking
    plants, churches and restaurants.
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/06/health/coronavirus-airborne-aerosols.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{It's
    unclear how often the virus is spread} via these tiny droplets, or
    aerosols, compared with larger droplets that are expelled when a
    sick person coughs or sneezes, or transmitted through contact with
    contaminated surfaces, said Linsey Marr, an aerosol expert at
    Virginia Tech. Aerosols are released even when a person without
    symptoms exhales, talks or sings, according to Dr. Marr and more
    than 200 other experts, who
    \href{https://academic.oup.com/cid/article/doi/10.1093/cid/ciaa939/5867798}{have
    outlined the evidence in an open letter to the World Health
    Organization}.
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Mr. Poonawalla's vaccine assembly lines are being readied to crank out
500 doses a minute, and his phone rings endlessly.

National health ministers, prime ministers and other heads of state (he
wouldn't say who) and friends he hasn't heard from in years have been
calling him, he said, begging for the first batches.

``I've had to explain to them that, `Look I can't just give it to you
like this,''' he said.

The Serum Institute finds itself in the middle of an extremely
competitive and murky endeavor. To get the vaccine out as soon as
possible, vaccine developers say they need Serum's mammoth assembly
lines --- each year, it churns out 1.5 billion doses of other vaccines,
mostly for poor countries, more than any other company.

Half of the world's children have been vaccinated with Serum's products.
Scale is its specialty. Just the other day, Mr. Poonawalla received a
shipment of 600 million glass vials.

But right now it's not entirely clear how much of the coronavirus
vaccine that Serum will mass-produce will be kept by India or who will
fund its production.

\hypertarget{south-korea-arrests-the-leader-of-a-church-where-the-virus-spread-rapidly}{%
\subsection{South Korea arrests the leader of a church where the virus
spread
rapidly.}\label{south-korea-arrests-the-leader-of-a-church-where-the-virus-spread-rapidly}}

Image

Lee Man-hee apologized at a news conference in March after his
Shincheonji Church of Jesus was at the center of South Korea's first big
coronavirus cluster.Credit...Pool photo

The leader of a secretive religious sect in South Korea was arrested
early on Saturday on charges of embezzling church money and conspiring
to impede efforts to fight the coronavirus.

The rapid spread of the virus this winter among worshipers of the
Shincheonji Church of Jesus in Daegu, a city in the southeast, briefly
made South Korea home to the world's largest coronavirus outbreak
outside China. As of Friday, more than a third of the 14,300 coronavirus
cases known to the government were members of Shincheonji or their
contacts.

Prosecutors say that
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/02/world/asia/coronavirus-south-korea-shincheonji.html?searchResultPosition=1}{Lee
Man-hee,} the church's founder, failed to fully disclose the number of
worshipers and their gathering places. Seven church officials were
indicted last month on the same charge.

Mr. Lee, 88, has also been accused of embezzling 5.6 billion won, or
\$4.7 million, from church funds to build a luxurious ``peace palace''
north of Seoul. The church has broadly denied all the charges against
him. He could face years in prison if convicted.

Intense criticism from the South Korean public
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/02/world/asia/coronavirus-south-korea-shincheonji.html}{forced
Mr. Lee to apologize} in March.

In a statement on Saturday, the church said that Mr. Lee had never
intended to hamper efforts to control the epidemic, and that he had only
expressed concern over the scale of government demands for worshipers'
data.

``He has emphasized the importance of disease control and urged the
church members to cooperate with the authorities,'' the church said.
``We will do our best to let the truth be known through trial.''

But parents who accused the church of luring and brainwashing their
children with its unorthodox teachings welcomed his arrest on Saturday,
calling Mr. Lee a ``religious con artist.''

\hypertarget{european-stocks-gain-a-sudden-allure-as-the-region-pins-down-the-virus-better-than-most-places}{%
\subsection{European stocks gain a sudden allure as the region pins down
the virus better than most
places.}\label{european-stocks-gain-a-sudden-allure-as-the-region-pins-down-the-virus-better-than-most-places}}

Europe has a bad reputation with investors. For years, asset managers
and bank strategists have characterized the region by its
\href{https://qz.com/1544961/the-euro-zone-economy-is-back-on-familiar-ground-slow-grinding-growth/}{anemic
growth rate} and shaky political union.

Now a crisis has turned into an unlikely investment opportunity, as the
region appears to have handled the pandemic better than some other parts
of the world. In the past few months,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/30/business/europes-markets-are-having-a-moment.html}{European
assets have staged a comeback}.

The euro this week rose to its highest level in more than two years
against the U.S. dollar, and the region's benchmark index, the Stoxx
600, is set for a second straight month of gains greater than those of
the S\&P 500 index, in dollar terms, according to data from FactSet.

The most important reason for this upswing, analysts say, is that Europe
is recording far fewer new cases of the coronavirus. There are still
occasional spikes in Europe, and there are some early signs that the
infection rate is starting to level off in the United States. But there
are
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html?campaign_id=154\&emc=edit_cb_20200728\&instance_id=20725\&nl=coronavirus-briefing\&regi_id=137662381\&segment_id=34584\&te=1\&user_id=72eee90673e6857ae5a6e83e1981a59a}{about
65,000 new cases each day} in the United States, compared with
\href{https://www.ecdc.europa.eu/en/cases-2019-ncov-eueea}{fewer than
10,000} across the Atlantic.

Another significant reason for the increase is politics. When European
leaders reached an agreement last week on
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/20/world/europe/eu-stimulus-coronavirus.html}{a
750 billion euro, or \$888 billion, recovery fund}, it wasn't the size
of the deal that impressed investors, but the fact that it happened
after four long nights of negotiations.

The decision to raise money collectively and give grants to the
countries hit hardest by the pandemic indicated that there is some
political will left to further the project that created the euro two
decades ago, despite the exit of Britain from the European Union,
\href{https://www.ft.com/content/92ec7bc4-9d8f-11e9-9c06-a4640c9feebb}{budget
fights with Italy} and concerns about the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/16/world/europe/hungary-coronavirus-orban.html}{dismantling
of democracy in Hungary}.

\hypertarget{a-school-opened-in-indiana-it-had-to-quarantine-people-within-hours}{%
\subsection{A school opened in Indiana. It had to quarantine people
within
hours.}\label{a-school-opened-in-indiana-it-had-to-quarantine-people-within-hours}}

Image

A student at Greenfield Central Junior High School in Indiana tested
positive for the coronavirus on Thursday, the first day back in
classrooms.Credit...AJ Mast for The New York Times

One of the first school districts in the United States to reopen did not
even make it a day before it had grapple with the issue facing everyone
trying to get students back into classrooms: What happens when someone
comes to school infected with the coronavirus?

Hours into classes on Thursday, a call from the county health department
notified Greenfield Central Junior High School in Indiana that a student
had tested positive.

Administrators began an emergency protocol, isolating the student and
ordering everyone who had come into close contact with the person,
including other students, to quarantine for 14 days. It is unclear
whether anyone else got infected.

``We knew it was a when, not if,'' said Harold E. Olin, superintendent
of the Greenfield-Central Community School Corporation, but he was
``very shocked it was on Day 1.''

Hundreds of school districts across the country have
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/13/us/lausd-san-diego-school-reopening.html}{reversed
course} on reopening plans in recent weeks in response to rises in
infections. Of the nation's 25 largest school districts, all but six
have announced they will start remotely.
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/29/us/teacher-union-school-reopening-coronavirus.html}{Despite
strong objections from teachers' unions}, some in places like Florida
and Texas are hoping to open classrooms after a few weeks if infection
rates fall.

\hypertarget{new-york-colleges-scramble-to-comply-with-state-quarantine-rules}{%
\subsection{New York colleges scramble to comply with state quarantine
rules.}\label{new-york-colleges-scramble-to-comply-with-state-quarantine-rules}}

Colleges and universities across New York are enacting hasty plans to
meet state requirements for students arriving from out of state as the
fall semester nears.

With many schools poised to begin in-person instruction in just one
month, some of the state's larger institutions have been forced to put
together complex plans to house students from regions currently fighting
major coronavirus outbreaks.

Plans for letting students back on campus revolve around
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/24/nyregion/ny-coronavirus-states-quarantine.html}{an
order made by Gov. Andrew Cuomo in June} requiring travelers to New York
from high-risk parts of the United States to quarantine for 14 days upon
arrival. As of Saturday, residents of 36 states and territories would
face the mandatory quarantine, based on trends in infection data.

Cornell, which had previously pledged to provide quarantine
accommodations on campus to students coming from states identified by
the order,
\href{https://covid.cornell.edu/updates/20200730-important-updates.cfm}{announced
on Thursday} that it would no longer offer housing to all students
affected. The announcement said that those who could not meet the
requirements should plan to begin the semester through online classes,
but that the university would assist students for whom making housing
arrangements represented a significant hardship.

Critics said the announcement
\href{https://cornellsun.com/2020/07/31/editorial-cornells-inability-to-quarantine-arriving-students-should-concern-you/}{would
force some students} to find space in hotels or short-term rentals just
two weeks before they were scheduled to arrive.

Most colleges have advised students they will be unable to leave their
rooms during quarantines and will face regular medical screenings.
Columbia University
\href{https://roomselection.housing.columbia.edu/}{said} it would
arrange to have meals delivered to dormitories, according to its
website.

Since the list of states identified by the governor's order is informed
by seven-day rolling averages of new infections, new outbreaks in
previously stable states could still force students to make last-minute
travel and housing arrangements to quarantine before classes begin.

\hypertarget{ten-people-in-india-die-from-drinking-hand-sanitizer-after-liquor-sales-are-stopped}{%
\subsection{Ten people in India die from drinking hand sanitizer after
liquor sales are
stopped.}\label{ten-people-in-india-die-from-drinking-hand-sanitizer-after-liquor-sales-are-stopped}}

Image

Medical workers testing for coronavirus in New Delhi on Friday.~India
reported 54,735 coronavirus infections on Sunday, bringing its total to
1.75 million. Credit...Manish Swarup/Associated Press

Since the southern Indian state of Andhra Pradesh closed liquor stores
as part of lockdown restrictions about two weeks ago, at least 10 people
have died after consuming alcohol-based hand sanitizer, the police said.

The Indian government started easing a national lockdown in late May.
But many states have reimposed some restrictions, including Andhra
Pradesh, where nearly 50,000 new coronavirus cases
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/world/asia/india-coronavirus-cases.html\#cases}{have
been reported in the last week}.

India reported 54,735 coronavirus infections on Sunday, the country's
health ministry said, bringing its total to 1.75 million. More than
37,000 people have died.

The police in the state said some people who lost access to legal liquor
started mixing cheap hand sanitizer with water from roadside taps, soft
drinks and milk. The 10 deaths have occurred in the last three days,
mostly among poor residents.

In the town of Kurichedu, a man begging at a temple complained of a
burning sensation in his stomach, and died as he was being taken to a
hospital. Then the number of people complaining of a burning sensation
in their stomach started rising, the police said.

``All of them died after consuming sanitizer,'' said Siddharth Kaushal,
the district's top police officer. ``We are wondering who told these
people that a sanitizer can get them high.''

Hundreds die each year in India from consuming poisonous
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/02/11/world/asia/india-toxic-alcohol.html}{homemade
alcohol}. In 2015,
\href{https://www.bbc.com/news/world-asia-india-33224514}{at least 100
people} in a Mumbai-area slum were killed, and in 2008, in one of the
largest such episodes in recent decades,
\href{https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/chennai/TN-hooch-tragedy-21-cops-suspended/articleshow/3159848.cms?referral=PM}{more
than 170 people} died after drinking an illicit home brew in slum areas
of Karnataka and Tamil Nadu.

After India's strict national lockdown lifted in May, reopened liquor
stores were swamped with so many customers that the
\href{https://news.yahoo.com/chaos-outside-liquor-stores-india-eases-virus-lockdown-112326078.html}{police
in some cities had to control the crowds}, according to Agence
France-Presse.

\hypertarget{the-fda-approves-new-antibody-tests}{%
\subsection{The F.D.A. approves new antibody
tests.}\label{the-fda-approves-new-antibody-tests}}

Image

An antibody testing site in San Dimas, Calif., in July. There is not yet
a scientific consensus as to what level of antibodies are needed to
confer immunity, or how long such immunity might last.Credit...Robyn
Beck/Agence France-Presse --- Getty Images

The Food and Drug Administration has authorized the first coronavirus
tests that can give an estimate of the quantity of antibodies present in
a person's blood, the agency
\href{https://www.fda.gov/news-events/press-announcements/coronavirus-covid-19-update-fda-authorizes-first-tests-estimate-patients-antibodies-past-sars-cov-2}{announced
Friday evening}.

Up until now, the so-called serology tests on the market, also known as
antibody tests, only indicate whether
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/26/health/coronvirus-antibody-tests.html}{Covid-19
antibodies are present in the blood}, indicating that at some point in
the past, the individual had been exposed to the virus.

Many antibody tests
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/04/health/fda-antibody-tests-coronavirus.html}{are
unreliable}. The F.D.A. has had to chase after some manufacturers and
distributors to get them off the market. There is not yet a scientific
consensus as to what level of antibodies are needed to confer immunity,
or how long such immunity might last.

The two new Covid-19 serology tests, the ADVIA Centaur COV2G and
Attelica COV2G, are from Siemens.

Dr. Timothy Stenzel, the director of the F.D.A.'s Office of In Vitro
Diagnostics and Radiological Health, said in a statement, ``Being able
to measure a patient's relative level of antibodies in response to a
previous SARS-CoV-2 infection may be useful as we continue to learn more
about the virus and what the existence of antibodies may mean.

``There are still many unknowns about what the presence of SARS-CoV-2
antibodies may tell us about potential immunity, but today's
authorizations give us additional tools to evaluate those antibodies as
we continue to research and study this virus.''

\hypertarget{controlling-screen-time-in-the-face-of-a-pandemic}{%
\subsection{Controlling screen time in the face of a
pandemic.}\label{controlling-screen-time-in-the-face-of-a-pandemic}}

With remote work, remote school, remote camp and everything else remote,
screens are dominating our lives. Here are some ways of thinking about
it, whether you want to cut back or simply come to terms with the
increased usage.

Reporting was contributed by Hannah Beech, Julie Bosman, Nicholas
Bogel-Burroughs, Choe Sang-Hun, Emily Cochrane, Giulia McDonnell Nieto
del Rio, Melissa Eddy, Manny Fernandez, Thomas Fuller, Johnny Diaz,
Jeffrey Gettleman, Jason Gutierrez, Shawn Hubler, Mike Ives, Sheila
Kaplan, Tyler Kepner, Gwen Knapp, Zach Montague, Liliana Michelena, Eshe
Nelson, Matt Phillips, Kai Schultz, Eliza Shapiro and Sameer Yasir.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
