Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/style}{Style}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/style}{Style}\textbar{}How to Make It as a Paparazzo in a
Pandemic? Focus on Influencers

\url{https://nyti.ms/2FRV4M9}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{how-to-make-it-as-a-paparazzo-in-a-pandemic-focus-on-influencers}{%
\section{How to Make It as a Paparazzo in a Pandemic? Focus on
Influencers}\label{how-to-make-it-as-a-paparazzo-in-a-pandemic-focus-on-influencers}}

Fletcher Greene, 38, used to photograph all sorts of celebrities. Then,
in March, the A-listers hid while Gen Z's rising stars stayed in plain
sight.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/27/fashion/26HOLLYWOODFIX-1/26HOLLYWOODFIX-1-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/taylor-lorenz}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/03/18/reader-center/author-taylor-lorenz/author-taylor-lorenz-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/taylor-lorenz}{Taylor
Lorenz}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Aug. 25, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Fletcher Greene, 38, has an encyclopedic knowledge of the internet's
dramas and daily displays. He can tell you which influencers are
feuding, who
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/19/style/la-party-power-cut-tiktok.html}{hosted
a socially undistanced party last weekend}, and where the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/08/style/sway-house-neighbors-tiktok.html}{Sway
Boys} ate lunch on Tuesday.

This wasn't always the case. But in recent months, as
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/20/style/paparazzi-celebrity-photos.html}{paparazzi
in Los Angeles have worked tirelessly to track down the few masked
A-listers in town}, Mr. Greene has turned his focus to subjects in plain
sight: the social media stars of Gen Z.

His brand, the Hollywood Fix, has become an essential source for
on-the-ground coverage of their daily outings in pandemic-era Los
Angeles. While drama channels and tea accounts like
\href{https://www.instagram.com/tiktokroom/?hl=en}{@TikTokRoom} share
screenshots and recordings of influencers' online behavior, the
Hollywood Fix captures their offline lives.

Mr. Greene's videos have become so ubiquitous on the teen internet that
they're now a meme. Hundreds of young people on TikTok have posted
Hollywood Fix parody videos, and YouTubers
\href{https://www.instagram.com/p/CDZYofMpnjT/}{like Emma Chamberlain}
have referenced the Hollywood Fix in their videos. People often parrot
Mr. Greene's signature catch phrase --- ``The fans wanna know!'' --- in
videos and replies on Twitter.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/27/fashion/26HOLLYWOODFIX-2/merlin_176083128_b92e3ad1-8e11-4807-a33e-036e1cb16c6a-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

``Whenever I have nothing to do, I'll watch the Hollywood Fix,'' said
Alana Lintao, 16, a TikToker in New Jersey who creates parodies of Mr.
Greene's videos. In January, she spent hours consuming content on his
YouTube channel. ``I kind of got caught in a loop and I was binge
watching all of the videos,'' she said.

Becoming a celebrity documentarian --- not to mention an authority on
Gen Z --- wasn't Mr. Greene's plan when he moved from Dallas to Los
Angeles in 2013. He had come to the city for a change of pace. At the
time he was working as a music producer.

Soon after his arrival, he noticed the number of famous people walking
around his West Hollywood neighborhood. ``I used to live down the street
from Karrueche Tran, and I'd see Chris Brown,'' he said.

One day, he began snapping pictures of the two with his phone. He called
up TMZ to see if someone there would be interested in buying them, and
to his surprise an editor offered him \$1,000 in exchange for a few
photos.

So began his career as a paparazzo. Mr. Greene started chasing
celebrities around town, building connections with valets and service
workers who tipped him off to the whereabouts of celebrities.

Image

Mr. Greene, left, stands outside the back entrance of Cookies N Kicks, a
shoe store on Melrose Avenue in West Hollywood, alongside a fellow
paparazzo after receiving a tip that Mr. Lopez was shopping
there.Credit...David Walter Banks for The New York Times

In 2014, he decided to put some of his content on YouTube. He was doing
more video interviews and wanted a home for the stuff that the tabloids
weren't buying. At the time, he said, People magazine and The Daily Mail
weren't interested in footage from, say, outside Jake Paul's home, but
the fans of his young influencer subjects ate the videos up and his
subscriber base ballooned.

By 2016, Mr. Greene was making decent money off his YouTube channel.
This spring, it surpassed 1.4 million subscribers. Then, the pandemic
hit in March, and suddenly everything changed. Celebrities began keeping
a lower profile, stepping out only to walk their dogs or run small
errands. Mr. Greene decided that rather than park outside Jennifer
Lopez's house all day hoping for one photo, like other paparazzi, he
would cover the stars who were posting openly about their
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/06/style/influencer-parties-jake-paul-tana-mongeau-thomas-petrou-hype-house.html}{house
parties} and public outings.

``The TikTokers are always in groups,'' Mr. Greene said. ``All the
popular ones pretty much only hang out with popular ones. If you catch
one you catch two or three or four. It's not like if you get Ben Affleck
you also get Jennifer Lopez and Alex Rodriguez and Madonna. They don't
hang out like that.''

When BOA Steakhouse, an upscale American restaurant on Sunset Boulevard,
opened for outdoor dining in June, it became an overnight hot spot for
Gen Z influencers. Mr. Greene parked himself out front and began
interviewing the young stars about their lives and drama as they came
and went.

``The Hollywood Fix is very much covering what's happening on the
internet rather than who's a big celebrity,'' said Kai Watson, 19, a
founder of The Sync, a commentary channel and podcast. ``You watch a
video of a huge celeb walking down the street and it has like 10,000
views, but right next to it is a Hollywood Fix video `Catching up with
Charli D'Amelio at BOA' with 10 million views.''

Part of what has made the Hollywood Fix the go-to outlet for influencers
is the relationship Mr. Greene has with his subjects. They know that he
has done his research and takes their careers seriously.

Many of these young stars consider a Hollywood Fix interview to be a
marker of status. ``A lot of up-and-coming creators will say, OMG! I was
finally on Hollywood Fix,'' Mr. Watson said.

For many TikTok stars, Mr. Greene's channel is a conduit to the broader
news media; his outlet is the first they go to when they want to discuss
something new or big that they hope will be covered elsewhere. On Aug.
17, when the YouTuber Elijah Daniel hosted a joke event for his new
collab mansion, the Alt Haus, he rang up the Hollywood Fix for coverage
as a form of
\href{https://twitter.com/GECOFTH3WEEK/status/1295481749431099392}{commentary}
on the publicity seekers of
``\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/10/style/elite-tiktok.html}{straight
TikTok}'' (the dancers and lip-syncers most readily associated with the
app).

The reality star Spencer Pratt compared Mr. Greene to Ryan Seacrest,
whose radio show has always featured celebrity guests and news items.
``Back in 2008, when we were famous, Ryan Seacrest would text you and
you'd call in and he'd ask what's going on,'' Mr. Pratt said. ``All the
TikTokers use the Hollywood Fix how we used Seacrest.''

Mr. Greene has also built an authority with influencers' fans. ``My
stuff is really fan-driven,'' he said. ``A lot of people make fun of me
for saying `The fans wanna know!' but I have hundreds of fans a day
saying `Can you please find this person and ask them this or that? We
need to know the answer!' So I specialize in what people want to know
about.''

The openly cozy relationship between Gen Z influencers and the paparazzi
represents a sea change in the industry, said Mr. Pratt, who described
being ``shamed'' for the same behavior just years ago. ``These TikTokers
have reinvented everything,'' he said. ``Now it's cool to film yourself
and call the paparazzi and self promote.''

Mr. Greene said that TikTok influencers have breathed life into the
young Hollywood landscape. ``All these kids are young, rich, good
looking and live in these mansions,'' he said. ``It's like a current
version of `90210.'''

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{Â©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
