Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/sports/baseball}{Baseball}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/sports/baseball}{Baseball}\textbar{}The Nationals Beat
the Astros. They Still Feel Overshadowed.

\url{https://nyti.ms/2wkR9mr}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

on baseball

\hypertarget{the-nationals-beat-the-astros-they-still-feel-overshadowed}{%
\section{The Nationals Beat the Astros. They Still Feel
Overshadowed.}\label{the-nationals-beat-the-astros-they-still-feel-overshadowed}}

``It's disappointing that becomes the talk of the off-season,'' Stephen
Strasburg said of the Astros and their sign-stealing scandal.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/02/14/sports/14kepner-nats1/merlin_168878490_63db8878-2a1c-4eae-a99c-c93c6ff74320-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/tyler-kepner}{Tyler
Kepner}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Feb. 15, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

WEST PALM BEACH, Fla. --- The clocks in the Washington Nationals' spring
training clubhouse do more than tell time. They are branded with an
image of
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/11/02/sports/world-series-trophy.html}{the
Commissioner's Trophy}, reminding all who pass through that the
Nationals are the reigning World Series champions.

The Houston Astros, who train on the other side of the complex, are not
--- but their sign-stealing scandal has consumed the sport.

The neighbors are a bit annoyed.

``It's disappointing that becomes the talk of the off-season,'' said
Stephen Strasburg, the Nationals pitcher who beat Houston twice in the
World Series last fall. ``Heck, we went out there and beat 'em.

``But I think in a way that's probably a good thing, because it kind of
upsets a lot of us here in the clubhouse, because we did something
really special and that gets overshadowed because some guys were
cheating. That's something they've got to live with.''

The Nationals were
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/10/30/sports/baseball/world-series-home-teams.html}{the
first team ever to win four road games} in a World Series. Now the feat
seems even more astonishing because it happened at Minute Maid Park,
which the Astros used as a laboratory for subterfuge while winning a
title in 2017.

Did Houston cheat last year, too? Officially, the commissioner's report
made no such finding, but the Nationals are not convinced. Catcher Kurt
Suzuki told The Washington Post he heard whistling from the Astros'
dugout during the World Series, just as the Yankees claimed in the
American League Championship Series. The Nationals changed signs
furiously in Houston, with each pitcher tucking a card inside his cap
that listed five sets of signals.

``They are a good team, for sure, but we thought something was going
on,'' said starter Patrick Corbin, who
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/10/30/sports/nationals-astros-game-7.html}{won
Game 7 in relief}. ``We didn't know exactly what it was, but there was a
reason we did multiple signs with no one on and mixed them up as best we
could. I think if they were doing stuff in '17 and '18, they continued
it into '19. They didn't have any punishment.''

Now the Astros have been punished --- with the loss of draft picks, a
\$5 million fine, and suspensions for General Manager Jeff Luhnow and
Manager A.J. Hinch, who were then fired by the owner Jim Crane. But the
players avoided discipline altogether, and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/02/13/sports/baseball/astros-cheating-apologies.html}{their
apologies on Thursday largely rang hollow} to their peers.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/02/14/sports/14kepner-nats2/merlin_168877647_21f77ab5-a04a-4eb5-8eba-5a1c902778c7-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Mike Rizzo, the Nationals' general manager, was especially bothered that
Crane would not admit his team had cheated in
2017.\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/02/13/sports/baseball/astros-scandal-players.html?action=click\&module=RelatedLinks\&pgtype=Article}{Crane
acknowledged} that the Astros ``broke the rules'' but refused to use the
more emphatic synonym.

``Somebody's got to say the word over there: \emph{cheated},'' Rizzo
said. ``That's important to me.''

Rizzo clearly noticed the contrast in attention on Thursday, when his
pitchers and catchers practiced for the first time as champions. He saw
lots of Nationals players but few national reporters --- yet the Astros'
side was bustling.

``Opening day 2020, there's 50 media people here and 47 were at the
Houston Astros, who cheated to win a World Series, and there were three
of them here with the current, reigning world champions,'' Rizzo said.
``And that's not right.''

While the Astros try to rehabilitate their image, the Nationals' new
challenge is to become the first team to repeat as champions since the
2000 Yankees. This is the longest stretch in major league history
without a repeat World Series winner, and the Nationals must try without
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/10/31/sports/world-series-anthony-rendon-nationals.html}{third
baseman Anthony Rendon}, who left for a seven-year, \$245 million
contract with the Los Angeles Angels.

``The way I combat that is we got Stephen Strasburg back,'' Manager Dave
Martinez said. ``I'm talking about getting another edge, and this year,
for me, it's run prevention.''

The top prospect Carter Kieboom, 22, should take over at third base, but
it is hard to expect him to match Rendon's production. To prevent more
runs, the Nationals expect to have a better bullpen, with Will Harris
arriving from Houston as a free agent and the relievers acquired last
summer --- Daniel Hudson, Hunter Strickland and Roenis Elias --- back
for a full season.

The rotation, as usual, is Washington's biggest strength; Max Scherzer,
Strasburg, Corbin and Anibal Sanchez combined to go 54-28 with a 3.33
earned run average last year, with clutch performances in October.
Strasburg --- whose new contract is identical to Rendon's --- emphasized
the Nationals' integrity on Friday in a clear brushback pitch to the
Astros.

Image

Max Scherzer and the rest of the Nationals' starting pitchers give them
a formidable rotation again in 2020.Credit...Jeff Roberson/Associated
Press

``A lot of us in here are high-character guys who put in a lot of work,
and we want to do it the right way,'' he said. ``And that's what makes
it more special, knowing that, regardless of if there was any funny
business going on, we controlled what we could control. We prepared for
it, and we did what was necessary to make it as even a playing field as
possible.''

He added: ``Someday I'm going to hopefully have some grandkids and sit
down and talk to them about the experience of the World Series and not
really feel ashamed of it at all.''

When they rewind the hands of their commemorative clocks, then, the
Nationals will do it with a clear conscience. To them, their title is
clean and the Astros' is dirty --- but they cannot escape the stench
wafting over from their spring training neighbors.

``We did it with character and dignity and did it the right way, so we
feel good about that,'' Rizzo said. ``The thing that pains me the most
is it puts a black cloud over the sport that I love, and that's not
right.''

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{Â©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
