Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}Trump's Plans on Businesses
May Fall Short

\url{https://nyti.ms/2jvBmWm}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{trumps-plans-on-businesses-may-fall-short}{%
\section{Trump's Plans on Businesses May Fall
Short}\label{trumps-plans-on-businesses-may-fall-short}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2017/01/12/us/12conflict-ALTALT/12conflict-ALTALT-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By \href{http://www.nytimes.com/by/susanne-craig}{Susanne Craig} and
\href{http://www.nytimes.com/by/eric-lipton}{Eric Lipton}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Jan. 11, 2017
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

President-elect Donald J. Trump said Wednesday that he would place his
vast business empire in a trust controlled by his two oldest sons and
take other steps in an attempt to remove any suggestion of a conflict of
interest with his decisions as president. But he said he would not sell
his holdings.

Hours later, the government's top ethics monitor said the plan was
wholly inadequate and would leave the president vulnerable to
``suspicions of corruption.''

The
\href{https://www.documentcloud.org/documents/3280275-Remarks-of-W-M-Shaub-Jr.html}{unusual
public criticism} from Walter M. Shaub Jr., director of the Office of
Government Ethics, followed Mr. Trump's most detailed explanation yet of
his plans to distance himself from the global business operations of the
Trump Organization. No modern president has entered the White House with
such a complicated array of holdings.

The steps Mr. Trump outlined include turning over to the United States
Treasury any profits received at his hotels from foreign government
clients. An ethics officer and, separately, a chief compliance counsel
will be appointed at the Trump Organization to watch its operations and
ensure that it is not receiving special terms, payment or favors as a
result of its ties to Mr. Trump, even as the organization is managed by
a trust controlled by his two oldest sons and a longtime legal
associate.

Sheri A. Dillon, a
\href{https://www.donaldjtrump.com/press-releases/donald-j.-trumps-u.s.-federal-income-tax-returns}{longtime
lawyer} for the Trump Organization, said that many of the alternatives
ethics lawyers have advocated, such as selling off Mr. Trump's business
assets entirely or putting them in a blind trust that would be managed
by an independent party, were not practical. Pointing out flaws in a
blind trust, she said, ``President Trump can't unknow he owns Trump
Tower, and the press will make sure that any new developments at the
Trump Organization are well publicized.''

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2017/01/11/us/politics/trump-conflicts-of-interest.html}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2017/01/11/us/politics/trump-conflicts-of-interest/trump-conflicts-of-interest-square640.gif}

\hypertarget{remarks-of-office-of-government-ethics-director-walter-m-shaub-jr}{%
\subsection{Remarks of Office of Government Ethics Director Walter M.
Shaub
Jr.}\label{remarks-of-office-of-government-ethics-director-walter-m-shaub-jr}}

Mr. Shaub made clear that he believes Mr. Trump's plan for avoiding the
appearance of conflicts of interest as president is inadequate.

In addition, she said, the price of a sale of assets would draw
scrutiny, and Mr. Trump would still be owed royalties.

The president-elect, speaking at a news conference Wednesday in Trump
Tower, repeated his view, expressed shortly after his election, that as
president, he will be exempt from conflict of interest laws that apply
to all other federal employees except the vice president. But he and his
legal team said he would still take voluntary steps to avoid even a
perception of a conflict, such as the appearance that a decision he made
as president might benefit one of his business ventures.

But Mr. Trump and his advisers would not release basic information about
this plan. Mr. Trump has filed information with the federal government
that indicates he is worth
\href{http://www.nytimes.com/2016/05/19/us/politics/donald-trump-money.html}{at
least \$1.5 billion}, but that information has not been independently
verified, and the value of the assets being transferred into the trust
is not known.

Mr. Trump's representatives also would not release the names of people
who stand to benefit from any profits the trust generates, or say
whether Mr. Trump would be able to reverse the transaction. On
Wednesday, Mr. Trump rebuffed a renewed call to release his tax returns,
which presidents have done for decades and which would show how much
profit he makes from his business endeavors, including golf courses,
marketing deals and commercial office space.

\href{https://www.oge.gov/Web/OGE.nsf/Organization/Senior\%20Leadership}{Mr.
Shaub}, who was appointed by President Obama, said that he did not
believe selling assets was too high a price to pay to be president, and
that Mr. Trump must divest them in order to avoid conflicts of interest.

``We can't risk creating the perception that government leaders would
use their official positions for profit,'' said Mr. Shaub, whose office
establishes ethical standards for 2.7 million civilian employees in the
White House and more than 130 executive branch agencies. ``I appreciate
that divestiture can be costly. But the president-elect would not be
alone in making that sacrifice.''

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2016/12/01/us/politics/trump-conflict-of-interests.html}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2016/12/01/us/politics/trump-conflict-of-interests-1480568444610/trump-conflict-of-interests-1480568444610-videoLarge-v2.png}

\hypertarget{the-array-of-conflicts-of-interest-facing-the-trump-presidency}{%
\subsection{The Array of Conflicts of Interest Facing the Trump
Presidency}\label{the-array-of-conflicts-of-interest-facing-the-trump-presidency}}

Donald J. Trump's global business empire will create an unprecedented
number of conflicts of interest for a United States president, experts
say.

He criticized Mr. Trump's decision to put his assets into a trust
instead of under the far stricter control of an independent manager,
known as a blind trust.

``The only thing this has in common with a blind trust is the label,
`trust,''' Mr. Shaub said during an unusual news conference Wednesday at
the Brookings Institution, a policy research center in Washington. ``His
sons are still running the businesses, and, of course, he knows what he
owns.''

Even some Republican ethics experts questioned how far Mr. Trump had
gone to confront the many ethical issues he faces. They noted, for
example, that Mr. Trump had not promised to prohibit communication
between federal employees and anyone at the Trump Organization, or his
current or future business partners.

``If you don't have a real firewall, outsiders will view doing business
with the Trump Organization as a way to gain access to the
administration or to influence it,'' said Matthew T. Sanderson, a
Washington lawyer who worked on the Republican presidential campaigns of
John McCain, Rand Paul and Rick Perry.

In fact, Mr. Trump and his legal advisers seemed on Wednesday to revise
a promise that the president-elect
\href{https://twitter.com/realdonaldtrump/status/808529888630239232}{had
made on Twitter} in December: that there would be ``no new deals'' by
his company while he was in the White House.

Now, his legal team said, this standard will apply only to foreign
deals. Ms. Dillon said the Trump Organization had canceled about 30
pending deals, costing it millions of dollars. But the company will
continue to look for new business opportunities --- be it hotels, golf
courses or other ventures --- within the United States at a time when
the Trump Organization brand has an unrivaled profile.

Instead, the Trump enterprise will clear new transactions with an ethics
adviser to be named by the president-elect in the coming days. That
person will vet the deals for potential conflicts, using a standard that
Mr. Trump's advisers said had not yet been determined. A spokeswoman for
Mr. Trump said he had always intended the ``no new deals'' promise to
apply only to foreign deals.

The influence Mr. Trump will have over foreign and domestic policy as
president has raised questions about whether American policy
\href{http://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2016/12/01/us/politics/trump-conflict-of-interests.html}{could
affect his bottom line}. For instance, he will oversee the regulation of
banks, some of which lend money to his company, and he will have
frequent contact with foreign heads of state, including some who run
countries where the Trump Organization does business.

He has consistently used his position to showcase his real estate
properties, inviting dignitaries and cabinet hopefuls to visit him at
his golf club in Westchester County, N.Y., and his Mar-a-Lago resort in
Palm Beach, Fla.

And the business offers have been flowing in, Mr. Trump says. His
lawyers said his company had canceled 30 deals as he prepares to take
office, and last weekend, Mr. Trump said he had turned down a \$2
billion deal in Dubai.

``I don't want to take advantage of something,'' Mr. Trump said.

The Dubai offer came from Damac, a major developer in the Persian Gulf
region that is building the Trump International Golf Club, Dubai, and an
adjacent luxury housing development.

Mr. Trump and his legal team appeared to be particularly sensitive to
the suggestion that Mr. Trump might violate the so-called
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2016/11/21/us/politics/donald-trump-conflict-of-interest.html}{emoluments
clause} of the Constitution, which prohibits federal employees from
taking any ``present, emolument, office or title, of any kind whatever,
from any king, prince or foreign state.''

Ms. Dillon, the Trump Organization lawyer, who works for the Washington
firm Morgan Lewis, said the clause, in her view, did not apply to
market-value transactions such as a foreign government's paying a hotel
bill. But to address the issue, the organization plans to donate to the
federal government the ``profits'' derived from any payments from
foreign governments to hotels it owns. Representatives of the
organization did not reply when asked how this calculation would be made
or whether a public accounting of the payments would be provided.

But Trump Organization officials said this agreement would not apply to
golf courses or other businesses. That means Mr. Trump could still
benefit from payments by foreign governments, critics said.

Erwin Chemerinsky, dean of the University of California, Irvine School
of Law, also said the plan to turn over profits from foreign government
payments to Mr. Trump's hotels was not sufficient to eliminate the
constitutional issue.

``As soon as he receives the payment, he will have benefited, even if he
later decides to give it away,'' Mr. Chemerinsky said. ``This will mean
he will have violated a provision of the Constitution.''

Separately, Mr. Trump's daughter Ivanka said
\href{https://www.facebook.com/IvankaTrump/posts/10154998180397682}{on
her Facebook page} that she was both separating herself from the Trump
Organization and turning over management of her brand of handbags,
jewelry, shoes and other accessories to another executive.

But ethics experts said the family might have figured out a way to
accelerate the growth of their business while taking modest steps to
separate themselves from the day-to-day operations.

``It's hard to imagine anything she could do to help the brand more than
simply being a part of the White House apparatus,'' Robert Weissman,
president of Public Citizen, a liberal nonprofit, said of Ivanka Trump.
``The only solution for all of this is for them to divest --- and that
does not include handing it to another family member.''

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
