Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/nyregion}{New York}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/nyregion}{New York}\textbar{}Misogynistic Lawyer Who
Killed Judge's Son Had List of Possible Targets

\url{https://nyti.ms/3huG7NE}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{misogynistic-lawyer-who-killed-judges-son-had-list-of-possible-targets}{%
\section{Misogynistic Lawyer Who Killed Judge's Son Had List of Possible
Targets}\label{misogynistic-lawyer-who-killed-judges-son-had-list-of-possible-targets}}

The list was found after the lawyer killed himself and had more than a
dozen names, including three other judges and two doctors.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/07/25/nyregion/25NJJUDGE-2/25NJJUDGE-2-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/william-k-rashbaum}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/06/13/multimedia/author-william-k-rashbaum/author-william-k-rashbaum-thumbLarge.jpg}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/william-k-rashbaum}{William K.
Rashbaum}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  July 25, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

An openly misogynistic lawyer who is believed to have killed the son of
a female federal judge in New Jersey had a list of more than a dozen
other possible targets, including three other judges and two doctors,
three people with knowledge of the matter said.

The list was found on Monday inside a rented car on a rural road in the
Catskills in New York, where the lawyer,
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/25/nyregion/roy-den-hollander-esther-salas-list.html}{Roy
Den Hollander}, 72, had killed himself.

Hours earlier, law enforcement officials believe, Mr. Den Hollander
walked up to a house belonging to Judge Esther Salas on a suburban
street in North Brunswick, N.J., and
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/20/nyregion/esther-salas.html}{fatally
shot her 20-year-old son when he answered the door}. He also critically
wounded her husband. The judge escaped unharmed.

Investigators have now concluded that Mr. Den Hollander traveled eight
days earlier by train to California to murder Marc Angelucci, 52, a
men's rights lawyer whom he considered a professional rival. Mr.
Angelucci was also shot on his doorstep.

Judge Salas and Mr. Angelucci were included on the list found in the
rental car, along with at least 10 other people with whom Mr. Den
Hollander apparently had scores to settle, including three jurists: New
York State's chief judge, another federal judge in New Jersey, and a
state judge in Manhattan who, like Judge Salas, had presided over a case
he brought.

Also on the list were two oncologists in Manhattan, at least one of whom
had treated Mr. Den Hollander, two of the people said.

Image

Roy Den Hollander.Credit...via Agence France-Presse --- Getty Images

While his precise motive for making the list remains unclear, Mr. Den
Hollander had received a terminal cancer diagnosis, and F.B.I. agents
earlier this week were exploring whether that news set him off on a
mission of revenge against those he believed were his enemies.

A spokeswoman for the F.B.I.'s Newark office, which is investigating the
shootings with the U. S. attorney's office in New Jersey, declined to
comment on the list**.** The United States attorney's office did not
respond to a call seeking comment.

This week, officials acknowledged that information about two New York
state judges and Judge Salas was discovered in the rental car, and
\href{https://www.nbcnewyork.com/news/local/crime-and-courts/fbi-says-it-has-evidence-linking-nj-judge-family-shooting-suspect-to-calif-murder/2526223/}{WNBC
reported} that investigators also found material about Mr. Angelucci and
a doctor who treated Mr. Den Hollander. But the existence of a list with
more than a dozen names, including those of a second doctor and a second
federal judge, has not been reported before.

Federal investigators believe Mr. Den Hollander, who had raged against
women in thousands of pages of vituperative, online screeds, had dressed
as a delivery man in the attacks.

An empty FedEx package addressed to Judge Salas was also found in his
rental car after Mr. Den Hollander's apparent suicide, but a search of
the car and his home failed to turn up a uniform, one of the people with
knowledge of the matter said.

A highway worker discovered Mr. Den Hollander's body at about 8 a.m. on
a grassy pull-off outside the small town of Rockland, N.Y., about a
two-hour drive from the judge's home, according to a law enforcement
official.

He was wearing a blue blazer, a green-collared shirt, gray slacks and
black dress shoes, and he lay about 12 feet from the rental car, a 2020
Toyota Corolla. He had a single wound to his head. A Walther .380 pistol
was next to him.

The F.B.I. earlier this week contacted New York State's chief judge,
Janet M. DiFiore, to notify her that Mr. Den Hollander had her name and
photo in his car, according to a spokesman for the New York court
system, who said the other New York judge was also notified.

The two oncologists on the list also had been notified, a person with
knowledge of the matter said.

Late on Friday, the sheriff in San Bernardino County, Calif., where Mr.
Angelucci was fatally shot at his front door, announced that detectives
investigating the July 11 killing had determined that it had been
committed by Mr. Den Hollander. (Previously,
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/22/nyregion/roy-den-hollander-esther-salas.html}{the
F.B.I. had described him only as a suspect}and California authorities
had said little.)

Mr. Angelucci was the vice president of the National Coalition for Men,
a men's rights group that had rejected Mr. Den Hollander.

Mr. Den Hollander traveled to California by train, arriving on July 7.
He then rented a car, drove it to Mr. Angelucci's home and shot him, the
sheriff's office said. ``After the murder, Den Hollander boarded a train
at Union Station in Los Angeles and left California,'' the sheriff said
in a statement.

Officials released two still photographs from security camera footage
that they said showed Mr. Den Hollander in the Los Angeles and San
Bernardino train stations.

The pictures show him clad in a dark sports jacket, slacks and a
collared shirt, wearing a mask. In one, he is pulling a rolling suitcase
and has a briefcase slung over his shoulder. In the other, he is walking
toward his luggage carrying a newspaper and a drink in a paper cup, with
what appears to be a snack bar in the background.

The gun found near Mr. Den Hollander's body was the same caliber weapon
that was used in the killing of Mr. Angelucci and the shooting that left
Judge Salas's son dead and her husband wounded, law enforcement
officials have said.

The judge was in the basement at the time of the shooting.

The authorities have conducted tests on the pistol to determine if it is
the gun that was used in the two killings, several officials have said,
but the results have not been made public.

Mr. Den Hollander described himself as an anti-feminist and had made a
career out of filing lawsuits, some of them frivolous, alleging
discrimination against men. He also published blog posts in 2006 arguing
women were inferior to men and advocating physical violence against
them. In one post, he said women should be strapped to missiles and
dropped in the Middle East.

He sued Manhattan nightclubs for offering ladies' night discounts and
sued the federal government over a law that protects women from
violence. He also filed a suit claiming that Columbia University's
women's studies program was unfair to men.

Mr. Den Hollander's grievances against Judge Salas and Mr. Angelucci
apparently stemmed from the same case. In 2015, he filed a federal
lawsuit in federal court in Newark challenging the male-only military
draft and the case was assigned to Judge Salas. Mr. Angelucci had filed
a similar lawsuit in another jurisdiction two years earlier.

Late last year, a federal court
there\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/02/24/us/military-draft-men-unconstitutional.html}{ruled
in Mr. Angelucci's favor}, finding that the exclusion of women from the
draft was unconstitutional. The case is now on appeal.

In his online writings, a bitter Mr. Den Hollander, well aware that Mr.
Angelucci prevailed in his lawsuit, blamed Judge Salas for moving too
slowly with his case, insulting her and claiming that she was a
beneficiary of affirmative action.

Nicole Hong contributed reporting.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{Â©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
