\href{/watching}{}

Watching Logo

New York Times Watching Logo

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{/watching/search}{Search}

  Search

  Magnifying glass icon
\item
  \href{/watching/watchlist}{Your Watchlist}
\item
\end{itemize}

Search

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2015/10/11/watching/the-walking-dead-watching-recommendation/the-walking-dead-watching-recommendation-videoSixteenByNineJumbo1600-v4.jpg}

A scene from ``The Walking Dead.''Gene Page/AMC

\hypertarget{nyt-recommendation}{%
\subsection{NYT RECOMMENDATION}\label{nyt-recommendation}}

\hypertarget{the-walking-dead}{%
\section{The Walking Dead}\label{the-walking-dead}}

2010-Present• Six seasons and counting, between 13 and 16 hourlong
episodes each (Season 1 has six episodes)• Andrew Lincoln, Norman
Reedus, Steven Yeun, Melissa McBride, Lauren Cohan,
\href{/watching/search?q=Danai\%20Gurira\&actor=danai-gurira}{Danai
Gurira} and Chandler Riggs

Small-town Georgia lawman Rick Grimes wakes up in the middle of a zombie
apocalypse, and begins an odyssey that winds through the South, where he
finds family members and new friends to help him try to rebuild
civilization --- and enemies who mean to seize whatever Rick and his
cohorts have.

Share

Save To Watch

Ribbon

Save to Watch

Like

Heart Shape

Like

Watch ... if you like survivalist thrillers or, you know, zombies. Like
the comic book series of the same name, ``The Walking Dead'' functions
as a kind of end-of-the-world procedural, following step-by-step as Rick
(Andrew Lincoln) and his fellow travelers learn the skills required to
kill monsters, scavenge supplies and fortify against raids. As the tasks
become more grueling, the characters harden. And, part of what makes
this show so fascinating and so heartbreaking is watching charismatic
heroes evolve over the course of the series, becoming both more capable
and more soulless. The questions of what it means to be ``alive''
instead of undead gives ``The Walking Dead'' an unusually philosophical
core for a horror story. Frequently shocking and increasingly epic, this
is the highest rated drama on cable TV for a reason.

Skip ... if blood and gore make you squeamish. ``The Walking Dead'' is
frequently disgusting, as zombies shamble around with their intestines
hanging out and their faces deteriorating. The violence only gets more
intense and more graphic over time --- and it's hard to get desensitized
to it, given that the mangled bodies often belong to our heroes.

\hypertarget{how-to-watch-it}{%
\subsubsection{How To Watch It}\label{how-to-watch-it}}

You'll want to start at the beginning, with the pilot episode (``Days
Gone Bye'') that's gripping, artful and terrifying --- and with a great
cliffhanger to boot. After that, Seasons 1 and 2 are more hit and miss,
although ``Tell It to the Frogs'' (Season 1, Episode 3) is the first
episode that powerfully explores the violence the survivors unleash on
one another, and ``Pretty Much Dead Already'' (Season 2, Episode 7) has
one of the series' wickedest surprises. From Season 3 onward, the pacing
improves and the stories become more sprawling and ambitious, such that
every time it seems like ``The Walking Dead'' has hit a permanent lull,
the writers find a way to get things moving again.

\hypertarget{read-before-you-watch}{%
\subsubsection{Read Before You Watch}\label{read-before-you-watch}}

\href{http://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2010/10/29/arts/television/29walking.html}{}

\hypertarget{the-new-york-times-review}{%
\subsubsection{The New York Times
Review}\label{the-new-york-times-review}}

\href{http://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}

\href{http://www.hitfix.com/blogs/whats-alan-watching/posts/review-amcs-the-walking-dead}{}

\hypertarget{hitfix-review}{%
\subsubsection{HitFix Review}\label{hitfix-review}}

\href{http://www.hitfix.com}{www.hitfix.com}

\href{http://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2010/10/24/arts/television/24dead.html}{}

\hypertarget{the-zombie-attack-as-stress-test}{%
\subsubsection{The Zombie Attack as Stress
Test}\label{the-zombie-attack-as-stress-test}}

\href{http://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}

\href{http://archive.boston.com/ae/tv/articles/2010/10/29/the_walking_dead_brings_new_life_to_the_zombie_genre/}{}

\hypertarget{more-than-gore-the-walking-dead-brings-new-life-to-the-zombie-genre}{%
\subsubsection{More Than Gore: `The Walking Dead' Brings New Life to the
Zombie
Genre}\label{more-than-gore-the-walking-dead-brings-new-life-to-the-zombie-genre}}

archive.boston.com

\hypertarget{read-after-you-watch}{%
\subsubsection{Read After You Watch}\label{read-after-you-watch}}

\href{http://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2016/01/07/arts/television/former-walking-dead-producer-blasts-amc.html}{}

\hypertarget{former-walking-dead-producer-blasts-amc}{%
\subsubsection{Former `Walking Dead' Producer Blasts
AMC}\label{former-walking-dead-producer-blasts-amc}}

\href{http://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}

\href{http://www.newyorker.com/magazine/2013/12/23/utter-rot}{}

\hypertarget{utter-rot-the-creeping-disappointment-of-the-walking-dead}{%
\subsubsection{Utter Rot: The Creeping Disappointment of `The Walking
Dead'}\label{utter-rot-the-creeping-disappointment-of-the-walking-dead}}

\href{http://www.newyorker.com}{www.newyorker.com}

\href{http://grantland.com/hollywood-prospectus/walking-dead-2014-midseason-finale-recap/}{}

\hypertarget{a-remarkable-resurrection-and-underwhelming-midseason-finale}{%
\subsubsection{A Remarkable Resurrection, and Underwhelming Midseason
Finale}\label{a-remarkable-resurrection-and-underwhelming-midseason-finale}}

grantland.com

\href{http://www.vulture.com/2016/03/merritt-wever-walking-dead.html}{}

\hypertarget{merritt-wever-on-her-big-episode-of-the-walking-dead}{%
\subsubsection{Merritt Wever on Her Big Episode of `The Walking
Dead'}\label{merritt-wever-on-her-big-episode-of-the-walking-dead}}

\href{http://www.vulture.com}{www.vulture.com}

\href{https://www.theguardian.com/tv-and-radio/2015/oct/09/andrew-lincoln-profile-happy-go-lucky-egg-walking-dead}{}

\hypertarget{andrew-lincoln-from-happy-go-lucky-egg-to-star-of-the-walking-dead}{%
\subsubsection{Andrew Lincoln: From Happy-Go-Lucky Egg to Star of `The
Walking
Dead'}\label{andrew-lincoln-from-happy-go-lucky-egg-to-star-of-the-walking-dead}}

\href{http://www.theguardian.com}{www.theguardian.com}

\href{http://www.vulture.com/tv/the-walking-dead/}{}

\hypertarget{vulture-recaps}{%
\subsubsection{Vulture Recaps}\label{vulture-recaps}}

\href{http://www.vulture.com}{www.vulture.com}

\href{http://www.amc.com/shows/talking-dead}{}

\hypertarget{the-talking-dead-recap-tv-show}{%
\subsubsection{`The Talking Dead' Recap TV
show}\label{the-talking-dead-recap-tv-show}}

\href{http://www.amc.com}{www.amc.com}

\hypertarget{related-videos}{%
\subsubsection{Related Videos}\label{related-videos}}

\href{https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SGRWXfnU2lY}{}

\hypertarget{a-2010-interview-with-frank-darabont-and-robert-kirkman-at-new-york-comic-con}{%
\subsubsection{A 2010 Interview With Frank Darabont and Robert Kirkman
at New York Comic
Con}\label{a-2010-interview-with-frank-darabont-and-robert-kirkman-at-new-york-comic-con}}

\href{http://www.youtube.com}{www.youtube.com}

\href{https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DrFb0uahbXU}{}

\hypertarget{cast-interview-at-san-diego-comic-con}{%
\subsubsection{Cast Interview at San Diego
Comic-Con}\label{cast-interview-at-san-diego-comic-con}}

\href{http://www.youtube.com}{www.youtube.com}

\hypertarget{want-to-watch-it-later}{%
\subsubsection{Want to watch it later?}\label{want-to-watch-it-later}}

Save To Watch

Ribbon

Save to Watch

This recommendation was selected by the NYT Watching editors and was
written by Noel Murray and Danielle Henderson

\hypertarget{have-questions-feedback}{%
\paragraph{Have questions? Feedback?}\label{have-questions-feedback}}

Read our
\href{//www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2017/01/10/watching/faq.html}{FAQs}
or \href{mailto:watchingcare@NYTimes.com}{contact us} to let us know how
we're doing.

\hypertarget{lets-be-friends}{%
\paragraph{Let's be friends.}\label{lets-be-friends}}

\href{https://www.facebookcorewwwi.onion/nytwatching/}{\includegraphics{/watching/assets/web/img/footer_facebook_icon.48f8f0ac.svg}}\href{https://twitter.com/watching}{\includegraphics{/watching/assets/web/img/footer_twitter_icon.f138d306.svg}}

\href{//www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{\includegraphics{/watching/assets/web/img/the-new-york-times.c0889830.svg}}\href{//www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/arts/television}{TV}\href{//www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/movies}{Movies}

\href{//www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/content/help/rights/privacy/policy/privacy-policy.html}{Privacy
Policy}\href{//www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/content/help/rights/terms/terms-of-service.html}{Terms
of
Service}\href{//www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/content/help/rights/privacy/policy/privacy-policy.html\#pp}{Your
Ad Choices}\href{http://www.nytco.com/}{© The New York Times Company}

Do Not Sell My Personal Information

Your preference has been saved.
