\href{/section/business}{Business}\textbar{}A Boom Time for the Bean
Industry

\url{https://nyti.ms/2U9NilB}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{the-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus?name=styln-coronavirus-markets\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=d1188940-f290-11ea-b18c-799a76f9f33f\&variant=undefined}{The
Coronavirus
Outbreak}}{The Coronavirus Outbreak}}\label{the-coronavirus-outbreak}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  live\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/09/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?name=styln-coronavirus-markets\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=d1188941-f290-11ea-b18c-799a76f9f33f\&variant=undefined}{Latest
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html?name=styln-coronavirus-markets\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=d118b050-f290-11ea-b18c-799a76f9f33f\&variant=undefined}{Maps
  and Cases}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html?name=styln-coronavirus-markets\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=d118b051-f290-11ea-b18c-799a76f9f33f\&variant=undefined}{Vaccine
  Tracker}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/02/your-money/eviction-moratorium-covid.html?name=styln-coronavirus-markets\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=d118b052-f290-11ea-b18c-799a76f9f33f\&variant=undefined}{Eviction
  Moratorium}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/09/02/magazine/food-insecurity-hunger-us.html?name=styln-coronavirus-markets\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=d118b053-f290-11ea-b18c-799a76f9f33f\&variant=undefined}{American
  Hunger}
\end{itemize}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/03/21/business/21virus-beans-1/merlin_170655120_1da3c1f1-c3b9-4578-8688-f603dd6cb236-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Sections

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\hypertarget{a-boom-time-for-the-bean-industry}{%
\section{A Boom Time for the Bean
Industry}\label{a-boom-time-for-the-bean-industry}}

``It's just shocking,'' one bean supplier said. ``I used to be the
loneliest man at the farmer's market.''

Royal Corona Beans at Rancho Gordo in Napa, Calif.Credit...Cayce
Clifford for The New York Times

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

By \href{http://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/david-yaffe-bellany}{David
Yaffe-Bellany}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  March 22, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Tim McGreevy has worked in the bean business for more than 30 years. But
when he scanned the bean aisles at a grocery store in Pullman, Wash., on
Sunday, he saw something he had never seen before: empty shelves.

``In one sense, this is like my best dream,'' said Mr. McGreevy, who
runs a
\href{https://www.usapulses.org/membership/american-pulse-association}{trade
group} for producers and packagers of pulses, a category of legumes that
includes beans. ``In another sense, you go, `Wow, this is pretty
serious.'''

As the coronavirus pandemic upends daily life across the United States,
Americans are filling their pantries with long-lasting essentials ---
pasta, rice, canned meat,
\href{https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2020-03-04/what-s-being-stockpiled-in-american-pandemic-pantry-oat-milk}{even
oat milk}.

But amid all the panic shopping, the growing demand for beans has stood
out as an especially potent symbol of the anxious and uncertain times.
At supermarkets, shoppers are stocking up on canned beans from familiar
brands like
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/10/business/goya-boycott.html}{Goya
Foods}, as well as thick bags of dry beans that usually lie largely
untouched on store shelves.

To some suppliers, the sudden popularity of their once-unfashionable
beans feels a little surreal.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/03/23/business/00JPvirus-beans2-print/00virus-beans-3-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

``No one ever cares about beans at all,'' said Steve Sando, who runs the
heirloom bean supplier Rancho Gordo in the Napa Valley. ``It's just
shocking. I used to be the loneliest man at the farmer's market.''

In recent weeks, the buying frenzy has extended to the entire pulses
family, including lentils, dry peas and chickpeas as well as beans.
Across the industry, canners and packagers have seen a 40 percent
increase in sales, Mr. McGreevy said.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-the-coronavirus-outbreak-and-the-economy}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/09/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: The Coronavirus Outbreak and the
Economy}}{Latest Updates: The Coronavirus Outbreak and the Economy}}\label{latest-updates-the-coronavirus-outbreak-and-the-economy}}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/09/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#why-a-licensing-expert-and-a-mall-operator-bought-brooks-brothers-forever-21-and-others}{42m
ago}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/09/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#why-a-licensing-expert-and-a-mall-operator-bought-brooks-brothers-forever-21-and-others}{Why
a licensing expert and a mall operator bought Brooks Brothers, Forever
21 and others.}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/09/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#lvmh-says-it-is-pulling-out-of-its-16-billion-takeover-of-tiffany}{42m
ago}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/09/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#lvmh-says-it-is-pulling-out-of-its-16-billion-takeover-of-tiffany}{LVMH
says it is pulling out of its \$16 billion takeover of Tiffany.}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/09/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#six-months-in-seafarers-on-ships-around-the-world-still-have-no-way-home}{42m
ago}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/09/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#six-months-in-seafarers-on-ships-around-the-world-still-have-no-way-home}{Six
months in, seafarers on ships around the world still have no way home.}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/09/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

More live coverage:
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/09/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Global}

At Goya, the increase has been even more dramatic: Sales of black beans,
pinto beans and other canned products have spiked as much as 400
percent. In the last week, Goya has delivered 24 million cans to
retailers.

``I've seen earthquakes and hurricanes. This is the first time I've seen
this,'' said Bob Unanue, the company's president. ``This is a tsunami,
this is a hurricane that's not hitting one market. It's hitting all
markets.''

Many canners and packagers are hiring staff or adding shifts to meet the
surge in demand. Typically, Rancho Gordo receives 150 to 200 orders a
day for its specialty beans. On March 14, the company received 1,669
orders. The next day, it recorded an additional 1,450. ``We're not set
up for this at all,'' Mr. Sando said.

At his warehouse, Mr. Sando has instituted a night shift, hiring a
handful of workers from a temporary agency to help out. He has told
customers to expect delays as long as three or four weeks in fulfilling
orders. Some mornings, he said, he wakes up to find that the company has
already sold as many beans as it would normally sell in an entire day.

Image

Steve Sando, founder of Rancho Gordo.Credit...Cayce Clifford for The New
York Times

Image

Credit...Cayce Clifford for The New York Times

``I'm taking no joy in this, to be honest,'' Mr. Sando said. ``It's born
out of fear. I mean, I love the sales. But food should be something you
feel good about.''

In many ways, pulses are the perfect food for a time of mass anxiety.
They are cheap and nutritious. And some products can sit in a pantry for
as long as two years.

``They have found lentils in Egyptian tombs ---~and they've still
sprouted,'' Mr. McGreevy said. ``Now, I'm not recommending you consume
lentils from Egyptian times. But these are really shelf-stable foods.''

For years, however, beans of all varieties have gotten a bad rap. Some
people still associate them with the
\href{https://www.theatlantic.com/business/archive/2016/12/great-depression-eat/511355/}{Great
Depression}. The food and agriculture branch of the United Nations
\href{http://www.fao.org/fao-stories/article/en/c/1126738/}{warns} that
``many kids hate the `mushy' texture.'' And an entire
\href{https://www.kirkusreviews.com/book-reviews/dan-yaccarino/the-lima-bean-monster/}{children's
book} has been devoted to the scourge of lima beans.

But beans were beginning to grow more popular even before the
coronavirus. Some environmentally conscious consumers are turning to
beans as an alterative to meat, and home cooks have increasingly
\href{https://www.eater.com/2019/12/12/20974754/dried-beans-trend-rancho-gordo-instant-pot}{embraced
them}. After dipping in the early 2000s, the consumption of dry beans in
the United States has risen in recent years, to 9.6 pounds in 2018 from
7.2 pounds per capita in 2015, according to government estimates.

A few years ago, Mr. Sando started a ``bean club'' in which members
could receive special bean shipments every three months for a
subscription fee. It was meant to be a joke. ``We're in Napa, and I
thought, `Oh, wine club --- let's do a bean club,''' he said. Now it has
a waiting list of more than 8,000 names.

Image

At Goya, sales of black beans, pinto beans and other canned products
have spiked as much as 400 percent.Credit...Maridelis Morales Rosado for
The New York Times

On Twitter, bean aficionados have offered to help novice cooks figure
out how to prepare the legumes, sharing recipes and tips. ``There are a
lot of new people who are kind of freaked out,'' Mr. Sando said. ``It's
pretty easy. You cook them till they're done.''

At the beginning of March, Luke Winkie, a freelance journalist in
Brooklyn, bought a few bags of dry beans. It seemed like a sensible
purchase. Only he had no idea what to do with them.

So he did a little online research. ``It's like a two-day process,'' he
said. ``It's so far from the easy utilitarian thing I was expecting.''
On Monday, Mr. Winkie, 28, cooked some dry white beans, which he had
salvaged from a failed attempt the previous night to prepare a bean and
chicken dish. ``The beans were not good,'' said Rebecca Jennings, a
27-year-old journalist and Mr. Winkie's girlfriend. ``No one just eats a
bowl of beans.''

Professional chefs have long appreciated beans for their versatility.
They can go in soups and salads. They pair well with chicken, lamb and
other meats. And they can be cooked intact or mashed together.

Image

A Rancho Gordo store in Napa. The company has a subscription bean club
that now has a waiting list of 8,000 people.Credit...Cayce Clifford for
The New York Times

``Drain them, mash them up, put olive oil in or butter, heat it up ---
it's delicious,'' said Georgeanne Brennan, the author of the cookbook
``French Beans.'' ``It's kind of a learning opportunity now with these
people who are hoarding the beans to have some pretty great new
discoveries.''

Still, some people whose
\href{https://www.nielsen.com/us/en/insights/article/2020/nielsen-investigation-pandemic-pantries-pressure-supply-chain-amidst-covid-19-fears/}{``pandemic
pantries''} are overflowing with beans are not looking forward to
actually eating them. Lupita Medina, an 18-year-old from Utah, was
surprised to see her mother buy canned beans to prepare for the
outbreak.

``I don't think I have ever had them,'' Ms. Medina said. ``Hard pass.''

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
