Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}10 Highlights From
Wednesday's Confirmation Hearings

\url{https://nyti.ms/2jYFdLQ}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

Live Briefing

\hypertarget{10-highlights-from-wednesdays-confirmation-hearings}{%
\section{10 Highlights From Wednesday's Confirmation
Hearings}\label{10-highlights-from-wednesdays-confirmation-hearings}}

By \href{http://www.nytimes.com/by/jennifer-steinhauer}{Jennifer
Steinhauer}, \href{http://www.nytimes.com/by/john-schwartz}{John
Schwartz}, \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/emmarie-huetteman}{Emmarie
Huetteman} and \href{http://www.nytimes.com/by/thomas-kaplan}{Thomas
Kaplan}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Jan. 18, 2017
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Democrats complained mightily about their questions being limited, but
the Republicans, who hold the majority, get to set the rules. Four of
President-elect Donald J. Trump's cabinet choices faced aggressive
questions, but avoided any major stumbles. Here are 10 highlights:

■ Representative Tom Price of Georgia, picked to be health secretary,
said repealing the Affordable Care Act would not leave millions without
health insurance.

■ Mr. Price offered lofty goals for replacing the law but gave few
details about the administration's plans.

■ He did not rule out cuts to Medicare or Medicaid.

■ Scott Pruitt, the Oklahoma attorney general and the pick to lead the
Environmental Protection Agency, said he disagreed with Mr. Trump's
statement that climate change is a ``hoax,'' but hedged when asked how
much of it is caused by human activity.

■ He defended what he called ``common sense'' environmental regulation,
arguing that farmers, ranchers and business had been hurt by intrusive
federal rules.

■ Mr. Pruitt said he would not deny the government's finding that carbon
dioxide and other greenhouse gases are a threat: ``That is a law of the
land.''

■ Wilbur Ross, selected to be commerce secretary, had a message for
Mexico and Canada: Be ready to renegotiate the North American Free Trade
Agreement.

■ Some Republicans said they were taken aback by Mr. Trump's threats to
impose big tariffs, but Mr. Ross assured them that the president-elect
was merely being a good negotiator.

■ Gov. Nikki R. Haley of South Carolina, Mr. Trump's choice for
ambassador to the United Nations, criticized the international body's
treatment of Israel.

■ Ms. Haley said there would not be a Muslim registry in the United
States.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2017/01/19/us/19hearingbriefing3/19hearingbriefing3-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\hypertarget{price-says-millions-wont-lose-insurance}{%
\subsection{Price says millions won't lose
insurance}\label{price-says-millions-wont-lose-insurance}}

Mr. Price tried to offer reassurance that the Republican effort to
repeal the Affordable Care Act would not leave millions of people
suddenly without health insurance, but Democrats challenged him
repeatedly on that point.

``One of the important things that we need to convey to the American
people is that nobody's interested in pulling the rug out from under
anybody,'' Mr. Price said.

But Mr. Price gave up few details about Mr. Trump's plan.

\hypertarget{sanders-hammers-price}{%
\subsection{Sanders hammers Price}\label{sanders-hammers-price}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2017/01/19/us/19price/19price-videoSixteenByNine3000.jpg}

Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont, an independent who ran for president
as a Democrat, pressed Mr. Price on whether he viewed health care as ``a
right.''

Mr. Price deflected. ``We're a compassionate society,'' he said.

``No, we're not a compassionate society,'' Mr. Sanders shot back,
lamenting the United States' treatment of some of its neediest citizens.

Mr. Sanders also parsed Mr. Price's remark that Americans deserved
``access'' to high-quality health care. ``I have access to buying a \$10
million home,'' Mr. Sanders said. ``I don't have the money to do that.''

\hypertarget{paul-defends-price}{%
\subsection{Paul defends Price}\label{paul-defends-price}}

Mr. Price, who has faced intense scrutiny and criticism from Democrats
over his stock trades while in Congress, found a defender in Senator
Rand Paul, Republican of Kentucky.

``To question your motives, I think, is insulting,'' Mr. Paul said. ``To
question whether you're honest is insulting.''

\hypertarget{bennet-finds-a-doctor-in-the-house}{%
\subsection{Bennet finds a doctor in the
House}\label{bennet-finds-a-doctor-in-the-house}}

Democrats have made clear their deep discontent with Mr. Price's
nomination.

But one of them, Senator Michael Bennet of Colorado, found a silver
lining with the nominee, who happens to be an orthopedic surgeon.

``I have never shown a knee, my knee, to any nominee before Dr. Price
came to my office,'' Mr. Bennet disclosed when it was his turn at
Wednesday's hearing. ``But he gave me some free medical advice and I'm
grateful.''

``How you doing?'' Mr. Price chimed in, showing a glimpse of his bedside
manner.

``It's terrible, but I'll talk to you after it's over,'' Mr. Bennet
said. ``It's not because of you.''

\hypertarget{warren-seeks-assurances-on-medicare-and-medicaid}{%
\subsection{Warren seeks assurances on Medicare and
Medicaid}\label{warren-seeks-assurances-on-medicare-and-medicaid}}

Senator Elizabeth Warren, Democrat of Massachusetts, pressed Mr. Price
to address Mr. Trump's pledge that he would not cut Medicare or
Medicaid.

``Do you believe he was telling the truth?'' she asked.

``I believe so, yes,'' Mr. Price said.

Ms. Warren went on to ask Mr. Price to guarantee that he would
``safeguard'' that pledge and not use his administrative power to
``carry out a single dollar of cuts to Medicare or Medicaid eligibility
or benefits.''

Mr. Price did not provide such an assurance.

\hypertarget{pruitt-joins-the-fray}{%
\subsection{Pruitt joins the fray}\label{pruitt-joins-the-fray}}

Image

Scott Pruitt, the Oklahoma attorney general, during his confirmation
hearing on Wednesday.Credit...Gabriella Demczuk for The New York Times

Mr. Pruitt, whose hearing attracted dozens of protesters to the Capitol,
defended his long-held position that excessive government regulation was
hurting business and energy development. Mr. Pruitt said his ``first and
primary goal'' as administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency
would be ``to return the agency to that core mission of protecting the
American people through common sense and lawful regulations.''

He said that ``farmers, ranchers, landowners and small-business owners
have recently felt hopeless, subject to a never-ending torrent of new
regulations that only a lawyer can understand.''

``They fear the E.P.A., and that just shouldn't be the case,'' he said.
``If confirmed, I will work tirelessly to ensure that the E.P.A. acts
lawfully, sensibly and with those hard-working Americans ever in mind.''

But several senators challenged him.

Lead came up repeatedly in the hearing, and Mr. Pruitt has come under
fire for his answers. In an one round of questioning, Senator Benjamin
L. Cardin, Democrat of Maryland, asked, ``Do you believe there is any
safe level of lead that can be taken into the human body, particularly a
young person?

Mr. Pruitt responded: ``That's something I have not reviewed nor know
about. I would be very concerned about any level of lead going into the
drinking water or obviously human consumption, but I've not looked at
the scientific research on that.''

As the writer
\href{http://www.slate.com/blogs/the_slatest/2017/01/18/scott_pruitt_s_answer_on_lead_in_water_wasn_t_that_egregious.html}{Susan
Matthews at Slate noted}, the E.P.A. says there is no safe level of lead
in the bloodstream, though its regulations still allow extremely small
amounts of lead in plumbing systems.

Mr. Pruitt's statement led to a strong reaction online:

There was also a forceful response among the Democratic members of the
Senate in the hearing room. Senator Tammy Duckworth of Illinois asked
incredulously, ``You are seeking to be the E.P.A. administrator and
you've not looked into the issue of lead in our drinking water supply?''
She called that, in the aftermath of
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2016/01/24/us/when-the-water-turned-brown.html}{the
water crisis in Flint, Mich.}, ``a serious oversight on your part.''

Mr. Pruitt responded that the E.P.A. had power to address problems with
lead in water and that the agency should have done more in Flint. ``The
E.P.A. has emergency order authority'' to respond to incidents of
contamination, he said, ``and I think the E.P.A. should step into these
situations in a very meaningful way.''

Senator Edward J. Markey, Democrat of Massachusetts, had a feisty
exchange with Mr. Pruitt over climate change and ethics. Mr. Markey
started out by revealing a bit of daylight between the positions of Mr.
Trump and Mr. Pruitt on climate change. Mr. Markey noted that
\href{https://twitter.com/realdonaldtrump/status/265895292191248385?lang=en}{Mr.
Trump has called climate change a hoax created by ``the Chinese."}''

Mr. Markey asked whether Mr. Pruitt agreed with the president elect on
that point.

``I do not believe that climate change is a hoax,'' Mr. Pruitt replied.

``O.K., that's important for the president to hear,'' Mr. Markey
responded.

\hypertarget{haley-criticizes-un-treatment-of-israel}{%
\subsection{Haley criticizes U.N. treatment of
Israel}\label{haley-criticizes-un-treatment-of-israel}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2017/01/19/us/19haley/19haley-vid-videoSixteenByNine3000.jpg}

Gov. Nikki Haley of South Carolina, the nominee for United States
ambassador to the United Nations, was the subject of rather mild
questioning, but that did not mean the hearing was substance-free.

``I am concerned with your lack of foreign policy experience,'' said
Senator Benjamin L. Cardin, Democrat of Maryland and the ranking
Democrat on the Foreign Relations Committee. But he then praised Ms.
Haley for leading the fight to take down a Confederate battle flag from
the South Carolina statehouse property.

For her part, Ms. Haley pivoted to an issue of central concern to
Republicans, and many Democrats: the United Nations' relationship with
Israel.

``Any honest assessment also finds an institution that is often at odds
with U.S. interests,'' Ms. Haley said, noting the body's 20 resolutions
against Israel, more than against Syria, Iran and North Korea. ``This
cannot continue,'' she said, also criticizing the United States'
abstention from the latest such resolution against Israel.

``I will never abstain when the United Nations takes any action that
comes in direct conflict with the interests and values of the United
States,'' she said.

She also was asked whether she agreed with sanctions on Russia. ``I
think that Russia has to have positive actions before we lift any
sanctions on Russia.''

What about a Muslim registry? Nope, Ms. Haley said, not going to happen.

\hypertarget{ross-talks-tough-on-china}{%
\subsection{Ross talks tough on China}\label{ross-talks-tough-on-china}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2017/01/19/us/19ross/19ross-videoSixteenByNineJumbo1600.jpg}

Mr. Ross kicked off his confirmation hearing by taking a tough stance on
China, describing the country as protectionist.

``They talk much more about free trade than they actually practice,'' he
said.

Mr. Ross's stance echoed Mr. Trump's own hard-line approach. The
president-elect rankled many by accepting a congratulatory phone call
from the president of Taiwan, challenging the long-acknowledged One
China principle and heightening tensions with the country before he even
takes office.

In an unexpected revelation, Mr. Ross admitted he had unknowingly
employed an undocumented household worker, a fact he said he discovered
while preparing for his Senate confirmation process.

Mr. Ross said the employee had presented a Social Security card and a
valid driver's license, both bearing that individual's name, when hired
in 2009. But during a check over the past month, the employee had been
unable to provide similar documentation. He fired the employee
immediately, he said.

``We did the best that we thought we could do in order to verify the
legality of the employment, and it turned out that was incorrect,'' Mr.
Ross said.

During that roughly seven-year period, Mr. Ross said he paid all
applicable taxes without incident on that employee, using the Social
Security number he had been given.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
