Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/travel}{Travel}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/travel}{Travel}\textbar{}Glamping Slips Into the
Mainstream

\url{https://nyti.ms/2MrSSdb}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

The Getaway

\hypertarget{glamping-slips-into-the-mainstream}{%
\section{Glamping Slips Into the
Mainstream}\label{glamping-slips-into-the-mainstream}}

The allure of luxury camping has brought a wave of new destinations this
year, and they aren't always in the wild.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/06/17/travel/17Getaway1/17Getaway1-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By Elaine Glusac

\begin{itemize}
\item
  June 15, 2018
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Camping in the wild with all the comforts of a deluxe hotel, including
real beds, plush furnishings and attending stewards, has been around
since 19th-century African wildlife safaris. Now known as glamping ---
short for glamorous camping --- the hybrid of camp and resort has
exploded, bringing a wave of new glamping destinations this year in a
variety of price ranges.

For travelers, the camps offer convenient access to nature without an
investment in equipment or the chores of firewood-gathering and the
common camping hazards of splinters, sleeping in the rain and waking up
cold.

``People nowadays desire real change from the grind of their daily
commutes, the dreary workplace environment with its ever-present noise
pollution and the constant invasion of smartphones,'' said George
Morgan-Grenville, the founder and chief executive of
\href{https://www.redsavannah.com/}{Red}\href{https://www.redsavannah.com/}{Savannah}\href{https://www.redsavannah.com/}{,}
a high-end travel company. ``Glamping is the ultimate realization of
`disconnect to reconnect.'''

Indicative of glamping's growth, the biggest American camp collectives
are on an expansionist spree. Both
\href{https://www.undercanvas.com/}{Under Canvas} and
\href{http://www.travelweekly.com/Travel-News/Hotel-News/Glamping-expansion-Collective-Retreats-gets-10M-investment}{Collective
Retreats} recently secured new funding, \$17 million and \$10 million,
respectively. The 37,000-acre \href{http://pawsup.com/}{Resort at Paws
Up} in Montana, one of the earliest, in 2005, to erect fancy tents with
framed art on the canvas walls, rugs on the wood floors and downy duvets
on the log-frame beds, introduced glamping's first three-bedroom,
two-bathroom tents last summer.

Popular glamping sites are expanding in ways that resemble more
traditional hotels, too. \href{http://www.firelightcamps.com/}{Firelight
Camps} in Ithaca, N.Y., plans to open a Catskills location next fall
that will include a restaurant from its co-founder and chef Emma Frisch,
who recently published a cookbook, ``Feast by Firelight,'' which
includes recipes served at the camp's daily breakfasts and occasional
dinners.

\href{http://glamping.com/}{Glamping.com} lists nearly 800 locations
worldwide, including lodges, tree houses and cabins --- essentially, any
accommodation in a natural setting with luxury-level service --- but the
following new glamping sites follow the classic definition: tent-based.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/06/17/travel/17Getaway7/17Getaway7-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\hypertarget{urban-glamping}{%
\subsubsection{URBAN GLAMPING}\label{urban-glamping}}

Light pollution, noise and nocturnal pests, human and otherwise, haven't
discouraged glamping entrepreneurs from setting up in cities. The most
significant camp to put down city stakes,
\href{https://www.collectiveretreats.com/retreat/collective-governors-island/}{Collective
Governors}\href{https://www.collectiveretreats.com/retreat/collective-governors-island/}{Island},
will feature 37 tents on the car-free island in New York Harbor once
it's fully open in July (from \$150). The company Collective Retreats
has been setting up seasonal camps since 2015 when it opened in Vail,
Colo. The New York camp will have its own restaurant, offer massage
services and equip some tents with their own bathrooms. Others will
share facilities but all will have furnished porches and wood-frame beds
with 1,500-thread-count linens.

A spate of luxury hotels is newly offering glamping on the private
terraces of its top suites, including the
\href{http://www.thegwenchicago.com/}{Gwen Hotel} in Chicago, the
\href{https://www.fourseasons.com/beverlywilshire/}{Beverly Wilshire, a
Four Seasons Hotel} in Beverly Hills, Calif., and
\href{http://www.lemeridiendenverdowntown.com/}{Le Méridien Denver
Downtown}, running between \$3,500 and \$15,000 a night.

\hypertarget{into-the-wild}{%
\subsubsection{INTO THE WILD}\label{into-the-wild}}

Under Canvas operates seasonal glamping resorts near national parks,
among them Yellowstone, Zion and Glacier. Last month, it opened
\href{https://www.undercanvas.com/camps/mount-rushmore/}{Under Canvas
Rushmore} in South Dakota through Oct. 1. The solar-powered forest
compound of 80 four-person tents, each with a wood stove and some with
attached bathrooms, offers views of Mount Rushmore (from \$209). Guests
can eat hearty breakfasts and campfire dinners of smoked, grilled and
roasted meats on site, and the kitchen packs box lunches for those
heading out to climb, bike or take Jeep safaris.

On Aug. 30,
\href{https://www.undercanvas.com/camps/great-smoky-mountains/}{Under
Canvas Great Smoky Mountains} will open in Gatlinburg, Tenn., with 54
tents on 200 acres near the national park (from \$199).

\href{https://www.collectiveretreats.com/retreat/collective-hill-country/}{Collective
Hill Country}, the second opening this summer of a glamping resort by
Collective Retreats, will spring up on a 225-acre ranch near Austin,
Tex., offering activities like horseback riding and winery tours. Guests
in its 12 tents will dine on campfire dishes like jalapeño and Cheddar
grits and wild boar osso buco (from \$400).

On the Hudson River in Kingston, N. Y.,
\href{https://www.terraglamping.com/catskills/}{Terra Glamping} is
slated to open this month at
\href{https://www.huttonbrickyards.com/\#section1}{Hutton Brickyards}, a
riverside event venue, with 25 tents featuring memory-foam mattresses,
down bedding, Turkish towels and robes (from \$225). Guests can borrow
bikes, kayaks and stand-up paddleboards, as well as lanterns and
flashlights after dark.

For beach lovers, \href{https://www.wildlotuscamp.com/}{Wild Lotus}
operates a tented camp on the Caribbean island of Antigua. Tents come
with blowup mattresses, coolers and ice, and guests have access to
showers at a neighboring beach bar (from \$149). Or you can glamp at the
company's rain forest camp on nearby
\href{https://www.wildlotuscamp.com/montserrat}{Montserrat}.

Among the truly glamorous new glamping facilities, the
\href{https://www.rosewoodhotels.com/en/luang-prabang}{Rosewood Luang
Prabang} opened in March in a forested setting near the Laotian city
with six deluxe tents among its 23 accommodations (from \$724). While
residing closer to nature, guests of the tent suites have access to the
resort's many amenities: a pool, tented spa villas, restaurant and
activities such as cooking classes and Mekong River cruises.

Like the Rosewood property, the celebrated designer Bill Bensley also
designed the new \href{https://www.capellaubud.com/}{Capella Ubud}
opening in Bali in June. The Indonesian retreat will host 23 tents,
furnished to evoke 19th-century colonial travel. Even the gym will be
based under canvas, as will the Officers Tent lounge (from \$838,
including breakfast).

Image

Off the Map's Lofoten Island tepee camp in Norway has tents decorated in
the style of the indigenous Sami people.Credit...Off the Map Travel

\hypertarget{on-the-move}{%
\subsubsection{ON THE MOVE}\label{on-the-move}}

Tents were created to provide shelter in the wilderness and upscale
versions can be found increasingly in remote locales accessible on
multiday trips.

This summer, Off the Map Travel is introducing three-night trips on
Norway's
\href{https://www.offthemap.travel/experiences/glamping-in-lofoten-islands/}{Lofoten
Islands}, a mountainous and fjord-filled region above the Arctic Circle,
based in tepee tents decorated in the style of the indigenous Sami
people. Itineraries include kayaking, hiking and whale watching
(three-night trips, June through August, from 1,499 pounds, or about
\$1,995).

In September, \href{https://www.peruecocamp.com/}{Peru Ecocamp} will
open with five deluxe camps strung out along the Salkantay trail leading
to Machu Picchu. Guests will hike between the high-altitude,
solar-powered camps, which will feature dome-shaped sleeping tents with
bathrooms, showers and wood stoves. Each camp will operate a dining
dome, organic garden and bar tent (seven-night trips from \$3,791).

This year, REI Adventures will expand its
\href{https://www.rei.com/adventures/trips/signature-camping}{Signature
Camping} program, which brings deluxe mobile camps to remote locales,
with the addition of Mount Kilimanjaro. Two different routes up Africa's
highest peak will feature overnights in camps set up ahead of arriving
guests and include sizable tents with cots and lighting as well as a
furnished communal area and staff cooks (10 days from \$4,999).

To celebrate the spring and fall equinox, Hotel Chaco in Albuquerque,
N.M., and the tour operator Heritage Inspirations are offering two-day
trips to the Pueblo ruins at
\href{https://www.heritageinspirations.com/chaco-tours/chaco-canyon-glamping-overnight/}{Chaco
Canyon National Historic Park}. After a five-course dinner, stargazing
and sleeping in furnished tents, guests rise to track the sunrise, which
aligns with the east-west orientation of the astronomically influenced
sandstone-and-timber buildings. The next tour departs Sept. 22 (\$750),
though private tours are also available.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
