Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}Obama Says Average American
Doesn't Want to `Tear Down System'

\url{https://nyti.ms/377TpeE}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/20/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{D.N.C.
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/20/us/politics/biden-presidential-nomination-dnc.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Biden's
  Speech}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/us/elections/2020-presidential-election-calendar.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Election
  Calendar}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/11/us/politics/vote-by-mail-us-states.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Voting
  by Mail}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Politics
  Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{obama-says-average-american-doesnt-want-to-tear-down-system}{%
\section{Obama Says Average American Doesn't Want to `Tear Down
System'}\label{obama-says-average-american-doesnt-want-to-tear-down-system}}

Former President Barack Obama, in an address to liberal donors, warned
candidates not to go too far left and sought to calm those who were
concerned about the state of the Democratic primary.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2019/11/15/us/politics/15obama-abrams/merlin_163543902_077e4a4e-e58b-43f4-89f3-4602c2aa6e64-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/lisa-lerer}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/09/11/us/politics/author-lisa-lerer/lisa-lerer-headshot-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/lisa-lerer}{Lisa Lerer}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Published Nov. 15, 2019Updated May 5, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

WASHINGTON --- Former President
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/05/us/barack-obama-virtual-commencement-speech-coronavirus.html}{Barack
Obama} offered an unusual warning to the Democratic primary field on
Friday evening, cautioning the candidates not to move too far to the
left in their policy proposals, even as he sought to reassure a party
establishment worried about the electoral strength of their historically
large primary field.

Speaking before a room of wealthy liberal donors, Mr. Obama urged
Democrats to remember the long, combative slog of his primary campaign
against Hillary Clinton in 2008, arguing that the 16 month battle
ultimately made him a stronger general election candidate.

``For those who get stressed about robust primaries, I just have to
remind you I had a very robust primary,'' he told the group of several
hundred donors and organizational leaders in Washington. ``I'm confident
that at the end of the process we will have a candidate that has been
tested.''

Yet, he also raised concerns about some of the liberal ideas being
promoted by some candidates, citing health care and immigration as
issues where the proposals may have gone further than public opinion.

While Mr. Obama did not single out any specific primary candidate or
policy proposal, he cautioned that the universe of voters that could
support a Democratic candidate --- Democrats, independents and moderate
Republicans --- are not driven by the same views reflected on ``certain
left-leaning Twitter feeds'' or ``the activist wing of our party.''

``Even as we push the envelope and we are bold in our vision we also
have to be rooted in reality,'' Mr. Obama said. ``The average American
doesn't think we have to completely tear down the system and remake
it.''

The comments marked an extraordinary entrance into the primary contest
by the former president, who has been careful to avoid even the
appearance of influencing the direction of the race.

His remarks offered an implicit critique of Senators Bernie Sanders and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/11/01/us/politics/iowa-poll-warren-biden.html?module=inline}{Elizabeth
Warren}, who have urged voters to embrace ``political revolution'' and
``big, structural change,'' as well as proposals once widely considered
to be left to the liberal fringes of the party, including court packing
and decriminalizing illegal border crossings.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-2020-election}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/19/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: 2020
Election}}{Latest Updates: 2020 Election}}\label{latest-updates-2020-election}}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/19/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#night-3-featured-more-policy-a-focus-on-women-and-a-full-throated-rejection-of-trump-by-his-predecessor}{7h
ago}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/19/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#night-3-featured-more-policy-a-focus-on-women-and-a-full-throated-rejection-of-trump-by-his-predecessor}{Night
3 featured more policy, a focus on women and a full-throated rejection
of Trump by his predecessor.}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/19/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#trump-live-tweeted-obamas-speech-tonight-hell-appear-on-fox-news-right-before-bidens-tomorrow}{9h
ago}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/19/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#trump-live-tweeted-obamas-speech-tonight-hell-appear-on-fox-news-right-before-bidens-tomorrow}{Trump
live-tweeted Obama's speech tonight. He'll appear on Fox News right
before Biden's tomorrow.}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/19/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#advocates-for-domestic-violence-survivors-praised-biden-in-a-video}{9h
ago}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/19/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#advocates-for-domestic-violence-survivors-praised-biden-in-a-video}{Advocates
for domestic violence survivors praised Biden in a video.}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/19/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

Even as Mr. Obama has attempted to stay out of the race, the primary
candidates have engaged
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/09/19/us/politics/barack-obama-democrats-2020.html}{in
a heated discussion over his legacy}, debating whether to stick with Mr.
Obama's architecture for health care policy or to pursue a single-payer
system and offering flashes of direct criticism over his record on
immigration. At the same time, former Vice President
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/11/01/us/politics/iowa-poll-warren-biden.html?module=inline}{Joseph
R. Biden Jr.} has made his strong support for Mr. Obama and his
accomplishments a hallmark of his candidacy.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/us/politics/2020-presidential-candidates.html}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2019/01/20/us/2020-presidential-candidates-promo-1548014688187/2020-presidential-candidates-promo-1548014688187-articleLarge-v68.png}

\hypertarget{whos-running-for-president-in-2020}{%
\subsection{Who's Running for President in
2020?}\label{whos-running-for-president-in-2020}}

The field of Democratic presidential candidates has been historically
large, but all have dropped out except Joe Biden, the presumptive
Democratic nominee to challenge President Trump.

Acknowledging that candidates must ``push past'' his achievements, Mr.
Obama urged his party's candidates not to push too far, as he urged them
to adopt a message that would allow them to compete in all corners of
the country.

``I don't think we should be deluded into thinking that the resistance
to certain approaches to things is simply because voters haven't heard a
bold enough proposal and if they hear something as bold as possible then
immediately that's going to activate them,'' he said.

The fact that Mr. Obama offered his reassurances at the annual meeting
of the Democracy Alliance, a club of wealthy liberals who donate
hundreds of thousands of dollars a year to recommended political
organizations, only underscored the intended audience of his message. In
recent weeks, establishment-aligned Democrats, top donors and some
strategists
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/11/12/us/politics/bloomberg-deval-patrick-2020.html}{have
expressed fears} that the party lacks a strong enough candidate to
defeat President Trump.

They question whether Mr. Biden has the ability to compete in a
multistate primary campaign, fret about Mr. Sanders's and Ms. Warren's
viability in the general election and remain skeptical that
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/pete-buttigieg.html?module=inline}{Pete
Buttigieg}, the mayor of South Bend, Ind., can broaden his appeal beyond
white voters.

Their concerns have prompted the late emergence of two experienced
candidates,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/11/14/us/politics/deval-patrick-2020-president.html?module=inline}{Deval
Patrick}, the former governor of Massachusetts and a close friend of Mr.
Obama, and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/11/12/us/politics/bloomberg-deval-patrick-2020.html?module=inline}{Michael
R. Bloomberg}, both of whom entered the field after nine candidates had
already dropped out.

Those worries are not necessarily shared by voters in early states,
where surveys show that most Democrats have gravitated to a short list
of four candidates and feel the field remains too large.

``If you talk to the voters they don't feel the need for another
candidate,'' said Kathy Sullivan, the former chairwoman of the
Democratic Party in New Hampshire. ``We haven't been sitting around in
New Hampshire saying we need a hero to come and rescue us.''

Since leaving office nearly three years ago, the former president has
mostly remained out of the public fray.

While he's headlined fund-raising events for Democratic committees, the
former president has
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/02/18/us/politics/obama-2020-democratic-candidates.html?module=inline}{kept
a low profile} in the presidential race, meeting privately with most of
the Democratic candidates but telling friends and political allies that
neither he nor his wife, Michelle, have plans to endorse anyone and do
not see it as their place to steer the party's future.

Mr. Obama has expressed interest, at different times, in rising stars
like former Representative
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/beto-orourke.html}{Beto
O'Rourke} of Texas and Mr. Buttigieg. Mr. Obama had
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/04/25/us/politics/joe-biden-2020-announcement.html?module=inline}{issued
a warm statement} about Mr. Biden's entry into the primary but had
declined to endorse him or anyone else.

During his nearly hourlong remarks on Friday, Mr. Obama offered only one
clear endorsement, though not exactly the one many Democratic donors in
the room wanted to hear.

Mr. Obama was interviewed by Stacey Abrams, who drew national attention
during her unsuccessful run for governor of Georgia last year and is
widely considered to be on the shortlist for the vice presidency --- no
matter which candidate ultimately wins the nomination.

``I love me some Stacey Abrams,'' he said.

\hypertarget{our-2020-election-guide}{%
\section{Our 2020 Election Guide}\label{our-2020-election-guide}}

Updated Aug. 20, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{convention-recap}{%
  \subsection{Convention Recap}\label{convention-recap}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Joe Biden accepted the Democratic nomination, urging Americans to
    have faith that they could
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/20/us/politics/Joe-Biden-accepts-democratic-nomination.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{``overcome
    this season of darkness.''}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{news-analysis}{%
  \subsection{News Analysis}\label{news-analysis}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Looming over Mr. Biden's nomination was the ever-present shadow of
    another man who's poised to dominate the campaign:
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/20/us/politics/biden-dnc-speech-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Donald
    J. Trump}.
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{keep-up-with-our-coverage}{%
  \subsection{Keep Up With Our
  Coverage}\label{keep-up-with-our-coverage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Get an
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{email}
    recapping the day's news
  \end{itemize}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Download our mobile app on
    \href{https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nytimes/id284862083?ls=1\&mat_click_id=5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\&referrer=mat_click_id\%3D5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\%26link_click_id\%3D722930677036718082}{iOS}
    and
    \href{http://a.localytics.com/android?id=com.nytimes.android\&referrer=utm_source\%3Dother_nyt_mobile_web\%26utm_medium\%3DWeb\%2520page\%26utm_term\%3DGeneral\%2520Mobile\%2520Page\%26utm_campaign\%3DNYT\%2520Mobile\%2520General\%2520Page}{Android}
    and turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
