Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/opinion}{Opinion}\textbar{}Bonfire of Trump's Vanity

\href{https://nyti.ms/30fIcYA}{https://nyti.ms/30fIcYA}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

\href{/section/opinion}{Opinion}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{bonfire-of-trumps-vanity}{%
\section{Bonfire of Trump's Vanity}\label{bonfire-of-trumps-vanity}}

George Floyd. Say his name.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/maureen-dowd}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/04/02/opinion/maureen-dowd/maureen-dowd-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/maureen-dowd}{Maureen
Dowd}

Opinion Columnist

\begin{itemize}
\item
  June 6, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/06/07/opinion/sunday/07Dowd/merlin_173199648_0fb924c8-6c0e-461c-8556-4f8ef767a119-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

WASHINGTON --- My mom always spelled out I Street as Eye Street when she
addressed mail there, so it wouldn't be confusing.

Last Saturday night, the eyes of the world were on Eye Street, where The
Times's office is located, as the street became a hellscape of American
pain,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/31/us/politics/washington-dc-george-floyd-protests.html}{going
up in flames} during protests fanning out from the White House.

I kept thinking about the small yellow church around the corner, known
as the ``Church of Presidents,'' where Madison paid the rent and Lincoln
sat in a pew in the back. It was just a few years ago that Barack Obama
and his family sometimes attended church there. A week ago, there was a
towering bonfire in front of the church and then a fire in the basement.

How could we possibly, in a brief stretch, have gone from the euphoria
of our first black president to the desolation of racial strife ripping
apart the country?

I was so happy the day of Obama's inauguration because it was the first
time I had seen my hometown truly integrated. Armed with a bag of
croissants and a bottle of Champagne, I made my groggy houseguests get
up at 4 a.m. the next day, so we could watch the new era dawn at the
Lincoln Memorial.

Beyoncé's security turned us away --- the
\href{https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yAmydqJmDtY\&t=2s}{singer had
performed} the night before and the guards were still there --- but it
didn't matter. We caught a glimpse of Abe in the pink light as the Obama
family settled into their new home.

I've
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2001/09/16/magazine/our-correspondent-in-washington-dc-my-memorable-monuments.html}{always
cherished} Washington's luminous monuments. So it was excruciating this
past week to see the chucklehead who has waged war on our institutions,
undermined our laws and values, stoked division at every turn,
blundering around defiling the monuments that symbolize the best about
America.

After the country was rocked to its soul by the sight of a handcuffed
black man dying while being held down by a police officer as those
around begged for mercy, Trump could hardly summon a shred of empathy.
His only move was to grab a can of kerosene and cry ``Domination!''

Turning the American military against Americans was a scalding tableau
that was a nadir even for the former military school bully. The creepy
William Barr, who gets to be called ``General,''
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/02/us/politics/trump-walk-lafayette-square.html}{had
troops clear out} mostly peaceful protesters so Trump could walk through
Lafayette Park, preening as a fake tough guy, and pose in front of St.
John's. Ivanka went into her luxe purse to hand him his prop, a Bible,
which he held up awkwardly. It's a wonder his hand did not burst into
flames.

That night, the sound of summer in Washington was a Black Hawk
helicopter shadowing the protesters.

This misuse of the military and the sight of the chairman of the Joint
Chiefs of Staff,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/05/us/politics/protests-milley-trump.html}{Mark
Milley}, walking in camouflage while protesters were blasted with
chemicals,
\href{https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/how-mattis-reached-his-breaking-point--and-decided-to-speak-out-against-trump/2020/06/05/6aafd548-a69e-11ea-bb20-ebf0921f3bbd_story.html}{at
long last spurred} Jim Mattis to push back. Mattis
\href{https://www.theatlantic.com/politics/archive/2020/06/james-mattis-denounces-trump-protests-militarization/612640/}{wrote
to The Atlantic} that he was ``angry and appalled'' at Trump for making
``a mockery of our Constitution.'' He suggested that we all just move
beyond the depraved divider if we are to have any hope of uniting the
country.

The brutish scene conjured Tuesday at the Lincoln Memorial, with
National Guard troops in rows on the steps below the Great Emancipator,
was unconscionable. Soldiers ominously stood on the hallowed ground
where Marian Anderson sang in 1939 when the Daughters of the American
Revolution would not let her perform at Constitution Hall because she
was black, and where Martin Luther King Jr. made his ``I Have a Dream''
speech in 1963. Trump tweeted Wednesday that he had done more for black
Americans than any president
\href{https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/1268167411230007300}{``with
the possible exception of'' Lincoln}.

Lincoln gave his life trying to stop a clash of civilizations, ``with
malice toward none,'' while Trump spends his presidency ginning up a
clash of civilizations, with malice toward all.

(When Kayleigh McEnany had the temerity to compare Trump to Churchill,
one lawyer I know dryly noted: ``We shall fight them on the golf
courses; we shall fight them on Twitter; we shall fight them at
Mar-a-Lago.'')

On Friday, Trump was so giddy about the surprisingly good jobs report
that he mused about getting an R.V. so he and Melania could drive to New
York. Cue ``Green Acres.'' Since even a man killed by the police should
offer Pence-like praise of Dear Leader, Trump
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/05/us/politics/trump-jobs-report-george-floyd.html}{blithely
observed}, ``Hopefully, George is looking down right now and saying,
`This is a great thing that's happening for our country.'''

That afternoon, as protesters in front of St. John's danced to Sister
Sledge's ``We Are Family,'' the president threw racial chum in the
Potomac. He
\href{https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/1268998142860627969}{tweeted
that Drew Brees} ``should not have taken back his original stance on
honoring our magnificent American Flag. OLD GLORY is to be revered
\ldots{} NO KNEELING!''

He called Muriel Bowser, the poised black mayor of D.C. who wanted the
federal troops out of the capital, ``incompetent'' and then
\href{https://twitter.com/realdonaldtrump/status/1269043981461184514}{upgraded
her} to ``grossly incompetent.'' Friday night, he retweeted someone who
posted that ``Barack Obama put a target on the back of every cop in this
country.''

It's sad to see the tall black fences going up around the White House,
turning the ``People's House'' into an outpost as dark as the psyche of
the man who lives within. But Bowser offered the best troll on the First
Troller when she had the words ``Black Lives Matter'' painted in yellow
in front of the White House and St. John's.
\href{https://twitter.com/MayorBowser/status/1268928589975695361?s=20}{She
tweeted} that she was renaming the area ``Black Lives Matter Plaza.''

And that matters.

\emph{The Times is committed to publishing}
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/01/31/opinion/letters/letters-to-editor-new-york-times-women.html}{\emph{a
diversity of letters}} \emph{to the editor. We'd like to hear what you
think about this or any of our articles. Here are some}
\href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014925288-How-to-submit-a-letter-to-the-editor}{\emph{tips}}\emph{.
And here's our email:}
\href{mailto:letters@NYTimes.com}{\emph{letters@NYTimes.com}}\emph{.}

\emph{Follow The New York Times Opinion section on}
\href{https://www.facebookcorewwwi.onion/nytopinion}{\emph{Facebook}}\emph{,}
\href{http://twitter.com/NYTOpinion}{\emph{Twitter (@NYTopinion)}}
\emph{and}
\href{https://www.instagram.com/nytopinion/}{\emph{Instagram}}\emph{.}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
