Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/opinion}{Opinion}\textbar{}In Some Countries, Normal Life
Is Back. Not Here.

\href{https://nyti.ms/38U89iL}{https://nyti.ms/38U89iL}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

\href{/section/opinion}{Opinion}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{in-some-countries-normal-life-is-back-not-here}{%
\section{In Some Countries, Normal Life Is Back. Not
Here.}\label{in-some-countries-normal-life-is-back-not-here}}

Trump's incompetence has wrecked us. Where are the calls for him to
resign?

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/michelle-goldberg}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/04/02/opinion/michelle-goldberg/michelle-goldberg-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/michelle-goldberg}{Michelle
Goldberg}

Opinion Columnist

\begin{itemize}
\item
  July 13, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/07/14/opinion/14goldbergWeb/14goldbergWeb-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://cn.nytimes.com/opinion/20200714/us-coronavirus-trump/}{阅读简体中文版}\href{https://cn.nytimes.com/opinion/20200714/us-coronavirus-trump/zh-hant/}{閱讀繁體中文版}

\hypertarget{listen-to-this-op-ed}{%
\subsubsection{Listen to This Op-Ed}\label{listen-to-this-op-ed}}

Audio Recording by Audm

\emph{To hear more audio stories from publishers like The New York
Times, download}
\href{https://www.audm.com/?utm_source=nytmag\&utm_medium=embed\&utm_campaign=left_behind_draper}{**}
\href{https://www.audm.com/?utm_source=nytopinion\&utm_medium=embed\&utm_campaign=countries_normal_life}{\emph{Audm
for iPhone or Android}}\emph{.}

If you're lucky enough to live in New Zealand, the coronavirus nightmare
has been mostly over since June. After more than two weeks with no new
cases, the government lifted almost all restrictions that month. The
borders are still shut, but inside the country, normal life returned.

It's coming back elsewhere too. Taiwan, where most days this month no
new cases have been reported, just held the
\href{https://www.startribune.com/asia-today-no-masks-on-red-carpet-as-taiwan-logs-few-cases/571731572/}{Taipei
Film Festival}, and a recent baseball game drew 10,000 spectators. Italy
was once the epicenter of Europe's outbreak and remains in a state of
emergency, but with just a
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/world/europe/italy-coronavirus-cases.html}{few
hundred new cases a day} in the whole country, bars are open and
tourists have started returning, though of course Americans remain
banned. According to The New York Times's figures, there were 321 new
cases in all of Canada last Friday.

And America? We had 68,241.
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/08/briefing/arizona-mary-trump-facebook-your-wednesday-briefing.html}{As
of last week}, the worst per capita outbreak on the planet was in
Arizona, followed by Florida.
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/07/travel/american-travelers-restrictions-coronavirus.html}{The
world is closed to us}; American passports were once coveted, but now
only a few dozen nations will let us in. Lawrence O. Gostin, professor
of global health law at Georgetown, told me he doesn't expect American
life to feel truly normal before summer 2022. Two years of our lives,
stolen by Donald Trump.

As our country plunges into a black hole of unchecked illness, death and
pariahdom, the administration is waging a PR war on its own top disease
expert, Anthony Fauci, trying to convince news outlets that he can't be
trusted. ``The move to treat Dr. Fauci as if he were a warring political
rival comes as he has grown increasingly vocal in his concerns about the
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html}{national
surge in coronavirus cases},''
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/12/world/coronavirus-updates.html\#_blank}{reported
The Times}.

Trump has also undercut the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention,
retweeting the conspiratorial ramblings of the former
\href{https://twitter.com/chuckwoolery/status/1282499347117215745?s=20}{game
show host Chuck Woolery}: ``The most outrageous lies are the ones about
Covid-19. Everyone is lying. The C.D.C., media, Democrats, our doctors,
not all but most, that we are told to trust.'' There are now so many
stories of
\href{https://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-8515535/Ohio-man-37-dies-coronavirus-claiming-pandemic-just-hype-Facebook-post.html}{Trump
fans dying} after blithely exposing themselves to the virus that they've
become a macabre cliché.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/07/13/opinion/13goldberg2/merlin_174531927_0b69d2dc-7006-45e3-94be-e087cef08418-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Gostin was part of the international panel that put together the
\href{https://www.ghsindex.org/}{Global Health Security Index}, a
report, released last year, that evaluated the pandemic readiness of
every nation on earth. No country, they found, was as prepared as the
United States. But the coronavirus, he said, has shown us that ``health
system capacity alone is almost useless unless you have a government
that can unleash that capacity promptly and consistently.''

America has long fancied itself a swaggering colossus. It will likely
emerge from this calamity humbled and decrepit.

Not all experts are as pessimistic as Gostin. Andy Slavitt, a senior
health official in the Obama administration,
\href{https://twitter.com/ASlavitt/status/1282465694664273922?s=20}{has
argued} that with better tests, therapies and an eventual vaccine, life
could broadly improve as soon as next year.

Others caution against making predictions. ``We want to be able to give
some assurance of, `Life will not always be this way, and it will be
over soon,' but we don't know when that will be,'' said Nicolette
Louissaint, president of Healthcare Ready, an organization established
after Hurricane Katrina to strengthen the health care supply chain for
disasters.

But we know that the C.D.C. forecasts total deaths from Covid-19
\href{https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/covid-data/forecasting-us.html}{to
rise to as many} as 160,000 just by the end of the month. Many times
that number will have long-term medical complications, and a record
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/13/world/coronavirus-updates.html\#link-4a45abca}{5.4
million people lost their health insurance} between February and May. A
generation of American kids will have their educations derailed, and
many parents who don't lose their jobs due to the economic crisis will
see their
\href{https://www.theatlantic.com/family/archive/2020/07/working-parents-careers-school-childcare/613936/}{careers
ruined} by the demands of child care.

The country's international humiliation is total; historians may argue
about when the American century began, but I doubt they'll disagree
about when it ended.

The psychological consequences alone will be incalculable. Even before
the coronavirus, researchers spoke of loneliness as its own epidemic in
America. A
\href{https://jamanetwork.com/journals/jamapsychiatry/fullarticle/2762469?guestAccessKey=b70282f9-d0c1-43f8-ba38-18a2b6831cc7\&utm_source=For_The_Media\&utm_medium=referral\&utm_campaign=ftm_links\&utm_content=tfl\&utm_term=030420}{March
article} in the medical journal JAMA Psychiatry attributed 162,000
deaths a year to the fallout of social isolation. Now people are being
told that they can socialize only under the most stringent conditions.
Much of what makes life sweet is lost to us, not for days or weeks, but
months or years.

``We're going to stagger out of it; we're not going to snap back,''
Gostin said of the pandemic. He added, ``It's going to take several
years for us to be able to come out of all of the trauma that we've
had.''

Yet somehow there's no drumbeat of calls for the president's
resignation. People seem to feel too helpless. Protesters can make
demands of governors and mayors, especially Democratic ones, because at
the local level small-d democratic accountability still exists.
Nationally such responsiveness is gone; no one expects the president to
do his job, or to be held to account when he doesn't. That's how you
know the country was broken before coronavirus ever arrived.

This suffering, your suffering, wasn't inevitable. The coronavirus is a
natural disaster. The Republican Party's death-cult fealty to Trump is
wholly man-made.

\emph{The Times is committed to publishing}
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/01/31/opinion/letters/letters-to-editor-new-york-times-women.html}{\emph{a
diversity of letters}} \emph{to the editor. We'd like to hear what you
think about this or any of our articles. Here are some}
\href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014925288-How-to-submit-a-letter-to-the-editor}{\emph{tips}}\emph{.
And here's our email:}
\href{mailto:letters@nytimes.com}{\emph{letters@nytimes.com}}\emph{.}

\emph{Follow The New York Times Opinion section on}
\href{https://www.facebook.com/nytopinion}{\emph{Facebook}}\emph{,}
\href{http://twitter.com/NYTOpinion}{\emph{Twitter (@NYTopinion)}}
\emph{and}
\href{https://www.instagram.com/nytopinion/}{\emph{Instagram}}\emph{.}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
