Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/nyregion}{New York}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/nyregion}{New York}\textbar{}Final Meals at Closing
Restaurants: `I Will Dream of Those Dumplings'

\url{https://nyti.ms/3iZXO8r}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/spotlight/at-home?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=at_home_menu}{At
Home}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/14/dining/lobster-salad-recipe.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=at_home_menu}{Make:
  Lobster Salad}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/15/at-home/coronavirus-at-home-quick-exercises.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=at_home_menu}{Sneak
  In: Exercise}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/at-home/even-more-reporters-editors-diaries-lists-recommendations.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=at_home_menu}{See:
  Reporters' Obsessions}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/15/at-home/coronavirus-fall-patio-furniture.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=at_home_menu}{Deck
  Out: Your Porch}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{final-meals-at-closing-restaurants-i-will-dream-of-those-dumplings}{%
\section{Final Meals at Closing Restaurants: `I Will Dream of Those
Dumplings'}\label{final-meals-at-closing-restaurants-i-will-dream-of-those-dumplings}}

New Yorkers, losing their favorite spots because of the pandemic, are
returning for one last burger, one more bowl of ramen.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/23/nyregion/23nyvirus-lastmeals1/21nyvirus-lastmeals-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By Alyson Krueger

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Aug. 19, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.barsardinenyc.com/}{Bar Sardine}, a cozy bistro in
Manhattan's West Village, has been Maggie Kennelly's go-to spot since
she moved to New York three years ago. It's where she introduced her
boyfriend to her father for the first time. It's where she and her
friends always went for Sunday brunch, sitting at ``the sunny booth'' by
the large windows.

One day, while waiting for a table, she was able to take a peek at the
host's tablet, where there were some notes about her in the reservation
system. ``It said, `She's very friendly, she likes hugs, her boyfriend
lives in Chicago, and she's trying to get him to move,''' she recalled,
laughing. ``I guess I'm a regular.''

Last week, Maggie Kennelly had her final meal at Bar Sardine. The
restaurant announced that it would be closing at the end of August.

She ordered the usual: a Fedora burger and fries. One of the waiters
brought over Champagne to mark the occasion. For over two hours that
night, she and her boyfriend savored their last dinner at Sardine.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/23/nyregion/23nyvirus-lastmeals-02/21nyvirus-lastmeals-02-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Ms. Kennelly is one of many New Yorkers saying goodbye to their favorite
restaurants, about
\href{https://comptroller.nyc.gov/newsroom/comptroller-stringer-proposes-save-main-street-initiative-for-small-businesses-fighting-for-survival/}{1,200
of which have closed} since March 1, according to a new report from the
city. Many of these places have been staples to New Yorkers for decades,
like
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/24/dining/la-caridad-78-closes.html}{La
Caridad 78}, the Cuban-Chinese diner on the Upper West Side, or
\href{https://www.instagram.com/p/CBlInSpjQW7/}{the Cupping Room Cafe}
in SoHo. Some shut down for the pandemic and simply never opened again.
Others re-emerged for a short time over the summer, giving outdoor
dining a shot --- and a chance for their most loyal customers to say
goodbye --- before throwing in the towel.

And while the final meal is an occasion to cherish, it's also just sad.

``It's very morbid,'' said Gabi Levy, about the final days of
\href{https://www.balikitchennyc.com/}{Bali Kitchen}, an Indonesian
restaurant in the East Village that will close for good at the end of
August.

Image

Bar Sardine is one of many restaurants closing in New York City because
of the pandemic.~Credit...Hiroko Masuike/The New York Times

Ms. Levy, 28, was introduced to Bali Kitchen a year and a half ago on
her birthday, when she tried mie goreng, a fried noodle dish, and beef
rendang, a spicy stew, for the first time. ``It's cooked overnight for
sometimes two days, and once it is settled, it is refried in coconut oil
and milk,'' she said of the stew. ``It blew my mind.'' She loved the
food so much she took a cooking class with the owner. A few times during
the shutdown this spring she took an Uber from her apartment in Harlem
down to the small restaurant on East 4th Street to get takeout.

Since she found out about Bali Kitchen's imminent closing, she's gone
there three times. But the experience has been different.

Although the restaurant stopped regular service on Aug. 1, it has opened
every weekend since, offering improvisational meals, presumably made
with what's left in the kitchen. ``We can't really order our favorite
foods because he is trying to get rid of all the leftover stocks, so the
only dish you can buy is a hodgepodge of everything on the menu,'' Ms.
Levy said.

But her loyalty is unwavering. ``If they put 17 things in front of me,''
she said, ``I'll buy all of them.''

Ms. Levy also feels like this is one of her last chances to eat
Indonesian food, as restaurants like Bali Kitchen are becoming harder to
find in the city these days, she said. ``It's not like sushi where you
can just go somewhere else.''

Some restaurants actually experienced an uptick in business after
announcing their closures.

\href{https://www.instagram.com/88lanzhou/}{88 Lan Zhou}, a famed
dumpling restaurant in Manhattan's Chinatown, was supposed to close on
Aug. 15. But when it stopped customer service, it continued to sell its
frozen dumplings --- a bag of 50 costs \$14. Sales were so successful
that the restaurant announced on
\href{https://www.instagram.com/p/CDxcFdAjU3I/}{Instagram} last week
that it was pushing back its closing date.

Image

Ms. Kennelly's goodbye note to the staff of Bar Sardine: ``The West
Village will not be the same without you.''Credit...Hiroko Masuike/The
New York Times

Andrea Glass, 23, a graduate student in fashion marketing, has been
trying to buy as many dumplings as possible. ``It makes me happy that I
can help support them through this difficult time,'' she said. ``I have
been trying to fight myself to not eat them for every meal.''

Even New Yorkers who have moved away are returning to say goodbye to
their favorite restaurants.

Matthew Kepnes, a travel writer, remembers the day, seven years ago,
when he discovered \href{https://www.yubarestaurant.com/}{Yuba}, a
no-frills sushi place in the East Village. ``It was 5 o'clock, and it
was way too early for dinner, but I was hungry,'' he said. ``The
restaurant was just opening, so I went in, sat down,'' he recalled. He
ordered a crab roll with jalapeños and lemon. ``I was like, `Wow, this
is really good.'''

From that moment on, Yuba was his place. ``I hated my roommate, so
whenever I needed to get out of the house I would go and chill for a
couple of hours and read a book,'' said Mr. Kepnes, 39. ``I became
Facebook friends with the owner. They know my order. It was never full
for me, they would always find a spot.'' He went at least three times a
week, he said.

In late July, Mr. Kepnes, who now lives in Austin, Tex., passed through
New York on a work trip (he had been in Massachusetts before so he
didn't have to quarantine). One of his first stops was to Yuba, which
had recently announced it would be closing on Aug. 14.

``It was a stroke of luck that I happened to be back before they
closed,'' he said. ``I would have been really, really sad.''

Fellow restaurateurs, too, are making their own pilgrimages.

Jamie Erickson, 37, who runs a catering company and cafe called
\href{https://www.poppyscatering.com/}{Poppy's}, made sure to stop by
\href{https://www.goodfork.com/}{the Good Fork}, a restaurant in Red
Hook, Brooklyn, run by the chef and cookbook author Sohui Kim, on its
last day of service.

``I took a walk down Van Brunt Street with my daughter in the stroller
and enjoyed Sohui's famous pork-and-chive dumplings, and crispy tofu
with kimchi and fried eggs,'' she said.

``I will dream of those dumplings.''

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
