<div id="suggestions" class="suggestions messenger nocontent robots-nocontent" style="display:none;">

<div class="message-bed">

<div class="message-container last-message-container">

<div class="message">

<span class="message-content"> **<span class="message-title">NYTimes.com
no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your
browser.</span> [LEARN MORE
»](http://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/content/help/site/ie9-support.html)
</span>

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div id="shell" class="shell">

<div class="container">

<div class="quick-navigation button-group">

**<span class="button-text">Sections</span>

**<span class="button-text">Home</span>

**<span class="button-text">Search</span>

</div>

<div class="branding">

## [<span class="visually-hidden">The New York Times</span>](http://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/)

### <span class="label-text"> [Magazine](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/magazine) </span>

</div>

<div class="story-meta">

###### <span class="kicker-label"> [Magazine](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/magazine) </span> <span class="pipe">|</span>Kathryn Hahn’s Funny, Sensual Portrayals of Female Desire

</div>

<div class="user-tools">

<div id="sharetools-masthead" class="sharetools theme-classic sharetools-masthead" data-aria-label="tools" data-role="group" data-shares="facebook,twitter,email,show-all,save" data-url="https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/10/09/magazine/kathryn-hahn-mrs-fletcher.html" data-title="Kathryn Hahn’s Funny, Sensual Portrayals of Female Desire" data-author="By Rachel Syme" data-media="https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/icons/t_logo_291_black.png" data-description="At 46, the actress has become the go-to Hollywood star for a certain kind of candid sex scene." data-publish-date="October 9, 2019">

<div class="ad sharetools-inline-article-ad hidden nocontent robots-nocontent">

</div>

</div>

<div class="user-tools-button-group button-group">

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="search-flyout-panel flyout-panel">

**<span class="visually-hidden">Close search</span>

## Site Search Navigation

<div class="control">

<div class="label-container visually-hidden">

Search NYTimes.com

</div>

<div class="field-container">

**<span id="clear-search-input" class="visually-hidden">Clear this text
input</span>

<div class="auto-suggest" style="display: none;">

</div>

Go

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div id="notification-modals" class="notification-modals">

</div>

<span class="story-short-url"><https://nyti.ms/2IBMwrr></span>

## Site Navigation

## Site Mobile Navigation

<div id="page" class="page">

<div id="main" class="main" data-role="main">

<div class="story-meta">

# Kathryn Hahn’s Funny, Sensual Portrayals of Female Desire

<div class="story-meta-footer interactive-meta-footer">

<div class="interactive-byline">

<span class="byline" itemprop="author creator" itemscope="" itemtype="http://schema.org/Person">
By
<span class="byline-author" data-byline-name="RACHEL SYME" itemprop="name">RACHEL
SYME</span> </span> OCT. 9, 2019

</div>

<span class="summary-text">At 46, the actress has become the go-to
Hollywood star for a certain kind of candid sex scene.</span>

</div>

</div>

<div id="kathryn-hahn-mrs-fletcher" class="interactive-graphic">

<div class="rad-tooltip">

<div class="rad-tooltip-content">

</div>

![Close
X](https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/10/13/culture/1a9865dae9d1a0d21273eb2bff896ea8752f0273/close.svg)

</div>

<div class="rad-article" data-slug="13mag-hahn">

<div class="rad-cover full-bleed vertical" style="background-color:#FFFFFF">

![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)

<div class="rad-header-wrapper">

# Kathryn Hahn’s Funny, Sensual Portrayals of Female Desire

At 46, the actress has become the go-to Hollywood star for a certain
kind of candid sex scene.

<span class="rad-byline">By [RACHEL
SYME](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/rachel-syme)</span> OCT. 9,
2019 <span class="rad-byline rad-second-byline"></span>

</div>

</div>

<div class="rad-story-body">

<span class="dropcap">T</span>he lizards were totally having sex.
Kathryn Hahn knew it, and even the man who owned the lizards knew it,
though he was trying to be very polite about the whole situation. Hahn
and I stumbled upon this strange tableau — a man, bald and tattooed and
wearing tube socks, sitting at the bottom of a narrow concrete staircase
with two bearded dragons on his thigh, one perched on top of the other —
when we were hiking in the hills above her house in Los Feliz last June.
He told us that their names were Sun and Shine.

“Oh, my God, they’re so beautiful,” Hahn told the man. Then, with a
wave: “Is something ... happening right now?”

“No,” the man said. “They’re just out for a sunbathe.”

Hahn, a human glow stick who radiates instant warmth to anyone in a
20-foot radius, explained that she was no stranger to bearded dragons,
having cared for one from her son’s classroom. “They do have very messy
*craaaps*,” she said, stretching out the last word to daffy effect.

Hahn was dressed like a cross between a power walker and a gardening
enthusiast in white Adidas track pants, a ratty yellow 1979 Seattle
SuperSonics T-shirt and an enormous straw sun hat with a chin strap. She
kept flashing me a subtle sideways glance while curling up the right
side of her mouth — a mischievous invitation. Hahn’s ability to
conspire, both with other people onscreen and with the audience watching
her, is one of her gifts. This sly expression earned Hahn plenty of work
in her 20s, as the frumpish sidekick of the ingénue or the offbeat
character in a spate of romantic comedies [(“How to Lose a Guy in 10
Days,”<sup>1</sup>](http://nytimes3xbfgragh.onion#tooltip-1) “Win a Date
With Tad Hamilton\!” “The Holiday”). Back then, her glare played cynical
and over-it, bitchy and incredulous. Now that Hahn is 46, the expression
is softer and wiser. It says: Let’s stay in this scene for as long as we
can. It says: We’re all just trying our best here, even this guy. It
says: Let’s make hay out of this moment with Sun and Shine.

After the man was out of earshot, Hahn brought up the lizards again. She
suggested that her photograph for this story be taken in front of “those
two bearded dragons
screwing.”

![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)

It’s as good an image as any to capture Hahn’s recent career surge. Over
the last six years, beginning with her starring role as Rachel, a
sexually frustrated yuppie wife who buddies up to a young stripper in
Jill Soloway’s first feature film, [“Afternoon
Delight,”](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2013/08/30/movies/bored-housewife-searches-for-a-spark-in-afternoon-delight.html)
and continuing through her work in TV series like
[“Transparent”<sup>2</sup>](http://nytimes3xbfgragh.onion#tooltip-2)
and [“I Love
Dick”](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2017/05/11/arts/television/i-love-dick-amazon-review.html)
and movies like [“Step
Brothers”](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/11/01/movies/will-ferrell-john-c-reilly-holmes-watson.html)
and [“Private
Life,”](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/10/04/movies/private-life-review-kathryn-hahn-paul-giamatti.html)
Hahn has boldly explored the intricacies — and comedy — of female desire
with earthy naturalism and an enthusiastic lack of vanity. This month,
HBO will begin showing [“Mrs.
Fletcher,”<sup>3</sup>](http://nytimes3xbfgragh.onion#tooltip-3) a
series starring Hahn in the title role. Not only does she have to carry
the show; she also has to do much of it solo. [“Mrs.
Fletcher”](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2017/08/01/books/review/mrs-fletcher-tom-perrotta.html)
is, at its core, about a woman discovering her own sexuality in the
privacy of her bedroom. It’s Hahn’s riskiest performance yet.

Later that day, as we walked back toward her home — an airy 1924
Mission-style house behind a prim hedgerow that she and her husband, the
actor and writer [Ethan
Sandler,<sup>4</sup>](http://nytimes3xbfgragh.onion#tooltip-4) moved
into about three years ago with their children, Leonard, 13, and Mae, 10
— I asked Hahn if she ever feels distant from the characters she plays.
She thought about this for a moment before answering in the negative; if
anything, she said, she fails to maintain enough distance between her
own life and the lives she commits to the screen. “I struggle with
anxiety and all that cocktail of depression,” she said. “There’s no
separation. That’s why the work feels so cathartic.”

She suddenly stopped, scrunched up her face and laughed so hard that she
snorted. “Oh, my God,” she cried out. “That is the worst sentence in the
history of the world.” She started flapping her arms and galloping down
the street, affecting a snooty accent and speaking in the third person,
as if narrating a PBS documentary about herself. “Post her two-hour
walk, she gathered her thoughts, and she started again: ‘And that’s why
the work feels so cathartic.’ ”

Hahn is a font of silly voices and random asides. Sometimes she’ll
transform into a 1940s movie star, cocking her head and speaking in a
trans-Atlantic accent. Sometimes she’ll adopt a dotty English lilt as if
she’s had too many cordials. She refers to her children almost
exclusively as either “my peanuts” or “li’l \[expletive\].” And she
regularly uses the word “bananas” as a way to express good-natured
incredulity: “It’s bananas that I’ve been able to earn a living this
way.”

**The sort of raw,** unadorned, often private sensuality that Hahn
portrays so well feels like something new, a terrain that television has
only recently begun to dig into. For decades, the small screen barely
scraped the surface of women’s intimate lives — in 1952, in an episode
of “I Love Lucy,” Lucille Ball had to announce she was pregnant without
ever using the word or acknowledging out loud that babies come from
intercourse. Even when TV sex became more explicit in the late ’90s, it
was often played for comedic effect. “Sex and the City” broke many
barriers and aired taboos — Funky spunk\! The Rabbit\! Promiscuity as
aspirational lifestyle choice\! — but the sex scenes were still rendered
as farce. The bedroom on that show was a place of high silliness, of
punch lines.

Over the last decade, however, viewers have gotten to see more complex,
uncensored sexual dynamics play out, not for laughs but as a nuanced
look at what really happens behind closed doors. A first-episode scene
in
[“Girls,”](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2017/02/02/arts/television/girls-season-six.html)
in which Lena Dunham and Adam Driver are having a complex midcoitus
debate about consent, for example, was a groundbreaking moment, a cable
sex scene that wasn’t created for the male gaze. Since then, older women
have begun to play around with their own erotic portrayal. There is a
fresh demand these days for middle-aged actresses who can traverse the
boundaries between sex and abuse, lust and power, carnality and
clumsiness. This opened up space for an actress like Hahn.

For the first 15 years of her career, throughout the ’90s and early
2000s, Hahn was pigeonholed as the best friend, the comic relief, the
weird girl, the drunk mom. After studying drama [at Northwestern and
Yale,<sup>5</sup>](http://nytimes3xbfgragh.onion#tooltip-5) and after a
brief stint doing regional theater, Hahn’s stage career started to take
off: She was offered a lead role in the national tour of “Proof.” But
she and Sandler, who met in college, eventually found their way to Los
Angeles. What followed were what she calls her “flailing years,” spent
mostly playing supporting roles on TV shows like “Crossing Jordan.” “All
of a sudden, I was on this weird best-friend train,” she says.

She did show up in major-studio films, but not in the kind of meaty
roles that she dreamed of as a girl growing up in Cleveland Heights,
when she developed a deep obsession with Teri Garr, Elaine May, Diane
Keaton and [Gena
Rowlands,<sup>6</sup>](http://nytimes3xbfgragh.onion#tooltip-6)
actresses who could balance screwball comedy and hot-blooded, unadorned
sensuality. “Nothing felt polished,” she told me. “Nothing felt
camera-ready or perfect.”

After years of playing the best friend, Hahn found a niche as a comedic
character actress, adding a dash of zaniness to sitcoms like “Parks and
Recreation” and films like “Bad Moms” and “Our Idiot Brother.” But it
took a perceptive, risk-taking director, Soloway, to show Hahn that she
had an inner ’70s heroine waiting to break out, that she could blend
bathos and badinage. Soloway first spotted Hahn at the Silver Lake
farmers’ market. Soloway (whose pronouns are they/them) had been
searching for an actress to carry their first film, and several
acquaintances suggested Hahn. “I had seen her before that on ‘Hung,’ ”
Soloway told me, referring to Hahn’s brief stint on the HBO comedy about
a male prostitute. “And she was pregnant and having sex and really just
showing her body, and I remember thinking, This person has such a
singular way of being an actress. She just felt so human. And then a
couple of days later, I saw her at the market. I consider her to be a
muse.”

Soloway cast Hahn as Rachel, the lead in “Afternoon Delight,” and for
years afterward the two conspired through many projects to depict a kind
of 360-degree, prismatic view of perimenopausal female sensuality and
heartbreak. As Rachel, Hahn navigated the journey from sexual atrophy —
she played an uptight stay-at-home mother who hasn’t slept with her
husband in months — to reawakening (the film literally ends with an
orgasm). Then came the part of the magnanimous Rabbi Raquel on
“Transparent,” a gentle soul who wants to have a baby so badly that a
miscarriage sends her into a black hole of sorrow.

In 2017, Hahn took on the role of Chris Kraus in “I Love Dick,” a
Soloway adaptation of the book, whose author is also named Chris Kraus.
“I Love Dick” is a story of sexual obsession: a married woman who
stalks a rugged artist, lavishing him with erotic gifts and filthy
letters. This allowed Hahn to embody an even edgier side of women’s eros
— dangerous, abject, even vampiric. The next year, Hahn starred in
Tamara Jenkins’s film “Private Life,” playing a woman struggling with
infertility, whose maternal yearning cuts a chasm into her marriage, her
friendships, her sense of self. Hahn gave an austere and skittery
performance that felt voyeuristic to watch.

Hahn says that while she is surprised to be so busy in the back half of
her career, it also makes sense that these roles are coming to her now,
when there are “tectonic cultural plates that have shifted.” That she is
in sudden demand has much to do with her talent, but also with being in
the right place at the right time. “I happen to walk into a moment where
it’s O.K. to be messy,” she says. “And contradictory and hypocritical
and mad and confused and funny and still sexual and naked in all ways.”

Hahn and Sandler have been a couple for more than 25 years — she jokes
that they started sharing a dorm room in college and just never stopped
— but the centripetal force that has kept them together, she thinks,
is an openness to adaptation, to big swerves. “I feel like I have
remarried the same person a couple of times,” she says. “We just keep
meeting each other as new human beings.”

In a way, this is the energy that animates all of Hahn’s recent work:
this churning sense of flux, the idea that women in their 40s are not
fixed entities but live wires. “It’s Hormones City, U.S.A.,” she says.
“All of a sudden, you’re feeling things you haven’t felt before. Sex
means something different now. Because it’s not just about having a
baby, and that’s really interesting territory to mine.”

**“Mrs. Fletcher” is** based on a 2017 [Tom
Perrotta<sup>7</sup>](http://nytimes3xbfgragh.onion#tooltip-7) novel of
the same name about a repressed suburban divorcée named Eve Fletcher who
develops a pornography addiction after her son leaves for college. Eve
is like a volcano in dormancy after years of self-sacrifice. She works
at a senior-living facility, where she spends most of her day listening
to octogenarians complain about sciatica. She has forgotten about her
own youth, her own potential for reinvention.

But then something inside begins to rumble. In the pilot episode, a man
with dementia gets in trouble at the senior center for watching an
X-rated video on the lounge computer. Eve gives him a stern warning, but
secretly she is intrigued by the concept of free online smut. Her
apartment feels so empty now that her son is gone, and she tries to find
things to do — she makes herself a nice dinner, takes a bubble bath,
smokes a cigarette in the bubble bath — but she realizes she is bored,
and more surprising, that she is horny. She slips into bed, wearing her
glasses, and flips open her laptop. At first, she is repulsed by the
images. But then — focusing her conspiratorial gaze on herself — she
decides to click. She sees a naked woman, slams her computer down,
before soon picking it up again, slowly. The way Hahn plays this moment
is endearingly quiet; she shows Eve’s desire lapping at her like a
gentle wave.

HBO told me that, at Hahn’s request, I could not be present while she
filmed one of her many solo sex scenes. She only performs them with a
few people in the room — including a sound tech with his or her back
turned and the show’s [intimacy
coordinator,<sup>8</sup>](http://nytimes3xbfgragh.onion#tooltip-8)
Claire Warden. “She’ll make sure that it’s closed monitors,” Hahn says,
describing Warden’s responsibilities. “She’ll just double-check, double,
triple, quadruple check. Then I completely can worry about the acting of
it and can worry about being present.”

Hahn and Warden, whose job is a mix of movement coach, sex adviser and
sentinel, spent a long time discussing and creating the ideal conditions
in which Hahn could feel free to explore a kaleidoscopic range of sexual
ideas, from floor positions to moaning techniques. Hahn was intent to
show, as Warden explained recently, “an authentic story of a woman’s
sexuality and self-pleasuring. Not performative or titillating but
willing to find the truth, even if it is awkward or embarrassing.”
Warden, who is 42, told me about crouching in a corner with the director
of photography while Hahn practiced spanking her own bottom over a
living-room chair — “holding our fists in our mouths because we were
laughing so hard,” she said. “The ridiculousness of it\! The sexiness\!
She’s trying to play both roles in the fantasy at the same time.”

In the second episode, Eve has to expel Roy, the porn-watcher with
dementia played by the theater veteran Bill Raymond, from the home for
being disruptive. I watched from a monitor as Hahn delivered seven
perfect, wordless takes for the scene, showcasing her gift for blending
humor and pathos; each offered the director, Liesl Tommy, a slightly
different flavor of devastation. Another director shooting Hahn that day
was [Carrie
Brownstein,<sup>9</sup>](http://nytimes3xbfgragh.onion#tooltip-9) who is
an actor and a writer, as well as the guitarist in the punk band
Sleater-Kinney. Brownstein told me that Hahn “is very kinetic. She
reminds me in moments of Lucille Ball. She has a very wonderful grasp of
the outer reaches of her fingers and toes.” Over and over, her face
crumpling like failed origami as she swerved back and forth between
silliness and vulnerability, Hahn warmed Raymond’s hands with her own
through a car window.

**Hahn struggles with** how best to characterize this phase of her
working life. “I certainly didn’t set out to be the poster person for
women’s sexuality over 40,” she told me. “Sexuality is a piece of it. An
important and splashy piece, but not the whole thing. It’s the desire
and hunger I’m attracted to. A woman who wants.”

One day this summer, I met her in the lobby of the Bowery Hotel, in
Lower Manhattan. She wore an oversize, rumpled white men’s shirt and a
pair of billowy black vintage men’s pants. As we walked to an Italian
place nearby, her gait was jangly and bright, like a handful of new
pennies; she had forgotten to pack a brush for her trip, so her long
brown hair was a wild bramble. The effect was that of Patti Smith
dressed up as Charlie Chaplin for Halloween. At the restaurant, she
asked the waitress about the asparagus soup — was it any good?

“Eh, it’s kind of bland,” the waitress responded.

As she walked away, Hahn leaned in over her cocktail. “I love radical
honesty,” she whispered. “Anywhere I can get it.”

</div>

<div class="rad-article-credits">

Rachel Syme is a writer who is a fashion columnist for The New Yorker
and whose work regularly appears in The New York Times.

Hudson and Hahn: James Devaney/WireImage, via Getty Images. Sandler:
NBCU Photo Bank, via Getty Images. Rowlands: Faces
International/Photofest.

</div>

</div>

<div class="topnav" data-slug="13mag-hahn">

<div class="topnav__wrapper">

<div class="topnav__kicker">

<span>The Culture Issue</span>

</div>

<div class="topnav__contents">

  - [Black Theater Is Having a Moment. Thank Tyler Perry.
    (Seriously.)](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/10/09/magazine/tyler-perry-black-theater.html)
  - [What Does PewDiePie Really
    Believe?](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/10/09/magazine/PewDiePie-interview.html)
  - [Kathryn Hahn’s Funny, Sensual Portrayals of Female
    Desire](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/10/09/magazine/kathryn-hahn-mrs-fletcher.html)
  - [‘I Want to Explore the Wonder of What It Is to Be a Black
    American’](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/10/08/magazine/black-women-artists-conversation.html)
  - [Rosalía’s Incredible Journey From Flamenco to
    Megastardom](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/10/08/magazine/rosalia-flamenco.html)
  - [To Decode White Male Rage, First He Had to Write in His Mother’s
    Voice](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/10/08/magazine/ben-lerner-topeka-school.html)
  - [How Susan Sontag Taught Me to
    Think](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/10/08/magazine/susan-sontag.html)
  - [Backstage at the
    Modern](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/10/09/magazine/moma-reopening.html)

</div>

</div>

[](#)
[](#)

![](https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/10/13/culture/1a9865dae9d1a0d21273eb2bff896ea8752f0273/caret.svg)

</div>

<div class="mag-logo-wrapper">

</div>

<div class="rad-series-box" data-slug="13mag-hahn">

## More Culture

<div class="rad-series-link-wrapper">

  - [](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/10/09/magazine/tyler-perry-black-theater.html)
    <div class="promo-image">
    ![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)
    </div>
    <div class="promo-info">
    ### Black Theater Is Having a Moment. Thank Tyler Perry. (Seriously.)
    By WESLEY
    MORRIS
    </div>
  - [](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/10/09/magazine/PewDiePie-interview.html)
    <div class="promo-image">
    ![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)
    </div>
    <div class="promo-info">
    ### What Does PewDiePie Really Believe?
    By KEVIN
    ROOSE
    </div>
  - [](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/10/08/magazine/black-women-artists-conversation.html)
    <div class="promo-image">
    ![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)
    </div>
    <div class="promo-info">
    ### ‘I Want to Explore the Wonder of What It Is to Be a Black American’
    A conversation with JENNA
    WORTHAM
    </div>
  - [](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/10/08/magazine/rosalia-flamenco.html)
    <div class="promo-image">
    ![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)
    </div>
    <div class="promo-info">
    ### Rosalía’s Incredible Journey From Flamenco to Megastardom
    By MARCELA
    VALDES
    </div>
  - [](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/10/08/magazine/ben-lerner-topeka-school.html)
    <div class="promo-image">
    ![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)
    </div>
    <div class="promo-info">
    ### To Decode White Male Rage, First He Had to Write in His Mother’s Voice
    By GILES
    HARVEY
    </div>
  - [](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/10/08/magazine/susan-sontag.html)
    <div class="promo-image">
    ![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)
    </div>
    <div class="promo-info">
    ### How Susan Sontag Taught Me to Think
    By A.O.
    SCOTT
    </div>
  - [](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/10/09/magazine/moma-reopening.html)
    <div class="promo-image">
    ![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)
    </div>
    <div class="promo-info">
    ### Backstage at the Modern
    By PENN CHAN and DEBORAH SOLOMON
    </div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="interactive-corrections">

<div id="addendums" class="addendums">

<div class="story-addendum story-content theme-correction">

**Correction: Oct. 11, 2019**  

An earlier version of this article misstated the number of years that
Hahn and her husband, Ethan Sandler, have been married. It is more than
16 years, not more than 25 years. (They have been a couple for more than
25
years.)

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div id="related-coverage" class="section related-coverage nocontent robots-nocontent">

<div class="nocontent robots-nocontent">

## More on NYTimes.com

</div>

</div>

<div id="BottomAd" class="ad bottom-ad nocontent robots-nocontent">

<div class="accessibility-ad-header">

Advertisement

</div>

</div>

</div>

## Site Information Navigation

  - [©
    <span itemprop="copyrightYear">2020</span><span itemprop="copyrightHolder provider sourceOrganization" itemscope="" itemtype="http://schema.org/Organization" itemid="http://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion"><span itemprop="name">
    The New York Times
    Company</span></span>](https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice)
  - [Home](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion)
  - [Search](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/search/)
  - Accessibility concerns? Email us at <accessibility@NYTimes.com>. We
    would love to hear from you.
  - [Contact
    Us](https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us)
  - [Work with us](https://www.nytco.com/careers/)
  - [Advertise](https://nytmediakit.com/)
  - [Your Ad
    Choices](https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014892108-Privacy-policy#pp)
  - [Privacy](https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014892108-Privacy-policy)
  - [Terms of
    Service](https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service)
  - [Terms of
    Sale](https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale)

## Site Information Navigation

  - [Site Map](https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion)
  - [Help](https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us)
  - [Site
    Feedback](https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us?redir=myacc)
  - [Subscriptions](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW)

</div>

</div>

<div id="Inv1" class="ad inv1-ad hidden">

</div>

<div id="Inv2" class="ad inv2-ad hidden">

</div>

<div id="Inv3" class="ad inv3-ad hidden">

</div>

<div id="ab1" class="ad ab1-ad hidden">

</div>

<div id="ab2" class="ad ab2-ad hidden">

</div>

<div id="ab3" class="ad ab3-ad hidden">

</div>

<div id="prop1" class="ad prop1-ad hidden">

</div>

<div id="prop2" class="ad prop2-ad hidden">

</div>

<div id="Anchor" class="ad anchor-ad hidden">

</div>

<div id="ADX_CLIENTSIDE" class="ad adx-clientside-ad hidden">

</div>
