<div id="app">

<div id="standalone-header">

<div class="interactive-masthead NYTAppHideMasthead css-xuu3c2 e1suatyy0">

<div class="section css-133zg39 e1suatyy2">

<div class="css-eph4ug er09x8g0">

<div class="css-6n7j50">

</div>

<span class="css-1dv1kvn">Sections</span>

<div class="css-10488qs">

<span class="css-1dv1kvn">SEARCH</span>

</div>

[Skip to content](#site-content)[Skip to site
index](#site-index)

</div>

<div class="css-10698na e1huz5gh0">

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="css-11kjks6" data-role="region" data-aria-label="comments panel" tabindex="-1">

<div class="css-1h21wu5">

<div class="css-akb3vb">

<div>

<div class="css-1yip8nf">

## [Comments](#commentsContainer)

[Can a Vaccine for Covid-19 Be Developed in Record Time?]()[Skip to
Comments]()

<div class="css-c32q7m">

The comments section is closed. To submit a letter to the editor for
publication, write to <letters@NYTimes.com>.

</div>

</div>

<div class="css-1bxnhxc">

</div>

<div class="css-1yip8nf">

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div id="site-content" data-role="main">

# Can a Vaccine for Covid-19 Be Developed in Record Time?

<div class="css-1vegfwe interactive-byline-container">

<div class="interactive-byline css-103zbxs">

June 9,
2020

</div>

</div>

<div id="interactive-standalone-sharetools" class="css-wkcogx">

<div>

<div class="interactive-sharetools css-9z2bwm" data-role="toolbar" data-aria-label="Social Media Share buttons, Save button, and Comments Panel with current comment count" data-testid="share-tools">

  - 
  - 
  - 
  - 
    
    <div class="css-6n7j50">
    
    </div>

  - *<span class="css-1dtr3u3">147</span>*

</div>

</div>

</div>

A discussion moderated by Siddhartha
Mukherjee.

<div id="covid-vaccine" class="section css-l08pwh interactive-minimal interactive-content interactive-size-medium" data-id="100000007180386">

<div class="css-17ih8de interactive-body">

<div class="rad-article" data-slug="14mag-roundtable">

<div class="rad-cover headline-image-topper">

<div class="rad-cover-main">

![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)

<div class="rad-head-wrap">

# Can a Vaccine for Covid-19 Be Developed in Record Time?

A discussion moderated by Siddhartha Mukherjee.

<div class="rad-byline-wrap">

<span class="g-byline-name" itemprop="name"></span>

June 9, 2020

<div class="rad-date-share">

</div>

<span>SHARE</span>

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="rad-story-body">

In the history of medicine, rarely has a vaccine been developed in less
than five years. Among the fastest to be [developed was the current
mumps
vaccine](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2013/05/07/health/maurice-hilleman-mmr-vaccines-forgotten-hero.html),
which was isolated from the throat washings of a child named Jeryl Lynn
in 1963. Over the next months, the virus was systematically “weakened”
in the lab by her father, a biomedical scientist named Maurice Hilleman.
Such a weakened or attenuated virus stimulates an immune response but
does not cause the disease; the immune response protects against future
infections with the actual virus. Human trials were carried out over the
next two years, and the vaccine was licensed by Merck in December 1967.

Antiviral drugs, too, have generally taken decades to develop; effective
combinations of them take even longer. The first cases of AIDS were
described in the early 1980s; it took more than a decade to develop and
validate the highly effective triple drug cocktails that are now the
mainstay of therapy. We are still continuing to develop new classes of
medicines against H.I.V., and notably, there is no vaccine for that
disease. And yet the oft-cited target for creating a vaccine against
SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19, is 12 months, 18 at the
outside.

Pulling that off is arguably the most important scientific undertaking
in generations. The Times assembled (virtually, of course) a round table
to help us understand the maddening complexity of the challenge and the
extraordinary collaboration it has already inspired. The group included
a virologist; a vaccine scientist; an immunologist and oncologist; a
biotech scientist and inventor; and a former head of the Food and Drug
Administration.

#### The Panelists

**Siddhartha Mukherjee** is an associate professor of medicine at
Columbia University and a cancer physician and researcher. He is the
author of “The Emperor of All Maladies: A Biography of Cancer,” which
was the winner of the 2011 Pulitzer Prize in general nonfiction, and
“The Gene: An Intimate History.” He was recently appointed to Gov.
Andrew Cuomo’s blue-ribbon commission to reimagine New York.

**Dan Barouch** is the director of the Center for Virology and Vaccine
Research at Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center in Boston and a
professor of medicine at Harvard Medical School.

**Margaret (Peggy) Hamburg** is the foreign secretary of the National
Academy of Medicine. She was commissioner of the Food and Drug
Administration from 2009 to 2015.

**Susan R. Weiss** is a professor and vice-chairwoman of the Department
of Microbiology at the University of Pennsylvania and a co-director of
the Penn Center for Research on Coronaviruses and Other Emerging
Pathogens.

**George Yancopoulos** is co-founder, president and chief scientific
officer of
Regeneron.

![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)

<div class="g-ad rad-ad-wrapper">

<div class="place-ad" data-slot-id="mid17" data-position="mid">

</div>

</div>

#### What It Takes to Find a Vaccine

**George Yancopoulos**: Most people don’t realize that successfully
inventing and developing any new drug or vaccine is quantifiably among
the hardest things that human beings try to do. This is reflected in the
numbers. Although there are thousands of major medical institutions and
thousands of biotech and biopharma companies that collectively involve
millions of researchers and hundreds of billions of dollars invested per
year — and all are working on new vaccines and medicines — the vast
majority of efforts fail, with the F.D.A. only approving 20 to 50 new
medicines a year. And each of the rare success stories usually occurs
over many years, often a decade or two.

**Peggy Hamburg**: So with Covid-19, we are moving at record speed, in
terms of the history of vaccine development.

**Siddhartha Mukherjee**: Can you put a number down for how quickly we
can get an effective vaccine developed? Is the 12-to-18-month time frame
we’ve been hearing realistic?

**Dan Barouch**: The hope is that it will be within a year, but that is
not in any way guaranteed. That projection will be refined as time goes
on — and a year assumes that everything goes smoothly from this point
forward. That’s never been done before. And safety cannot be
compromised.

**Hamburg**: Realistically, the 12 to 18 months that most people have
been saying would be a pretty good marker but still optimistic.

**Susan R. Weiss**: I’d agree.

**Mukherjee**: To think about whether there’s any way to make this
process go faster, let’s start by talking about how the search for a
vaccine usually happens. Dan, what is the general principle of what a
vaccine is and how it works?

**Barouch**: The goal of a vaccine is to raise an immune response
against a virus or a bacterium. Later, when a vaccinated person is
exposed to the actual virus or bacterium, the immune system will then
block or rapidly control the pathogen so that the person doesn’t get
sick. The immune cells that make antibodies are called B cells. Once
they’ve been triggered by a vaccine to raise an immune response, some of
these B cells can last for years and are always standing ready to make
antibodies against the pathogen when it is encountered, thereby
protecting against the disease for a prolonged period of time.

**Hamburg**: Under normal conditions, drug-and-vaccine development
begins with “preclinical” work — basic science — to identify the nature
of the disease in question.

<div class="g-ad rad-ad-wrapper">

<div class="place-ad" data-slot-id="mid18" data-position="mid">

</div>

</div>

**Weiss**: In virology labs like mine, we try to identify the viral
proteins that a vaccine might target, usually the protein that
recognizes and attaches to the host-cell receptor. All coronaviruses
have a so-called spike protein, which is what gives the virus its
corona-like morphology, the “crownlike shape,” as can be visualized in
an electron microscope. To invade a cell, the spike protein attaches to
a receptor — another protein, usually — on the cell’s outer membrane.
This eventually results in the genetic material of the virus, in this
case, an RNA protein complex, being internalized in the cell. And once
that happens, replication can begin and a person can get sick. If you
can identify the viral protein that interacts with the cellular
receptor, then you can try to create a vaccine. This spike protein
represents a particularly attractive candidate for a vaccine, because it
is a protein that most prominently sticks outside of the surface of the
virus, and so it’s the part of the virus that is most visible to the
immune system.

**Mukherjee**: So what are the different approaches that you can take to
finding vaccines?

**Barouch**: A tried-and-true vaccine approach is a whole inactivated
virus vaccine — that’s when you grow up the actual virus in the
laboratory, for example in cells or in eggs, and then “inactivate” it
with chemicals or another method to make it unable to infect cells but
still able to elicit an immune response. A company in China, Sinovac
Biotech, currently has an inactivated SARS-CoV-2 vaccine in clinical
trials. The pros are that there’s a long clinical history of multiple
vaccines that have been successful in that regard, such as the
inactivated polio vaccine and the inactivated flu vaccine. The cons are
that there are always some safety considerations around proving that the
virus has been fully inactivated. If the virus is not fully inactivated,
the danger is that it might actually cause the disease.

Because of those issues, many groups are working on approaches that are
called gene-based vaccines. Gene-based vaccines, such as DNA vaccines
and RNA vaccines, do not consist of the entire virus particle. Rather,
these vaccines use just a small fraction — sometimes even just one gene
— from the virus.

That still leaves the question of how to get that gene into human cells.
A vector-based vaccine uses a delivery vehicle — one example would be a
recombinant adenovirus, a “harmless virus” carrier, like a common-cold
virus — to deliver the protein into a person’s cells. For instance, you
can take the spike-protein DNA from SARS-CoV-2 and “stitch” it into the
DNA of the harmless cold virus using genetic-engineering techniques. The
virus delivers the spike-protein DNA into cells, but it cannot replicate
in cells, so it’s a safe delivery system. Still other approaches use
purified proteins, such as the spike protein itself, as vaccines.

**Yancopoulos**: This gene-based approach was used in the case of Ebola.
Scientists figured out that the protein the virus used to invade human
cells is one that’s called the GP protein. They were able to make a very
successful vaccine. They actually stitched in the GP protein, using
genetic-engineering techniques, into a benign virus. When this virus
infected cells, it made the GP protein, and the body recognized that
protein as “foreign” and made antibodies against it.

**Mukherjee**: There is also the idea of ditching the “harmless” virus
altogether and just using a snippet of a viral gene, by itself, as an
inoculum. As soon as the sequence of the SARS-CoV-2 genome became
available in January, it became possible to design such a viral-gene
snippet. Through reasons that we still don’t fully understand, the
body’s own cells take up that viral gene, even without a carrier, and
produce viral protein from it. Why and how cells take up this so-called
naked DNA or RNA is still being worked out, but the viral protein is
recognized as “foreign” because it has never been seen by the body, and
the host raises antibodies against it. And because it is not carried by
any virus, this kind of vaccine can be easier to manufacture initially,
although scaling up the manufacture may be tough. This is the approach
that Moderna is taking to try and make a vaccine. In Moderna’s case, it
involves using RNA as the inoculum.

But what is the track record so far of a real human vaccine for a real
human disease using these genetic techniques?

**Barouch**: Currently there are no approved DNA vaccines or RNA
vaccines. Some of them have been tested in small, early-phase clinical
trials, for safety and ability to induce an immune response. However,
they have not previously been tested in large-scale efficacy trials or
mass produced or approved for clinical use.

**Mukherjee**: Yes, so we have to be very careful with these vaccines.
The data discussed by Moderna in May would suggest that their vaccine
can elicit antibodies in humans. It did so in eight patients. But
whether that is protective against SARS-CoV-2, and how long the
protection lasts, is an open question. More so, because elderly people
need particular protection, and we need to understand how much of this
vaccine, or ones like it, are eliciting long-term immunity in the
elderly, where the immune system might be already somewhat attenuated in
its response.

<div class="g-ad rad-ad-wrapper">

<div class="place-ad" data-slot-id="mid19" data-position="mid">

</div>

</div>

Once you have a vaccine that you want to test, then you begin animal
studies. What animals are coronavirus vaccines and drugs being tested
on? And how do scientists know which ones to use?

**Weiss**: An ideal animal model is one that reproduces the human
disease as closely as possible — in which, for example, clinical signs
resembling symptoms in humans are observed, virus replication is
observed in similar organs, immune response mirrors that in humans and
so on. In addition, an animal model is often used to demonstrate whether
a virus can be transmitted from an infected to an uninfected animal.
Scientists use animal models to understand how the virus causes disease.
They are also useful to determine whether a vaccine will be successful
to prevent infection or a drug will be able to reduce or eliminate the
disease. With Covid-19, there’s currently a hamster model that looks
like it works pretty well to mimic the disease and also some promising
research with mice, ferrets and also nonhuman primates. None of these
models are perfect, but each one of them tells us something about the
immune response and may be useful for testing of vaccine efficacy as
well as for antiviral therapies.

**Mukherjee**: Dan, you have been working with the monkey model and a
genetically engineered vaccine. Can you tell us more about it?

**Barouch**: We’re collaborating with Johnson & Johnson in the
development of a SARS-CoV-2 vaccine. This vaccine involves a recombinant
adenovirus vector — a common-cold virus that’s been altered to make it
harmless — to shuttle the spike protein into cells. That is an efficient
way of inducing potent immune responses to a pathogen and elicits
durable immune responses as well.

There are two key scientific questions related to vaccine development
that are crucial. First, is there evidence that natural immunity induced
by infection protects against a subsequent encounter with the virus? And
then, of course, there is the question of which vaccines to test and how
effective any of these will be. We have just published some preliminary
answers to these questions in the animal model in monkeys.

In the first experiment, we infected nine monkeys with SARS-CoV-2 in the
nose and in the lungs. All the animals developed a viral pneumonia,
which was similar to human disease, except the monkey disease was mild
and all animals recovered. Thirty-five days later, we re-exposed the
animals a second time to the virus — and found that all the animals were
protected. There was no virus or very low levels of the virus in the
lungs. This is an important question because, historically, it has
proved much easier to develop vaccines when there is natural protective
immunity against the virus. For H.I.V., for instance, there is no
natural protective immunity, and that’s part of the reason that H.I.V.
vaccines have been so hard to develop.

In the second study, we developed a series of prototype vaccines. These
were “naked DNA” vaccines — ones without any delivery vehicles. These
are not the vaccines that we are planning to take into the clinic, but
rather these prototype DNA vaccines can teach us a lot about the immune
responses needed to protect against this virus. We used six different
versions of the spike-protein gene — some encoding the full protein,
some with smaller pieces. Twenty-five monkeys received these vaccines
and 10 received just saline as a control. Each monkey received two
vaccine shots. Six weeks after the first shot, they were exposed to the
virus, and we found that vaccinated animals were protected from
SARS-CoV-2. Eight of the 25 animals had no virus detected after
exposure, and the remaining animals showed low levels of the virus. Most
important, the level of antibodies induced by the vaccine correlated
with the level of protection, and this biomarker may therefore be useful
for monitoring vaccine studies moving forward. The full-length spike
protein appeared to work the best.

The implications of these two studies are that both natural immunity and
vaccine-induced immunity can exist in primates and that the amount of
antibody may serve as a useful marker for vaccine effectiveness. But of
course, these are animal studies, and we will need to study these
questions in humans.

**Mukherjee**: So what happens next in terms of making a real vaccine
out of these data?

**Barouch**: DNA encoding the full-length spike protein has been
stitched into the common-cold virus vector as a more efficient way of
transporting the spike-protein DNA into cells. That’s the basis of the
vaccine we are developing with J.& J.

<div class="g-ad rad-ad-wrapper">

<div class="place-ad" data-slot-id="mid20" data-position="mid">

</div>

</div>

**Mukherjee**: In addition to the J.& J. and Moderna vaccines, there are
several other programs. One is the Oxford program. What do we know about
that one?

**Barouch**: The Oxford vaccine is based on a chimpanzee common-cold
virus, and it also encodes the spike protein. Early data shows that in
monkeys, the vaccine was able to reduce the amount of virus in the lung
but not in the nose, following exposure to SARS-CoV-2. This vaccine has
already started early human testing, but we are still waiting for
definitive data. Several vaccines are also in clinical trials in China,
including Sinovac’s inactivated-virus vaccine and another vaccine based
on a human common-cold
virus.

![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)

#### Getting From a Discovery to a Cure

**Mukherjee**: Once you know the vaccine you want to test, what happens
next?

**Barouch**: Vaccine development for a new pathogen traditionally takes
many years or even decades. The process includes small-scale
manufacturing; Phase 1, Phase 2 and Phase 3 clinical trials; and then
regulatory approval and large-scale manufacturing. For SARS-CoV-2, the
goal is to compress these timelines considerably without compromising
safety, which is absolutely critical for any vaccine that will be given
to large numbers of individuals.

**Hamburg**: And there are a lot of hurdles that come up along the way.
Sometimes developers have a good idea but can’t translate it into a
viable vaccine. Or you wind up with unexpected side effects in early
human studies. Worse, you can find safety or efficacy problems further
along, or you find that you can’t reliably scale up manufacturing or you
run into problems with regulatory authorities.

**Mukherjee**: Walk us through what happens with human testing.

**Yancopoulos**: The first human trials are called Phase 1 trials and
consist of small “safety trials” exploring increasing doses of the drug,
to prove you can get into an effective level of the drug without obvious
harm. This usually takes from a few months to a year or two. If you are
satisfied that the Phase 1 trial has established that an effective level
of the drug does not cause obvious harm (albeit in the small number of
patients in Phase 1), you then proceed in the next stage of trials,
Phase 2, that further establish safety in larger patient numbers while
also demonstrating that your drug has some beneficial effect.

For example, Phase 2 might show that a drug lowers “bad cholesterol.”
But it doesn’t necessarily mean that it prevents heart attacks. Only
when you do very large, well-controlled Phase 3 studies can you prove
that lowering the “bad cholesterol” also can prevent heart attacks and
save lives. For example, for the heart-disease drug Praluent that my
company developed, we could show that it effectively lowered “bad
cholesterol” in Phase 2 trials of a couple hundred patients, but the
Phase 3 trial that was required to show it prevented heart attacks and
improved survival involved about 20,000 patients and about five years.

<div class="g-ad rad-ad-wrapper">

<div class="place-ad" data-slot-id="mid21" data-position="mid">

</div>

</div>

**Mukherjee**: In what you just described, the Phase 1 alone can be up
to two years. How could we accelerate the whole process?

**Hamburg**: Well, we can’t abandon the rigor of the science. And we
certainly can’t abandon the ethics of how we do studies either. But what
we can do is, frankly, ask developers to take more risks themselves.
Vaccine development can be costly and success uncertain. As compared to
a drug that someone may take every day, the return on investment versus
risk of failed development is pretty high for vaccines. Because vaccines
are often viewed as a public good, protecting both people and
communities, there can be considerable pressure on companies to restrict
price on vaccines, so a company rarely has a “blockbuster” vaccine the
way that a cancer treatment, ulcer drug or cholesterol-lowering drug can
be. Also, there are liability issues because you are giving a vaccine to
a healthy person to protect them from disease rather than treating an
existing problem. So the trade-off of development risk and benefit often
does not favor vaccines. In order to manage those risks, trials of
different vaccine candidates tend to be done one step at a time.

**Barouch**: For Covid-19, developers are talking about performing as
many steps in parallel as possible, as opposed to sequentially. For
example, multiple vaccine manufacturers are willing to take enormous
financial risks — planning for large-scale manufacturing up front, even
before knowing whether the vaccine works or not.

There might be a half dozen vaccines that will get to the Phase 3 stage.
How do we select which ones go forward? Do we prioritize vaccines that
are similar to ones that have been tested previously in humans and that
have shown safety and potency? Or do we turn to vaccines that can be
mass produced quickly and safely? Ultimately, the prioritization is a
complicated process that involves many decisions. The F.D.A. has to be
involved, as well as governments and regulatory agencies and
stakeholders around the world. There are questions about safety,
efficacy, manufacturability and scalability that must be tackled.

**Hamburg**: Obviously we’re looking for ones that work in the early
trials. But we don’t just need a vaccine that works; we need one that
can be reliably scaled up to manufacture in very large volumes. Ideally,
it would be one that doesn’t require multiple doses to be effective,
certainly not beyond, say, a two-dose regimen. And ideally it wouldn’t
require refrigerated storage, so it can be made more available in
resource-poor settings. So, there are characteristics of a vaccine in
addition to safety and efficacy that are going to matter.

**Mukherjee**: Are there other ways to speed up the process? Typically
in Phase 3 trials, you’d go out into the field and give, say, 15,000
people the vaccine you’re testing and 15,000 people a placebo. And then
you wait and see how many of those with the vaccine came down with the
disease versus the numbers who were given the placebo. But of course,
that takes a long time. You’d need to wait months or years to watch this
natural experiment. One ethically fraught possibility that some experts
have floated is the use of so-called “challenge” trials, in which young,
healthy people are given a vaccine and then deliberately exposed to the
virus. This would only happen once the safety of the vaccine was
established and there was some hint that there is an immune response.
But what are the ethical concerns about accelerating a vaccine process?

**Barouch**: For certain pathogens, it has been considered ethical to
perform human-challenge studies but typically only for pathogens for
which there is a highly effective treatment. For example, for malaria
there is a very widely and effectively used human-challenge model in
which vaccines or other interventions can be tested. Human volunteers
can be inoculated with malaria and then, if they develop the disease,
can be treated rapidly so that they don’t actually get sick.

**Mukherjee**: Why can’t we do this for Covid-19?

**Barouch**: The dilemma for Covid-19 is that there currently is no
curative therapy. So, if a volunteer in a potential human-challenge
study gets severely ill, there may not be a way to cure that person. In
fact, far from it: The drugs in our armamentarium are not perfect, and
so we would have no guarantee that we could “rescue” a person who got
severely ill.

**Weiss**: I’m not an ethicist, but my gut feeling is that challenge
trials are too dangerous. Young people can get quite sick and die from
Covid-19.

<div class="g-ad rad-ad-wrapper">

<div class="place-ad" data-slot-id="mid22" data-position="mid">

</div>

</div>

**Mukherjee**: If we could develop a drug or an antibody that would be
able to mitigate the disease, we would still need to think about the
ethical concerns of a human challenge. There’s also the question of who
“volunteers” for such a challenge. There’s been a whole history —
extremely fraught — where minorities were used as experimental subjects
without their understanding or consent. How do we ensure that the
volunteers understand the consent? How do we ensure that they are not
given perverse incentives? A young person might believe that if they get
vaccinated and challenged, then they have an “immunity passport” against
the disease. But what if, in fact, they fall sick and we have no
effective therapy. The question of a challenge experiment therefore
requires both deep ethical thinking — who, what, how many — and
scientific thinking: Is there a strategy to “rescue” a patient if the
challenge resulted in a real disease.

**Hamburg**: There’s also the question of how much a challenge trial on
young healthy patients will even tell us what we need to know. If we do
a study using these lowest-risk patients, will that give us adequate
information about the value of the vaccine in the elderly populations,
who in many ways are the most important target for this vaccine?

**Barouch**: Absolutely. The problem for human-challenge studies, beyond
the ethical questions, is that a controlled human-challenge experiment
doesn’t necessarily translate to showing how a vaccine would actually
perform in the real world. Participants in any such challenge studies
would likely be young, healthy individuals at lowest risk, and so the
data generated may not be applicable to elderly and vulnerable
populations that need to be protected with a vaccine. There may also be
different doses and different viral variants.

**Mukherjee**: Peggy, is there something we should be doing while we’re
waiting for all these trials?

**Hamburg**: Well, I think we definitely need to be thinking about the
scale-up and manufacturing issues, as we said already. Another issue
that we need to be thinking about is working with the communities where
these large-scale Phase 3 studies will be done. Some will be done in the
U.S., but others will be done in other places around the world —
lower-resourced places that may not have the kind of clinical-research
infrastructure that we have here, whether it’s having enough trained
researchers or the sophisticated health care services they need, like
lab and diagnostic tools and basic things like refrigeration and cold
storage.

**Mukherjee**: So in speeding up the vaccine-development process, we
have three things going for us: We have cleaner and likely safer
technologies to create vaccines; we know the viral proteins that are
likely to raise a good immune response; and we know how to measure that
immune response with much greater accuracy in humans that have been
given a test dose of the vaccine. All of these we hope will accelerate
the Phase 1 safety trials — some of which have already started, between
March and May — so that they can be done in four to six months. After
that, we’re still looking at a roughly 12-month period to test the
vaccine in real human populations, so it seems we’re pushing toward the
18-month marker. Dan, what’s your sense of the time that it will take to
actually deploy the vaccine across the population of the world once we
have it?

**Barouch**: There are two timelines that matter. One is the
infrastructure and timeline needed to manufacture massive numbers of
doses of the vaccine, and a separate, potentially different timeline to
actually deploy the vaccine.

**Hamburg**: On the manufacturing front, you’ve probably heard about
Bill Gates’s decision to begin to invest in a range of different types
of manufacturing capabilities, to capture the different categories of
vaccines, not knowing which of the different types of vaccine candidates
are actually going to make it over the finish line.

**Mukherjee**: Right, so that once the “winner” is identified, that
winner can go forward without having to wait for capacity.

**Barouch**: The reason to build out this capacity in advance is that
different vaccines are made very differently. For example, the
manufacturing process for an RNA vaccine is entirely different than for
an adenovirus vector-based vaccine. For rapid deployment of a vaccine
after clinical efficacy is shown, large-scale manufacturing of multiple
vaccine candidates has to begin before there is demonstration of vaccine
efficacy.

<div class="g-ad rad-ad-wrapper">

<div class="place-ad" data-slot-id="mid23" data-position="mid">

</div>

</div>

**Hamburg**: But even if this initiative moves forward, I think there
may be a misunderstanding in the public at large about the challenges of
scale-up and manufacturing. Once a vaccine is approved, it is not going
be available the next day for whoever wants it.

**Mukherjee**: Tell us about that. That’s important.

**Hamburg**: Manufacturing has to be done in a high-quality and
consistent way. There are materials that are needed that can be in
limited supply, like the vials and the stoppers that you need for
packaging. And then there are chains for distribution, and sometimes
vaccines have to be kept frozen at very low temperatures. So you have to
have all of those important systems for manufacturing, packaging and
delivery and distribution up and running and the supply chains flowing
in order to actually get what might now be an approved vaccine actually
into the bodies of the individuals who need it.

**Mukherjee**: And then this returns to the distribution and inoculation
of the vaccine, and epidemiological studies that follow it.

**Hamburg**: Yes, I think we need to create systems for assuring fair
and equitable and public-health-driven distribution of the vaccine as
well. One concern that many have is that there’s going to be a huge
nationalistic push for countries to try to get hold of as much vaccine
as they can for use within their own borders, yet ultimately the safety
of any country or community depends on addressing and protecting against
this virus all over the
world.

![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)

#### What Will We Have in the Meantime?

**Yancopoulos**: As we’ve been saying, with all the challenges regarding
developing, testing, manufacturing and distributing a safe and effective
vaccine — no matter how much effort so many scientists and companies put
on the problem — it could still take years or even longer. This is why
it’s so important to have additional efforts ongoing in parallel to try
to fight back against this pandemic. If we don’t have a safe and
effective vaccine for one to two years, or even longer, we need to
develop other treatments as a bridge to a vaccine — to allow society to
have a path toward reopening and functioning, while we await a vaccine.

**Mukherjee**: So let’s work backward as we work frantically toward the
vaccine. What can we do now that will help? How can we move from where
we are — isolate, quarantine, mask, distance — toward a therapy that
will bridge us to the vaccine?

**Yancopoulos**: The world has gotten interested in the drug remdesivir,
which inhibits the process of RNA replication and has been shown to be
active in a lot of viruses that use these mechanisms to replicate
themselves.

<div class="g-ad rad-ad-wrapper">

<div class="place-ad" data-slot-id="mid24" data-position="mid">

</div>

</div>

**Mukherjee**: An initial study from China, published in the Lancet,
showed a rather disappointing effect from remdesivir. There was a hint
of clinical improvement in treated patients versus controls, but it was
not statistically significant. But there were several problems with that
trial. That trial enrolled patients who had the onset of symptoms from
one day to 12 days, so the spectrum of disease severity was very broad.
And although the study had a placebo control, it did not have a lot of
patients: 236 in total, 158 in the treatment and 78 in placebo. In late
May there was a study from the National Institutes of Health published
in The New England Journal of Medicine that showed remdesivir might have
an effect — albeit, again, a modest one — on hospitalized patients. The
number of days that patients spent in hospital was reduced, and the
study again hinted that there was a reduction in mortality from 11.9
percent in the placebo group to 7.1 percent in the treated group, though
this was not shown to be statistically significant. But again, this was
a study that involved a very broad range of patients — some with
moderate lung damage and some on ventilators.

**Hamburg**: Until there’s a vaccine, I don’t think there’s going to be
one magic bullet for treating this thing, and we’re certainly not going
to find that magic-bullet drug treatment in a repurposed drug pulled off
the shelf.

**Yancopoulos**: History has told us that. Repurposed drugs are usually
not panaceas.

**Hamburg**: And meanwhile, every day we are learning more about this
virus, its life cycle and the complexity of how it causes disease. We
initially thought of Covid-19 as a lung disease, and then realized that
many of the people who became seriously ill had their disease course
worsened by a hyperactive immune response. Now we realize that many
other vital organs can be seriously compromised, including the kidneys,
the gut and the brain, and that something about this virus is triggering
a very dangerous hypercoagulability syndrome, where the blood starts
clotting in dangerous ways. And there’s an apparent association of this
novel coronavirus with a very serious hyperimmune syndrome in children,
the so-called Kawasaki-like syndrome.

I think we need to draw on our best scientific understanding and the
work of virologists like Susan to identify where are the targets for
intervention, for what will likely be a combination therapy that
addresses different points in the life cycle of the virus and the human
immune response.

**Mukherjee**: What about using antibodies to tide us through this
period? As we’ve discussed, the entire purpose of vaccines is to induce
the body to make its own “protective antibodies” that bind and kill the
virus. George, you have pioneered ways of making these same type of
“anti-viral antibodies” outside the body, manufacturing them and
purifying them and then giving them back to individuals — so these
people now have antibodies against the virus. It’s like they have
already been vaccinated: They now have antibodies but without needing to
go through the actual vaccine step.

**Yancopoulos**: Right. Earlier I mentioned Ebola. Over the past 10 to
20 years, we have developed a series of technologies that are designed
to make antibodies against many disease targets, including viruses.
These technologies were used by our scientists to develop a cocktail of
three antibodies to bind and block the GP protein of Ebola — the GP
protein is the Ebola equivalent of the spike protein — our so-called
REGN-EB3 cocktail, and this treatment was very effective in patients
already infected with Ebola, as shown by the World Health Organization
in a clinical trial. And now we have used these same technologies to
rapidly make an antibody cocktail — REGN-COV2 — that binds and blocks
the spike protein of Covid-19.

**Mukherjee**: Explain what that means.

**Yancopoulos**: You can almost think of it as a temporary vaccine.
Instead of waiting for a vaccine that will make the body make its own
antibodies against the virus, we can make exactly those kinds of
antibodies and inject them into people.

**Mukherjee**: And how long would that take?

<div class="g-ad rad-ad-wrapper">

<div class="place-ad" data-slot-id="mid25" data-position="mid">

</div>

</div>

**Yancopoulos**: For Ebola, we went from starting the project to being
in clinical trials in just nine months. With Covid-19, we’ve cut that in
almost half: We have already made thousands and thousands of these
antibodies and started to grow them up and tested them for blocking the
virus. And we plan to start human trials in June. We will conduct three
types of trials. First, prophylaxis, in which we give REGN-COV2 to
patients not yet infected but at high-risk and hopefully show we can
prevent infection — much like a vaccine would hope to do but not
inducing the “permanent immunity” that a vaccine can confer. Then, we
will give REGN-COV2 to patients recently infected, who are asymptomatic
and/or who don’t have severe disease, and see if we can rapidly “cure”
them and eliminate the virus and prevent them from progressing to the
severe-and-critical stage that would require hospitalization and
ventilation. Then, finally, we would give the REGN-COV2 to
severe-and-critical-stage patients, who are in the hospital, many on
ventilators, with poor prognosis, and hopefully show we can rescue them,
get them off ventilators and save their lives.

**Mukherjee**: And how long would the antibodies last in terms of
protection?

**Yancopoulos**: We hope each injection should last at least a month, if
not several months. Beyond this antibody cocktail, there are quite a few
drugs that are being repurposed to see if they have potential in
Covid-19. One particularly promising story that came out of China was
that blocking the inflammation that seems to be causing the lung
problems in Covid-19 — in particular by blocking an inflammatory factor
called interleukin-6, or IL-6, that is an important driver of the
inflammation in rheumatoid arthritis — might help patients with lung
problems due to Covid-19. This promise was based on a small,
uncontrolled but positive experience in China. We are now doing large
Phase 3 trials to definitively test whether our IL-6 blocking drug —
which as I said is already approved for treating the inflammation in
rheumatoid arthritis — may help with the lung inflammation in Covid-19
patients who are critically ill. But if you look at either repurposed
drugs like remdesivir or even the IL-6 blocking approach, those are not
the sort of drugs that I think would make Dan happy, because they are
just incremental.

**Hamburg**: Or me.

**Yancopoulos**: Or anybody. But they could provide a benefit. Every
life that’s saved or every disease course that’s shortened is important.

**Mukherjee**: But the incremental effects that you are describing may
be because the trials are still being run on patients with moderate to
severe disease and in particular on hospitalized patients. In virtually
every infectious disease, the use of antibacterials or antivirals or
even antibodies against a virus early in the course of disease is
better. In terms of remdesivir, it’s possible that the drug is much more
likely to be efficacious when used early than late, and in fact, the
published trial from the N.I.H. has a hint of that. As we just said,
thus far, the trials have generally involved a broad spectrum of
patients — hospitalized patients and some of the sickest — and the
benefits have been modest. But experts such as Francisco Marty, an
infectious-disease doctor at Brigham and Women’s Hospital, have argued
that this was precisely the wrong population to use the drug. By the
time you have lung inflammation and tissue injury, killing the virus is
not enough. It’s too late; the body has turned on itself, and an
antiviral drug cannot tackle the inflammation. And so a second fleet of
trials is being designed to evaluate whether the drug might be more
successful if given as early as possible — for instance, as soon as you
have detected the virus and the oxygen level has begun to drop,
particularly in high-risk patients. It would invert the paradigm: Rather
than quarantine and sit at home, you would get the drug sooner rather
than later. Infectious-disease doctors, such as Marty, have early
evidence that this strategy works: Patients given early remdesivir
recover and do not progress to the fulminant lung disease. A group of
us, including Marty, are in conversations with the Gates Foundation and
others to launch trials of such a strategy.

And then there’s the question of combining drugs: Perhaps an antiviral
drug would work even better if used in combination with antibodies. But
all of this is logistically complex. All these drugs have to be given
intravenously, so you have to go to an infusion center to get them. But
I cannot emphasize enough the urgency of doing these early-treatment
trials. It would be really a shame to give up a valuable drug in our
very limited armamentarium because we couldn’t study the right patients.
And the drug itself is in short supply, so every time it’s used on a
patient that it would not benefit, we are losing ground. We need
political support, financial support and support from Gilead, the
manufacturer, to get this urgent early treatment trial done as soon as
possible.

Susan, what is your sense of combining two targets? Maybe a replication
inhibitor along with an antibody. And I know you’ve been involved with
other laboratories, testing new drugs. What is your sense of the
development of these drugs?

**Weiss**: That might turn out to be useful, but right now drugs are
still being evaluated. Quite a few people are testing all kinds of
F.D.A.-approved drugs and unapproved drugs against the virus. There are
a lot of potential drug targets in the viral-replication cycle — that
is, the enzymes that are needed to replicate the virus as well as the
cellular factors needed for the virus to enter the cell. And I guess I
feel like a lot of compounds may inhibit replication of the virus,
especially in combination and aimed at multiple targets. But I don’t
know how many of them will actually become drugs. In addition,
replication inhibitors may not be enough to stop the virus after the
early stages of infection, when the individual may be asymptomatic. We
may need a combination of an antiviral drug to be effective early in the
disease and an anti-inflammatory drug for the later “cytokine storm”
phase of the disease.

**Mukherjee**: Yes, just because a compound inhibits the virus in a
petri dish, doesn’t mean that it can immediately become an antiviral
drug for human use. The compound might be toxic to humans. It might be
degraded into an inactive substance by the body. Its dose might be so
high that it’s impossible to administer. But I do think while we’re
waiting for the antibodies and the vaccines, it seems reasonable to
proceed with testing thousands of drugs against the virus — called “drug
screening” — so that if something does come up, we might find a drug to
combine with remdesivir or with antibodies, making an anti-viral
cocktail.

<div class="g-ad rad-ad-wrapper">

<div class="place-ad" data-slot-id="mid26" data-position="mid">

</div>

</div>

From what I’ve been able to see, there is unusual urgency and
cooperation among scientists in this effort.

**Hamburg**: It’s remarkable, in terms of the collaboration across
disciplines and research institutions and sectors and borders. There’s
been more openness and sharing than I’ve seen in past crises like Ebola
or Zika or H1N1. Regulatory authorities around the world are coming
together in ways that are very, very important to reduce barriers and to
make sure that they’re bringing the best possible science to bear on
decision making, trying to identify what are the critical questions that
have to be asked and answered, what kind of study designs and
preclinical work is going to be necessary, so that you don’t have
companies facing different regulatory authorities with different
standards and requests and approaches, so that the hard questions can be
more effectively addressed through bringing together the best minds,
wherever they are.

**Weiss**: I’ve never seen this before, either. Our C.D.C. permit to
receive the virus, which is classified as a biosafety Level 3 agent, was
approved in less than two days. We received at least two
material-transfer agreements, which have to be signed by a number of
institutional officials and sometimes lawyers, in a matter of hours.
Both of those processes have taken much longer, sometimes weeks, in the
past. This is just one sign of administrators and scientists
collaborating with each other and acting extra efficiently to facilitate
the science.

**Barouch**: I’ll just echo that. From a research perspective, I have
never seen such collaborative spirit, such open sharing of materials,
data, protocols, thoughts and ideas among academic groups, industry
groups, government groups and the clinicians on the front lines.

**Yancopoulos**: I’ve seen unprecedented collaboration from all forces.
I can get on the phone and call my counterpart, Mikael Dolsten, at
Pfizer, and his first question is, “Well, what can we do to help?”
Whether it’s scientists in academia, whether it’s people at biotech and
pharma companies, whether it’s the doctors and health care workers who
are at the epicenter at hospitals like Mount Sinai or Columbia in New
York City, whether it’s the F.D.A. — we are all coming together, and
things are happening at unprecedented rates because we realize that we
have a common
enemy.

#### [Developing a Covid-19 Vaccine](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/06/09/magazine/covid-vaccine.html)[What If Working From Home Goes on … Forever](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/06/09/magazine/remote-work-covid.html)[The Pandemic and Architecture](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/06/09/magazine/architecture-covid.html)[Information Can Be the Best Medicine](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/06/10/magazine/covid-data.html)

-----

This discussion has been edited and condensed for clarity.

Maria Toutoudaki/Getty Images (bottle); Jan Olofsson/EyeEm, via Getty
Images (needle); Ilbusca/Getty Images (human figure); Guido Mieth/Getty
Images (model); Hannah A. Bullock and Azaibi Tamin/C.D.C. (Covid-19).

</div>

<div class="rad-article-credits">

</div>

</div>

<div class="topnav" data-slug="14mag-roundtable">

<div class="topnav__wrapper">

<div class="topnav__kicker">

<span>The Tech & Design Issue</span>

</div>

<div class="topnav__contents">

  - Developing a Covid-19 Vaccine
  - [What If Working From Home Goes on …
    Forever](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/06/09/magazine/remote-work-covid.html)
  - [The Pandemic and
    Architecture](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/06/09/magazine/architecture-covid.html)
  - [Information Can Be the Best
    Medicine](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/06/10/magazine/covid-data.html)

</div>

</div>

[](#)
[](#)

![](https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2020/06/04/2020-magtechdesign/a4fdae938d97ed501d80d0405d6760d098697e64/caret.svg)

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div id="standalone-footer">

<div>

<div>

<div id="interactive-footer-wrapper">

<div class="css-i29ckm">

<div class="css-1oeie6n">

Read 147
Comments

</div>

<div class="interactive-sharetools css-9z2bwm" data-role="toolbar" data-aria-label="Social Media Share buttons, Save button, and Comments Panel with current comment count" data-testid="share-tools">

  - 
  - 
  - 
  - 
    
    <div class="css-6n7j50">
    
    </div>

</div>

</div>

<div>

</div>

<div id="bottom-wrapper" class="css-1ede5it">

<div id="bottom-slug" class="css-l9onyx">

Advertisement

</div>

[Continue reading the main
story](#after-bottom)

<div id="bottom" class="ad bottom-wrapper" style="text-align:center;height:100%;display:block;min-height:90px">

</div>

<div id="after-bottom">

</div>

</div>

## Site Index

<div>

</div>

## Site Information Navigation

  - [© <span>2020</span> <span>The New York Times
    Company</span>](https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice)

<!-- end list -->

  - [NYTCo](https://www.nytco.com/)
  - [Contact
    Us](https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us)
  - [Work with us](https://www.nytco.com/careers/)
  - [Advertise](https://nytmediakit.com/)
  - [T Brand Studio](http://www.tbrandstudio.com/)
  - [Your Ad
    Choices](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy#how-do-i-manage-trackers)
  - [Privacy](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy)
  - [Terms of
    Service](https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service)
  - [Terms of
    Sale](https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale)
  - [Site
    Map](https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion)
  - [Help](https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us)
  - [Subscriptions](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW)

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>
