Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/world/americas}{Americas}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/world/americas}{Americas}\textbar{}Nicaragua's Ruling
Sandinistas Fall Victim to Covid-19, Highlighting the Disease's Spread

\url{https://nyti.ms/2ChncXX}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{the-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=174f1410-e387-11ea-bbe1-53730119d2f5}{The
Coronavirus
Outbreak}}{The Coronavirus Outbreak}}\label{the-coronavirus-outbreak}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  live\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/20/world/coronavirus-covid.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=174f1411-e387-11ea-bbe1-53730119d2f5}{Latest
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=174f1412-e387-11ea-bbe1-53730119d2f5}{Maps
  and Cases}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=174f1413-e387-11ea-bbe1-53730119d2f5}{Vaccine
  Tracker}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/19/us/colleges-closing-covid.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=174f1414-e387-11ea-bbe1-53730119d2f5}{Colleges
  Closing}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/20/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=174f1415-e387-11ea-bbe1-53730119d2f5}{Economy}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{nicaraguas-ruling-sandinistas-fall-victim-to-covid-19-highlighting-the-diseases-spread}{%
\section{Nicaragua's Ruling Sandinistas Fall Victim to Covid-19,
Highlighting the Disease's
Spread}\label{nicaraguas-ruling-sandinistas-fall-victim-to-covid-19-highlighting-the-diseases-spread}}

The haphazard, politicized response to the pandemic by the country's
leaders has put the government's own officials and supporters at
particular risk.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/07/19/world/18Virus-Nicaragua-1/merlin_174686124_7de850d7-4429-4e00-bf47-1248c6ca626a-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/frances-robles}{Frances
Robles}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  July 18, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

A string of recent deaths across Nicaragua --- including mayors, judges,
police officials, sports figures, university rectors and government
bureaucrats --- is pointing to the chilling reality that the coronavirus
is devastating this Central American country, although the government is
not publicly acknowledging it.

To critics of the government, the deaths are a result of President
Daniel Ortega's haphazard and politicized response to the pandemic with
no encouragement of wearing masks or social distancing measures, and
little testing and no stay-at-home orders or shutdowns. Instead, the
government has encouraged large gatherings.

That response seems to have hit members of the governing Sandinista
National Liberation Front party the hardest.

Several young epidemiologists, virologists and related specialists said
in the medical journal
\href{https://www.thelancet.com/journals/lancet/article/PIIS2214-109X(20)30131-5/fulltext?dgcid=hubspot_email_newsletter_tlcoronavirus20\&utm_campaign=tlcoronavirus20\&utm_source=hs_email\&utm_medium=email\&utm_content=86078269\&_hsenc=p2ANqtz-8f41qmrV7u85F68lutTKp1slx_xOXyc5Fzu2qUDWAPfChM4bWOSz6vuQmIHdTNvM_69PLdY4i7CCZhq1NZ4uM2lCLUgA\&_hsmi=86078269}{Lancet}
that Nicaragua's handling of the coronavirus ``has been perhaps the most
erratic of any country in the world to date.''

``They were the only ones going around without masks,'' said Dora María
Tellez, a former health minister under the Sandinistas who broke with
the party, ``as the mask came to be considered a sign of opposition.''

Francisco Aguirre Sacasa, a former Nicaraguan ambassador to Washington,
said the deaths of the public officials were strikingly obvious when you
looked at the National Assembly and saw a lot of empty chairs in the
Sandinista side.

``You can't just ignore that,'' he said. ``You can't hide it. You can't
cover that up,'' he added. ``It is obvious, obvious, that Sandinistas
have been dying.''

Still, the deaths of few officials have been publicly attributed to
Covid-19 --- as is the case with
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/31/world/americas/coronavirus-nicaragua-burials.html}{most
virus fatalities in Nicaragua}. Many are officially designated as
``atypical pneumonia.''

Officially, the government reports that just 99 people have died from
the virus, although the Citizens Covid-19 Observatory, an anonymous
group of doctors and activists in Nicaragua, has registered 2,397
probable deaths.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/07/18/world/18Virus-Nicaragua-2/merlin_173251188_c4e6deb4-3242-43f7-b514-dbe0b1e7a598-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Mr. Sacasa, the former ambassador, said one of the Sandinista
legislators who died of Covid-19 in late May was his cousin, María
Manuela Sacasa de Prego, although she also had cancer.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-the-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/20/world/coronavirus-covid.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: The Coronavirus
Outbreak}}{Latest Updates: The Coronavirus Outbreak}}\label{latest-updates-the-coronavirus-outbreak}}

Updated 2020-08-21T07:46:15.883Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/20/world/coronavirus-covid.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-68774d88}{Shutdowns,
  warnings and scoldings follow alarming incidents on college campuses.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/20/world/coronavirus-covid.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-26b58724}{Biden
  knocks Trump's pandemic response, and outlines a national strategy.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/20/world/coronavirus-covid.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-4e542da3}{U.S.
  health agencies announce moves to confront the flu season and
  plummeting child vaccination rates.}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/20/world/coronavirus-covid.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

More live coverage:
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/20/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Markets}

``Her kids told me she died of Covid,'' Mr. Sacasa said.

The government has now created Covid-only hospital units and mass
disinfection campaigns are being organized by the military. But many
critics say one clear sign that those measures came too late are the
high-profile deaths of the party's own members.

The government is preparing for its annual July 19 anniversary
extravaganza celebrating the victory of the Sandinista revolution, which
toppled the Somoza family dictatorship in 1979.

The event, held every year at a public square in the capital, Managua,
features hundreds of thousands of people bused in from throughout the
country. They wear matching T-shirts and carry black-and-red party flags
before a dais where all the leading government officials sit.

But this year, for the first time in its 41-year history, the event will
be held as a virtual concert --- and absent major members of the party
who have died in recent weeks.

Dampening the festive mood further, on Friday, the United States
Treasury Department sanctioned the son of Mr. Ortega and his wife,
Rosario Murillo, who is also the vice president of the country.

The son, Juan Carlos Ortega, manages a media company ``which he uses to
stifle independent voices, spread regime propaganda, and defend the
Ortegas' violence and repression,'' Secretary of State Mike Pompeo said
in a statement.

Nicaragua, which spent the past two years battling a popular uprising,
was one of a few countries that never shut down schools and businesses
and never issued a stay-at-home order.

Trying to stave off economic collapse, the government continued to
organize mass events, even after the pandemic was raging around the
world.

A March rally, advertised as being held in solidarity for countries
suffering coronavirus deaths, was called ``Love in the Time of
Covid-19.'' Beauty pageants, boxing matches, art fairs,
\href{https://www.el19digital.com/articulos/ver/titulo:102052-festival-de-comidas-de-cuaresma-que-promueve-intur-finalizo-con-exito-en-somoto}{food
festivals}and other events organized by the government also continued as
planned, as Sandinista lawmakers mocked opposition legislators for
wearing masks.

Image

To critics of Nicaragua's government, the deaths of so many government
officials underscore the consequences of President Daniel Ortega's
haphazard and politicized response to the pandemic.Credit...Inti
Ocon/Agence France-Presse --- Getty Images

Nicaragua's response to the pandemic has ``been lambasted throughout the
world as one of the worst,'' said Mateo C. Jarquín, a Nicaraguan
professor at Chapman University in California who was one of the authors
of the Lancet article.

``We should recognize all governments are struggling,'' he wrote. ``What
has no excuse is the lack of transparency and the blatant manipulation
of information.''

In May, the government released a
\href{https://www.el19digital.com/articulos/ver/titulo:103696-al-pueblo-de-nicaragua-y-al-mundo-informe-sobre-el-covid-19-y-una-estrategia-singular-libro-blanco}{report}
justifying its approach to the pandemic. The report noted that a
desperately poor country like Nicaragua could ill afford an economic
shutdown. Many people in Nicaragua must work to eat and cannot stay
home, the government said.

But it did not explain why it allowed large gatherings to continue even
as similarly popular, crowded events were canceled worldwide.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{}

\hypertarget{the-coronavirus-outbreak-}{%
\subsubsection{The Coronavirus Outbreak
›}\label{the-coronavirus-outbreak-}}

\hypertarget{frequently-asked-questions}{%
\paragraph{Frequently Asked
Questions}\label{frequently-asked-questions}}

Updated August 17, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{why-does-standing-six-feet-away-from-others-help}{%
  \paragraph{Why does standing six feet away from others
  help?}\label{why-does-standing-six-feet-away-from-others-help}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    The coronavirus spreads primarily through droplets from your mouth
    and nose, especially when you cough or sneeze. The C.D.C., one of
    the organizations using that measure,
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/14/health/coronavirus-six-feet.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{bases
    its recommendation of six feet} on the idea that most large droplets
    that people expel when they cough or sneeze will fall to the ground
    within six feet. But six feet has never been a magic number that
    guarantees complete protection. Sneezes, for instance, can launch
    droplets a lot farther than six feet,
    \href{https://jamanetwork.com/journals/jama/fullarticle/2763852}{according
    to a recent study}. It's a rule of thumb: You should be safest
    standing six feet apart outside, especially when it's windy. But
    keep a mask on at all times, even when you think you're far enough
    apart.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{i-have-antibodies-am-i-now-immune}{%
  \paragraph{I have antibodies. Am I now
  immune?}\label{i-have-antibodies-am-i-now-immune}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    As of right
    now,\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/22/health/covid-antibodies-herd-immunity.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{that
    seems likely, for at least several months.} There have been
    frightening accounts of people suffering what seems to be a second
    bout of Covid-19. But experts say these patients may have a
    drawn-out course of infection, with the virus taking a slow toll
    weeks to months after initial exposure. People infected with the
    coronavirus typically
    \href{https://www.nature.com/articles/s41586-020-2456-9}{produce}
    immune molecules called antibodies, which are
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/07/health/coronavirus-antibody-prevalence.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{protective
    proteins made in response to an
    infection}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/07/health/coronavirus-antibody-prevalence.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{.
    These antibodies may} last in the body
    \href{https://www.nature.com/articles/s41591-020-0965-6}{only two to
    three months}, which may seem worrisome, but that's perfectly normal
    after an acute infection subsides, said Dr. Michael Mina, an
    immunologist at Harvard University. It may be possible to get the
    coronavirus again, but it's highly unlikely that it would be
    possible in a short window of time from initial infection or make
    people sicker the second time.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{im-a-small-business-owner-can-i-get-relief}{%
  \paragraph{I'm a small-business owner. Can I get
  relief?}\label{im-a-small-business-owner-can-i-get-relief}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    The
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/small-business-loans-stimulus-grants-freelancers-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{stimulus
    bills enacted in March} offer help for the millions of American
    small businesses. Those eligible for aid are businesses and
    nonprofit organizations with fewer than 500 workers, including sole
    proprietorships, independent contractors and freelancers. Some
    larger companies in some industries are also eligible. The help
    being offered, which is being managed by the Small Business
    Administration, includes the Paycheck Protection Program and the
    Economic Injury Disaster Loan program. But lots of folks have
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/05/07/business/small-business-loans-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{not
    yet seen payouts.} Even those who have received help are confused:
    The rules are draconian, and some are stuck sitting on
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/02/business/economy/loans-coronavirus-small-business.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{money
    they don't know how to use.} Many small-business owners are getting
    less than they expected or
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/10/business/Small-business-loans-ppp.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{not
    hearing anything at all.}
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{what-are-my-rights-if-i-am-worried-about-going-back-to-work}{%
  \paragraph{What are my rights if I am worried about going back to
  work?}\label{what-are-my-rights-if-i-am-worried-about-going-back-to-work}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Employers have to provide
    \href{https://www.osha.gov/SLTC/covid-19/standards.html}{a safe
    workplace} with policies that protect everyone equally.
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/coronavirus-money-unemployment.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{And
    if one of your co-workers tests positive for the coronavirus, the
    C.D.C.} has said that
    \href{https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/community/guidance-business-response.html}{employers
    should tell their employees} -\/- without giving you the sick
    employee's name -\/- that they may have been exposed to the virus.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{what-is-school-going-to-look-like-in-september}{%
  \paragraph{What is school going to look like in
  September?}\label{what-is-school-going-to-look-like-in-september}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    It is unlikely that many schools will return to a normal schedule
    this fall, requiring the grind of
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/05/us/coronavirus-education-lost-learning.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{online
    learning},
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/29/us/coronavirus-child-care-centers.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{makeshift
    child care} and
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/03/business/economy/coronavirus-working-women.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{stunted
    workdays} to continue. California's two largest public school
    districts --- Los Angeles and San Diego --- said on July 13, that
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/13/us/lausd-san-diego-school-reopening.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{instruction
    will be remote-only in the fall}, citing concerns that surging
    coronavirus infections in their areas pose too dire a risk for
    students and teachers. Together, the two districts enroll some
    825,000 students. They are the largest in the country so far to
    abandon plans for even a partial physical return to classrooms when
    they reopen in August. For other districts, the solution won't be an
    all-or-nothing approach.
    \href{https://bioethics.jhu.edu/research-and-outreach/projects/eschool-initiative/school-policy-tracker/}{Many
    systems}, including the nation's largest, New York City, are
    devising
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/26/us/coronavirus-schools-reopen-fall.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{hybrid
    plans} that involve spending some days in classrooms and other days
    online. There's no national policy on this yet, so check with your
    municipal school system regularly to see what is happening in your
    community.
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Among the recent deaths of Sandinista officials was that of Orlando
Noguera, the former mayor of Masaya, a city 15 miles south of
Nicaragua's capital. He was best known for a crackdown on
anti-government protesters two years ago that left seven people dead in
his city.

Relatives of Eden Pastora, a government ally and a prominent figure in
the nation's civil war, said he did not have the illness. But his death
certificate, which was read to The New York Times by a family member,
showed Mr. Pastora died of ``atypical pneumonia'' --- the usual official
designation for a coronavirus death.

Orlando J. Castillo, the head of the government telecommunications
office who had recently been sanctioned for human-rights violations by
the \href{https://home.treasury.gov/news/press-releases/sm715}{United
States Treasury} Department, died on June 2.
\href{https://confidencial.com.ni/rosario-murillo-admite-muertes-de-orlando-castillo-y-orlando-noguera/}{Local
media}, citing family sources, said the cause was Covid-19.

When a top police official, Olivio Hernández Salguera, died in May, his
family insisted he had suffered a fatal heart attack. But the media
reported that his body was buried the same day he died, as is customary
in Nicaragua when people die of Covid-19 --- suggesting that he had the
disease.

Image

Waiting outside a hospital in Managua.Credit...Inti Ocon for The New
York Times

Ms. Tellez, the former Sandinista health minister, provided The Times
with a list of 38 Sandinistas who were believed to have died of the
coronavirus and said some 200 names have circulated on social media.

She also said that Mr. Ortega does not appear to be following his
government's own strategy because he has not been seen in public for
over a month, the second time he disappeared during the pandemic.

Carlos Fernando Chamorro, editor of Confidencial, a leading news outlet,
said his team has counted some 100 deaths of Sandinistas, including
about 10 well-known figures.

``The problem is that here, nobody officially dies of Covid-19,'' he
said.

The Nicaraguan government funnels all media inquiries to Ms. Murillo,
the vice president. She did not respond to requests for comment.

In public comments, she has acknowledged the deaths of the prominent
government officials, but did not give the cause. They had
``transitioned to another plane,'' Ms. Murillo said.

``We live their legacy with the strength of the revolution,'' she said
following the deaths of two officials. ``Our revolution makes us strong
every day.''

Orlando Obando Cabrera, a Sandinista regional councilman in Bluefields,
on the Caribbean coast, posted videos on his Facebook page in which he
implored Nicaraguans to stop looking for people to blame for the health
crisis.

``If I die in this struggle and you want to find someone responsible,
don't look for it in the government,'' Mr. Obando said in a video posted
May 26, acknowledging that he was being treated for the illness. ``If
something happens to me, don't blame Daniel, don't blame Rosario, don't
blame others.''

Two days later, he vowed to beat Covid-19. On June 13, Mr. Obando died.

Alfonso Flores Bermúdez contributed reporting from Managua, Nicaragua.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
