Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/business/economy}{Economy}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/business/economy}{Economy}\textbar{}Unemployment Claims
Show Layoffs Continue to Batter Economy

\url{https://nyti.ms/3bpHxHF}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{the-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus?name=styln-coronavirus-markets\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=95f37bc0-f2a1-11ea-9113-131123c250e5\&variant=undefined}{The
Coronavirus
Outbreak}}{The Coronavirus Outbreak}}\label{the-coronavirus-outbreak}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  live\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/09/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?name=styln-coronavirus-markets\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=95f37bc1-f2a1-11ea-9113-131123c250e5\&variant=undefined}{Latest
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html?name=styln-coronavirus-markets\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=95f3a2d0-f2a1-11ea-9113-131123c250e5\&variant=undefined}{Maps
  and Cases}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html?name=styln-coronavirus-markets\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=95f3a2d1-f2a1-11ea-9113-131123c250e5\&variant=undefined}{Vaccine
  Tracker}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/02/your-money/eviction-moratorium-covid.html?name=styln-coronavirus-markets\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=95f3a2d2-f2a1-11ea-9113-131123c250e5\&variant=undefined}{Eviction
  Moratorium}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/09/02/magazine/food-insecurity-hunger-us.html?name=styln-coronavirus-markets\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=95f3a2d3-f2a1-11ea-9113-131123c250e5\&variant=undefined}{American
  Hunger}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{unemployment-claims-show-layoffs-continue-to-batter-economy}{%
\section{Unemployment Claims Show Layoffs Continue to Batter
Economy}\label{unemployment-claims-show-layoffs-continue-to-batter-economy}}

Progress in restoring lost jobs has become more challenging. ``It's
pretty bad at this stage in the crisis,'' one economist said.

\hypertarget{initial-weekly-unemployment-claims-both-regular-claims-and-those-under-the-pandemic-unemployment-assistance-program}{%
\subsubsection{Initial weekly unemployment claims, both regular claims
and those under the Pandemic Unemployment Assistance
program}\label{initial-weekly-unemployment-claims-both-regular-claims-and-those-under-the-pandemic-unemployment-assistance-program}}

By Ella Koeze·Pandemic Unemployment Assistance extends eligibility to
some workers who would not otherwise be able to apply for unemployment
benefits, such as part-time and self-employed workers. Neither regular
claims nor P.U.A. claims are seasonally adjusted.·Source: Labor
Department

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/patricia-cohen}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/02/16/multimedia/author-patricia-cohen/author-patricia-cohen-thumbLarge.jpg}}\href{http://nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/gillian-friedman}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/28/reader-center/author-gillian-friedman/author-gillian-friedman-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/patricia-cohen}{Patricia
Cohen} and
\href{http://nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/gillian-friedman}{Gillian
Friedman}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Sept. 3, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

More than five months after the coronavirus pandemic began throttling
the economy, layoffs remain widespread, the
\href{https://www.dol.gov/sites/dolgov/files/OPA/newsreleases/ui-claims/20201671.pdf}{government
reported} Thursday, the latest sign of the labor market's painstakingly
slow recovery.

Last week, **** 833,000 workers filed new claims for state unemployment
benefits, while 759,000 new claims were filed by freelancers, part-time
workers and others under a federal program called Pandemic Unemployment
Assistance. Both figures, which are not seasonally adjusted, were
increases from the previous week.

``It's pretty bad at this stage in the crisis,'' said Gregory Daco,
chief U.S. economist at the forecasting firm Oxford Economics. ``I feel
like this is a very fragile labor market at a critical juncture.''

There has been \href{https://fred.stlouisfed.org/series/ICNSA}{progress}
from the early days of the pandemic, when weekly tallies of new claims
surged past six million. But recent improvements have been more arduous.

Of the 22 million jobs lost in March and April, more than nine million
have been regained. And most analysts expect that the monthly
\href{https://www.bls.gov/}{jobs report}, scheduled for release on
Friday, will show a dip in August from double-digit unemployment rates.

But the damage to the economy has been wide and deep. As of mid-August,
more than 29 million Americans were receiving some sort of unemployment
insurance.

The report on Thursday was the first to be affected by a change in
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/01/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus\#the-labor-department-will-start-counting-unemployment-claims-in-a-new-way}{the
way the Labor Department accounts} for predictable seasonal patterns,
like temporary holiday workers who are laid off in January.

The seasonally adjusted figure for the week was 881,000. The number
looks much lower than the previous week's adjusted figure of just over
one million, but the drop can be attributed to the altered methodology.
Because the change means seasonally adjusted numbers cannot be compared
with those tallied until now, The Times is emphasizing the unadjusted
figures.

The unadjusted number of 833,000 last week was an increase from 826,000
the week before.

Mr. Daco said he was particularly concerned about the increase last week
in new claims for Pandemic Unemployment Assistance, the program for
those generally ineligible for state jobless benefits. The total of
759,000 was up from 608,000 a week earlier.

``It could reflect a weakening economy in some of the states worst
impacted by the health crisis,'' he said, ``or it could be that some of
the workers that had returned are finding that it's not possible or
sustainable to return to their primary economic activity in the current
environment.''

\hypertarget{latest-updates-the-coronavirus-outbreak-and-the-economy}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/09/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: The Coronavirus Outbreak and the
Economy}}{Latest Updates: The Coronavirus Outbreak and the Economy}}\label{latest-updates-the-coronavirus-outbreak-and-the-economy}}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/09/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#amazon-announces-another-hiring-spree}{34m
ago}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/09/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#amazon-announces-another-hiring-spree}{Amazon
announces another hiring spree.}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/09/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#why-a-licensing-expert-and-a-mall-operator-bought-brooks-brothers-forever-21-and-others}{3h
ago}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/09/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#why-a-licensing-expert-and-a-mall-operator-bought-brooks-brothers-forever-21-and-others}{Why
a licensing expert and a mall operator bought Brooks Brothers, Forever
21 and others.}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/09/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#lvmh-says-it-is-pulling-out-of-its-16-billion-takeover-of-tiffany}{3h
ago}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/09/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#lvmh-says-it-is-pulling-out-of-its-16-billion-takeover-of-tiffany}{LVMH
says it is pulling out of its \$16 billion takeover of Tiffany.}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/09/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

More live coverage:
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/09/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Global}

\hypertarget{help-wanted-depending-on-the-industry}{%
\subsection{Help wanted, depending on the
industry.}\label{help-wanted-depending-on-the-industry}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/09/03/business/03markets-brf-hiring-sub/merlin_174642942_d895e3b0-cc99-4021-bafd-1760e5e145b1-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Some businesses are hiring. Postings at the job search site Indeed rose
slightly last week, although the total is still more than 20 percent
below what it was this time last year.

The hospitality, tourism, and sports and fitness sectors are in the
worst shape, with postings down more than 40 percent from where they
were a year ago. Listings for higher wage jobs in banking, finance and
software development are also much more scarce.

Construction, driving and warehouse jobs seem to be the most plentiful.

The job site ZipRecruiter has seen a gradual increase in job listings
over the past couple of months, but the pace of growth began to slow in
mid-August, said Julia Pollak, the company's economist.

Consumers pulled back on spending after a \$600 weekly jobless benefit
supplement ceased in July. At the same time, many
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/01/business/economy/small-businesses-coronavirus.html}{small
businesses are running out of the money} they received through the
federal Paycheck Protection Program.

A recent
\href{https://www.nfib.com/content/press-release/economy/one-in-five-small-businesses-say-they-will-have-to-close-their-doors-if-economic-conditions-dont-improve-in-next-six-months/}{survey}
from the National Federation of Independent Business found that one out
of five small-business owners said they would have to shut down if
economic conditions did not improve in the next six months.

\hypertarget{congressional-negotiations-on-a-new-relief-package-remain-at-a-standstill}{%
\subsection{Congressional negotiations on a new relief package remain at
a
standstill.}\label{congressional-negotiations-on-a-new-relief-package-remain-at-a-standstill}}

The Labor Department report provided no fundamental change in the jobs
picture that would resolve the stalemate between Republicans and
Democrats in Congress over a new economic relief package.

With the end of the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/29/business/economy/unemployment-benefits-coronavirus.html?action=click\&module=RelatedLinks\&pgtype=Article}{\$600-a-week
jobless} benefit supplement, most states are moving ahead with plans to
provide unemployed workers with a temporary replacement: a
weekly\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/stimulus-unemployment-payment-benefit.html}{\$300
supplement} paid out of federal disaster relief funds.

As of Wednesday, 45 states had
\href{https://www.fema.gov/fact-sheet/lost-wages-assistance-approved-states}{applied
for a grant} from the Federal Emergency Management Agency. Six of those
--- Arizona, Louisiana, Missouri, Montana, Tennessee and Texas --- have
started paying out benefits, according to the Labor Department, but a
vast majority have not.

Most will probably not be able to gear up to start payments until
mid-September or later. The supplement is expected to last four or five
weeks.

South Dakota is the only state that has confirmed it is not taking part.
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/16/us/elections/south-dakota-governor-turns-down-extra-unemployment-funding-saying-the-state-doesnt-need-it.html}{Gov.
Kristi Noem} says her state doesn't need the money.

A handful of states, including Kentucky, Montana and West Virginia, have
plans to boost the supplement with an additional \$100.

Economists say the extra jobless benefit is crucial to the economy's
recovery. ``The data are showing us that the expiration of the
supplemental benefits is having a clear impact on consumption,'' said
Carl Tannenbaum, chief economist at Northern Trust. ``As a result the
momentum of the economic recovery seems to be slowing as we move to the
end of the third quarter.''

The big question, Mr. Tannenbaum said, is whether Congress can respond
effectively. ``Are we going to build a bridge of sufficient length to
get to the post-Covid environment without permanent economic damage?''
he asked.

\hypertarget{some-workers-are-being-called-back-to-their-jobs}{%
\subsection{Some workers are being called back to their
jobs.}\label{some-workers-are-being-called-back-to-their-jobs}}

Image

Karen Kent, a school cafeteria worker, was laid off in early March when
schools began closing due to the coronavirus. Last week, she got a call
telling her to return to her job.Credit...Mark Makela for The New York
Times

Karen Kent hopes that this will be the last week she will have to file a
jobless claim. A cafeteria worker at a local high school in Pennington,
N.J., Ms. Kent, 47, was laid off in early March as schools began closing
in response to the coronavirus crisis.

Last week, she got a call telling her she was the one cafeteria worker
from her school going back to work. Her first shift is supposed to start
Wednesday.

Her husband, who works for a fire protection service company, was able
to hold on to his job, but because he works on commission, his income
has been unpredictable.

``The \$600 is the only reason we stayed afloat,'' Ms. Kent said of the
weekly federal supplement, which lapsed at the end of July. Without it,
her state benefits came to \$157. ``We're at the stage where we're
pretty lean.''

She and her husband live in affordable housing, and they have twice
deferred their monthly mortgage payment of \$537 and condo association
fee of \$234. Then there's the \$185 they owe to Verizon and \$457 in
unpaid medical insurance bills.

Ms. Kent was glad she was called back to her \$11.40-an-hour job. But
she has asthma and a heart condition and is concerned about her exposure
to the virus while working at a school.

``I'm terrified because I don't know if I'm going to have enough
protection,'' she said. ``But you have to do what you have to do to pay
the bills.''

Others are still waiting for the chance to return to work.

Image

Whitney Anne Adams, a freelance costume designer for film, has been out
of work since mid-March. It took seven weeks for her unemployment claim
to be processed.Credit...Hiroko Masuike/The New York Times

Whitney Anne Adams, 34, a freelance costume designer for film in
Astoria, Queens, has been out of work since mid-March.

It took seven weeks for unemployment benefits to start arriving. And
without the \$600 jobless benefit supplement, she has been relying on
her credit card since August. She said she now owed \$15,000.

Ms. Adams, who has two rare blood disorders, had to go into debt before,
for medical expenses. It took multiple jobs over more than a decade,
sometimes working 100 hours a week, to pay off the \$25,000 she owed.
Finally, in February, she was debt-free for the first time in 12 years.

One month later, the pandemic hit, and she was back where she started.

``I'm most worried about going back to that pit of debt again,'' she
said.

Ben Casselman contributed reporting.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
