<div id="app">

<div id="standalone-header">

</div>

<div id="site-content" role="main">

# What Does It Mean When an Artist Retreats From Public Life?

<div class="css-1vegfwe interactive-byline-container">

<div class="interactive-byline css-103zbxs">

April 13, 2020

</div>

</div>

<div id="interactive-standalone-sharetools" class="css-wkcogx">

<div>

<div class="interactive-sharetools css-9z2bwm" role="toolbar" data-aria-label="Social Media Share buttons, Save button, and Comments Panel with current comment count" data-testid="share-tools">

  - 
  - 
  - 
  - 
    
    <div class="css-6n7j50">
    
    </div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

A small and highly influential group has chosen to disappear from
society in favor of letting their work speak for itself.

<div id="artist-recluse" class="section css-l08pwh interactive-minimal interactive-content interactive-size-medium">

<div class="css-17ih8de interactive-body">

<div class="rad-article g-article-ch3" data-chapter="ch3" data-slug="13tmag-shadows">

<div class="g-header">

<div class="g-header-meta">

###### [We Are Family](https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/culture-issue-2020.html)

##### <span class="rad-ch-label">Chapter 3: </span><span>Legends</span> <span>Pioneers and</span> <span>Survivors</span>

</div>

<div class="g-header-nav">

##### Previous

##### Next

</div>

</div>

<div class="rad-cover stacked-cover">

<div class="rad-cover-main">

<div class="rad-head-wrap">

# What Does It Mean When an Artist Retreats From Public Life?

## <span>The Shadows</span>

These days, artists of all kinds are expected to be available for public
consumption. But a small and highly influential group of them has chosen
to disappear from society in favor of letting their work speak for
itself. What does it mean to be inaccessible in an age of oversharing?

<span class="g-byline-name" itemprop="name">By [Megan
O’Grady](https://www.nytimes.com/by/megan-o-grady)</span>

</div>

<div class="rad-byline-wrap">

<div class="rad-date-share">

April 13, 2020

<span>SHARE</span>

</div>

</div>

![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)

</div>

</div>

<div class="rad-story-body">

FOR THOSE OF us old enough to remember an era when we didn’t account for
our existence on social media, when we could attend a dinner party
without being tagged like a shot deer on someone’s Instagram story, when
privacy was respected and deeper meanings had room to quietly take root
and bloom, it is no surprise to see artists flinching from the din of
publicity. How can we really look and listen when we are so busy being
seen and heard?

Art, as [Susan
Sontag](https://www.nytimes.com/topic/person/susan-sontag) wrote in a
1967 essay, “[The Aesthetics of
Silence](http://www.susansontag.com/SusanSontag/books/stylesOfRadicalWillExerpt.shtml),”
has acquired a spiritual quality in secular culture, becoming a place to
reckon with and question the human project and, perhaps, even transcend
it. To create, in other words, isn’t only about self-expression; it is
also a realm of mystification, satisfying our “craving for the cloud of
unknowing beyond knowledge and for the silence beyond speech,” as she
puts it. Silence is an essential part of the creative process, opening a
space for contemplation. “So far as he is serious, the artist is
continually tempted to sever the dialogue he has with an audience,” she
goes on. To withdraw from the public is “the artist’s ultimate
otherworldly gesture: by silence, he frees himself from servile bondage
to the world, which appears as patron, client, consumer, antagonist,
arbiter and distorter of his work.”

<div class="rad-related">

<div class="rad-related-header">

###### The T List |

Sign up here

</div>

<div class="rad-related-items">

</div>

</div>

![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)

All art legislates between private and public spheres; it has also often
been a way of hiding in plain sight, a place for coded identities, for
the obliqueness of lyricism. As [Marcel
Proust](https://www.nytimes.com/topic/person/marcel-proust) claimed,
“That which enables us to see through the bodies of poets and lets us
look into their souls is not their eyes, nor the events of their lives,
but their books, precisely where their souls, with an instinctive
desire, would like to be immortalized.” And so it fits that Sontag —
both an outspoken critic and a novelist — would appreciate these
tensions: the artist’s need for abstraction and ambiguity, the critic’s
desire to elucidate. That she wrote this before the art market exploded,
before artists were deified and cast as saviors of a broken world,
before we looked to them not only for beauty, inspiration and
affirmation but also for a form of self-critique, surely had a lot to do
with her own fraught relationship with celebrity. Sontag, one of the
last public intellectuals until her death in 2004, knew firsthand the
cost of attention: what a distraction it could be; the risk of
self-censorship to buff one’s own image. (Even posthumously, her
biographer, Benjamin Moser, took her to task in his 2019 book, “[Sontag:
Her Life and
Work](https://www.harpercollins.com/9780062896391/sontag/),” for not
speaking out about her own sexuality during the AIDS crisis.) Today, we
expect artists to perform a public role, to assent to interviews and
magazine profiles in which they explain and justify their work, to
attend openings in enviable clothes, to hold forth on feminism and
racism and social injustice and the latest catastrophes, political and
environmental.

YET THERE HAS always existed a small but powerful shadow world of
creators who have managed to outfox public expectation to varying
degrees, evading de rigueur press and book tours while making their
impact resonantly felt. Some have pulled this off with pseudonyms, among
them Banksy and [Elena
Ferrante](https://www.nytimes.com/2018/10/31/magazine/elena-ferrante-hbo-my-brilliant-friend.html),
who has written copiously on the liberation she found in detaching her
public face from her work. Others have employed alter egos to convey
their message, like [David
Bowie](https://www.nytimes.com/topic/person/david-bowie), who adopted
the persona of Ziggy Stardust, an alien rock star who comes to Earth
with a message of hope only to be destroyed by his fans and his own
excesses. It is one of music’s great commentaries on fame, created at a
time when Bowie himself was self-destructing in celebrity’s glare. As a
critic whose work hinges on the notion that there’s a great deal of
value to be learned from the particular contexts, personal and
otherwise, in which art is made, I find myself shuttling between two
impulses: the desire to get closer to those difficult truths and to
understand the very real costs to exposure. I want to protect
inspiration’s riverbank, those Romantic “thoughts of more deep
seclusion,” as Wordsworth put it, while also making space for the kind
of powerful storytelling possible in art, stories that, so often these
days, seek to fill a historical void.

<div class="g-ad rad-ad-wrapper">

<div id="mid20" class="place-ad" data-position="mid20" data-size-key="default">

</div>

</div>

![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)

Rare, in fact, is the artist who has succeeded in entirely separating
personal identity from work, like Martin Margiela, one of the most
influential designers of all time despite the fact that few fashion
insiders know what he looks like; his name has become a metonym for
avant-garde cool. In fine arts, withdrawal from public life is often
interpreted as an extension of a larger artistic project, as when the
conceptual artist Lee Lozano pulled a Duchamp and retired with “Dropout
Piece” around 1970, refusing contact with longtime friends and
collaborators and essentially drawing a frame around her own absence,
writing in her notebook that it was the “hardest work I have ever done,”
because it “involves destruction of (or at least complete understanding
of) powerful emotional habits.” Cady Noland, still among the
highest-selling living female artists, stopped showing her work around
2000 and even began to [disavow some of
it](https://www.nytimes.com/2019/03/11/t-magazine/artists-destroy-past-work.html):
In 2011, she renounced a damaged 1990 silk screen, “Cowboys Milking”; in
2014, it was her 1990 sculpture “Log Cabin Facade,” which had been
extensively restored without her consent or consultation. Like that of
the interventionist artist Laurie Parsons, who left her art career in
1994 to become a social worker, these women’s departures feel not so
much like the “ultimate otherworldly gesture” but rather a deliberate
form of resistance to a patriarchal and market-oriented art world. But
few artists have been as successful at this kind of recusal as a form of
protest as David Hammons, among the most respected [contemporary
artists](https://www.nytimes.com/2019/07/15/t-magazine/most-important-contemporary-art.html)
despite the fact that he rarely submits to interviews (he likens them to
police interrogations) or attends his own openings. This, too, has
largely been viewed as a commentary on the art world’s smug — and still
largely white — self-regard, but the artist, who is black, has said that
he is simply too private to talk about where his work comes from, that
doing so would feel like a bodily violation.

![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)

Hammons is famous enough to let his work largely speak for itself, not
unlike the author Thomas Pynchon, whose
[reclusiveness](https://www.nytimes.com/2017/11/14/t-magazine/artistic-recluse-jd-salinger-thomas-pynchon.html)
hasn’t diminished his eminence or influence on American letters
(arguably, the opposite is true). And yet withdrawing from public life
entirely is never without risk: I suspect for any Pynchon or Greta Garbo
or Hammons there’s someone like [Lee
Bontecou](https://www.moma.org/artists/670), who was one of the most
exciting names in 1960s art before she left New York in the early 1970s
and faded from view. The first woman represented by the powerful
gallerist Leo Castelli, Bontecou was known for her strikingly original,
imposing wall reliefs made of steel and canvas; often, they featured the
motif of a black hole. At the time, it almost seemed as if she had
disappeared into one of her own works when in fact she’d only moved out
of the city with her husband and daughter (and continued to teach at
Brooklyn College for the next two decades). She never stopped making
art, as a 2003 show at the University of California, Los Angeles’s
Hammer Museum revealed: Over the course of three decades of relative
isolation, her work had evolved into more delicate, elaborate sculptures
that evoked celestial bodies, solar systems and star charts. It’s hard
to imagine that without this period of seclusion it would have looked
quite the same. Her story is a reminder of just how arbitrary — and how
irrelevant — public accolades can be to creation itself. As the artist
once told Ann Philbin, the director of the Hammer, “I’ve never left the
art world. I’m in the real art world.”

How much do we need to really know about the artists we admire? I
thought of this recently when reading a Pitchfork profile of Dan Bejar
of the music act Destroyer, who claims that some of his best shows have
resulted when he turns his back to the audience and sings toward his
bandmates. “As a member of the audience for all the shows I’ve ever
seen, I just wanted to be flummoxed. That’s all I ever ask from art.
Just stagger me, stop me in my tracks. We don’t need to go through
something together,” [he
said](https://pitchfork.com/features/profile/destroyer-dan-bejar-have-we-met-interview/).
But surely we do go through something together — or at least, that’s the
spell cast by the song or novel or film we “love”: The very language we
use to talk about art is suggestive of romance. It’s difficult for me —
hearing the voice, reading the words — not to feel a connection to the
person behind any creative work that succeeds in truly flummoxing me.
Like love, this experience of art is rare and real and wonderful and
ultimately unpin-downable; like love, it is privately felt and personal
in origin yet publicly affirmed by our culture. And so we seek to know
more, to maybe even find ourselves in the artist’s story and become part
of its mystery. It’s worth the risk, we think, of actually solving it.

Megan O’Grady is a writer at large for T Magazine.

<div class="rad-related">

<div class="rad-related-items">

[](https://www.nytimes.com/2017/11/14/t-magazine/artistic-recluse-jd-salinger-thomas-pynchon.html)

#### Is the Age of the Artistic Recluse Over?<span class="rad-related-date">Nov. 14, 2017</span>

![](https://static01.nyt.com/images/2017/11/14/t-magazine/14tmag-reclusive-slide-NWY5/14tmag-reclusive-slide-NWY5-mediumThreeByTwo210-v2.jpg)
[](https://www.nytimes.com/2018/02/09/t-magazine/art/steve-cannon-david-hammons.html)

#### A Blind Publisher, Poet — and Link to the Lower East Side’s Cultural History<span class="rad-related-date">Feb. 9, 2018</span>

![](https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/02/09/t-magazine/cannon-slide-OOG0/cannon-slide-OOG0-mediumThreeByTwo210.jpg)
[](https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2017/02/06/t-magazine/jenny-meirens-margiela-interview.html)

#### The Woman Behind Martin Margiela<span class="rad-related-date">Feb. 6, 2017</span>

![](https://static01.nyt.com/images/2017/02/06/t-magazine/06tmag-jennypromo/06tmag-jennypromo-mediumThreeByTwo210.jpg)

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="rad-article-credits">

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-nav">

<div class="g-chapter ch1">

### We Are Family

#### Chapter 1: <span>Heirs and</span> <span>Alumni</span>

<div class="g-chapter-inner">

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/black-art-galleries.html)

##### The Artists

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/italian-fashion-design-houses.html)

##### The Dynasties

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/gordon-parks.html)

##### The Directors

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/enrique-olvera-chef.html)

##### The Disciples

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/royal-academy-antwerp.html)

##### The Graduates

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-chapter ch2">

#### Chapter 2: <span>Reunions</span> <span>and Reconsiderations</span>

<div class="g-chapter-inner">

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/ninth-street-greenwich-village-neighbors.html)

##### The Neighbors

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/omen-restaurant-nyc.html)

##### The Regulars

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/hair-musical-broadway.html)

##### Hair (1967)

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/sweeney-todd-revival.html)

##### Sweeney Todd (2005 Revival)

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/daughters-of-the-dust.html)

##### Daughters of the Dust (1991)

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-chapter ch3">

#### Chapter 3: <span>Legends</span> <span>Pioneers and</span> <span>Survivors</span>

<div class="g-chapter-inner">

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/butch-stud-lesbian.html)

##### The Renegades

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/act-up-aids.html)

##### The Activists

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/artist-recluse.html)

##### The Shadows

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/black-actresses-bassett-berry-blige-henson-whitfield-elise.html)

##### The Veterans

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-chapter ch4">

#### Chapter 4: <span>The New</span> <span>Guard</span>

<div class="g-chapter-inner">

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/asian-american-fashion-designers.html)

##### The Designers

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](13tmag-beauties.html)

##### The Beauties

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/nyc-downtown-nightlife-party-scene.html)

##### The Scenemakers

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/maria-cornejo-olivier-rousteing-telfar-clemens-alessandro-michele.html#olivier-rousteing-and-co)

##### Olivier Rousteing and Co.

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/maria-cornejo-olivier-rousteing-telfar-clemens-alessandro-michele.html#maria-cornejo-and-co)

##### Maria Cornejo and Co.

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/maria-cornejo-olivier-rousteing-telfar-clemens-alessandro-michele.html#telfar-clemens-and-co)

##### Telfar Clemens and Co.

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/maria-cornejo-olivier-rousteing-telfar-clemens-alessandro-michele.html#alessandro-michele-and-co)

##### Alessandro Michele and Co.

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/foreign-correspondents.html)

##### The Journalists

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div id="standalone-footer">

<div>

<div>

<div id="interactive-footer-wrapper">

<div class="css-i29ckm">

<div class="interactive-sharetools css-9z2bwm" role="toolbar" data-aria-label="Social Media Share buttons, Save button, and Comments Panel with current comment count" data-testid="share-tools">

  - 
  - 
  - 
  - 
    
    <div class="css-6n7j50">
    
    </div>

</div>

</div>

<div>

</div>

<div id="bottom-wrapper" class="css-1ede5it">

<div id="bottom-slug" class="css-l9onyx">

Advertisement

</div>

[Continue reading the main story](#after-bottom)

<div id="bottom" class="ad bottom-wrapper" style="text-align:center;height:100%;display:block;min-height:90px">

</div>

<div id="after-bottom">

</div>

</div>

## Site Index

<div>

</div>

## Site Information Navigation

  - [© <span>2020</span> <span>The New York Times
    Company</span>](https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice)

<!-- end list -->

  - [NYTCo](https://www.nytco.com/)
  - [Contact
    Us](https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us)
  - [Work with us](https://www.nytco.com/careers/)
  - [Advertise](https://nytmediakit.com/)
  - [T Brand Studio](http://www.tbrandstudio.com/)
  - [Your Ad
    Choices](https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy#how-do-i-manage-trackers)
  - [Privacy](https://www.nytimes.com/privacy)
  - [Terms of
    Service](https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service)
  - [Terms of
    Sale](https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale)
  - [Site Map](https://spiderbites.nytimes.com)
  - [Help](https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us)
  - [Subscriptions](https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW)

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>
