\hypertarget{comments}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{commentsContainer}{Comments}}{Comments}}\label{comments}}

\href{}{The Esteemed Black Actresses Who Finally Have the
Spotlight}\href{}{Skip to Comments}

The comments section is closed. To submit a letter to the editor for
publication, write to
\href{mailto:letters@nytimes.com}{\nolinkurl{letters@nytimes.com}}.

\hypertarget{the-esteemed-black-actresses-who-finally-have-the-spotlight}{%
\section{The Esteemed Black Actresses Who Finally Have the
Spotlight}\label{the-esteemed-black-actresses-who-finally-have-the-spotlight}}

April 13, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
  \emph{+}
\end{itemize}

Though their journey in Hollywood has been hard and steep, a number of
women have made it to the top. And they're not done yet.

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/culture-issue-2020.html}{We
Are Family}

\hypertarget{chapter-3-legends-pioneers-and-survivors}{%
\subparagraph{Chapter 3: Legends Pioneers and
Survivors}\label{chapter-3-legends-pioneers-and-survivors}}

\hypertarget{previous}{%
\subparagraph{Previous}\label{previous}}

\hypertarget{next}{%
\subparagraph{Next}\label{next}}

\hypertarget{the-esteemed-black-actresses-who-finally-have-the-spotlight-1}{%
\section{The Esteemed Black Actresses Who Finally Have the
Spotlight}\label{the-esteemed-black-actresses-who-finally-have-the-spotlight-1}}

\hypertarget{the-veterans}{%
\subsection{The Veterans}\label{the-veterans}}

The journey of black actresses in Hollywood is hard and steep, though a
number of women have fought the odds to the top over long and
distinguished careers. They're not done yet.

By Brian Keith Jackson

April 13, 2020

SHARE

Extraordinary African-American actresses, including Halle Berry, Angela
Bassett and Taraji P. Henson, remember their first roles and discuss the
solidarity they feel with one another. Video by Scott J. Ross

IN 2002, WHEN
\href{https://tmagazine.blogs.nytimes.com/2012/10/18/roles-of-a-lifetime-halle-berry/}{Halle
Berry} became the first black woman to win a best actress Academy Award
for her role as the forever-yearning widow Leticia Musgrove in
``\href{https://www.nytimes.com/watching/titles/movies/1000037537}{Monster's
Ball},'' she wept as she accepted her golden statue. Many black
Americans immediately identified with that well of emotion, which
reflected both the toll of her journey and the hope for more change to
come.

But Hollywood has always been a mercurial experiment, with white men
holding the reins of power, making progress, inclusion and diversity at
best a seasonal proposition. Almost 20 years on, Berry remains the only
African-American woman to win a best actress Oscar. And yet there is an
increasing sense that it is the Academy that is behind the times. We are
living in an age in which some of our greatest, most successful actors
are black women, near 50 or older, veterans who have fought against an
industry that for much of its history would have rather ignored them.
Some of them, like
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2016/12/08/magazine/great-performers-la-noir-photo-essay.html}{Taraji
P. Henson} and Berry, began with bit parts on TV. Others, like
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2014/09/14/magazine/viola-davis.html}{Viola
Davis}, who got her start in the theater, or
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2016/05/19/t-magazine/entertainment/90s-hip-hop-stylist-misa-hylton.html}{Mary
J. Blige}, who had almost 10 years of hit singles to her name before
being cast in her first film role, came to cinema later in their
careers. Many of these actresses were first reliable character actors or
supporting players in the 1980s and '90s, during a shift in what studios
deemed bankable, a time that saw a spate of films targeted to black
audiences: ``Jungle Fever'' (1991), Berry's big-screen debut;
``\href{https://www.nytimes.com/watching/titles/movies/1000188146}{What's
Love Got to Do With It}'' (1993), with
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/07/26/arts/angela-bassett-otherhood-911-black-panther.html}{Angela
Bassett}'s star-making turn as
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/topic/person/tina-turner}{Tina Turner};
``\href{https://www.nytimes.com/watching/titles/movies/1000104774}{Set
It Off}'' (1996), with
\href{https://www.imdb.com/name/nm0253708/}{Kimberly Elise} as a bank
robber; and
``\href{https://www.nytimes.com/watching/titles/eves-bayou}{Eve's
Bayou}'' (1997), with \href{https://www.imdb.com/name/nm0005551/}{Lynn
Whitfield} as the matriarch of an upper-middle-class Southern family.
This was a kind of golden era, allowing this generation of black
American actresses --- women who also include
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/01/03/movies/alfre-woodard-clemency.html}{Alfre
Woodard},
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2016/03/06/arts/television/regina-king-profile.html}{Regina
King} and
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2015/05/10/arts/television/queen-latifah-stars-in-bessie-on-hbo.html}{Queen
Latifah} --- to showcase their depth on a scale previously unimaginable.

When money for projects with black casts dried up in Hollywood by the
end of the '90s, these actresses carried on, forced to look farther down
the thoroughfare than merely the steps they could see. To be a black
woman in Hollywood is to have to be steadfast in the pursuit of one's
craft, in the search for basic opportunities. They have had to toil
through the intricacies of a doubly marginalized existence --- being
black and being a woman --- and have rarely been allowed to fully extol
the complexities of their truth for the screen.

The T List \textbar{}

Sign up here

THIS HAS BEEN the historical situation for women of color in Hollywood,
all of whom are cupped in the palms of mighty forebears. There was
Hattie McDaniel, the first African-American
\href{https://www.hollywoodreporter.com/features/oscars-first-black-winner-accepted-774335}{to
win an Academy Award}, for her role as ``Mammy'' in
``\href{https://www.nytimes.com/watching/titles/gone-with-the-wind}{Gone
With the Wind}'' (1939). Then there was the singer and actress
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2010/05/10/arts/music/10horne.html}{Lena
Horne} of
``\href{https://www.nytimes.com/watching/titles/stormy-weather}{Stormy
Weather}'' and
``\href{https://www.nytimes.com/watching/titles/movies/1000118508}{Cabin
in the Sky},'' both from 1943 and early exceptions in mainstream
Hollywood as popular films with black casts. Or
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/10/04/arts/television/diahann-carroll-dead.html}{Diahann
Carroll}, the star of the sitcom ``Julia'' (1968-71), the first black
woman to lead a network series. And of course, there's
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/1965/09/09/archives/dorothy-dandridge-found-dead-a-t-her-apartment-in-hollywood-singer.html}{Dorothy
Dandridge}, the first black woman nominated for a best actress Oscar for
her role in 1954's
``\href{https://www.nytimes.com/watching/titles/movies/1000018520}{Carmen
Jones},'' a woman presciently portrayed by Berry in a 1999 biopic, and
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2013/09/29/fashion/for-cicely-tyson-and-kerry-washington-roles-of-a-lifetime.html}{Cicely
Tyson}, who at 95 has played strong leading roles throughout her nearly
seven-decade career. Like their predecessors, these women were
journeymen out of necessity, often lone souls in their creative
environments.

As the Hollywood landscape is, again, recognizing the need for diversity
in front of and behind the camera, it is these same veterans who have
gone from supporting players to marquee names, the ones who have proven
themselves able to carry a film or show to commercial and critical
success almost single-handedly. They have always had the range and
ability to do so, but now they also have leverage. Bassett, Davis and
Henson all helm major network dramas, and last year, King starred in the
limited-series adaptation of
``\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/10/16/arts/television/watchmen-comic-history.html}{Watchmen}.''
Blige was nominated for an Oscar for her role in the 2017 period drama
``\href{https://www.nytimes.com/watching/titles/mudbound}{Mudbound}.''
Their persistence has rippled outward, altering the entire industry,
forcing a conversation about power in Hollywood. The last few years have
also seen a surge in black women --- including Berry,
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/06/20/movies/ava-duvernay-movies.html}{Ava
DuVernay},
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/07/20/business/media/shonda-rhimes-netflix-series.html}{Shonda
Rhimes} and
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/12/02/movies/lena-waithe-queen-and-slim.html}{Lena
Waithe} --- serving as producers, directors and show runners.

The notion of having a critical mass of black actresses over the age of
50 isn't something we could have fathomed three decades ago. It would
have been hard to predict even when Berry was accepting her best actress
Oscar. In her speech, she dedicated her win to ``every nameless,
faceless woman of color that now has a chance because this door tonight
has been opened.''
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/02/07/movies/essence-lunch-alfre-woodard.html}{That
door is still closed} for many, and in an era where
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/02/06/movies/oscarssowhite-history.html}{\#OscarsSoWhite
trends annually}, there is still work to be done. But in refusing to be
sidelined, these women charted a map of an altogether new territory ---
and changed the terms of who gets to be at the top.

Not pictured: Debbie Allen, **** Regina King, Queen Latifah, ****
Mo'Nique, Phylicia Rashad, Jill Scott and Cicely Tyson.

Brian Keith Jackson is a novelist and essayist. Racquel Chevremont is a
collector, art adviser and co-founder of Deux Femmes Noires, a platform
that brings visibility to artists of color and queer artists. Mickalene
Thomas is an award-winning multidisciplinary artist who addresses female
sexuality, beauty and power in her work. She is the co-founder of Deux
Femmes Noires. Producer: 3 Star Productions. On the cover only: Viola
Davis: Hair: Jamika Wilson. Makeup: Autumn Moultrie at the Wall Group.
In the group photo, from left to right: Taraji P. Henson: Hair: Tym
Wallace. Makeup: Ashunta Sheriff. Mary J. Blige: Hair: Tym Wallace.
Makeup: D'Andre Michael. Angela Bassett: Hair: Randy Stodghill at Opus
Beauty using Oribe. Makeup: D'Andre Michael. Lynn Whitfield: Hair: Larry
Sims. Makeup: Rebekah Aladdin. Makeup assistant: Rachel Aladdin. Halle
Berry: Hair: Sara Seward. Makeup: Jorge Monroy. Manicure: Nettie Davis.
Kimberly Elise: Hair: Nina J Potts at SixK.LA. Makeup: Kym Nicole Oubre.
Set braids: Courtney Elzy. Set design by Jill Nicholls.

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/08/09/t-magazine/allison-janney-idina-menzel-female-actresses.html}{}

\hypertarget{these-actresses-dominate-not-just-the-stage-but-the-screen-tooaug-9-2018}{%
\paragraph{These Actresses Dominate Not Just the Stage, but the Screen
TooAug. 9,
2018}\label{these-actresses-dominate-not-just-the-stage-but-the-screen-tooaug-9-2018}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/08/09/t-magazine/09tmag-women/09tmag-women-mediumThreeByTwo210.jpg}

\hypertarget{correction-april-13-2020}{%
\subparagraph{\texorpdfstring{\textbf{Correction} April 13,
2020}{Correction April 13, 2020}}\label{correction-april-13-2020}}

\emph{An earlier version of this video included a picture caption that
misidentified an actress. She is Nia Long, not Regina Hall. (The video
now includes an image of Regina Hall.)}

\hypertarget{we-are-family-1}{%
\subsubsection{We Are Family}\label{we-are-family-1}}

\hypertarget{chapter-1-heirs-and-alumni}{%
\paragraph{Chapter 1: Heirs and
Alumni}\label{chapter-1-heirs-and-alumni}}

\href{/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/black-art-galleries.html}{}

\hypertarget{the-artists}{%
\subparagraph{The Artists}\label{the-artists}}

\href{/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/italian-fashion-design-houses.html}{}

\hypertarget{the-dynasties}{%
\subparagraph{The Dynasties}\label{the-dynasties}}

\href{/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/gordon-parks.html}{}

\hypertarget{the-directors}{%
\subparagraph{The Directors}\label{the-directors}}

\href{/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/enrique-olvera-chef.html}{}

\hypertarget{the-disciples}{%
\subparagraph{The Disciples}\label{the-disciples}}

\href{/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/royal-academy-antwerp.html}{}

\hypertarget{the-graduates}{%
\subparagraph{The Graduates}\label{the-graduates}}

\hypertarget{chapter-2-reunions-and-reconsiderations}{%
\paragraph{Chapter 2: Reunions and
Reconsiderations}\label{chapter-2-reunions-and-reconsiderations}}

\href{/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/ninth-street-greenwich-village-neighbors.html}{}

\hypertarget{the-neighbors}{%
\subparagraph{The Neighbors}\label{the-neighbors}}

\href{/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/omen-restaurant-nyc.html}{}

\hypertarget{the-regulars}{%
\subparagraph{The Regulars}\label{the-regulars}}

\href{/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/hair-musical-broadway.html}{}

\hypertarget{hair-1967}{%
\subparagraph{Hair (1967)}\label{hair-1967}}

\href{/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/sweeney-todd-revival.html}{}

\hypertarget{sweeney-todd-2005-revival}{%
\subparagraph{Sweeney Todd (2005
Revival)}\label{sweeney-todd-2005-revival}}

\href{/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/daughters-of-the-dust.html}{}

\hypertarget{daughters-of-the-dust-1991}{%
\subparagraph{Daughters of the Dust
(1991)}\label{daughters-of-the-dust-1991}}

\hypertarget{chapter-3-legends-pioneers-and-survivors-1}{%
\paragraph{Chapter 3: Legends Pioneers and
Survivors}\label{chapter-3-legends-pioneers-and-survivors-1}}

\href{/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/butch-stud-lesbian.html}{}

\hypertarget{the-renegades}{%
\subparagraph{The Renegades}\label{the-renegades}}

\href{/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/act-up-aids.html}{}

\hypertarget{the-activists}{%
\subparagraph{The Activists}\label{the-activists}}

\href{/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/artist-recluse.html}{}

\hypertarget{the-shadows}{%
\subparagraph{The Shadows}\label{the-shadows}}

\href{/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/black-actresses-bassett-berry-blige-henson-whitfield-elise.html}{}

\hypertarget{the-veterans-1}{%
\subparagraph{The Veterans}\label{the-veterans-1}}

\hypertarget{chapter-4-the-new-guard}{%
\paragraph{Chapter 4: The New Guard}\label{chapter-4-the-new-guard}}

\href{/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/asian-american-fashion-designers.html}{}

\hypertarget{the-designers}{%
\subparagraph{The Designers}\label{the-designers}}

\href{13tmag-beauties.html}{}

\hypertarget{the-beauties}{%
\subparagraph{The Beauties}\label{the-beauties}}

\href{/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/nyc-downtown-nightlife-party-scene.html}{}

\hypertarget{the-scenemakers}{%
\subparagraph{The Scenemakers}\label{the-scenemakers}}

\href{/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/maria-cornejo-olivier-rousteing-telfar-clemens-alessandro-michele.html\#olivier-rousteing-and-co}{}

\hypertarget{olivier-rousteing-and-co}{%
\subparagraph{Olivier Rousteing and
Co.}\label{olivier-rousteing-and-co}}

\href{/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/maria-cornejo-olivier-rousteing-telfar-clemens-alessandro-michele.html\#maria-cornejo-and-co}{}

\hypertarget{maria-cornejo-and-co}{%
\subparagraph{Maria Cornejo and Co.}\label{maria-cornejo-and-co}}

\href{/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/maria-cornejo-olivier-rousteing-telfar-clemens-alessandro-michele.html\#telfar-clemens-and-co}{}

\hypertarget{telfar-clemens-and-co}{%
\subparagraph{Telfar Clemens and Co.}\label{telfar-clemens-and-co}}

\href{/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/maria-cornejo-olivier-rousteing-telfar-clemens-alessandro-michele.html\#alessandro-michele-and-co}{}

\hypertarget{alessandro-michele-and-co}{%
\subparagraph{Alessandro Michele and
Co.}\label{alessandro-michele-and-co}}

\href{/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/foreign-correspondents.html}{}

\hypertarget{the-journalists}{%
\subparagraph{The Journalists}\label{the-journalists}}

\textbf{Correction:}~April 13, 2020

An earlier version of this video included a picture caption for an image
of a black actress. She is Nia Long, not Regina Hall.

Write a comment

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
