<div id="app">

<div id="standalone-header">

<div class="css-11kjks6" role="region" data-aria-label="comments panel" tabindex="-1">

<div class="css-1h21wu5">

<div class="css-akb3vb">

<div>

<div class="css-1yip8nf">

## [Comments](#commentsContainer)

[The Butches and Studs Who’ve Defied the Male Gaze and Redefined
Culture]()[Skip to Comments]()

<div class="css-c32q7m">

The comments section is closed. To submit a letter to the editor for
publication, write to <letters@nytimes.com>.

</div>

</div>

<div class="css-1bxnhxc">

</div>

<div class="css-1yip8nf">

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div id="site-content" role="main">

# The Butches and Studs Who’ve Defied the Male Gaze and Redefined Culture

<div class="css-1vegfwe interactive-byline-container">

<div class="interactive-byline css-103zbxs">

April 13, 2020

</div>

</div>

<div id="interactive-standalone-sharetools" class="css-wkcogx">

<div>

<div class="interactive-sharetools css-9z2bwm" role="toolbar" data-aria-label="Social Media Share buttons, Save button, and Comments Panel with current comment count" data-testid="share-tools">

  - 
  - 
  - 
  - 
    
    <div class="css-6n7j50">
    
    </div>

  - *<span class="css-1dtr3u3">+</span>*

</div>

</div>

</div>

Without their presence and contributions, queer aesthetics — and the
arts at large — would be far less rich.

<div id="butch-stud-lesbian" class="section css-l08pwh interactive-minimal interactive-content interactive-size-medium">

<div class="css-17ih8de interactive-body">

<div class="rad-article g-article-ch3" data-chapter="ch3" data-slug="13tmag-renegades">

<div class="g-header">

<div class="g-header-meta">

###### [We Are Family](https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/culture-issue-2020.html)

##### <span class="rad-ch-label">Chapter 3: </span><span>Legends</span> <span>Pioneers and</span> <span>Survivors</span>

</div>

<div class="g-header-nav">

##### Previous

##### Next

</div>

</div>

<div class="rad-cover stacked-cover">

<div class="rad-cover-main">

<div class="rad-head-wrap">

# The Butches and Studs Who’ve Defied the Male Gaze and Redefined Culture

## <span>The Renegades</span>

Queer culture and the arts would be much poorer without the presence and
contribution of butch and stud lesbians, whose identity is both its own
aesthetic and a defiant repudiation of the male gaze.

<span class="g-byline-name" itemprop="name">By Kerry Manders</span>

</div>

<div class="rad-byline-wrap">

<div class="rad-date-share">

April 13, 2020

<span>SHARE</span>

</div>

</div>

<div class="rad-video-wrapper" data-safe-area="{&quot;top&quot;:0,&quot;right&quot;:0,&quot;bottom&quot;:0,&quot;left&quot;:0}">

<div id="rad-video-butch-stud-lesbians" class="rad-vhs-video" name="butch-stud-lesbians" data-env="" data-cinemagraph="false" loop="false" muted="false" autoplay="false" controls="true" data-loader="true" data-ratio="none">

</div>

</div>

<div class="rad-caption">

<div class="rad-caption-wrapper">

<span class="rad-caption-text">Eileen Myles, Roxane Gay, Lea DeLaria and
others discuss their aesthetic, their identity and their place within
L.G.B.T.Q. history.</span>
<span class="rad-credit" itemprop="copyrightHolder">Video by Caroline
Berler</span>

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="rad-story-body">

“BUTCH” HAS LONG been the name we’ve given a certain kind — *that* kind
— of lesbian. The old adage applies: You know her when you see her.
She wears men’s clothing, short hair, no makeup. Butch is an aesthetic,
but it also conveys an attitude and energy. Both a gender and a
sexuality, butchness is about the body but also transcends it: “We exist
in this realm of masculinity that has nothing to do with cis men —
that’s the part only we \[butches\] know how to talk about,” says the
42-year-old writer, former Olympic swimmer and men’s wear model [Casey
Legler](https://www.nytimes.com/2018/08/08/style/casey-legler-olympic-swimmer-model.html).
“Many people don’t even know how to ask questions about who we are, or
about what it means to be us.”

Many of us wear the butch label with a certain self-consciousness,
fearing the term doesn’t quite fit — like a new pair of jeans, it’s
either too loose or too tight. The graphic novelist [Alison
Bechdel](https://www.nytimes.com/2016/02/05/t-magazine/entertainment/my-10-favorite-books-alison-bechdel.html),
59, doesn’t refer to herself as butch but understands why others do.
“It’s a lovely word, ‘butch’: I’ll take it, if you give it to me,”
she says. “But I’m afraid I’m not butch enough to really claim it.
Because part of being butch is *owning* it, the whole aura around it.”

What does owning it look like? Decades before genderless fashion became
[its own
style](https://www.nytimes.com/2019/08/05/t-magazine/fall-fashion-androgyny.html),
butches were wearing denim and white tees, leather jackets and work
boots, wallet chains and gold necklaces. It isn’t just about what you’re
wearing, though, but how: Butchness embodies a certain swagger, a
1950s-inspired “[Rebel Without a
Cause](https://www.nytimes.com/watching/recommendations/watching-film-rebel-without-a-cause)”
confidence. In doing so, these women — and butches who don’t identify as
women — created something new and distinct, an identity you could
recognize even if you didn’t know what to call it.

By refuting conventionally gendered aesthetics, butchness expands the
possibilities for women of all sizes, races, ethnicities and abilities.
“I always think of the first butch lesbian I ever saw,” says the
33-year-old actor [Roberta
Colindrez](https://artsbeat.blogs.nytimes.com/2014/08/07/fun-home-will-reach-broadway-just-before-tonys-deadline/).
“This beautiful butch came into the grocery store and she was built like
a brick house. Short hair, polo shirt, cargo pants and that ring of keys
… It was the first time I saw the possibility of who I was.” And yet, to
many people, “butch style” remains an oxymoron: There’s a prevalent
assumption that we’re all fat, frumpy fashion disasters — our baseball
caps and baggy pants suggest to others that we don’t care about
self-presentation. But it’s not that we’re careless; it’s that unlike,
say, the gay white men who have been given all too much credit for
influencing contemporary visual culture, we’re simply not out to appease
the male gaze. We disregard and reject the confines of a sexualized and
commodified femininity.

![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)

<div class="g-ad rad-ad-wrapper">

<div id="mid1" class="place-ad" data-position="mid1" data-size-key="default">

</div>

</div>

ETYMOLOGICALLY, “butch” is believed to be an abbreviation of “butcher,”
American slang for “tough kid” in the early 20th century and likely
inspired by the outlaw [Butch
Cassidy](https://www.nytimes.com/watching/recommendations/watching-film-butch-cassidy-and-the-sundance-kid).
By the early 1940s, the word was used as a pejorative to describe
“aggressive” or “macho” women, but lesbians reclaimed it almost
immediately, using it with pride at 1950s-era bars such as Manhattan’s
[Pony Stable
Inn](https://www.nyclgbtsites.org/site/mad-hatter-pony-stable-inn/) and
Peg’s Place in San Francisco. At these spots, where cocktails cost 10
cents and police raids were a regular occurrence, identifying yourself
as either butch or femme was a prerequisite for participating in the
scene.

These butches were, in part, inspired by 19th-century cross-dressers —
then called male impersonators or transvestites — who presented and
lived fully as men in an era when passing was a crucial survival tactic.
We can also trace butchness back to the androgynous female artists of
early 20th-century Paris, including the writer [Gertrude
Stein](https://www.nytimes.com/topic/person/gertrude-stein) and the
painter [Romaine
Brooks](https://americanart.si.edu/artist/romaine-brooks-599). But it
wasn’t until the 1960s and early 1970s that butches, themselves at the
intersection of the burgeoning civil, gay and women’s rights movements,
became a more visible and viable community.

From their earliest incarnations, butches faced brutal discrimination
and oppression, not only from outside their community but also from
within. A certain brand of (mostly white) lesbian feminism dominant in
the late ’70s and early ’80s marginalized certain sorts of “otherness” —
working-class lesbians, lesbians of color and masculine-of-center women.
They pilloried butchness as inextricably misogynist and butch-femme
relationships as dangerous replications of heteronormative roles. (Such
rhetoric has resurfaced, as trans men are regularly accused of being
anti-feminist in their desire to become the so-called enemy.) Challenged
yet again to defend their existence and further define themselves,
butches emerged from this debate emboldened, thriving in the late ’80s
and early ’90s as women’s studies programs — and, later, gender and
queer studies departments — gained traction on North American and
European college campuses.

> “It’s a lovely word, ‘butch’: I’ll take it, if you give it to me,”
> says Alison Bechdel. “But I’m afraid I’m not butch enough to really
> claim it. Because part of being butch is *owning* it, the whole aura
> around it.”

The ’90s were in fact a transformative decade for the butch community.
In 1990, the American philosopher Judith Butler published her
groundbreaking “[Gender Trouble: Feminism and the Subversion of
Identity](https://www.routledge.com/Gender-Trouble-Feminism-and-the-Subversion-of-Identity-1st-Edition/Butler/p/book/9780415389556),”
and her theories about gender were soon translated and popularized for
the masses. In her academic work, Butler argues that gender and
sexuality are both constructed and performative; butch identity, as
female masculinity, subverts the notion that masculinity is the natural
and exclusive purview of the male body. Soon after, butch imagery
infiltrated the culture at large. The August 1993 issue of Vanity Fair
featured the straight supermodel [Cindy
Crawford](https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2015/10/21/t-magazine/21taketwo-degrasse-crawford.html),
in a black maillot, straddling and shaving the butch icon [K.D.
Lang](https://www.nytimes.com/topic/person/k-d-lang). That same year,
the writer [Leslie
Feinberg](https://www.nytimes.com/2014/11/25/nyregion/leslie-feinberg-writer-and-transgender-activist-dies-at-65.html)
published “[Stone Butch
Blues](https://microcosmpublishing.com/catalog/books/10392),” a now
classic novel about butch life in 1970s-era New York. In Manhattan,
comedians such as [Lea
DeLaria](https://www.nytimes.com/2006/04/30/theater/girl-youre-a-man-now.html)
and drag kings such as Murray Hill took to the stage; it was also the
heyday of Bechdel’s “[Dykes to Watch Out
For](https://www.indiebound.org/book/9780618968800),” the serialized
comic strip she started in 1983. In 1997, [Ellen
DeGeneres](https://www.nytimes.com/topic/person/ellen-degeneres), still
the most famous of butches, came out. Two years later, Judith “Jack”
Halberstam and Del LaGrace Volcano published “[The Drag King
Book](https://www.abebooks.com/9781852426071/Drag-King-Book-Halberstam-Judith-1852426071/plp)”
and the director [Kimberly
Peirce](https://www.nytimes.com/2013/09/29/magazine/carrie-is-back-so-is-kimberly-peirce.html)
released her breakthrough film, “[Boys Don’t
Cry](https://www.nytimes.com/watching/titles/movies/1000037931)”; its
straight cisgender star, Hilary Swank, went on to win an Oscar for her
portrayal of Brandon Teena, a role that still [incites contentious
debates](https://www.nytimes.com/2019/10/09/movies/boys-dont-cry-anniversary.html)
about the nebulous boundaries between butch and [trans
identity](https://www.nytimes.com/2020/02/04/t-magazine/trans-actors.html).
These artists and their legacies are the cornerstones of our community.
As Legler says, “This is where we’ve come from, and the folks we look
back to. If you identify with that lineage, then we’d love to have you.”

LIKE ANY QUEER subculture, butchness is vastly different now than it was
three decades ago — though the codes have been tweaked and refined over
the years, younger butches continue to take them in new and varied
directions: They may experiment with their personas from day to day,
switching fluidly between masculine and feminine presentation. There are
“stone butches,” a label that doesn’t refer to coldness, as is often
assumed, but to a desire to touch rather than to be touched — to give
rather than receive — and is considered slightly more masculine than
“soft butch” on the Futch Scale, a meme born in 2018 that attempted to
parse the gradations from “high femme” to “stone butch.” (“Futch,” for
“femme/butch,” is square in the middle.) And while there remains some
truth to butch stereotypes — give us a plaid flannel shirt any day of
the week — that once-static portrait falls apart under scrutiny and
reflection. Not every butch has short hair, can change a tire, desires a
femme. Some butches are bottoms. Some butches are bi. Some butches are
boys.

Different bodies own their butchness differently, but even a singular
body might do or be butch differently over time. We move between poles
as our feelings about — and language for — ourselves change. “In my
early 20s, I identified as a stone butch,” says the 45-year-old writer
[Roxane Gay](https://www.nytimes.com/column/roxane-gay). “In adulthood,
I’ve come back to butch in terms of how I see myself in the world and in
my relationship, so I think of myself as soft butch now.” Peirce, 52,
adds that this continuum is as much an internal as an external sliding
scale: “I’ve never aspired to a binary,” she says. “From day one, the
idea of being a boy or a girl never made sense. The ever-shifting
signifiers of neither or both are what create meaning and complexity.”

> We rarely see butches depicted *in* or *as* community … but when you
> talk to butches, a more nuanced story emerges, one of deep and abiding
> camaraderie and connection.

Indeed, butch fluidity is especially resonant in our era of widespread
transphobia. Legler, who uses they/them pronouns, is a “trans-butch
identified person — no surgery, no hormones.” Today, the interconnected
spectrums of gender and queerness are as vibrant and diverse in language
as they are in expression — genderqueer, transmasc, nonbinary,
gender-nonconforming. Yet butches have always called themselves and been
called by many names: bull dyke, diesel dyke, bulldagger, boi, daddy and
so on. Language evolves, “flowing in time and changing constantly as new
generations come along and social structures shift,” Bechdel says.

If it’s necessary to think historically, it’s also imperative to think
contextually. Compounding the usual homophobia and misogyny, black and
brown butches must contend with racist assumptions: “Black women often
get read as butch whether they are butch or not,” Gay says. “Black women
in general are not seen, so black butchness tends to be doubly
invisible. Except for studs: They’re very visible,” she adds, referring
to a separate but related term used predominantly by black or Latinx
butches (though, unsurprisingly, white butches have appropriated it) who
are seen as “harder” in their heightened masculinity and attitude. Gay
notes that “people tend to assume if you’re a black butch, you’re a stud
and that’s it,” which is ultimately untrue. Still, butch legibility
remains a paradox: As the most identifiable of lesbians — femmes often
“pass” as straight, whether they want to or not — we are nonetheless
maligned and erased for our failure of femininity, our refusal to be the
right kind of woman.

![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)

ANOTHER LINGERING stereotype, one born from “Stone Butch Blues” and its
more coded literary forebears, particularly [Radclyffe
Hall](https://www.britannica.com/biography/Radclyffe-Hall)’s “[The Well
of
Loneliness](https://www.penguinrandomhouse.com/books/73965/the-well-of-loneliness-by-radclyffe-hall/)”
(1928), is the butch as a tragic and isolated figure. She is either cast
out by a dominant society that does not — will not — ever see her or
accept her, or she self-isolates as a protective response to a world
that continually and unrelentingly disparages her.

When a butch woman *does* appear in mainstream culture, it’s usually
alongside her other: the femme lesbian. Without the femme and the
contrast she underscores, the butch is “inherently uncommodifiable,”
Bechdel says, since two butches together is just a step “too queer.” We
rarely see butches depicted *in* or *as* community, an especially
sobering observation given the closure of so many lesbian bars over the
past two decades. But when you talk to butches, a more nuanced story
emerges, one of deep and abiding camaraderie and connection. Despite the
dearth of representation, butch love thrives — in the anonymous, knowing
glances across the subway platform when we recognize someone like us,
and in the bedroom, too. “Many of my longest friendships are with people
who register somewhere on the butch scale,” Peirce says. “We’re like
married couples who fell in love with each other as friends.”

Legler, for their part, recognizes a “lone wolf” effect, one in which
some young queers initially love “being the only butch in the room.” In
organizing the group portrait that accompanies this essay over the past
months, Legler was curious “what it would be like for butches to just
show up together and to be able to display all of their power, all of
their sexiness, all of their charisma, without having it be mitigated in
some way.” And not only for butches of an older generation, but for
those still figuring things out, transforming the scene in ways that
both defy and inspire their elders. “It’s been centuries in the making,
the fact that we are all O.K.,” Legler adds. “That our bodies get to
exist: We have to celebrate that. You can do more than just survive. You
can *contribute*.”

Not pictured: Rhea Butcher, KNOXXY, Kate Moennig, Catherine Opie, Yvonne
Rainer, Siya, Jill Soloway, Christine Vachon and Lena Waithe.

Kerry Manders is a writer, editor and photographer whose personal work
focuses on queer memory and mourning. Collier Schorr shows with 303
Gallery in New York City. Hair by Tamas Tuzes at L’Atelier NYC and
Latisha Chong. Makeup by Yumi Lee at Streeters. Set design by Jesse
Kaufmann at Frank Reps. Photo production by Hen’s Tooth. Manicure: Ada
Yeung at Bridge Artists. Photo assistants: Jarrod Turner, Ari Sadok and
Tre Cassetta. Digital tech: Stephanie Levy. Stylist’s assistants: Sarah
Lequimener, Andy Polanco and Umi Jiang. Hair assistants: Rachel
Polycarpe and Lamesha Mosely. Makeup assistants: Elika Hilata and Wakana
Ichikawa. Set assistants: Tyler Day and JP Huckins.

<div class="rad-related">

<div class="rad-related-items">

[](https://www.nytimes.com/2019/12/04/t-magazine/gay-artwork-history.html)

#### How Today’s Queer Artists Are Revising History<span class="rad-related-date">Dec. 4, 2019</span>

![](https://static01.nyt.com/images/2019/12/05/t-magazine/05tmag-revisionists-slide-TUME/05tmag-revisionists-slide-TUME-mediumThreeByTwo210.jpg)
[](https://www.nytimes.com/2019/02/07/t-magazine/gay-children-book-authors.html)

#### The Gay History of America’s Classic Children’s Books<span class="rad-related-date">Feb. 7, 2019</span>

![](https://static01.nyt.com/images/2019/01/28/t-magazine/oakImage-1548715394323/oakImage-1548715394323-mediumThreeByTwo210.jpg)
[](https://www.nytimes.com/2018/05/16/t-magazine/food/female-chefs-rita-sodi-jody-williams-erika-nakamura.html)

#### The Female Couples Remaking the Restaurant Industry<span class="rad-related-date">May 16, 2018</span>

![](https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/04/27/t-magazine/27tmag-chefs-slide-6289/27tmag-chefs-slide-6289-mediumThreeByTwo210.jpg)

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="rad-article-credits">

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-nav">

<div class="g-chapter ch1">

### We Are Family

#### Chapter 1: <span>Heirs and</span> <span>Alumni</span>

<div class="g-chapter-inner">

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/black-art-galleries.html)

##### The Artists

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/italian-fashion-design-houses.html)

##### The Dynasties

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/gordon-parks.html)

##### The Directors

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/enrique-olvera-chef.html)

##### The Disciples

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/royal-academy-antwerp.html)

##### The Graduates

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-chapter ch2">

#### Chapter 2: <span>Reunions</span> <span>and Reconsiderations</span>

<div class="g-chapter-inner">

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/ninth-street-greenwich-village-neighbors.html)

##### The Neighbors

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/omen-restaurant-nyc.html)

##### The Regulars

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/hair-musical-broadway.html)

##### Hair (1967)

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/sweeney-todd-revival.html)

##### Sweeney Todd (2005 Revival)

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/daughters-of-the-dust.html)

##### Daughters of the Dust (1991)

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-chapter ch3">

#### Chapter 3: <span>Legends</span> <span>Pioneers and</span> <span>Survivors</span>

<div class="g-chapter-inner">

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/butch-stud-lesbian.html)

##### The Renegades

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/act-up-aids.html)

##### The Activists

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/artist-recluse.html)

##### The Shadows

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/black-actresses-bassett-berry-blige-henson-whitfield-elise.html)

##### The Veterans

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-chapter ch4">

#### Chapter 4: <span>The New</span> <span>Guard</span>

<div class="g-chapter-inner">

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/asian-american-fashion-designers.html)

##### The Designers

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](13tmag-beauties.html)

##### The Beauties

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/nyc-downtown-nightlife-party-scene.html)

##### The Scenemakers

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/maria-cornejo-olivier-rousteing-telfar-clemens-alessandro-michele.html#olivier-rousteing-and-co)

##### Olivier Rousteing and Co.

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/maria-cornejo-olivier-rousteing-telfar-clemens-alessandro-michele.html#maria-cornejo-and-co)

##### Maria Cornejo and Co.

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/maria-cornejo-olivier-rousteing-telfar-clemens-alessandro-michele.html#telfar-clemens-and-co)

##### Telfar Clemens and Co.

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/maria-cornejo-olivier-rousteing-telfar-clemens-alessandro-michele.html#alessandro-michele-and-co)

##### Alessandro Michele and Co.

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/foreign-correspondents.html)

##### The Journalists

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div id="standalone-footer">

<div>

<div>

<div id="interactive-footer-wrapper">

<div class="css-i29ckm">

<div class="css-1oeie6n">

Write a comment

</div>

<div class="interactive-sharetools css-9z2bwm" role="toolbar" data-aria-label="Social Media Share buttons, Save button, and Comments Panel with current comment count" data-testid="share-tools">

  - 
  - 
  - 
  - 
    
    <div class="css-6n7j50">
    
    </div>

</div>

</div>

<div>

</div>

<div id="bottom-wrapper" class="css-1ede5it">

<div id="bottom-slug" class="css-l9onyx">

Advertisement

</div>

[Continue reading the main story](#after-bottom)

<div id="bottom" class="ad bottom-wrapper" style="text-align:center;height:100%;display:block;min-height:90px">

</div>

<div id="after-bottom">

</div>

</div>

## Site Index

<div>

</div>

## Site Information Navigation

  - [© <span>2020</span> <span>The New York Times
    Company</span>](https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice)

<!-- end list -->

  - [NYTCo](https://www.nytco.com/)
  - [Contact
    Us](https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us)
  - [Work with us](https://www.nytco.com/careers/)
  - [Advertise](https://nytmediakit.com/)
  - [T Brand Studio](http://www.tbrandstudio.com/)
  - [Your Ad
    Choices](https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy#how-do-i-manage-trackers)
  - [Privacy](https://www.nytimes.com/privacy)
  - [Terms of
    Service](https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service)
  - [Terms of
    Sale](https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale)
  - [Site Map](https://spiderbites.nytimes.com)
  - [Help](https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us)
  - [Subscriptions](https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW)

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>
