<div id="app">

<div id="standalone-header">

</div>

<div id="site-content" role="main">

# Enrique Olvera and His Culinary Heirs Have Changed How and What We Eat

<div class="css-1vegfwe interactive-byline-container">

<div class="interactive-byline css-103zbxs">

April 13, 2020

</div>

</div>

<div id="interactive-standalone-sharetools" class="css-wkcogx">

<div>

<div class="interactive-sharetools css-9z2bwm" role="toolbar" data-aria-label="Social Media Share buttons, Save button, and Comments Panel with current comment count" data-testid="share-tools">

  - 
  - 
  - 
  - 
    
    <div class="css-6n7j50">
    
    </div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

The influential chef has reconceived Mexican cuisine, both in his own
country and beyond.

<div id="enrique-olvera-chef" class="section css-l08pwh interactive-minimal interactive-content interactive-size-medium">

<div class="css-17ih8de interactive-body">

<div class="rad-article g-article-ch1" data-chapter="ch1" data-slug="13tmag-disciples">

<div class="g-header">

<div class="g-header-meta">

###### [We Are Family](https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/culture-issue-2020.html)

##### <span class="rad-ch-label">Chapter 1: </span><span>Heirs and</span> <span>Alumni</span>

</div>

<div class="g-header-nav">

##### Previous

##### Next

</div>

</div>

<div class="rad-cover stacked-cover">

<div class="rad-cover-main">

<div class="rad-head-wrap">

# Enrique Olvera and His Culinary Heirs Have Changed How and What We Eat

## <span>The Disciples</span>

In the age of the visionary cook-as-auteur, those who have trained under
the Mexican chef Enrique Olvera have not only reconceived their
country’s cuisine — but have gone on to change how and what we want to
eat.

<span class="g-byline-name" itemprop="name">By Ligaya Mishan</span>

</div>

<div class="rad-byline-wrap">

<div class="rad-date-share">

April 13, 2020

<span>SHARE</span>

</div>

</div>

![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)

</div>

</div>

<div class="rad-story-body">

THESE ARE TRIBAL markings, the way one veteran of the kitchen knows
another before a word is said. The penny’s width of a fingertip forever
lost. The scars from the oyster knife through the hand, the skin crisped
by the oven rack, the counter where someone let a hot pan sit too long.

Those who choose cooking as a profession make up a great, sprawling
community that transcends borders. But within it are smaller sects, more
tightly bonded, often centered around a visionary chef who draws
acolytes from around the world with the promise of transforming the way
people eat. This has become an international phenomenon in recent
decades, as the restaurants of certain chefs — from [Ferran
Adrià](https://www.nytimes.com/topic/person/ferran-adria) and his
molecular sorcery at the now shuttered El Bulli on Spain’s Costa Brava
to [René
Redzepi](https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2014/09/10/style/tmagazine/redzepi-searches-for-the-perfect-taco.html)
and his excavation of forgotten Nordic foodways at Noma in Copenhagen to
[Manoella
Buffara](https://www.nytimes.com/2019/09/03/dining/ella-restaurant-manoella-buffara.html)
and her marriage of haute cuisine and social and environmental activism
at Manu in Curitiba, Brazil — have become not just desirable places to
work but rites of passage, imprimaturs for all who pass through them.
But of all these groups of alumni, perhaps none has achieved as much
influence as the chefs who have risen through the kitchens of the
Mexican chef [Enrique
Olvera](https://www.instagram.com/enriqueolveraf/?hl=en). Their
allegiance — to Olvera and his mission of showing the greatness of
Mexican cuisine — goes deeper: a tattoo on the heart.

All restaurants are built on trust; diners must have faith in the
kitchen and in the person who leads it. In an industry that prizes
hands-on experience over schooling, to have trained under a great chef
can be the highest of credentials — a testament to one’s endurance,
technical skill and ideological commitment. Still, not every chef is
willing to be a teacher. Those who command the staunchest loyalty are
the ones who never forget the labor that goes into every dish — who
believe, like Olvera, that their job is to create chefs, not cooks, and
to establish a different kind of lineage.

<div class="rad-related">

<div class="rad-related-header">

###### The T List |

Sign up here

</div>

<div class="rad-related-items">

</div>

</div>

<div class="rad-video-wrapper" data-safe-area="{&quot;top&quot;:0,&quot;right&quot;:0,&quot;bottom&quot;:0,&quot;left&quot;:0}">

<div id="rad-video-13tmag-disciples" class="rad-vhs-video" name="13tmag-disciples" data-env="" data-cinemagraph="true" loop="true" muted="true" autoplay="true" controls="false" data-loader="false" data-ratio="16:9">

</div>

</div>

<div class="rad-caption">

<div class="rad-caption-wrapper">

<span class="rad-caption-text"></span>
<span class="rad-credit" itemprop="copyrightHolder">Tony Floyd</span>

</div>

</div>

IF EVERY TRIBE has an origin story, this one begins two decades ago, on
Calle Francisco Petrarca in Mexico City, when Olvera was 24, barely out
of culinary school, a chef by self-declaration only. To open a
restaurant with such a featherweight résumé was an act of wild ambition,
even hubris. Typically, “you go to cooking school, then go stage” —
apprentice — “for a few years, then open your own place,” Olvera said.
“That’s the opposite of what I did.”

<div class="g-ad rad-ad-wrapper">

<div id="mid11" class="place-ad" data-position="mid11" data-size-key="default">

</div>

</div>

It would be easy to cast Olvera as a kind of prophet, defying convention
and insisting from the start on the power of Mexican cooking. But like a
hero in myth, he had to stumble. The mood in the kitchen was dour at
first, the dining room solemn and underlit. Olvera still relied heavily
on the European techniques he’d been taught in the late ’90s at the
Culinary Institute of America in Hyde Park, N.Y., which were considered
the standard for haute cuisine. Rather than break new ground, he was
“more concerned about simply surviving.” It took years before his
restaurant, [Pujol](https://pujol.com.mx/en/), was enshrined in the
pantheon of the city’s finest — and for Olvera to realize that this
wasn’t enough. After an epiphany in 2004, he turned away from those
European teachings, back to his Mexican heritage, and found a new way to
speak through food.

“Enrique Olvera is not only a mentor to many Mexican chefs — he is the
mentor of Mexico,” said Eduardo García, known as Lalo, who at age 42
runs Máximo Bistrot in Mexico City with his wife, Gabriela López, who
also worked under Olvera. (His kitchens have brokered many marriages.)
The child of migrant workers who became one himself, picking oranges in
Florida, blueberries in Michigan and mushrooms in Pennsylvania, García
went to work for Olvera after he was deported from the United States in
2007. “It blew my mind,” he said, to see Mexican ingredients transformed
into dishes like mole madre, two stark concentric circles of mole — one
newly made and one aged for up to a thousand days — at once avant-garde
and comforting, forward-thinking yet respectful of the past.

Everyone in the kitchen was young. “We wanted to do things right —
because of Enrique but also because of us,” said Jorge Vallejo, who came
to Pujol in 2006, when he was 25, and is today the chef of
[Quintonil](https://quintonil.com/en/restaurant-quintonil/) in Mexico
City, which has been ranked alongside Pujol on the World’s 50 Best
Restaurants list since 2015. (His partner at the restaurant is his wife
and fellow Pujol alum, Alejandra Flores.) To [Daniela
Soto-Innes](https://www.nytimes.com/2019/01/02/t-magazine/daniela-soto-innes-recipes-wellness.html),
who started at Pujol in 2013, at age 19, and is now a partner with
Olvera in his North American restaurants, including
[Cosme](https://www.cosmenyc.com/) in New York and
[Elio](https://eliolv.com/) in Las Vegas, the sense of commitment goes
beyond Olvera to Mexico itself. “Especially because of everything that’s
going on with the government in the U.S.,” she said, “for us to be
representing Mexico outside of Mexico — we’re all together, united.”

As Olvera changed course in the kitchen, he started to take a chance on
cooks with less experience, trusting in their work ethic. Sofía Cortina,
the pastry chef at the restaurant at [Hotel
Carlota](https://hotelcarlota.mx/) in Mexico City (where she works
alongside her fellow Pujol alum Joaquín Cardoso), said that when she
started working with Olvera in 2011, at age 18, “I didn’t even know how
to put my jacket on properly.” The typical kitchen, Olvera said, is
“almost like a monarchy, where there’s this king that everybody needs
to listen to,” but at Pujol, he wanted the learning to be horizontal
rather than vertical, with cooks learning from one another as much as
from the chefs above them. Olvera doesn’t see himself as a mentor,
although the chefs who’ve worked for him continue to seek his advice. “I
tell them to find their own path,” he said, because his career arc was
so atypical. In that sense, they are his teachers, too.

For them in turn, the bond remains, with Olvera and with one another, as
a vanguard changing the way Mexican cuisine is seen not just by the
world but by Mexicans themselves, and as a scrappy family, flaunting
their burns and scars, sharing memories of forcing mole through a
chinois — a task that invariably took several people and ruined whatever
you were wearing — or simply sitting in Olvera’s office talking for
hours about how to make tortillas. “We were suffering together, when
Enrique was mad sometimes; we were scared together,” Cortina said with a
laugh. But mostly the chef remains patient: He listens and tries to give
people “the security of knowing that there’s not just one way of doing
things,” Olvera said, noting that he’s most proud of the fact that the
chefs who have left his kitchens “still have a strong personal voice,”
separate from his own. They have spoken for him. Now they speak for
themselves.

Ligaya Mishan is a writer at large for T Magazine. Tony Floyd is a
commercial photographer and director. Production: Maritza Carbajal.

<div class="rad-related">

<div class="rad-related-items">

[](https://www.nytimes.com/2020/04/13/t-magazine/enrique-olvera-vegetable-soup-recipe.html)

#### Enrique Olvera’s Satisfying, Adaptable Vegetable Soup<span class="rad-related-date">April 13, 2020</span>

![](https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/04/13/t-magazine/13tmag-olvera-recipe/13tmag-olvera-recipe-mediumThreeByTwo210.jpg)
[](https://www.nytimes.com/2019/11/27/t-magazine/spices.html)

#### How Spices Have Made, and Unmade, Empires<span class="rad-related-date">Nov. 27, 2019</span>

![](https://static01.nyt.com/images/2019/11/27/t-magazine/27tmag-spice/27tmag-spice-mediumThreeByTwo210.jpg)
[](https://www.nytimes.com/2020/01/13/t-magazine/best-chef-cook-books.html)

#### The Cookbooks You Need for 2020, as Selected by Chefs<span class="rad-related-date">Jan. 13, 2020</span>

![](https://static01.nyt.com/images/2019/12/19/t-magazine/19tmag-cookbooks-slide-JTJX-copy/19tmag-cookbooks-slide-JTJX-mediumThreeByTwo210.jpg)

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="rad-article-credits">

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-nav">

<div class="g-chapter ch1">

### We Are Family

#### Chapter 1: <span>Heirs and</span> <span>Alumni</span>

<div class="g-chapter-inner">

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/black-art-galleries.html)

##### The Artists

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/italian-fashion-design-houses.html)

##### The Dynasties

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/gordon-parks.html)

##### The Directors

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/enrique-olvera-chef.html)

##### The Disciples

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/royal-academy-antwerp.html)

##### The Graduates

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-chapter ch2">

#### Chapter 2: <span>Reunions</span> <span>and Reconsiderations</span>

<div class="g-chapter-inner">

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/ninth-street-greenwich-village-neighbors.html)

##### The Neighbors

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/omen-restaurant-nyc.html)

##### The Regulars

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/hair-musical-broadway.html)

##### Hair (1967)

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/sweeney-todd-revival.html)

##### Sweeney Todd (2005 Revival)

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/daughters-of-the-dust.html)

##### Daughters of the Dust (1991)

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-chapter ch3">

#### Chapter 3: <span>Legends</span> <span>Pioneers and</span> <span>Survivors</span>

<div class="g-chapter-inner">

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/butch-stud-lesbian.html)

##### The Renegades

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/act-up-aids.html)

##### The Activists

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/artist-recluse.html)

##### The Shadows

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/black-actresses-bassett-berry-blige-henson-whitfield-elise.html)

##### The Veterans

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-chapter ch4">

#### Chapter 4: <span>The New</span> <span>Guard</span>

<div class="g-chapter-inner">

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/asian-american-fashion-designers.html)

##### The Designers

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](13tmag-beauties.html)

##### The Beauties

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/nyc-downtown-nightlife-party-scene.html)

##### The Scenemakers

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/maria-cornejo-olivier-rousteing-telfar-clemens-alessandro-michele.html#olivier-rousteing-and-co)

##### Olivier Rousteing and Co.

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/maria-cornejo-olivier-rousteing-telfar-clemens-alessandro-michele.html#maria-cornejo-and-co)

##### Maria Cornejo and Co.

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/maria-cornejo-olivier-rousteing-telfar-clemens-alessandro-michele.html#telfar-clemens-and-co)

##### Telfar Clemens and Co.

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/maria-cornejo-olivier-rousteing-telfar-clemens-alessandro-michele.html#alessandro-michele-and-co)

##### Alessandro Michele and Co.

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/foreign-correspondents.html)

##### The Journalists

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div id="standalone-footer">

<div>

<div>

<div id="interactive-footer-wrapper">

<div class="css-i29ckm">

<div class="interactive-sharetools css-9z2bwm" role="toolbar" data-aria-label="Social Media Share buttons, Save button, and Comments Panel with current comment count" data-testid="share-tools">

  - 
  - 
  - 
  - 
    
    <div class="css-6n7j50">
    
    </div>

</div>

</div>

<div>

</div>

<div id="bottom-wrapper" class="css-1ede5it">

<div id="bottom-slug" class="css-l9onyx">

Advertisement

</div>

[Continue reading the main story](#after-bottom)

<div id="bottom" class="ad bottom-wrapper" style="text-align:center;height:100%;display:block;min-height:90px">

</div>

<div id="after-bottom">

</div>

</div>

## Site Index

<div>

</div>

## Site Information Navigation

  - [© <span>2020</span> <span>The New York Times
    Company</span>](https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice)

<!-- end list -->

  - [NYTCo](https://www.nytco.com/)
  - [Contact
    Us](https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us)
  - [Work with us](https://www.nytco.com/careers/)
  - [Advertise](https://nytmediakit.com/)
  - [T Brand Studio](http://www.tbrandstudio.com/)
  - [Your Ad
    Choices](https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy#how-do-i-manage-trackers)
  - [Privacy](https://www.nytimes.com/privacy)
  - [Terms of
    Service](https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service)
  - [Terms of
    Sale](https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale)
  - [Site Map](https://spiderbites.nytimes.com)
  - [Help](https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us)
  - [Subscriptions](https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW)

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>
