<div id="app">

<div id="standalone-header">

</div>

<div id="site-content" role="main">

# The Man Who Paved the Way for Black Directors in Hollywood

<div class="css-1vegfwe interactive-byline-container">

<div class="interactive-byline css-103zbxs">

April 13, 2020

</div>

</div>

<div id="interactive-standalone-sharetools" class="css-wkcogx">

<div>

<div class="interactive-sharetools css-9z2bwm" role="toolbar" data-aria-label="Social Media Share buttons, Save button, and Comments Panel with current comment count" data-testid="share-tools">

  - 
  - 
  - 
  - 
    
    <div class="css-6n7j50">
    
    </div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

Gordon Parks’s career made it possible for the next generation to fight
for their rightful place in the mainstream — only to face the same
opposition he had.

<div id="gordon-parks" class="section css-l08pwh interactive-minimal interactive-content interactive-size-medium">

<div class="css-17ih8de interactive-body">

<div class="rad-article g-article-ch1" data-chapter="ch1" data-slug="13tmag-directors">

<div class="g-header">

<div class="g-header-meta">

###### [We Are Family](https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/culture-issue-2020.html)

##### <span class="rad-ch-label">Chapter 1: </span><span>Heirs and</span> <span>Alumni</span>

</div>

<div class="g-header-nav">

##### Previous

##### Next

</div>

</div>

<div class="rad-cover stacked-cover">

<div class="rad-cover-main">

<div class="rad-head-wrap">

# The Man Who Paved the Way for Black Directors in Hollywood

## <span>The Directors</span>

In 1969, Gordon Parks became the first black director to make a major
Hollywood studio film. His career made it possible for the next
generation to fight their way into the mainstream — only to face the
same opposition Parks had.

<span class="g-byline-name" itemprop="name">By [A.O.
Scott](https://www.nytimes.com/by/a-o--scott)</span>

</div>

<div class="rad-byline-wrap">

<div class="rad-date-share">

April 13, 2020

<span>SHARE</span>

</div>

</div>

![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)

</div>

</div>

<div class="rad-story-body">

IN 1968, 20 YEARS after he was hired as Life’s first African-American
staff photographer, [Gordon
Parks](https://www.nytimes.com/topic/person/gordon-parks) prepared to
demolish another color line. “You’re about to become Hollywood’s first
black director,” he was told by Kenneth Hyman, the head of production at
Warner Bros., during their first meeting. The studio wanted Parks, by
then an accomplished writer, documentarian, poet and composer as well as
a famous photographer, to adapt his 1963 novel, “[The Learning
Tree](https://www.nytimes.com/watching/titles/the-learning-tree),” for
the screen. In addition to directing, he would write the screenplay and
the musical score, and serve as producer.

As Parks recalls in his memoir “[A Hungry
Heart](https://www.simonandschuster.com/books/A-Hungry-Heart/Gordon-Parks/9780743269032),”
published in 2005, the year before his death, Hyman told him, “I can
think of only two directors who attempted to do what you are about to
do: [Orson
Welles](https://www.nytimes.com/1985/10/11/arts/orson-welles-is-dead-at-70-innovator-of-film-and-stage.html)
and [Charlie
Chaplin](https://www.nytimes.com/topic/person/charles-chaplin).” No
pressure there. But Parks would set out to make “The Learning Tree”
conscious of a burden that Welles and Chaplin, cinematic pioneers though
they were, had never faced. He knew that “a multitude of hopeful young
black directors would be watching, counting on me to successfully open
those closed doors.”

<div class="rad-related">

<div class="rad-related-header">

###### The T List |

Sign up here

</div>

<div class="rad-related-items">

</div>

</div>

![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)

And so he did. “The Learning Tree,” shot in Fort Scott, Kan., in
wondrous wide-screen, is a coming-of-age story drawn from Parks’s own
prairie childhood, at once gently nostalgic and unflinching in its
depiction of 1920s-vintage American racism. (Parks was born in Fort
Scott in 1912.) It opened the doors for subsequent waves of black
directors to break into Hollywood — including [Reginald
Hudlin](https://www.imdb.com/name/nm0399737/), [Robert
Townsend](https://www.imdb.com/name/nm0870186/), [Charles
Burnett](https://www.nytimes.com/2017/09/06/business/media/burnett-sutherland-honorary-oscars.html),
[Ernest Dickerson](https://www.imdb.com/name/nm0225416/) and [Michael
Schultz](https://www.imdb.com/name/nm0776317/), all of whom can be
numbered among the students of “The Learning Tree,” the creative
children of Gordon Parks. (There are many others, including [Spike
Lee](https://www.nytimes.com/topic/person/spike-lee), [Julie
Dash](https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/daughters-of-the-dust.html)
and Parks’s actual son [Gordon Parks
Jr.](https://www.imdb.com/name/nm0662899/), the director of the
blaxploitation classic
“[Superfly](https://www.nytimes.com/2018/06/18/watching/blaxpoitation-films-brown-sugar.html),”
who died in a plane crash in Kenya in 1979.)

The Parks legacy that flows through their work is less a matter of
direct influence than of spirit, ethic and sensibility. “The Learning
Tree” is forthrightly political, and also tender, sexy, comical and full
of acutely observed and remembered details. You could say the same about
Schultz’s “[Cooley
High](https://www.nytimes.com/watching/titles/movies/1000120485)”
(1975), Burnett’s “[Killer of
Sheep](https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0076263/)” (1978), Dickerson’s
“[Juice](https://www.nytimes.com/watching/titles/movies/1000121318)”
(1992), Townsend’s “[Hollywood
Shuffle](https://www.nytimes.com/watching/titles/movies/1000022175)”
(1987) and Reginald and Warrington Hudlin’s “[House
Party](https://www.nytimes.com/watching/titles/house-party)” (1990) —
all wildly different in method and mood but enlivened by the confident
local knowledge and affectionate humanism that Parks brought from his
writing and photography into American film.

<div class="g-ad rad-ad-wrapper">

<div id="mid10" class="place-ad" data-position="mid10" data-size-key="default">

</div>

</div>

![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)

Like other firsts in African-American history, from [Jackie
Robinson](https://www.nytimes.com/topic/person/jackie-robinson) to
[Barack Obama](https://www.nytimes.com/topic/person/barack-obama), Parks
did not come out of nowhere. His breakthrough was, like theirs, both a
herald of rapidly changing times and a sign of how belated change can
feel — simultaneously a matter of *Already?* and *At last\!* He was
hardly the first black American to wield a movie camera, and “The
Learning Tree” was not the first Hollywood production of its time to
address the black experience. The late 1960s saw the rise of independent
African-American filmmakers like [William
Greaves](https://www.nytimes.com/2014/08/27/arts/william-greaves-a-documentarian-and-pioneering-journalist-dies-at-87.html)
and [Melvin Van
Peebles](https://www.nytimes.com/2013/09/20/arts/design/melvin-van-peebles-headlines-a-group-art-show.html)
and the ascendance, in Hollywood, of racially enlightened dramas like
“[In the Heat of the
Night](https://www.nytimes.com/watching/recommendations/watching-film-in-the-heat-of-the-night)”
and “[Guess Who’s Coming to
Dinner](https://www.nytimes.com/watching/titles/guess-whos-coming-to-dinner),”
both released in 1967.

“The Learning Tree” is something else, though: an absolutely personal
film, entwined with its creator’s own experiences, that lays
authoritative claim to a place in the American mainstream. At Life (and
before that at the New Deal-era Farm Security Administration), Parks was
known for his intensive, intimate portraits of housing projects,
working-class neighborhoods and poor, rural towns, and there was always
a risk, given the institutional whiteness of the Time Life Corporation,
that those images could be misinterpreted as exotic. But his aesthetic
rigor — the beauty and integrity of those images — ensured that Parks
was doing more than explaining black life to white America. He was, like
his exact contemporary [Ralph
Ellison](https://www.nytimes.com/topic/person/ralph-ellison) (who grew
up one state south of Parks, in Oklahoma, and who like Parks eventually
went north) committed to the grand midcentury project of explaining
America to itself.

![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)

The idealism of that enterprise can look bittersweet in retrospect, and
by the time Parks turned to moviemaking, it had started to come undone.
When it comes to race, Hollywood’s doors have a way of closing suddenly,
or leading into half-empty rooms and down long, dim hallways. After “The
Learning Tree,” Parks directed four more features:
“[Shaft](https://www.nytimes.com/watching/titles/movies/1000012133)”
(1971), “[Shaft’s Big
Score\!](https://www.nytimes.com/watching/titles/movies/1000146702)”
(1972), “[The Super
Cops](https://www.nytimes.com/watching/titles/movies/1000115487)” (1974)
and
“[Leadbelly](https://www.nytimes.com/watching/titles/movies/1000086190)”
(1976). (He also embedded with the Black Panthers in Oakland, Calif., on
assignment for Life and helped found Essence magazine.) Though the
critical and commercial fortunes of those movies varied, they represent
the kind of work that might have laid the foundation for a long
Hollywood career. After “Leadbelly,” an ambitious musical biopic
released with minimal promotional support during a change of regime at
Paramount (and, in my opinion, one of the great neglected movies of its
decade), Parks never directed another studio film.

THE HISTORY OF African-American cinema, like the larger national history
it refracts, is a complicated chronicle of progress and retrenchment,
pulled backward by long habits of exclusion and condescension, and
pushed forward by the grace and tenacity of artists like Parks and his
followers. None of his heirs has had an easy path through Hollywood.
Some started in relative boom times (the ’70s, the early ’90s) only to
face industry indifference when fashions changed. Many moved between the
studios and the independent sphere, or between movies and television. To
study their filmographies is to admire their resourcefulness, and also
to contemplate careers marked by frustration: movies that were meagerly
budgeted and poorly marketed, and a great many that simply never got
made. Not to mention the masterpieces that were ignored or undervalued
in their time — a list that would include, at a minimum, Burnett’s
“[Nightjohn](https://www.nytimes.com/watching/titles/movies/1000115143)”
(1996, about a slave who learns to read in the pre-Civil War South),
Hudlin’s “[The Great White
Hype](https://www.nytimes.com/watching/titles/movies/1000114177)” (also
1996, about a boxing promoter’s scheme to make his black fighter more
popular) and Schultz’s magisterial “[Car
Wash](https://www.nytimes.com/watching/titles/movies/1000082349)”
(1976), a day-in-the-life farce set at the Dee-Luxe Car Wash in downtown
Los Angeles.

![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)

The struggle and the art go together, which isn’t to say that the art is
simply an expression or representation of the struggle, even when, as in
Townsend’s “Hollywood Shuffle,” the struggle is the subject. That movie
pokes satirical fun at the American movie industry’s race problems — its
appetite for depictions of black servility, criminality and suffering;
its indifference to the tastes of some of its most reliable consumers;
its soft and hard bigotries — within the context of a story of
lower-middle-class striving. For all its flights of whimsy and fantasy,
it remains grounded in the realities of work, love and family.

Which is much like “The Learning Tree,” a portrait of the artist (a
teenager named Newt Winger, played by Kyle Johnson) as a young man
discovering both his own potential and the limits the world places upon
it. That is a durable theme of American literature, and also — in a way
that is both distinctive and absolutely central — of African-American
film. It may not be something Gordon Parks invented, but it is something
he bequeathed.

A.O. Scott is a critic at large at The New York Times and the author of
“Better Living Through Criticism.” Bon Duke is a director who works in
both still and moving images. Top photo, grooming and hair: Monique
Samala. Production: Maritza Carbajal.

</div>

<div class="rad-article-credits">

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-nav">

<div class="g-chapter ch1">

### We Are Family

#### Chapter 1: <span>Heirs and</span> <span>Alumni</span>

<div class="g-chapter-inner">

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/black-art-galleries.html)

##### The Artists

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/italian-fashion-design-houses.html)

##### The Dynasties

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/gordon-parks.html)

##### The Directors

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/enrique-olvera-chef.html)

##### The Disciples

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/royal-academy-antwerp.html)

##### The Graduates

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-chapter ch2">

#### Chapter 2: <span>Reunions</span> <span>and Reconsiderations</span>

<div class="g-chapter-inner">

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/ninth-street-greenwich-village-neighbors.html)

##### The Neighbors

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/omen-restaurant-nyc.html)

##### The Regulars

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/hair-musical-broadway.html)

##### Hair (1967)

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/sweeney-todd-revival.html)

##### Sweeney Todd (2005 Revival)

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/daughters-of-the-dust.html)

##### Daughters of the Dust (1991)

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-chapter ch3">

#### Chapter 3: <span>Legends</span> <span>Pioneers and</span> <span>Survivors</span>

<div class="g-chapter-inner">

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/butch-stud-lesbian.html)

##### The Renegades

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/act-up-aids.html)

##### The Activists

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/artist-recluse.html)

##### The Shadows

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/black-actresses-bassett-berry-blige-henson-whitfield-elise.html)

##### The Veterans

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-chapter ch4">

#### Chapter 4: <span>The New</span> <span>Guard</span>

<div class="g-chapter-inner">

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/asian-american-fashion-designers.html)

##### The Designers

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](13tmag-beauties.html)

##### The Beauties

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/nyc-downtown-nightlife-party-scene.html)

##### The Scenemakers

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/maria-cornejo-olivier-rousteing-telfar-clemens-alessandro-michele.html#olivier-rousteing-and-co)

##### Olivier Rousteing and Co.

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/maria-cornejo-olivier-rousteing-telfar-clemens-alessandro-michele.html#maria-cornejo-and-co)

##### Maria Cornejo and Co.

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/maria-cornejo-olivier-rousteing-telfar-clemens-alessandro-michele.html#telfar-clemens-and-co)

##### Telfar Clemens and Co.

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/maria-cornejo-olivier-rousteing-telfar-clemens-alessandro-michele.html#alessandro-michele-and-co)

##### Alessandro Michele and Co.

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/foreign-correspondents.html)

##### The Journalists

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div id="standalone-footer">

<div>

<div>

<div id="interactive-footer-wrapper">

<div class="css-i29ckm">

<div class="interactive-sharetools css-9z2bwm" role="toolbar" data-aria-label="Social Media Share buttons, Save button, and Comments Panel with current comment count" data-testid="share-tools">

  - 
  - 
  - 
  - 
    
    <div class="css-6n7j50">
    
    </div>

</div>

</div>

<div>

</div>

<div id="bottom-wrapper" class="css-1ede5it">

<div id="bottom-slug" class="css-l9onyx">

Advertisement

</div>

[Continue reading the main story](#after-bottom)

<div id="bottom" class="ad bottom-wrapper" style="text-align:center;height:100%;display:block;min-height:90px">

</div>

<div id="after-bottom">

</div>

</div>

## Site Index

<div>

</div>

## Site Information Navigation

  - [© <span>2020</span> <span>The New York Times
    Company</span>](https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice)

<!-- end list -->

  - [NYTCo](https://www.nytco.com/)
  - [Contact
    Us](https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us)
  - [Work with us](https://www.nytco.com/careers/)
  - [Advertise](https://nytmediakit.com/)
  - [T Brand Studio](http://www.tbrandstudio.com/)
  - [Your Ad
    Choices](https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy#how-do-i-manage-trackers)
  - [Privacy](https://www.nytimes.com/privacy)
  - [Terms of
    Service](https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service)
  - [Terms of
    Sale](https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale)
  - [Site Map](https://spiderbites.nytimes.com)
  - [Help](https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us)
  - [Subscriptions](https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW)

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>
