<div id="app">

<div id="standalone-header">

<div class="css-11kjks6" role="region" data-aria-label="comments panel" tabindex="-1">

<div class="css-1h21wu5">

<div class="css-akb3vb">

<div>

<div class="css-1yip8nf">

## [Comments](#commentsContainer)

[Why ‘Hair’ Has Endured]()[Skip to Comments]()

<div class="css-c32q7m">

The comments section is closed. To submit a letter to the editor for
publication, write to <letters@nytimes.com>.

</div>

</div>

<div class="css-1bxnhxc">

</div>

<div class="css-1yip8nf">

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div id="site-content" role="main">

# Why ‘Hair’ Has Endured

<div class="css-1vegfwe interactive-byline-container">

<div class="interactive-byline css-103zbxs">

April 13, 2020

</div>

</div>

<div id="interactive-standalone-sharetools" class="css-wkcogx">

<div>

<div class="interactive-sharetools css-9z2bwm" role="toolbar" data-aria-label="Social Media Share buttons, Save button, and Comments Panel with current comment count" data-testid="share-tools">

  - 
  - 
  - 
  - 
    
    <div class="css-6n7j50">
    
    </div>

  - *<span class="css-1dtr3u3">+</span>*

</div>

</div>

</div>

An appreciation of the 1967 love-rock musical, which, against the odds,
won over audiences across the world.

<div id="hair-musical-broadway" class="section css-l08pwh interactive-minimal interactive-content interactive-size-medium">

<div class="css-17ih8de interactive-body">

<div class="rad-article g-article-ch2" data-chapter="ch2" data-slug="13tmag-hair">

<div class="g-header">

<div class="g-header-meta">

###### [We Are Family](https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/culture-issue-2020.html)

##### <span class="rad-ch-label">Chapter 2: </span><span>Reunions</span> <span>and Reconsiderations</span>

</div>

<div class="g-header-nav">

##### Previous

##### Next

</div>

</div>

<div class="rad-cover stacked-cover">

<div class="rad-cover-main">

<div class="rad-head-wrap">

**<span>The forerunners</span>**
![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)

# Why ‘Hair’ Has Endured

Every now and then, a piece of American performance is so memorable that
it both redefines its medium and reframes the culture at large. Here, an
appraisal of one such enduring and heavily referenced work — a
youth-inflected 1967 musical that captured the popular (and political)
consciousness — alongside a gathering of the stars who not only made it
but were made by it, too.

<span class="g-byline-name" itemprop="name">By [Ben
Brantley](https://www.nytimes.com/by/ben-brantley)</span>

</div>

<div class="rad-byline-wrap">

<div class="rad-date-share">

April 13, 2020

<span>SHARE</span>

</div>

</div>

![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)

</div>

</div>

<div class="rad-story-body">

ITS REPUTATION REMAINS that of a dangerous young renegade, pumped to the
point of explosion with anger, hormones and mind-altering substances.
But in truth, “Hair,” which opened in 1967 at New York’s Public Theater,
was always a sweetheart: open-armed, open-minded, as ready to comfort as
to party. Among American musicals of the late 1960s, it was the cool kid
you wanted to cuddle with, even if you were no longer a kid yourself.

True, as the fame of this self-labeled “tribal love-rock musical” spread
after its successful transfer to Broadway in 1968, it trailed a heady
perfume of notoriety. This, after all, was a work that featured pot
smoking, draft-card burning, references to a Kama Sutra of sexual
practices and a host of unkempt young things singing in the nude for its
first-act finale. The Acapulco, Mexico, 1969 premiere was closed by
government order after its first performance. The show’s London
producers cannily waited until there was a change in censorship laws to
open it in 1968 in the West End. And just last year, “Hair” was removed
from the [schedule
of](https://www.nytimes.com/2018/05/25/arts/television/hair-live-nbc.html)
NBC’s series of live televised musicals, suggesting it still wasn’t
ready for prime time.

<div class="rad-related">

<div class="rad-related-header">

###### The T List |

Sign up here

</div>

<div class="rad-related-items">

</div>

</div>

Yet the liberating breeze emanating from this portrait of an improvised
family of acid-dropping dropouts in New York City would be felt
throughout the world, with productions popping up like mushrooms in
Europe, South America and Japan. And the largely middle-class audiences
who might have been alarmed by the prospect of rebellious youth at the
barricades discovered that it was, [in the
words](https://www.nytimes.com/1968/04/30/archives/theater-hair-its-fresh-and-frank-likable-rock-musical-moves-to.html)
of the New York Times critic Clive Barnes “so likable. … So new, so
fresh, and so unassuming.”

![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)

<div class="g-ad rad-ad-wrapper">

<div id="mid16" class="place-ad" data-position="mid16" data-size-key="default">

</div>

</div>

In fact, the cast album of “Hair” was one that, as young teenagers, my
friends and I were allowed to play — and dance to — in our living rooms
and even on church retreats (as long as we skipped the track called
“Sodomy”). Compared to the acid rock that was then flooding the
airwaves, [Galt
MacDermot](https://www.nytimes.com/2018/12/18/obituaries/galt-macdermot-dead.html)’s
score — even allowing for expletive-laced lyrics by the show’s creators,
[Gerome
Ragni](https://www.nytimes.com/1991/07/13/obituaries/gerome-ragni-48-a-stage-actor-co-author-of-broadway-s-hair.html)
and James Rado — sounded as melodic as Rodgers and Hammerstein. Its
songs became Top-40 hits, covered by the likes of the
[Cowsills](https://www.nytimes.com/2006/02/21/arts/music/william-cowsill-58-leader-of-family-poprock-band-dies.html)
(the title song) and the [5th
Dimension](https://www.nytimes.com/2001/08/04/arts/ron-townson-68-singer-in-fifth-dimension.html)
(a medley).

It had been a while since songs from Broadway shows featured on pop
radio, and there was hope that “Hair” might inaugurate a new age of
hipness for the American musical. That never quite happened. Its
imitations (including a couple of flops involving its original creators)
didn’t have the same impact, and a 1977 revival died after only 43
performances. Still, “Hair” suggested that what was regarded as an aging
genre could be surprisingly accommodating to new styles and voices, even
if it would be decades before a contemporary, teen-appeal musical
achieved a similarly hopeful, global impact: first with
“[Rent](https://www.nytimes.com/2008/09/21/theater/21ishe.html),” in
1996, and later, most spectacularly, with
“[Hamilton](https://www.nytimes.com/2016/06/12/theater/hamilton-inc-the-path-to-a-billion-dollar-show.html),”
in 2015.

IN A 1993 INTERVIEW, MacDermot said that “Hair” was not ultimately a
“political show” but one “about kids having fun and making fun of
things.” Though it had a loose string of a plot, about a young man
afraid of being drafted for the Vietnam War, it was mostly a series of
sketches in which the characters satirized their convention-bound elders
and extolled the joys of sexual and pharmaceutical highs. Referring to a
wildly popular 1938 revue that combined topical sketch humor with antic
musical numbers, MacDermot called “Hair” the “‘Hellzapoppin’ of its
generation.”

![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)

And like “Hellzapoppin,” “Hair” seemed destined to fade into that bright
oblivion reserved for period novelties like Monkees albums and troll
dolls. Yet when I went to see the director [Diane
Paulus](https://www.nytimes.com/2016/05/15/realestate/tony-nominee-diane-paulus-at-home-on-the-upper-west-side.html)’s
2008 revival of the show in Central Park (which subsequently transferred
to Broadway), I was surprised to discover how moved I was by it, and not
just for nostalgic reasons. It was the tribal aspect of the “tribal
love-rock” equation that got to me all those years later — its sense of
vulnerable people banding together on the threshold of adulthood, trying
to postpone their entry into the scary world that their elders had
created. What little story the show *did* have, after all, pivoted on
whether one of its characters would be drafted into a conflict that made
the United States as rancorously divided as it has ever been in my
lifetime — until now.

The divisions then often included estrangements of teenagers from their
parents. So some young people wound up forming alternative clans in
which you chose your own family. It’s a design for living that has been
translated into both the murderous darkness of the 1960s-era Charles
Manson cult and into the anodyne sitcom blitheness of the 1990s
television series
“[Friends](https://www.nytimes.com/watching/recommendations/watching-tv-friends)”
or the messier 2010s-era
“[Girls](https://www.nytimes.com/watching/recommendations/watching-tv-girls).”
The clan members of “Hair” got high together and slept together, yes,
but they also nurtured, consoled and entertained one another. And for
much of the show, it’s that reciprocally supportive camaraderie that
makes the musical feel so alive.

What I’d forgotten, though — until I saw Paulus’s production — was the
show’s awareness of its own ephemerality, its sense that tribes of youth
are destined to last only as long as youth itself. “They’ll never get
me,” says Berger, the de facto leader of the show’s nomadic gang. “I’m
gonna stay high forever.”

But the final number in “Hair” isn’t one of its odes to defiant
individualism — the title song, or “I Got Life,” or the twinkly “Good
Morning Starshine.” It’s called “The Flesh Failures,” and though its
subtitle is “Let the Sunshine In,” it leaves you with the feeling that
darkness is fast descending — and that the tightly bound coterie at the
center of “Hair” may well have scattered forever by daybreak.

Ben Brantley has been The New York Times’s co-chief theater critic since
1996. Nicholas Calcott is working on a collection of portraits of New
York City artists. Photo assistants: Carlos Jaramillo and Maeve
Fitzhoward. Digital tech: Chen Xiangyun.

<div class="rad-related">

<div class="rad-related-items">

[](https://www.nytimes.com/2018/04/16/t-magazine/broadway-1980s-actors-sarah-jessica-parker-willem-dafoe.html)

#### The Stars Who Got Their Start on the ’80s New York Stage<span class="rad-related-date">April 16, 2018</span>

![](https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/04/05/t-magazine/05tmag-group-slide-QT9P/05tmag-group-slide-QT9P-mediumThreeByTwo210.jpg)
[](https://www.nytimes.com/2018/08/09/t-magazine/allison-janney-idina-menzel-female-actresses.html)

#### These Actresses Dominate Not Just the Stage, but the Screen Too<span class="rad-related-date">Aug. 9, 2018</span>

![](https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/08/09/t-magazine/09tmag-women/09tmag-women-mediumThreeByTwo210.jpg)

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="rad-article-credits">

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-nav">

<div class="g-chapter ch1">

### We Are Family

#### Chapter 1: <span>Heirs and</span> <span>Alumni</span>

<div class="g-chapter-inner">

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/black-art-galleries.html)

##### The Artists

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/italian-fashion-design-houses.html)

##### The Dynasties

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/gordon-parks.html)

##### The Directors

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/enrique-olvera-chef.html)

##### The Disciples

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/royal-academy-antwerp.html)

##### The Graduates

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-chapter ch2">

#### Chapter 2: <span>Reunions</span> <span>and Reconsiderations</span>

<div class="g-chapter-inner">

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/ninth-street-greenwich-village-neighbors.html)

##### The Neighbors

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/omen-restaurant-nyc.html)

##### The Regulars

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/hair-musical-broadway.html)

##### Hair (1967)

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/sweeney-todd-revival.html)

##### Sweeney Todd (2005 Revival)

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/daughters-of-the-dust.html)

##### Daughters of the Dust (1991)

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-chapter ch3">

#### Chapter 3: <span>Legends</span> <span>Pioneers and</span> <span>Survivors</span>

<div class="g-chapter-inner">

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/butch-stud-lesbian.html)

##### The Renegades

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/act-up-aids.html)

##### The Activists

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/artist-recluse.html)

##### The Shadows

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/black-actresses-bassett-berry-blige-henson-whitfield-elise.html)

##### The Veterans

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-chapter ch4">

#### Chapter 4: <span>The New</span> <span>Guard</span>

<div class="g-chapter-inner">

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/asian-american-fashion-designers.html)

##### The Designers

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](13tmag-beauties.html)

##### The Beauties

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/nyc-downtown-nightlife-party-scene.html)

##### The Scenemakers

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/maria-cornejo-olivier-rousteing-telfar-clemens-alessandro-michele.html#olivier-rousteing-and-co)

##### Olivier Rousteing and Co.

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/maria-cornejo-olivier-rousteing-telfar-clemens-alessandro-michele.html#maria-cornejo-and-co)

##### Maria Cornejo and Co.

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/maria-cornejo-olivier-rousteing-telfar-clemens-alessandro-michele.html#telfar-clemens-and-co)

##### Telfar Clemens and Co.

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/maria-cornejo-olivier-rousteing-telfar-clemens-alessandro-michele.html#alessandro-michele-and-co)

##### Alessandro Michele and Co.

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/foreign-correspondents.html)

##### The Journalists

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div id="standalone-footer">

<div>

<div>

<div id="interactive-footer-wrapper">

<div class="css-i29ckm">

<div class="css-1oeie6n">

Write a comment

</div>

<div class="interactive-sharetools css-9z2bwm" role="toolbar" data-aria-label="Social Media Share buttons, Save button, and Comments Panel with current comment count" data-testid="share-tools">

  - 
  - 
  - 
  - 
    
    <div class="css-6n7j50">
    
    </div>

</div>

</div>

<div>

</div>

<div id="bottom-wrapper" class="css-1ede5it">

<div id="bottom-slug" class="css-l9onyx">

Advertisement

</div>

[Continue reading the main story](#after-bottom)

<div id="bottom" class="ad bottom-wrapper" style="text-align:center;height:100%;display:block;min-height:90px">

</div>

<div id="after-bottom">

</div>

</div>

## Site Index

<div>

</div>

## Site Information Navigation

  - [© <span>2020</span> <span>The New York Times
    Company</span>](https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice)

<!-- end list -->

  - [NYTCo](https://www.nytco.com/)
  - [Contact
    Us](https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us)
  - [Work with us](https://www.nytco.com/careers/)
  - [Advertise](https://nytmediakit.com/)
  - [T Brand Studio](http://www.tbrandstudio.com/)
  - [Your Ad
    Choices](https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy#how-do-i-manage-trackers)
  - [Privacy](https://www.nytimes.com/privacy)
  - [Terms of
    Service](https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service)
  - [Terms of
    Sale](https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale)
  - [Site Map](https://spiderbites.nytimes.com)
  - [Help](https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us)
  - [Subscriptions](https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW)

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>
