\hypertarget{the-family-run-italian-design-houses-that-became-cultural-dynasties}{%
\section{The Family-Run Italian Design Houses That Became Cultural
Dynasties}\label{the-family-run-italian-design-houses-that-became-cultural-dynasties}}

April 13, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

For centuries, Italy has prized the art of fashion and furniture design
like no other country in the world, with generations dedicated to
traditional craftsmanship and continuity.

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/culture-issue-2020.html}{We
Are Family}

\hypertarget{chapter-1-heirs-and-alumni}{%
\subparagraph{Chapter 1: Heirs and
Alumni}\label{chapter-1-heirs-and-alumni}}

\hypertarget{previous}{%
\subparagraph{Previous}\label{previous}}

\hypertarget{next}{%
\subparagraph{Next}\label{next}}

\hypertarget{the-family-run-italian-design-houses-that-became-cultural-dynasties-1}{%
\section{The Family-Run Italian Design Houses That Became Cultural
Dynasties}\label{the-family-run-italian-design-houses-that-became-cultural-dynasties-1}}

\hypertarget{the-dynasties}{%
\subsection{The Dynasties}\label{the-dynasties}}

For centuries, Italy has prized the art of fashion and furniture design
--- and like no other country in the world, its makers have served as
cultural custodians, with generations dedicated to the craftsmanship,
continuity and traditions of the family-run company.

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/nancy-hass}{Nancy Hass}

April 13, 2020

SHARE

IN AMERICA, where industrialization long ago eclipsed craft, children
are often taught that success means escaping the family trade for law,
medicine or Wall Street. But to the Italian clans at the pinnacle of
fashion and design, such thinking confounds: Why flee the family firm
when you can create things of beauty? Although several of Italy's
venerable makers have been absorbed by luxury conglomerates in the past
few decades, a remarkable array --- including the major fashion houses
\href{https://www.armani.com/us/armanicom}{Giorgio Armani},
\href{https://www.prada.com/us/en.html}{Prada},
\href{https://www.ferragamo.com/shop/us/en}{Salvatore Ferragamo},
\href{https://www.canali.com/en_us/homepage.html}{Canali},
\href{https://www.etro.com/us-en/}{Etro} and
\href{https://www.missoni.com/us}{Missoni} --- have remained under
family control; they have diversified, expanded and grown increasingly
sophisticated with each successive generation. Many were begun in the
wake of World War II, when a generation of new consumers and the advent
of manufacturing technology allowed clothing, textiles and
furniture-making to expand beyond small workshops. Now, as international
brands, they thread the needle in ways both literal and figurative: How
do you preserve a handmade ethos in the face of giant competitors and a
tide of mass production? How do you maintain a familial atmosphere not
merely among yourselves but with younger generations of employees who
may not care about keeping alive the workbench tradition of their
forebears?

The T List \textbar{}

Sign up here

That the tradition of multigenerational artisanal enterprises has
endured in Italy perhaps longer than in any other industrialized Western
nation is not surprising. Because of its unique history of independent
city-states, the country's craft culture, especially in the north ---
where there have long been woolen mills, leather-tanning and woodworking
--- flourished for centuries in discrete regions. Even the fracas that
ensued when Austria and Napoleon annexed huge chunks of northern Italy
in the 18th and 19th centuries failed to destroy its system of highly
localized family-oriented workshops, in which entire clans were involved
in a single activity. Over the decades, Lake Como became
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/1991/11/10/travel/shopper-s-world-silk-on-lake-como-s-shores.html}{known
for} fine silk; Vicenza
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/09/22/style/jewelry-vicenza-italy-roberto-coin.html}{for}
goldsmiths and jewelry. Brianza, 10 miles north of Milan, first became a
hub of woodworking in the 1770s, when Archduke Ferdinand of
Austria-Este, who controlled the region, needed furniture for Villa
Reale, the monumental palace he constructed in Monza, the area's largest
town. In the 20th century, entrepreneurs turned Brianza into the
epicenter of modern Italian design by building on the region's expertise
in fine carpentry and upholstery. Today, the area remains home to dozens
of furniture and design houses, including
\href{https://www.molteni.it/us/}{Molteni \& C} and
\href{https://www.poliform.it/en-us/poliform}{Poliform} --- often run by
the children and grandchildren of their founders.

TO SUCH FAMILIES, the border between blood relation and community is
fairly porous; unlike at American corporations that largely have
forsaken the concept of the
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/08/28/t-magazine/olivetti-typewriters-ivrea-italy.html}{company
town}, there remains here an enduring sense of responsibility. For
example, \href{https://www.brunellocucinelli.com/en/}{Brunello
Cucinelli}, who in 1978 began an eponymous knitwear business
specializing in cashmere --- his daughters, Camilla, 37, and Carolina,
29, now work with him --- has made it a family project to resuscitate
the medieval village of Solomeo, where the company is headquartered (his
wife, Federica, was born and raised there; he grew up in a house without
running water just 13 miles away). They have built a new theater, torn
down industrial warehouses in the surrounding valley to create parks and
turned a castle into a school to train artisans in the ancient crafts.
Similarly, the fashion designer
\href{https://www.albertaferretti.com/us_en/}{Alberta Ferretti} and her
brother Massimo, who founded their company, Aeffe, in 1980 in their
hometown, Cattolica, in Emilia-Romagna, where Alberta still runs her
design studio, led a 10-year restoration of the nearby hamlet of
Montegridolfo.

\begin{quote}
To such families, the border between blood relation and community is
fairly porous; there remains here an enduring sense of responsibility.
\end{quote}

The lines between the personal and the professional in such clans are,
as might be expected, as permeable as linen dipped in dye. Two of the
four adult children of Gerolamo Etro, known as ``Gimmo,'' all of whom
now work for the company their father started in 1968, live in the Milan
duplex they grew up in, which has been split in half to accommodate
them. In a single telephone call with her daughter
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/01/02/t-magazine/margherita-missoni-amos-juice-recipe.html}{Margherita},
37,
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2016/12/05/t-magazine/fashion/angela-missoni-hand-collection.html}{Angela
Missoni}, 61 --- the creative force behind the knitwear company started
by her parents, Ottavio and
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2017/07/11/t-magazine/rosita-missoni-garden-home.html}{Rosita},
in 1953 (her brother Vittorio was the C.E.O. until he was killed in a
plane crash in 2013) --- can toggle between discussing her grandchildren
and analyzing plans to expand the brand's lower-priced line, M Missoni,
to which Margherita was appointed creative director in 2018. At Molteni
\& C, founded by Angelo and Giuseppina Molteni in 1934, where a third
generation of cousins has joined the business, ``whenever we are
together, our conversation is about work,'' says Andrea Molteni, 42, who
is the head of product development at
\href{https://www.dada-kitchens.com/us/}{Dada}, the company's kitchen
brand. ``It is very natural for us, very comfortable. We were raised
like this, and this is how all of us have chosen to live.''

Nancy Hass is a writer at large for T Magazine. Simon Watson specializes
in portrait, interiors and travel photography. Production: Lumen Lab.
Hair: Gianmarco Grazi at Atomo Management. Makeup: Misaki Kato at Atomo
Management. Set design: Enrico Pompili and Valentina Cameranesi.

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/11/19/t-magazine/giorgio-armani-home-broni-italy.html}{}

\hypertarget{at-giorgio-armanis-weekend-retreat-live-swans-and-gilded-archesnov-19-2018}{%
\paragraph{At Giorgio Armani's Weekend Retreat, Live Swans and Gilded
ArchesNov. 19,
2018}\label{at-giorgio-armanis-weekend-retreat-live-swans-and-gilded-archesnov-19-2018}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/11/21/t-magazine/tktmag-armani-slide-4Q84-copy/tktmag-armani-slide-4Q84-copy-mediumThreeByTwo210-v3.jpg}
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/09/25/t-magazine/margherita-maccapani-missoni-fashion-week.html}{}

\hypertarget{margherita-maccapani-missoni-takes-on-a-new-challenge-by-looking-backsept-25-2019}{%
\paragraph{Margherita Maccapani Missoni Takes on a New Challenge, by
Looking BackSept. 25,
2019}\label{margherita-maccapani-missoni-takes-on-a-new-challenge-by-looking-backsept-25-2019}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2019/09/24/t-magazine/fashion/24tmag-Missoni-slide-VHHY/24tmag-Missoni-slide-VHHY-mediumThreeByTwo210.jpg}
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/09/06/t-magazine/brunello-cucinelli.html}{}

\hypertarget{brunello-cucinelli-renaissance-mansept-6-2019}{%
\paragraph{Brunello Cucinelli, Renaissance ManSept. 6,
2019}\label{brunello-cucinelli-renaissance-mansept-6-2019}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2019/09/06/t-magazine/06tmag-brunello-slide-L1SP/06tmag-brunello-slide-L1SP-mediumThreeByTwo210.jpg}
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/08/14/t-magazine/angela-missoni-fashion-designer-inspiration.html}{}

\hypertarget{inside-angela-missonis-rainbow-colored-world-aug-14-2018}{%
\paragraph{Inside Angela Missoni's Rainbow-Colored World Aug. 14,
2018}\label{inside-angela-missonis-rainbow-colored-world-aug-14-2018}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/08/14/t-magazine/14tmag-missoni-slide-D31N/14tmag-missoni-slide-D31N-mediumThreeByTwo210.jpg}
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/02/05/t-magazine/silvia-venturini-fendi-inspiration.html}{}

\hypertarget{silvia-venturini-fendis-playful-sort-of-luxuryfeb-5-2019}{%
\paragraph{Silvia Venturini Fendi's Playful Sort of LuxuryFeb. 5,
2019}\label{silvia-venturini-fendis-playful-sort-of-luxuryfeb-5-2019}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2019/02/05/t-magazine/05tmag-fendi-slide-4HOJ/05tmag-fendi-slide-4HOJ-mediumThreeByTwo210-v3.jpg}

\hypertarget{correction-april-13-2020}{%
\subparagraph{\texorpdfstring{\textbf{Correction} April 13,
2020}{Correction April 13, 2020}}\label{correction-april-13-2020}}

An earlier version of the picture caption with this article included
several errors. It misspelled the given name of the Flexform export
sales director. He is Giuliano Galimberti, not Guiliano. It misstated
Alberta Ferretti's title with Aeffe. She is the vice president and
creative director, not the product director. It misstated Stefano
Canali's title with Canali. He is the president and chief executive
officer, not the general manager. And it misstated the brand for which
Andrea Molteni is the director of product development. It is Molteni \&
C Dada, not Molteni \& C.

\hypertarget{we-are-family-1}{%
\subsubsection{We Are Family}\label{we-are-family-1}}

\hypertarget{chapter-1-heirs-and-alumni-1}{%
\paragraph{Chapter 1: Heirs and
Alumni}\label{chapter-1-heirs-and-alumni-1}}

\href{/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/black-art-galleries.html}{}

\hypertarget{the-artists}{%
\subparagraph{The Artists}\label{the-artists}}

\href{/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/italian-fashion-design-houses.html}{}

\hypertarget{the-dynasties-1}{%
\subparagraph{The Dynasties}\label{the-dynasties-1}}

\href{/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/gordon-parks.html}{}

\hypertarget{the-directors}{%
\subparagraph{The Directors}\label{the-directors}}

\href{/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/enrique-olvera-chef.html}{}

\hypertarget{the-disciples}{%
\subparagraph{The Disciples}\label{the-disciples}}

\href{/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/royal-academy-antwerp.html}{}

\hypertarget{the-graduates}{%
\subparagraph{The Graduates}\label{the-graduates}}

\hypertarget{chapter-2-reunions-and-reconsiderations}{%
\paragraph{Chapter 2: Reunions and
Reconsiderations}\label{chapter-2-reunions-and-reconsiderations}}

\href{/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/ninth-street-greenwich-village-neighbors.html}{}

\hypertarget{the-neighbors}{%
\subparagraph{The Neighbors}\label{the-neighbors}}

\href{/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/omen-restaurant-nyc.html}{}

\hypertarget{the-regulars}{%
\subparagraph{The Regulars}\label{the-regulars}}

\href{/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/hair-musical-broadway.html}{}

\hypertarget{hair-1967}{%
\subparagraph{Hair (1967)}\label{hair-1967}}

\href{/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/sweeney-todd-revival.html}{}

\hypertarget{sweeney-todd-2005-revival}{%
\subparagraph{Sweeney Todd (2005
Revival)}\label{sweeney-todd-2005-revival}}

\href{/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/daughters-of-the-dust.html}{}

\hypertarget{daughters-of-the-dust-1991}{%
\subparagraph{Daughters of the Dust
(1991)}\label{daughters-of-the-dust-1991}}

\hypertarget{chapter-3-legends-pioneers-and-survivors}{%
\paragraph{Chapter 3: Legends Pioneers and
Survivors}\label{chapter-3-legends-pioneers-and-survivors}}

\href{/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/butch-stud-lesbian.html}{}

\hypertarget{the-renegades}{%
\subparagraph{The Renegades}\label{the-renegades}}

\href{/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/act-up-aids.html}{}

\hypertarget{the-activists}{%
\subparagraph{The Activists}\label{the-activists}}

\href{/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/artist-recluse.html}{}

\hypertarget{the-shadows}{%
\subparagraph{The Shadows}\label{the-shadows}}

\href{/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/black-actresses-bassett-berry-blige-henson-whitfield-elise.html}{}

\hypertarget{the-veterans}{%
\subparagraph{The Veterans}\label{the-veterans}}

\hypertarget{chapter-4-the-new-guard}{%
\paragraph{Chapter 4: The New Guard}\label{chapter-4-the-new-guard}}

\href{/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/asian-american-fashion-designers.html}{}

\hypertarget{the-designers}{%
\subparagraph{The Designers}\label{the-designers}}

\href{13tmag-beauties.html}{}

\hypertarget{the-beauties}{%
\subparagraph{The Beauties}\label{the-beauties}}

\href{/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/nyc-downtown-nightlife-party-scene.html}{}

\hypertarget{the-scenemakers}{%
\subparagraph{The Scenemakers}\label{the-scenemakers}}

\href{/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/maria-cornejo-olivier-rousteing-telfar-clemens-alessandro-michele.html\#olivier-rousteing-and-co}{}

\hypertarget{olivier-rousteing-and-co}{%
\subparagraph{Olivier Rousteing and
Co.}\label{olivier-rousteing-and-co}}

\href{/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/maria-cornejo-olivier-rousteing-telfar-clemens-alessandro-michele.html\#maria-cornejo-and-co}{}

\hypertarget{maria-cornejo-and-co}{%
\subparagraph{Maria Cornejo and Co.}\label{maria-cornejo-and-co}}

\href{/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/maria-cornejo-olivier-rousteing-telfar-clemens-alessandro-michele.html\#telfar-clemens-and-co}{}

\hypertarget{telfar-clemens-and-co}{%
\subparagraph{Telfar Clemens and Co.}\label{telfar-clemens-and-co}}

\href{/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/maria-cornejo-olivier-rousteing-telfar-clemens-alessandro-michele.html\#alessandro-michele-and-co}{}

\hypertarget{alessandro-michele-and-co}{%
\subparagraph{Alessandro Michele and
Co.}\label{alessandro-michele-and-co}}

\href{/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/foreign-correspondents.html}{}

\hypertarget{the-journalists}{%
\subparagraph{The Journalists}\label{the-journalists}}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
