<div id="app">

<div id="standalone-header">

</div>

<div id="site-content" role="main">

# The Downtown New York Restaurant With a Who’s Who List of Devotees

<div class="css-1vegfwe interactive-byline-container">

<div class="interactive-byline css-103zbxs">

April 13, 2020

</div>

</div>

<div id="interactive-standalone-sharetools" class="css-wkcogx">

<div>

<div class="interactive-sharetools css-9z2bwm" role="toolbar" data-aria-label="Social Media Share buttons, Save button, and Comments Panel with current comment count" data-testid="share-tools">

  - 
  - 
  - 
  - 
    
    <div class="css-6n7j50">
    
    </div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

From the start, Omen was a gathering place for artists, writers, actors
and designers — 40 years later, in a vastly different city, it still is.

<div id="omen-restaurant-nyc" class="section css-l08pwh interactive-minimal interactive-content interactive-size-medium">

<div class="css-17ih8de interactive-body">

<div class="rad-article g-article-ch2" data-chapter="ch2" data-slug="13tmag-regulars">

<div class="g-header">

<div class="g-header-meta">

###### [We Are Family](https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/culture-issue-2020.html)

##### <span class="rad-ch-label">Chapter 2: </span><span>Reunions</span> <span>and Reconsiderations</span>

</div>

<div class="g-header-nav">

##### Previous

##### Next

</div>

</div>

<div class="rad-cover stacked-cover">

<div class="rad-cover-main">

<div class="rad-head-wrap">

![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)

# The Downtown New York Restaurant With a Who’s Who List of Devotees

From its opening, the Japanese restaurant Omen has been a gathering
place for artists, writers, actors and fashion designers. Forty years
later, in a vastly different downtown New York, it still is.

<span class="g-byline-name" itemprop="name">By Patti Smith</span>

</div>

<div class="rad-byline-wrap">

<div class="rad-date-share">

April 13, 2020

<span>SHARE</span>

</div>

</div>

![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)

</div>

</div>

<div class="rad-story-body">

THE STORY OF [OMEN](http://www.omen-azen.com/) is the story of how the
world comes about without design. Like a simple musical phrase drawn by
a lone saxophone, steadily augmenting to form a memorable motif, there
was no particular strategy in the creation of Omen’s song. It came about
organically, gently guided by the humble hand of its founder and
proprietor, Mikio Shinagawa, evolving as a treasured presence in SoHo
for nearly four decades.

In the ’60s and ’70s, SoHo was all but deserted. The public developer
[Robert Moses](https://www.nytimes.com/topic/person/robert-moses) had
projected the idea of building an expressway across Broome Street, so no
one was prepared to invest in the area. Artists moved into the abundance
of empty lofts, grateful for ample space and low rents. There were few
local restaurants back then. [Fanelli
Cafe](https://www.nytimes.com/2019/10/14/t-magazine/fanelli-cafe.html),
on Prince Street, had been around (under different names and owners)
since the mid-19th century, offering a continuous communal atmosphere.
Gordon Matta-Clark and his friends [started the
restaurant](https://tmagazine.blogs.nytimes.com/2013/05/10/food-matters-when-eating-and-art-became-one/)
called Food in 1971, on the corner of Prince and Wooster Streets, where
artists would take turns cooking for friends who gathered there to eat.
But most convened in the coffee houses on MacDougal Street.

Mikio came to New York in 1976 from Kyoto — which was and still is a
center of higher learning, with its Golden Pavilion, scurrying monks and
the sound of rakes combing the stones of temple gardens. He had been a
Buddhist monk himself, but gave up traditional practice when he realized
that anything he did could be considered a practice.

In 1981, assessing the needs of his downtown neighborhood, Mikio decided
to open a place where people could partake of healthy Japanese country
food. He also wanted to provide a haven for discourse. He took to heart
the wishes of his parents — his father was the poet and calligrapher
Tetsuzan Shinagawa — who desired that their children promote peace and
share the most enlightened aspects of their culture in their ventures.

<div class="rad-related">

<div class="rad-related-header">

###### The T List |

Sign up here

</div>

<div class="rad-related-items">

</div>

</div>

![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)

<div class="g-ad rad-ad-wrapper">

<div id="mid15" class="place-ad" data-position="mid15" data-size-key="default">

</div>

</div>

At the same time, the painter [David
Grossblatt](https://www.nytimes.com/1981/06/26/obituaries/david-grossblatt-61-a-painter-and-operator-of-the-cafe-rienzi.html),
who ran the popular Cafe Rienzi, and co-owned the O.G. Dining Rooms,
passed away. The O.G. closed and stood vacant. Mikio took over the
space, brought craftsmen from Japan and built a warm, spare and rustic
interior. Mikio never thought of it as a business but instead as a kind
of Japanese salon in the city. The brick walls were hung with the
calligraphy of his father, whose elegant brush strokes represented the
Japanese character *mu*, meaning “nothingness.”

Note by note, Omen came into being, attracting artists, musicians,
actors and architects. Kyoto’s country-style cuisine was served — fine
tea and handmade udon noodles in a rich broth — creating the serene yet
spirited atmosphere of Mikio’s ancestral community. [Yoko
Ono](https://www.nytimes.com/2015/10/23/t-magazine/yoko-ono-illustrated-interview.html)
frequented it. She has often shared meals there with her son, Sean.

Through the years, one could find many leading figures in the arts.
There seems to be an unspoken rule of maintaining a congenial but
private atmosphere, with no sense of celebrity. There are regulars who
have patronized Omen throughout its entire existence; at times, one gets
a sense of downtown as it once was, a place of kinship, common mind and
residence. Everyone shares a part of the atmosphere, and that is how New
York City once was, with its air of casual discretion. The last time I
saw [Lou Reed](https://www.nytimes.com/topic/person/lou-reed), not long
before he died, he was in Omen with [Laurie
Anderson](https://www.nytimes.com/2018/04/26/t-magazine/larry-clark-laurie-anderson-bill-t-jones-80s-work.html),
and what he spoke of, at that moment, was love.

In Omen, people talk to one another. It is not a place for cellphones.
The conversational din is complemented by the spiritual horns of [Miles
Davis](https://www.nytimes.com/topic/person/miles-davis) and [John
Coltrane](https://www.nytimes.com/topic/person/john-coltrane) at a
civilized volume. Dreamy, soft-spoken and impeccable, like a spirit
visitor, Mikio glides though the brick-walled dining room, stopping to
give a warm hello or to sit and share a sake, noting the loss of a
friend and the blessings of a new one. Green tea is brought to the
table, and for a while, all is right with the world.

MUCH HAS CHANGED in our downtown area since Mikio opened Omen in 1981.
The relentless demolition, construction and astronomical rise in rents
to accommodate a burgeoning corporate culture has had a deep effect on a
traditionally creative community. One by one, we lose beloved landmarks,
diners, community parks and a sense of our own history. Our Omen
stoically remains.

An omen is a sign, at best a portent to good. Following a ribbon of
notes up the stairs, I pass through the braided curtain, sit at a table
beneath an ideogram symbolizing nothingness before a bowl of perfect
broth. Here I have found the warmth of friendship. Here I have come in
tears and left comforted. Here I have come hungry and left satisfied.

Where shall we go? Let’s go to Omen. And all agree.

Patti Smith is an award-winning poet, author, singer-songwriter and
visual artist. Jason Schmidt specializes in artist portraiture,
architecture and interiors. Photo assistants: Kyle Knodell, Wil Pierce
and Julia Wilson.

-----

![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)

***A behind-the-scenes account of the making of the group portrait:***

“Why don’t we talk about it over a cup of tea?” So began the answer from
Mikio Shinagawa, the owner of Omen Azen, after I initially approached
him several months ago (before the arrival of the pandemic) about doing
a story for [T’s Culture
issue](https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/culture-issue-2020.html)
on the SoHo restaurant he has owned and operated ever since he opened
its doors in 1981. Omen, with its dark wood and tasteful touches — from
the polka-dot navy napkins to the soft light cast by the paper
chandeliers — has a warm welcoming quality to it, like the whiskey bars
or jazz clubs one can find only in Tokyo. As Patti Smith writes in her
essay for the issue: “In Omen, people talk to one another. It is not a
place for cellphones. The conversational din is complemented by the
spiritual horns of Miles Davis and John Coltrane at a civilized volume.
… Green tea is brought to the table, and for a while, all is right
with the world.”

​And so, for the first time in my life, I was producing a magazine story
in person — not over email or on the phone, but over green tea that had
been poured into a delicate ceramic cup. Sitting across from Shinagawa,
I explained that T wanted to feature not just Omen but also the people
who frequent it, and have been doing so for the last several decades.
Omen has always been the sort of place where, on any given night, the
tables are populated by fashion designers, magazine editors, artists,
architects, poets and whoever else has managed to drift through downtown
New York and stay around. “The thing about Omen,” the actress and
producer Stella Schnabel told me, “is that you will always get a great
meal, but be ready to bump into the likes of anyone you might know.”

![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)

Yet while there are those restaurants that insist on an aura of
exclusivity, flaunting the status gleaned from and imparted to their
guests, Omen is different. It never invites anything but a sense of
gathering. Even as Shinagawa opened up to the idea of inviting longtime
patrons together for a group portrait, he never gave the slightest
impression of regarding the story as an opportunity. Such discretion may
be the secret to why Omen is such a perfect restaurant. “For Mikio,”
Smith said to me when I asked her to write her essay, “anything.”

​A few weeks later, on a wintry afternoon, the restaurant’s regulars,
who could also be described as friends of Shinagawa’s, gathered over
platters of sushi and other small bites. They greeted each other warmly,
making jokes and light banter. There was the great choreographer and
dancer Bill T. Jones (his husband, Bjorn Amelan, couldn’t make it)
chatting with the interior architect designer Bill Katz. There was the
artist Rachel Feinstein, with her dog, Mr. Greenjeans; she knows
Shinagawa so well that when she and her husband, the painter John
Currin, were last in Kyoto (where Shinagawa splits his time), they
called him up to show them around. There was the artist Francesco
Clemente and the three children of fellow artist Julian **** Schnabel —
Lola, Stella and Vito (their father, another Omen devotee, also couldn’t
make it). Shinagawa told me he remembers them as little kids at the
restaurant. And there was the movie star Richard Gere, who bellowed
affectionately Shinagawa — “Mikio\!” **** — when he walked in with his
pregnant wife, Alejandra.

​Afterward, a few bites of uni and pickled cucumber still sat on the
platters, and I picked one up to nibble. Smith was chatting with Lola
Schnabel. Others were exchanging pleasantries and goodbyes. For a
moment, before everyone scattered to return to their lives, I let myself
imagine being part of Shinagawa’s circle, and part of the sort of world
— one where art offers a sense of camaraderie, and where a
neighborhood is a community, not a place to make a commercial investment
— that increasingly seems to be disappearing from a city such as New
York. — THESSALY LA FORCE

<div class="rad-related">

<div class="rad-related-items">

[](https://www.nytimes.com/2019/10/14/t-magazine/fanelli-cafe.html)

#### The Bar That Has Fed SoHo for Almost a Century<span class="rad-related-date">Oct. 14, 2019</span>

![](https://static01.nyt.com/images/2019/10/14/t-magazine/14tmag-fanelli-slide-6GYD/14tmag-fanelli-slide-6GYD-mediumThreeByTwo210.jpg)
[](https://www.nytimes.com/2018/08/14/t-magazine/raouls-new-york-restaurant-history.html)

#### The New York Restaurant Where (Almost) Nothing Has Changed Since 1975<span class="rad-related-date">Aug. 15, 2018</span>

![](https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/08/14/t-magazine/food/Raouls-slide-7M1Z/Raouls-slide-7M1Z-mediumThreeByTwo210.jpg)
[](https://www.nytimes.com/2019/12/20/t-magazine/bemelmans-bar.html)

#### A Bar Revered for Its Old-Fashioned Charm and Witty Murals<span class="rad-related-date">Dec. 20, 2019</span>

![](https://static01.nyt.com/images/2019/12/20/t-magazine/entertainment/20-tmag-bemelmans-slide-DTPP/20-tmag-bemelmans-slide-DTPP-mediumThreeByTwo210.jpg)
[](https://www.nytimes.com/2019/01/24/t-magazine/indochine-restaurant-history.html)

#### The Restaurant That Has Helped New Yorkers Feel Famous Since 1984<span class="rad-related-date">Jan. 24, 2019</span>

![](https://static01.nyt.com/images/2019/01/15/t-magazine/food/indochine-slide-14IB/indochine-slide-14IB-mediumThreeByTwo210.jpg)

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="rad-corrections">

##### **Correction** April 14, 2020

An earlier version of a picture caption with this article misstated the
surname of a furniture designer. He is Dakota Jackson, not Johnson.

</div>

<div class="rad-article-credits">

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-nav">

<div class="g-chapter ch1">

### We Are Family

#### Chapter 1: <span>Heirs and</span> <span>Alumni</span>

<div class="g-chapter-inner">

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/black-art-galleries.html)

##### The Artists

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/italian-fashion-design-houses.html)

##### The Dynasties

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/gordon-parks.html)

##### The Directors

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/enrique-olvera-chef.html)

##### The Disciples

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/royal-academy-antwerp.html)

##### The Graduates

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-chapter ch2">

#### Chapter 2: <span>Reunions</span> <span>and Reconsiderations</span>

<div class="g-chapter-inner">

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/ninth-street-greenwich-village-neighbors.html)

##### The Neighbors

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/omen-restaurant-nyc.html)

##### The Regulars

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/hair-musical-broadway.html)

##### Hair (1967)

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/sweeney-todd-revival.html)

##### Sweeney Todd (2005 Revival)

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/daughters-of-the-dust.html)

##### Daughters of the Dust (1991)

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-chapter ch3">

#### Chapter 3: <span>Legends</span> <span>Pioneers and</span> <span>Survivors</span>

<div class="g-chapter-inner">

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/butch-stud-lesbian.html)

##### The Renegades

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/act-up-aids.html)

##### The Activists

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/artist-recluse.html)

##### The Shadows

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/black-actresses-bassett-berry-blige-henson-whitfield-elise.html)

##### The Veterans

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-chapter ch4">

#### Chapter 4: <span>The New</span> <span>Guard</span>

<div class="g-chapter-inner">

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/asian-american-fashion-designers.html)

##### The Designers

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](13tmag-beauties.html)

##### The Beauties

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/nyc-downtown-nightlife-party-scene.html)

##### The Scenemakers

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/maria-cornejo-olivier-rousteing-telfar-clemens-alessandro-michele.html#olivier-rousteing-and-co)

##### Olivier Rousteing and Co.

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/maria-cornejo-olivier-rousteing-telfar-clemens-alessandro-michele.html#maria-cornejo-and-co)

##### Maria Cornejo and Co.

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/maria-cornejo-olivier-rousteing-telfar-clemens-alessandro-michele.html#telfar-clemens-and-co)

##### Telfar Clemens and Co.

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/maria-cornejo-olivier-rousteing-telfar-clemens-alessandro-michele.html#alessandro-michele-and-co)

##### Alessandro Michele and Co.

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/foreign-correspondents.html)

##### The Journalists

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div id="standalone-footer">

<div>

<div>

<div id="interactive-footer-wrapper">

<div class="css-i29ckm">

<div class="interactive-sharetools css-9z2bwm" role="toolbar" data-aria-label="Social Media Share buttons, Save button, and Comments Panel with current comment count" data-testid="share-tools">

  - 
  - 
  - 
  - 
    
    <div class="css-6n7j50">
    
    </div>

</div>

</div>

<div>

</div>

<div id="bottom-wrapper" class="css-1ede5it">

<div id="bottom-slug" class="css-l9onyx">

Advertisement

</div>

[Continue reading the main story](#after-bottom)

<div id="bottom" class="ad bottom-wrapper" style="text-align:center;height:100%;display:block;min-height:90px">

</div>

<div id="after-bottom">

</div>

</div>

## Site Index

<div>

</div>

## Site Information Navigation

  - [© <span>2020</span> <span>The New York Times
    Company</span>](https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice)

<!-- end list -->

  - [NYTCo](https://www.nytco.com/)
  - [Contact
    Us](https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us)
  - [Work with us](https://www.nytco.com/careers/)
  - [Advertise](https://nytmediakit.com/)
  - [T Brand Studio](http://www.tbrandstudio.com/)
  - [Your Ad
    Choices](https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy#how-do-i-manage-trackers)
  - [Privacy](https://www.nytimes.com/privacy)
  - [Terms of
    Service](https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service)
  - [Terms of
    Sale](https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale)
  - [Site Map](https://spiderbites.nytimes.com)
  - [Help](https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us)
  - [Subscriptions](https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW)

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>
