<div id="app">

<div id="standalone-header">

</div>

<div id="site-content" role="main">

# How the 2005 Revival of ‘Sweeney Todd’ Inspired a New Wave in Theater

<div class="css-1vegfwe interactive-byline-container">

<div class="interactive-byline css-103zbxs">

April 13, 2020

</div>

</div>

<div id="interactive-standalone-sharetools" class="css-wkcogx">

<div>

<div class="interactive-sharetools css-9z2bwm" role="toolbar" data-aria-label="Social Media Share buttons, Save button, and Comments Panel with current comment count" data-testid="share-tools">

  - 
  - 
  - 
  - 
    
    <div class="css-6n7j50">
    
    </div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

A minimalist staging by John Doyle of the tale of the barber of Fleet
Street emphasized the raw talents of its cast.

<div id="sweeney-todd-revival" class="section css-l08pwh interactive-minimal interactive-content interactive-size-medium">

<div class="css-17ih8de interactive-body">

<div class="rad-article g-article-ch2" data-chapter="ch2" data-slug="13tmag-sweeney">

<div class="g-header">

<div class="g-header-meta">

###### [We Are Family](https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/culture-issue-2020.html)

##### <span class="rad-ch-label">Chapter 2: </span><span>Reunions</span> <span>and Reconsiderations</span>

</div>

<div class="g-header-nav">

##### Previous

##### Next

</div>

</div>

<div class="rad-cover stacked-cover">

<div class="rad-cover-main">

<div class="rad-head-wrap">

**<span>The forerunners</span>**
![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)

# How the 2005 Revival of ‘Sweeney Todd’ Inspired a New Wave in Theater

Every now and then, a piece of American performance is so memorable that
it both redefines its medium and reframes the culture at large. Here, an
appraisal of one such enduring and heavily referenced work — a 2005
Broadway revival that brought a much-needed austerity and economy to the
stage — alongside a gathering of the stars who not only made it but were
made by it, too.

<span class="g-byline-name" itemprop="name">By [Patricia
Cohen](https://www.nytimes.com/by/patricia-cohen)</span>

</div>

<div class="rad-byline-wrap">

<div class="rad-date-share">

April 13, 2020

<span>SHARE</span>

</div>

</div>

![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)

</div>

</div>

<div class="rad-story-body">

FOR MUCH OF the 20th century, theatrical lore was built upon flashy
pyrotechnics that elicited stunned gasps from audience members: In the
’80s, a hydraulically powered tire airlifted a feline in
“[Cats](https://www.nytimes.com/2016/07/24/theater/just-say-cats-and-watch-the-fur-fly.html),”
while a 1,500-pound crystal chandelier was crashed onto the stage in
“[The Phantom of the
Opera](https://www.nytimes.com/2012/02/11/theater/phantom-of-the-opera-reaches-10000th-broadway-performance.html).”
In the ’90s, a whirring rotary helicopter ascended to the rafters in
“Miss Saigon.”

Broadway still loves extravaganzas, of course, and often provides a home
for even ill-fated ones. But over the past decade or so, it has leaned
in the opposite direction — toward streamlined productions that forgo
razzle-dazzle to instead focus on a small ensemble cast, who not only
recite the lines and sing the score but frequently play the instruments,
too.

<div class="rad-related">

<div class="rad-related-header">

###### The T List |

Sign up here

</div>

<div class="rad-related-items">

</div>

</div>

This shift can be traced to the revelatory 2005 Broadway revival of
[Stephen
Sondheim](https://www.nytimes.com/topic/person/stephen-sondheim) and
[Hugh
Wheeler](https://www.nytimes.com/1987/07/28/obituaries/hugh-wheeler-award-winning-playwright.html)’s
1979 masterwork, “[Sweeney Todd: The Demon Barber of Fleet
Street](https://www.nytimes.com/2005/12/11/theater/sweeney-todds-game-of-musical-chairs.html)”
— a Grand Guignol tale about a murderous barber who bakes his customers
into meat pies. Directed by John Doyle and starring [Michael
Cerveris](https://www.nytimes.com/2016/05/29/realestate/michael-cerveriss-fun-home-in-chelsea.html)
as the title character and [Patti
LuPone](https://www.nytimes.com/topic/person/patti-lupone) as his
blood-hungry accomplice, Mrs. Lovett, that show not only incited a new
era of theatrical minimalism but encouraged a new generation of
composers, directors and musicians to experiment on Broadway. “It opened
the door for other shows,” says Doyle, who has recently been [at work
on](https://www.nytimes.com/2019/03/20/theater/john-doyle-assassins.html)
another Sondheim revival, 1990’s “Assassins,” at New York’s Classic
Stage Company, where he is the artistic director. “Sweeney” is one of
several Sondheim shows he has reinterpreted over the years — a
production, he says, that “allowed for the fact that musicals could be
something other than spectacle,” where the actors, using the full range
of their skills, could “capture the essence of storytelling.” In this
case, every performer also served as an orchestra member, playing
Sondheim’s complex score while simultaneously portraying a character.
Donna Lynne Champlin, as the competing barber, Pirelli, learned
accordion for the show, and several cast members took turns on the
center-stage piano. LuPone, who played the tuba in an all-girls marching
band while in high school on Long Island in the 1960s, pumped out each
horn blast as if it were steam escaping a pie. Cerveris strummed the
guitar, an instrument he was introduced to in grade school in West
Virginia, and says the experience was “an opportunity to be a whole
artist for the first time,” adding that it was, in fact, a return to
theater as it was practiced in Shakespearean times: “Doyle engages the
audience in a way that harks back to childhood play.”

![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)

<div class="g-ad rad-ad-wrapper">

<div id="mid17" class="place-ad" data-position="mid17" data-size-key="default">

</div>

</div>

Economic necessity helped inspire the show’s asceticism, which
characterizes much of Doyle’s work. The 67-year-old Scottish director
spent much of his career in the United Kingdom at regional theaters,
where penny-pinching is as much of an art as speaking in iambic
pentameter; he had initially modernized “Sweeney Todd” in 2004 for the
Watermill Theater, a 220-seat house in the English countryside. “I was
trying to find the least expensive way of doing this enormous piece with
only nine or 10 people,” he says. The handful of actors played all the
characters and instruments on a mostly empty stage with a single coffin
to serve as the bow of a ship, a table for rolling out pie crusts or the
entrance to a madhouse. (By contrast, the director [Harold
Prince](https://www.nytimes.com/2019/07/31/theater/hal-prince-dead.html)’s
original Broadway production had a 27-piece orchestra and a 27-person
cast.) When Doyle learned the producers wanted to transfer his revival
to Broadway after it opened on London’s West End later that year, “I
really, truly thought they had lost their minds,” he recalls.

Yet the minimalism of Doyle’s production accentuated the play’s
subtleties. Sweeney’s brutish world is one in which everyone must make
do with what’s on hand, whether it’s a barber’s knife to slit a throat
or a corpse to fill a meat pie. “Well, waste not, want not, as I always
say,” Mrs. Lovett remarks when she realizes the slumped body in
Sweeney’s barber’s chair could be converted into the next day’s
supper. Such economy likewise governed the production. As Anthony and
Johanna, the actors [Benjamin
Magnuson](https://www.imdb.com/name/nm3735219/) and [Lauren
Molina](http://laurenmolina.com/) not only sang the romantic ballad
“Johanna” but accompanied themselves on cellos. Two arms and two bows
swept across the strings, their movements in tandem. Later, the lovers’
cello movements transformed into violent slashing that mirrored
Sweeney’s razor strokes, and later still, into the self-flagellating
whip cracks administered by Judge Turpin ([Mark
Jacoby](https://www.imdb.com/name/nm0415002/)), the morally depraved
engineer of Sweeney’s downfall. Nothing’s wasted, and the effect is
spellbinding. Of Doyle’s production, Sondheim told a journalist at the
time, “John’s, for me, is the most intense.”

AN EXUBERANT REVIVAL of “The Pajama Game” [won the
Tony](https://www.nytimes.com/2006/06/12/theater/theaterspecial/12tony.html)
that year. But Doyle’s critical and commercial success had lasting
influence: It helped persuade audiences and producers that artistic
innovation was just as commanding as lavish scenery and effects, and
cleared the way for shows in the same vein, many of them new works
developed Off Broadway, where scarcity regularly prompts reinvention.
The spartan productions that followed not only redefined what a Broadway
show could be but also became symbolic of the challenges and triumphs of
making art in a New York chastened by the 2008 financial crisis. Money
was tight, funders were hard to secure. And as fortunes and jobs melted
away, glitzy opulence, sleight-of-hand stunts and ornate effects began
to seem like flimflammery, out of step with the changing times. On
Broadway, like everywhere else after the global recession, people had to
make do. As Mrs. Lovett sings, “Business needs a lift … Think of it as
thrift.”

![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)

Doyle’s “Sweeney” also proved the enduring power of austerity. In 2012,
“Once,” a modest Broadway production about two songwriters in a bar
that featured instrument-playing actors, [won the
Tony](https://www.nytimes.com/2012/06/11/theater/theaterspecial/musical-once-receives-8-tony-awards.html)
for best musical. More soon followed: the Josh Groban-starring
experimental ensemble production “[Natasha, Pierre and the Great Comet
of 1812](https://www.nytimes.com/2017/05/02/theater/tony-awards-nominations.html)”
— a musicalized Broadway version of Leo Tolstoy’s “War and Peace” — in
2016, and, the following year, “[The Band’s
Visit](https://www.nytimes.com/2018/06/10/theater/tony-awards-live.html),”
about a group of Egyptian musicians stuck overnight in an Israeli
village. Last year,
“[Hadestown](https://www.nytimes.com/2019/03/27/theater/rachel-chavkin-hadestown-great-comet.html),”
a retelling of the Orpheus and Eurydice myth that featured a trio of
Fates playing the accordion, tambourine and fiddle, [won the best
musical
Tony](https://www.nytimes.com/2019/06/09/theater/tony-awards.html#link-21590072).
Best musical revival went to
“[Oklahoma\!,](https://www.nytimes.com/2018/12/11/theater/oklahoma-broadway-musical-revival.html)”
which replaced some of Rodgers and Hammerstein’s lushest orchestrations
with a single guitar-strumming cowboy, played by [Damon
Daunno](https://www.nytimes.com/2019/02/22/theater/hadestown-oklahoma-amber-gray-damon-daunno.html).
That production eliminated the show’s standard overture, chorus,
elaborate costumes and arrangements to expose the show’s [darker
undercurrents](https://www.nytimes.com/2020/01/20/theater/patrick-vaill-oklahoma-broadway.html)
and sexuality, transforming what could be a stodgy bit of Americana into
a vital story for our times.

Doyle, for his part, often hears from people who tell him his “Sweeney
Todd” was their first Broadway experience. “It introduced a new
generation to something they’d never seen,” he says. Transformation,
after all, is what drives theater, and these pared-down productions
encouraged creators with different stories to tell and different ways of
telling them to share their vision on a larger platform. That, in turn,
has inspired new, more diverse audiences, as well as Broadway veterans.
The cycle continues today, challenging the conceptions not only of what
theater can be but *should* be. “It doesn’t have to be big to affect an
audience, it just has to be exciting,” LuPone says. “And, in our case,
very scary.”

Patricia Cohen is a domestic correspondent for The New York Times,
covering the national economy. She was the theater editor from 2004 to
2008. Jennifer Livingston specializes in editorial fashion photography.
Photo assistants: Mike O’Shea and Matt Labarbiera. Digital tech: Matthew
Willkens.

<div class="rad-related">

<div class="rad-related-items">

[](https://www.nytimes.com/2017/10/16/t-magazine/lin-manuel-miranda-stephen-sondheim.html)

#### Stephen Sondheim, Theater’s Greatest Lyricist<span class="rad-related-date">Oct. 16, 2017</span>

![](https://static01.nyt.com/images/2017/10/16/t-magazine/sondheim-slide-SB33-copy/sondheim-slide-SB33-copy-mediumThreeByTwo210-v2.jpg)
[](https://www.nytimes.com/2018/08/09/t-magazine/allison-janney-idina-menzel-female-actresses.html)

#### These Actresses Dominate Not Just the Stage, but the Screen Too<span class="rad-related-date">Aug. 9, 2018</span>

![](https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/08/09/t-magazine/09tmag-women/09tmag-women-mediumThreeByTwo210.jpg)
[](https://www.nytimes.com/2018/04/16/t-magazine/broadway-1980s-actors-sarah-jessica-parker-willem-dafoe.html)

#### The Stars Who Got Their Start on the ’80s New York Stage<span class="rad-related-date">April 16, 2018</span>

![](https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/04/05/t-magazine/05tmag-group-slide-QT9P/05tmag-group-slide-QT9P-mediumThreeByTwo210.jpg)

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="rad-article-credits">

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-nav">

<div class="g-chapter ch1">

### We Are Family

#### Chapter 1: <span>Heirs and</span> <span>Alumni</span>

<div class="g-chapter-inner">

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/black-art-galleries.html)

##### The Artists

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/italian-fashion-design-houses.html)

##### The Dynasties

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/gordon-parks.html)

##### The Directors

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/enrique-olvera-chef.html)

##### The Disciples

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/royal-academy-antwerp.html)

##### The Graduates

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-chapter ch2">

#### Chapter 2: <span>Reunions</span> <span>and Reconsiderations</span>

<div class="g-chapter-inner">

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/ninth-street-greenwich-village-neighbors.html)

##### The Neighbors

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/omen-restaurant-nyc.html)

##### The Regulars

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/hair-musical-broadway.html)

##### Hair (1967)

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/sweeney-todd-revival.html)

##### Sweeney Todd (2005 Revival)

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/daughters-of-the-dust.html)

##### Daughters of the Dust (1991)

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-chapter ch3">

#### Chapter 3: <span>Legends</span> <span>Pioneers and</span> <span>Survivors</span>

<div class="g-chapter-inner">

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/butch-stud-lesbian.html)

##### The Renegades

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/act-up-aids.html)

##### The Activists

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/artist-recluse.html)

##### The Shadows

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/black-actresses-bassett-berry-blige-henson-whitfield-elise.html)

##### The Veterans

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-chapter ch4">

#### Chapter 4: <span>The New</span> <span>Guard</span>

<div class="g-chapter-inner">

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/asian-american-fashion-designers.html)

##### The Designers

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](13tmag-beauties.html)

##### The Beauties

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/nyc-downtown-nightlife-party-scene.html)

##### The Scenemakers

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/maria-cornejo-olivier-rousteing-telfar-clemens-alessandro-michele.html#olivier-rousteing-and-co)

##### Olivier Rousteing and Co.

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/maria-cornejo-olivier-rousteing-telfar-clemens-alessandro-michele.html#maria-cornejo-and-co)

##### Maria Cornejo and Co.

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/maria-cornejo-olivier-rousteing-telfar-clemens-alessandro-michele.html#telfar-clemens-and-co)

##### Telfar Clemens and Co.

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/maria-cornejo-olivier-rousteing-telfar-clemens-alessandro-michele.html#alessandro-michele-and-co)

##### Alessandro Michele and Co.

</div>

<div class="g-module">

[![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)](/interactive/2020/04/13/t-magazine/foreign-correspondents.html)

##### The Journalists

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div id="standalone-footer">

<div>

<div>

<div id="interactive-footer-wrapper">

<div class="css-i29ckm">

<div class="interactive-sharetools css-9z2bwm" role="toolbar" data-aria-label="Social Media Share buttons, Save button, and Comments Panel with current comment count" data-testid="share-tools">

  - 
  - 
  - 
  - 
    
    <div class="css-6n7j50">
    
    </div>

</div>

</div>

<div>

</div>

<div id="bottom-wrapper" class="css-1ede5it">

<div id="bottom-slug" class="css-l9onyx">

Advertisement

</div>

[Continue reading the main story](#after-bottom)

<div id="bottom" class="ad bottom-wrapper" style="text-align:center;height:100%;display:block;min-height:90px">

</div>

<div id="after-bottom">

</div>

</div>

## Site Index

<div>

</div>

## Site Information Navigation

  - [© <span>2020</span> <span>The New York Times
    Company</span>](https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice)

<!-- end list -->

  - [NYTCo](https://www.nytco.com/)
  - [Contact
    Us](https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us)
  - [Work with us](https://www.nytco.com/careers/)
  - [Advertise](https://nytmediakit.com/)
  - [T Brand Studio](http://www.tbrandstudio.com/)
  - [Your Ad
    Choices](https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy#how-do-i-manage-trackers)
  - [Privacy](https://www.nytimes.com/privacy)
  - [Terms of
    Service](https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service)
  - [Terms of
    Sale](https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale)
  - [Site Map](https://spiderbites.nytimes.com)
  - [Help](https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us)
  - [Subscriptions](https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW)

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>
