Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/fashion/weddings}{Love}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/fashion/weddings}{Love}\textbar{}An Insta-Perfect Wedding
With Strings Attached

\url{https://nyti.ms/2YYEwce}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/spotlight/at-home?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=at_home_menu}{At
Home}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/07/travel/route-66.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=at_home_menu}{Cruise
  Along: Route 66}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/04/dining/sheet-pan-chicken.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=at_home_menu}{Roast:
  Chicken With Plums}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/04/arts/television/dark-shadows-stream.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=at_home_menu}{Watch:
  Dark Shadows}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/at-home/even-more-reporters-editors-diaries-lists-recommendations.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=at_home_menu}{Explore:
  Reporters' Google Docs}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{an-insta-perfect-wedding-with-strings-attached}{%
\section{An Insta-Perfect Wedding With Strings
Attached}\label{an-insta-perfect-wedding-with-strings-attached}}

For social media influencers, thousands of followers can buy you a
virtually free wedding. But partnering with vendors in exchange for
exposure can turn your wedding into work.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/09/01/fashion/weddings/oakImage-1598970136682/oakImage-1598970136682-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By Maggie Parker

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Sept. 2, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

At most weddings all eyes are typically on the brides and grooms. But
for social media influencers, the audience is magnified by the
thousands.

``Their day just happens to have a few extra hundred thousand eyeballs
on it, with each step down the aisle and cut of the cake,'' said
\href{https://www.instagram.com/cailaquinn/}{Caila Quinn}, an influencer
herself with nearly 400,000 Instagram followers. ``Your loved ones might
judge you, but also the entire world might.''

\begin{quote}
\end{quote}

Ms. Quinn, 28, lives in New York City and stepped into the spotlight
when she appeared on Season 20 of
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/02/26/style/bachelor-nation.html}{``The
Bachelor,''} which aired in 2016, and went on to work for herself as a
social media content creator. Now she's getting married. She met Nick
Burrello, 28, a real estate private equity investor in New York, in 2017
through a mutual friend and got engaged in January 2020. They are
planning to host two weddings: one in Lake Como, Italy, on May 29, 2021,
and another on July 17, 2021, in her hometown Cleveland. She's been
taking her followers along on the wedding-planning ride and plans to
showcase her wedding as well.

Even before social media, couples have felt the need to create a dream
wedding day. ``Wedding and bridal magazines and those images have been
with us since the 1930s and I'm sure before that in some other format,''
said Jocelyn Charnas, a clinical psychologist in New York. ``Those
aspirational images of how a day is supposed to look or be have been
floating around for so long now, it's normalized this idea of `the best
day of your life.'''

The way influencers document their wedding planning makes it seem
effortless and fun. But in reality, that's not always an accurate
depiction. Dr. Charnas said the stress and cost for other couples trying
to live up to unrealistic expectations seen on social media can be
``intense.''

Of course, social media often doesn't tell the entire wedding story.
\href{https://www.instagram.com/sharleenjoynt/}{Sharleen Joynt}, a New
York-based opera singer and influencer who got married to Andrew Levine,
48, an owner of a natural products company, in 2017 in New York, feels
that her status added an extra layer of stress and work to her wedding
day. ``Ultimately, I saved money but spent time, energy, stress. It was
a trade-off,'' she said. ``I think I would have rather spent a little
more money and saved on some of the stress.''

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/09/01/fashion/weddings/oakImage-1598969888589/oakImage-1598969888589-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

She feels her decision to leverage her social media following to save
money (she estimates she saved about 40 percent of what the wedding
would have ended up costing) **** unintentionally led her to have an
``influencer wedding.'' ``I think the whole day was just a little more
extra than I had intended,'' she said. For example, she paid extra money
to rent additional lounge sofas. They replaced the sofas that her venue
had provided, but which she didn't like.

``If this was not being photographed to death and shared on many
outlets, would I have spent that extra money? Probably not,'' she said.
But in the end she moved forward with the extra expense because she
``knew there would be a lot of people watching.''

Ms. Joynt hired a public relations company to help secure partnerships
for her wedding. The firm also represented several wedding vendors, she
noted, and ``I got a ton of pressure from them to go with their
vendors.''

Ms. Joynt had promised many of the vendors exposure on
\href{https://www.usmagazine.com/celebrity-news/pictures/bachelor-alum-sharleen-joynt-marries-andy-levine-see-the-photos-from-their-star-studded-wedding-w502677/}{UsWeekly.com}.
But after the wedding, she was surprised to learn she would also get a
two-page spread in the print edition that would mention four vendors.
When one vendor that had given her a discount in exchange for coverage
on UsWeekly.com found out it wasn't listed in print, it sent her a
``scathing'' email, she said, and charged her for what it claimed were
``damages'' to the rentals.

``We were like, `We gave you what we promised, which was UsWeekly.com.'
But they were furious, and said some of the stuff was sent back damaged,
even though it was all fine when we loaded it into the truck.''

Some promises were also made without her approval. ``The P.R. company, I
learned after the wedding, had promised some Instagram posts without
consulting me,'' she said. ``The Instagram post thing was sprung on me
after the fact. And we're talking dedicated posts for the DJ when I got
10 percent off. Considering how many vendors there were, if it was a 10
percent discount, I would have rather just paid full price.''

There were other issues. Ms. Joynt's wedding dress was 50 percent off,
but it arrived too small and she couldn't risk waiting to have it fixed
and sent back in time. She found another dress, but was down to the wire
with tailoring. ``I got it back Thursday for my Friday wedding,'' she
said. (Her flower girl dresses also arrived the day before, and her veil
two days before.

While her wedding was in no way Insta-perfect, her social media
followers were none the wiser. Ms. Joynt posted a photo of her dress.
``On Instagram, I was just wearing a beautiful backless dress, no drama
in getting it,'' she said. ``And I tagged the brand of the dress, even
though I didn't get any discount on that --- it probably looked like I
got it for free from the designer. But I didn't.''

Many people probably assume that influencers get their entire weddings
comped in exchange for social media promotion. But
\href{https://www.instagram.com/samozkural/}{Sam Ozkural Dural}, 29, a
YouTuber and social media influencer, says she paid for almost her
entire wedding. The only items she got from brands, she said, were
bridesmaids dresses and a pair of shoes.

``I didn't want to owe anybody anything or be influenced by what was
being offered to me for free or discounted,'' she said. ``I just knew
that I wanted it my way.''

Image

Sam Ozkural Dural, a YouTuber and social media influencer, didn't want
to answer to brands on her wedding day.~``I just knew that I wanted it
my way,'' she said.~Credit...Starfish Studios

Plus, she said, she wanted to avoid criticism from her followers. She
and Jarod Dural, a 30-year-old mortgage broker, decided to get married
rather quickly because her grandmother was in hospice and she hoped to
have her at the wedding. When she shared with her followers that she
would get married in December 2019, within a few months of getting
engaged, ``that's when I saw hate coming in.'' People were commenting on
her privilege to be able to afford to have a wedding only a few months
after getting engaged.

Unlike Ms. Quinn, who
\href{https://www.instagram.com/p/CB4SGvXgKES/}{sometimes asks her
followers their opinions on wedding details}, Ms. Ozkural Dural kept her
followers mostly out of the wedding-planning process and didn't share
details of the\href{https://www.instagram.com/p/B839vhTnveP/}{day until
after her wedding}. ``Every decision I made was genuinely my decision.
Can I say that for everything else in my life? No.''

It was quite the opposite for
\href{https://www.instagram.com/kelseystacypearson/}{Kelsey} Pearson,
30, and \href{https://www.instagram.com/heathermyriahpearson/}{Heather
Pearson}, 28, both full-time influencers in Portland, Ore., who got
married in July 2019. They said the most stress they experienced while
planning was generated by the negotiations with brands.

Image

Heather Pearson, left, and~Kelsey Pearson, who were married last summer,
used their social media following to get some discounts and comped
services from wedding vendors.~Credit...Ivash Studio

``The hardest parts were, as influencers, always trying to negotiate a
deal and see how we can provide the digital currency that we wanted to
offer people,'' Heather Pearson said, ``setting up conversations and
following up and trying to meet people in the middle, because we did not
get everything for free just because we're influencers.''

The two were among the Knot's featured couples for 2019. The program
pays for trips for 10 to 20 selected couples, during which they get to
meet each other and the Knot ** team, and discuss wedding planning. It
was on the first of these trips that the Pearsons learned from other
couples that they could use their influencer status to cut costs. ``We
had no idea we could partner with wedding vendors to get discounts, or
even services completely free, in exchange for social media exposure on
our pages,'' Kelsey Pearson said. Plus, their weddings get exposure on
the Knot's platform, which is appealing to businesses.

They started asking vendors for discounts. Sometimes it worked,
sometimes it didn't. ``I reached out to multiple florists in Portland
and we ended up going with the one that gave us the best deal,'' Ms.
Kelsey said. ``Our caterers said no, but we went with them anyway.''

The photographer and videographer team they ended up using actually
reached out to them to ask to shoot their wedding. ``He basically was
like, `This is normally like a \$10,000 to \$15,000 service, but this is
the first gay wedding I've ever done and I really want me and my team to
do it.' We immediately said, `yes!' We are so thankful he reached out
and that we could mutually benefit each other.'' A crew of five flying
to Portland, Ore., and shooting the wedding and editing the photos ended
up costing the Pearsons \$1,200.

Influencers who do make deals with vendors still pay for some wedding
services. Ms. Quinn and her fiancé, who isn't an influencer, agreed that
they would be willing to pay full price on certain aspects of their
weddings that are more important to them. She estimates they will be
partnering on 40 percent of their wedding in Ohio, which means that much
will be comped or discounted in exchange for features on her social
media platforms. In Italy, she thinks 10 percent will be similarly
bolstered by brands.

These partnerships, though, can turn the wedding day into a workday. On
top of all the typical wedding stress, there's extra pressure in making
sure couples meet all the agreements' obligations.

``I made an entire list for our photographer of everything that needed
to be photographed,'' Kelsey Pearson said. Others, like Ms. Quinn, hire
someone with a ``partnerships checklist'' to manage the agreements and
photos required.

Many of the couples feel that since most of their wedding photos will be
taken, edited and shared on social media anyway, why not get something
out of it.

But for the Pearsons, there was another reason they were so intent on
sharing their day with the world. ``For me, I could never picture my
wedding day growing up because I was figuring myself out,'' Kelsey
Pearson said. ``And maybe there are young girls that were like me or any
aged person who's struggling with their sexual orientation or identity,
if they can see a healthy relationship and a wedding that's being
celebrated with love all around them is possible, I wanted to share
that.''

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
