Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/fashion/weddings}{Love}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/fashion/weddings}{Love}\textbar{}Someone to Always Spill
the Tea With

\url{https://nyti.ms/32S1bYZ}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

vows

\hypertarget{someone-to-always-spill-the-tea-with}{%
\section{Someone to Always Spill the Tea
With}\label{someone-to-always-spill-the-tea-with}}

Jessica Hanser struck up a conversation with James Atkinson a couple of
years ago at London's British Library, and the two haven't stopped
talking since.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/09/01/fashion/00Vows-Singapore01/merlin_175035276_983ea4c8-f5c8-4ab9-bd37-b6d70d5348de-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By Linda Marx

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Sept. 2, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Jessica Hanser and James Atkinson talked nonstop after meeting in June
2018 at the British Library in London.

``Jessica has the singular ability to engage anyone she meets,'' said
Mr. Atkinson, who was born in Rochford, England, raised in Melbourne,
Australia, and is now living in Singapore. He currently works as a
senior ship broker specializing in liquefied natural gas for Braemar
ACM.

Ms. Hanser, born and raised in West Palm Beach, Fla., was then an
associate professor of history and a founding faculty member at Yale-NUS
College, a collaboration between Yale and the National University of
Singapore. She was in the London library researching for her 2019 book,
``Mr. Smith Goes to China'' which delves into the lives of three
Scottish private traders. The book explores Britain's imperial expansion
and global network of trade during the 18th century.

Ms. Hanser, who is fluent in Mandarin, became interested in Chinese
history after attending lectures by the Yale history professor Jonathan
Spence while studying for a Ph.D. in history there. She also has a
master's degree in history from the University of Cambridge and an
anthropology undergraduate degree from the University of Chicago.

Mr. Atkinson, the son of a mechanical engineer who has worked for Cunard
Line, graduated from the University of Melbourne, then served in the
Royal Australian Navy as a submarine lieutenant commander. .

\emph{{[}}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/love-letter?module=inline}{\emph{Sign
up for Love Letter and always get the latest in Modern Love, weddings,
and relationships in the news by email.}}\emph{{]}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/09/01/fashion/00Vows-Singapore02/merlin_175034976_a3622b1b-6ef7-4dc5-a0d3-88920b71ae87-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

After some conversation, Mr. Atkinson, 38, in London visiting his
company headquarters, was intrigued that being in a library didn't stop
Ms. Hanser, 39, from talking. ``I'm happy it was me and some other
handsome Australian didn't get luckier,'' he said jokingly. ``I could
see from her eyes that she was happy talking to me, and it was a natural
progression to find out if she wanted to see me again.''

Ms. Hanser said she was instantly attracted to Mr. Atkinson's ``positive
jovial nature. His bright blue eyes, I now believe, are the color of the
Australian summer sky.''

The next day they met outside London's Green Park station. Ms. Hanser
was running late. ``I remember James standing patiently on the corner
looking debonair and gentlemanly in a light charcoal suit,'' she said.

He had made dinner reservations at the Gate, a Mediterranean-vegetarian
restaurant in London's Marylebone neighborhood. Over a pre-dinner drink
at a tea shop, which served Ms. Hanser's favorite beverage and the topic
of her research, they discovered some common ground. Both were married
before (Mr. Atkinson has two children), have mothers who were teachers
and shared an irreverence toward authority. They were also interested in
each other's work.

``I do research on people like James but from three centuries ago,''
said Ms. Hanser, who discounted what she called their ``superficial''
differences like nationality and religion (she is Jewish, he is
Episcopalian). ``I study British merchants who went to South East and
East Asia to trade. James took a great interest in my work, and also
tried to explain what a ship broker does. We got so wrapped up in
conversation that the tea shop closed, and we were kicked out.''

The next day, they visited Mudchute Park and Farm in the middle of
London's old docks. Filled with alpacas, pigs, sheep and chickens, it
gave Mr. Atkinson the opportunity to regale Ms. Hanser, an animal lover,
with the habits of a Silkie Bantam chicken that once lived in his
Australian backyard.

That night they went to a West End performance of ``The Book of
Mormon,'' Ms. Hanser's third time seeing the show and Mr. Atkinson's
first. He laughed for two hours straight. ``There is something endearing
about listening to a tall grown man with an Australian accent giggle,''
said Ms. Hanser.

Mr. Atkinson kissed her at the end of the evening then returned to
Singapore, while she remained in London for two months of work. ``I
thought Jessica was genuine and interesting,'' he said.

Image

Ms. Hanser interacts with family and friends from around the world via
Zoom. She was born and raised in West Palm Beach, Fla.; Mr. Atkinson was
born in England and grew up in Australia.Credit...Rebecca Toh for The
New York Times

But once she was back in Singapore, he realized that their lives were
totally different. Ms. Hanser taught Zumba classes every week ---
nothing terrified Mr. Atkinson more than dancing --- and she thrived on
a university life near the Singapore campus. He led more of an ``expat
existence'' downtown in a bachelor apartment littered with a bike,
coffee, wine and sports on TV.

While they saw movies together, cooked each other dinner, and socialized
with friends, he worried that their shared interests may not be enough
to envision a future.

In March 2019, Ms. Hanser accepted a position as an assistant professor
of history at the University of British Columbia in Vancouver. She was
excited by its opportunities for research and eager to enjoy a natural
outdoor environment.

When the couple met at a favorite cafe to discuss her departure, they
didn't want the evening to end. ``It was the moment when we decided not
to say good night but to find another place to spend more time in each
other's company that I knew this was more than serious, and Jess was the
one for me,'' Mr. Atkinson said.

In June, he took her home to Australia, which included a trip through
Kakadu National Park in the Northern Territory. They swam in billabongs
admired waterfalls, and avoided salties (20-foot saltwater crocodiles).
``It was an incredible trip and helped me realize that James was the
one,'' she said.

Image

The officiant, sitting behind a plexiglass divider, asked the couple to
recite the Registry of Marriage's short vows.Credit...Rebecca Toh for
The New York Times

At the end of July, as she was preparing to leave Singapore for
Vancouver, Mr. Atkinson arranged for a surprise send-off for Ms. Hanser.
He arrived at her Sunday Zumba class wearing a rainbow tutu and bobbing
antlers. ``James brought a Canadian flag-themed cake covered in maple
leaves with lettering that read, `We'll Moose You,' while 30 friends
gathered around the pool,'' said her former colleague, Lindsay Allen.

Although living in different parts of the world with a 15-hour time
difference can be challenging, the two managed to talk regularly. Mr.
Atkinson is a morning person, and Ms. Hanser is a night owl, so they
often started their days at the same time.

It helped that they were both busy. Ms. Hanser found creative ways to
teach history. Much of her research on slavery, which is focused on the
Indian Ocean and British Empire, now resonates with modern politics and
social unrest.

For the December holidays, the couple met in West Palm Beach, Mr.
Atkinson spent time with Ms. Hanser's family. At 1 a.m. on New Year's
Day, while they were sitting in her childhood bedroom, he proposed with
a ring purchased from an ethical jeweler in Vancouver. ``It was made of
recycled gold and a Montana sapphire in my favorite color purple,'' she
said of the ring, which also had three ethically sourced Canadian
diamonds on each side.

Image

Credit...Rebecca Toh for The New York Times

They planned to marry by 2022 with consecutive beach-style celebrations:
one in Carmel-by-the-Sea, Calif., and the second in Melbourne. But the
coronavirus changed everything. In mid-March, Ms. Hanser flew to
Singapore two days before the borders closed to all foreign nationals,
finishing her semester by Zoom. ``Due to Covid's strict border controls,
we wanted to marry quickly so James and I could be together when we are
in Canada, Australia, or the U.S.,'' she said.

The couple married on July 21 at the National Museum of Singapore. In a
five-minute legal ceremony with strict social restrictions because of
the pandemic, seven masked friends were spaced around the bride and
groom while a couple dozen family and friends from five time zones
observed via Zoom.

Behind a plexiglass divider, the officiant, Ho Poh Onn Clarence, a
solemniser, or justice of the peace, asked the couple to recite the
Registry of Marriage's short vows promising to ``keep their love as pure
as today, in laughter and tears, in sickness and health, in comfort and
fears, in poverty and wealth.''

``Jessica is a Renaissance woman with an incredible academic background
that has not changed her,'' said her father, Leonard Hanser, a judge in
Palm Beach County Court's criminal division. ``James is a special person
--- intelligent, articulate and especially patient when Jessica
overanalyzes things. He edits her essays and treats her like she is the
most important person in the world.''

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

\hypertarget{on-this-day}{%
\subsubsection{On This Day}\label{on-this-day}}

\textbf{When} July 21, 2020

\textbf{Where} National Museum of Singapore

\textbf{Two Bouquets} The bride wore a sleeveless black and white dress
covered with hummingbirds that Mr. Atkinson bought her in Singapore.
Friends offered a bouquet filled with orchids, and another bursting with
roses.

\textbf{High Tea} Instead of a reception, the bride and groom were
joined by 10 friends in the Grand Lobby of the Raffles Singapore hotel,
where they were divided into three tables of four in accordance to
social-distancing rules. Guests toasted the couple with champagne, tea,
scones, finger sandwiches and small desserts.

\emph{Continue following our fashion and lifestyle coverage on Facebook
(}\href{https://www.facebookcorewwwi.onion/nytimesstyles}{\emph{Styles}}
\emph{and}
\href{https://www.facebookcorewwwi.onion/modernlove}{\emph{Modern
Love}}\emph{), Twitter
(}\href{https://twitter.com/nytstyles}{\emph{Styles}}\emph{,}
\href{https://twitter.com/nytfashion}{\emph{Fashion}} \emph{and}
\href{https://twitter.com/nytimesvows}{\emph{Weddings}}\emph{) and}
\href{https://instagram.com/nytimesfashion}{\emph{Instagram}}\emph{.}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
