Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/world/middleeast}{Middle East}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/world/middleeast}{Middle East}\textbar{}Netanyahu's Power
Is Extended as Rival Accepts Israel Unity Government

\url{https://nyti.ms/2RSPVqC}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/news-event/coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{The
Coronavirus Outbreak}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  live\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/04/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Latest
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Maps
  and Cases}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Vaccine
  Tracker}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/02/us/covid-college-reopening.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{College
  Reopening}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/live/2020/08/03/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Economy}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{netanyahus-power-is-extended-as-rival-accepts-israel-unity-government}{%
\section{Netanyahu's Power Is Extended as Rival Accepts Israel Unity
Government}\label{netanyahus-power-is-extended-as-rival-accepts-israel-unity-government}}

Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, an embattled political survivor,
persuaded Benny Gantz to join forces with him to combat the coronavirus.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/04/01/world/00HFOisrael-government1/00HFOisrael-government1-articleLarge-v2.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/david-m-halbfinger}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/10/10/multimedia/author-david-m-halbfinger/author-david-m-halbfinger-thumbLarge.png}}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/isabel-kershner}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/10/12/multimedia/author-isabel-kershner/author-isabel-kershner-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/david-m-halbfinger}{David M.
Halbfinger} and \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/isabel-kershner}{Isabel
Kershner}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Published April 20, 2020Updated April 22, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

JERUSALEM --- Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel and his former
challenger, Benny Gantz, agreed Monday night to establish a unity
government, a deal that finally breaks a yearlong political impasse and
keeps Mr. Netanyahu in office as he faces trial on corruption charges.

After three inconclusive elections in the past year, the creation of the
new government forestalls what had appeared to be an inevitable fourth
election and offers a deeply divided Israel a chance for national
healing as it battles the coronavirus pandemic.

For Mr. Netanyahu, the agreement buys him time to try to resolve two
contentious issues central to his legacy: to sidestep his prosecution or
at least prevent it from driving him from power, and to extend Israeli
sovereignty over occupied territory.

The deal, announced by both men's political parties at 7:15 p.m., adds
to Mr. Netanyahu's tenure as Israel's longest-serving leader and, coming
after his conservative coalition failed to win a majority, cements his
reputation as a canny political survivor who can never be counted out.

For Mr. Gantz, a former army chief and relative political novice,
however, the agreement may have the opposite effect. The move was a
stunning turnabout after his repeated campaign vows that he would never
serve with a prime minister under criminal indictment, and a
disappointment to many of his supporters who saw it as a capitulation to
a leader they had wanted to oust.

Under the deal, which the two leaders cast as an emergency government to
fight the coronavirus, Mr. Gantz will be named deputy prime minister and
is to get a turn as prime minister halfway through their three-year
term, in October 2021, switching roles with Mr. Netanyahu.

But given Mr. Netanyahu's political cunning, Israeli analysts were
skeptical that he would hand over power when the time came --- or even
that the new government would last that long.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/04/20/world/20israel-2/merlin_171582765_d9982053-f60e-49a1-9a4a-881b7a61f96f-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Mr. Gantz won at least a measure of insurance: Their rotation agreement
would require 75 of the 120 members of Parliament to vote to overturn
it, and if the government is disbanded early he would become prime
minister.

But Mr. Netanyahu, whose trial on bribery, fraud and breach of trust
charges is now set to begin May 24, will have an effective veto over
appointments of the next attorney general and state prosecutor.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-global-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/04/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: Global Coronavirus
Outbreak}}{Latest Updates: Global Coronavirus Outbreak}}\label{latest-updates-global-coronavirus-outbreak}}

Updated 2020-08-04T09:59:19.194Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/04/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-6b644638}{`Long
  days, long nights': Washington prepares for a prolonged fight over
  virus relief.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/04/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-7af9fca0}{Israel's
  rocky reopening of its schools may be a lesson for the U.S.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/04/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-33bf9168}{Hurricane
  Isaias arrives in North Carolina as officials along the East Coast
  scramble.}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/04/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

More live coverage:
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/live/2020/08/03/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Markets}

Mr. Netanyahu had also sought an assurance --- which he did not achieve
--- that if the Supreme Court rules that a criminal defendant cannot
serve as prime minister, the new government would pass legislation
overriding such a decision.

But Mr. Netanyahu did win a clause saying that such a decision by the
court in the next six months would immediately lead to new elections.
Mr. Netanyahu could then try again for a 61-seat majority that would
enact the override he would need to retain power.

Anshel Pfeffer, a biographer of Mr. Netanyahu, said he expected that,
rather than try to torpedo the deal when Mr. Gantz's turn comes as prime
minister Mr. Netanyahu had reason to protect it because he is still
assured of one of the top two jobs in Israel.

``He's not only won this, he's bought Gantz's services as a bodyguard,''
Mr. Pfeffer said. ``Gantz is bound to protect Bibi, because it's the
only way he becomes prime minister,'' he said, using Mr. Netanyahu's
nickname.

``And for the next three years, Bibi can go on trial, they can say the
most terrible things about him in court, and he can lose, but until he
loses his last appeal, he's protected,'' Mr. Pfeffer said.

Image

Benny Gantz, Mr. Netanyahu's erstwhile rival, reversed his pledge never
to serve with a prime minister under criminal indictment.Credit...Dan
Balilty for The New York Times

Despite the sense of urgency to form a joint government to fight the
virus sweeping through the country, the final sticking points in the
negotiations were political.

According to representatives of Mr. Gantz's centrist Blue and White
party, they included differing approaches to President Trump's proposal
to resolve the Israeli-Palestinian conflict: Mr. Netanyahu has pledged
to swiftly and unilaterally annex large swaths of the occupied West Bank
while Mr. Gantz has said he would support annexation only with
international consensus, which appears highly unlikely.

The final agreement delays consideration of annexation until July 1 at
the earliest. It declares that annexation must be done in a way that
safeguards Israel's interests, ``including the needs for preserving
regional stability, protecting existing peace agreements and aspiring
for future ones.'' But it leaves those determinations up to the
government and says that Mr. Gantz is only entitled to ``consultation''
with Mr. Netanyahu on annexation, not a veto.

The two-month delay gives opponents of annexation, who say it would
reignite the conflict and deal a death blow to already dim hopes of a
two-state solution, a brief window to build international and domestic
support to try to block such a move.

``A government coalition based on a commitment to annex more occupied
Palestinian territory is a threat to a rules-based world order in
general, but to peace, security and stability in the Middle East in
particular,'' Saeb Erekat, the veteran Palestinian negotiator, said in a
statement. ``Annexation means the end of any possibility for a
negotiated solution.''

Image

Mr. Netanyahu visiting the Jordan Valley, a strategic strip of West Bank
land along the Jordan River which he promised to annex, in
February.Credit...Dan Balilty for The New York Times

The deal between Mr. Gantz and Mr. Netanyahu first envisions an
emergency government lasting for six months, when only legislation
related to the battle against the coronavirus can be taken up by
Parliament --- except for bills concerning the Trump plan, the two sides
said. A ``coronavirus cabinet'' will be formed, jointly led by Mr.
Netanyahu and Mr. Gantz, to coordinate efforts.

The Trump administration plan,
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/01/28/world/middleeast/peace-plan.html}{announced
in January}, gives Israel most of what it has sought over decades of
conflict while offering the Palestinians a state with limited
sovereignty. Under the plan, Israel would control a unified Jerusalem as
its capital and would not be required to uproot any West Bank
settlements.

For now, it offers a vital lifeline to Mr. Netanyahu, who can fight his
corruption trial from the prime minister's office.

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/news-event/coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{}

\hypertarget{the-coronavirus-outbreak-}{%
\subsubsection{The Coronavirus Outbreak
›}\label{the-coronavirus-outbreak-}}

\hypertarget{frequently-asked-questions}{%
\paragraph{Frequently Asked
Questions}\label{frequently-asked-questions}}

Updated August 3, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{im-a-small-business-owner-can-i-get-relief}{%
  \paragraph{I'm a small-business owner. Can I get
  relief?}\label{im-a-small-business-owner-can-i-get-relief}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    The
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/small-business-loans-stimulus-grants-freelancers-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{stimulus
    bills enacted in March} offer help for the millions of American
    small businesses. Those eligible for aid are businesses and
    nonprofit organizations with fewer than 500 workers, including sole
    proprietorships, independent contractors and freelancers. Some
    larger companies in some industries are also eligible. The help
    being offered, which is being managed by the Small Business
    Administration, includes the Paycheck Protection Program and the
    Economic Injury Disaster Loan program. But lots of folks have
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/05/07/business/small-business-loans-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{not
    yet seen payouts.} Even those who have received help are confused:
    The rules are draconian, and some are stuck sitting on
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/05/02/business/economy/loans-coronavirus-small-business.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{money
    they don't know how to use.} Many small-business owners are getting
    less than they expected or
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/10/business/Small-business-loans-ppp.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{not
    hearing anything at all.}
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{what-are-my-rights-if-i-am-worried-about-going-back-to-work}{%
  \paragraph{What are my rights if I am worried about going back to
  work?}\label{what-are-my-rights-if-i-am-worried-about-going-back-to-work}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Employers have to provide
    \href{https://www.osha.gov/SLTC/covid-19/standards.html}{a safe
    workplace} with policies that protect everyone equally.
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/coronavirus-money-unemployment.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{And
    if one of your co-workers tests positive for the coronavirus, the
    C.D.C.} has said that
    \href{https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/community/guidance-business-response.html}{employers
    should tell their employees} -\/- without giving you the sick
    employee's name -\/- that they may have been exposed to the virus.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{should-i-refinance-my-mortgage}{%
  \paragraph{Should I refinance my
  mortgage?}\label{should-i-refinance-my-mortgage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/coronavirus-money-unemployment.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{It
    could be a good idea,} because mortgage rates have
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/16/business/mortgage-rates-below-3-percent.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{never
    been lower.} Refinancing requests have pushed mortgage applications
    to some of the highest levels since 2008, so be prepared to get in
    line. But defaults are also up, so if you're thinking about buying a
    home, be aware that some lenders have tightened their standards.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{what-is-school-going-to-look-like-in-september}{%
  \paragraph{What is school going to look like in
  September?}\label{what-is-school-going-to-look-like-in-september}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    It is unlikely that many schools will return to a normal schedule
    this fall, requiring the grind of
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/05/us/coronavirus-education-lost-learning.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{online
    learning},
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/05/29/us/coronavirus-child-care-centers.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{makeshift
    child care} and
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/03/business/economy/coronavirus-working-women.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{stunted
    workdays} to continue. California's two largest public school
    districts --- Los Angeles and San Diego --- said on July 13, that
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/13/us/lausd-san-diego-school-reopening.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{instruction
    will be remote-only in the fall}, citing concerns that surging
    coronavirus infections in their areas pose too dire a risk for
    students and teachers. Together, the two districts enroll some
    825,000 students. They are the largest in the country so far to
    abandon plans for even a partial physical return to classrooms when
    they reopen in August. For other districts, the solution won't be an
    all-or-nothing approach.
    \href{https://bioethics.jhu.edu/research-and-outreach/projects/eschool-initiative/school-policy-tracker/}{Many
    systems}, including the nation's largest, New York City, are
    devising
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/26/us/coronavirus-schools-reopen-fall.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{hybrid
    plans} that involve spending some days in classrooms and other days
    online. There's no national policy on this yet, so check with your
    municipal school system regularly to see what is happening in your
    community.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{is-the-coronavirus-airborne}{%
  \paragraph{Is the coronavirus
  airborne?}\label{is-the-coronavirus-airborne}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    The coronavirus
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/04/health/239-experts-with-one-big-claim-the-coronavirus-is-airborne.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{can
    stay aloft for hours in tiny droplets in stagnant air}, infecting
    people as they inhale, mounting scientific evidence suggests. This
    risk is highest in crowded indoor spaces with poor ventilation, and
    may help explain super-spreading events reported in meatpacking
    plants, churches and restaurants.
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/06/health/coronavirus-airborne-aerosols.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{It's
    unclear how often the virus is spread} via these tiny droplets, or
    aerosols, compared with larger droplets that are expelled when a
    sick person coughs or sneezes, or transmitted through contact with
    contaminated surfaces, said Linsey Marr, an aerosol expert at
    Virginia Tech. Aerosols are released even when a person without
    symptoms exhales, talks or sings, according to Dr. Marr and more
    than 200 other experts, who
    \href{https://academic.oup.com/cid/article/doi/10.1093/cid/ciaa939/5867798}{have
    outlined the evidence in an open letter to the World Health
    Organization}.
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

By taking aggressive steps to combat the coronavirus, Mr. Netanyahu had
already gone a long way to reasserting his leadership and varnishing his
international profile.

``I promised the state of Israel a national emergency government that
would work to save the lives and livelihoods of Israeli citizens,'' he
wrote on Twitter. ``I will continue to do everything for you, citizens
of Israel.''

Mr. Gantz's assent to a joint government led to the immediate breakup of
his party, dismantling the most formidable adversary Mr. Netanyahu faced
during his last 11 years in office.

Many of Mr. Gantz's former supporters have accused him of betraying them
by joining Mr. Netanyahu's right-wing and religious coalition. Some
analysts said the decisions may have ended Mr. Gantz's nascent political
career.

Mr. Gantz has argued that given the public health crisis, it was the
only responsible choice.

``We prevented a fourth election,'' he said in a
\href{https://twitter.com/gantzbe/status/1252276044620607488?s=08}{Twitter
post} Monday night. ``We will preserve democracy. We will fight the
coronavirus and take care of all of Israel's citizens.''

The coronavirus is known to have infected more than 13,600 Israelis, and
has claimed at least 173 lives so far. The country has been under
lockdown, with potentially devastating economic consequences, and is
only beginning to allow some businesses to resume operation under strict
conditions.

Image

The Old City of Jerusalem under lockdown this week.Credit...Dan Balilty
for The New York Times

The deal announced Monday divides the numerous ministries of Israel's
government in half. Mr. Gantz and his allies get defense, justice,
strategic affairs, economy, labor, communications, agriculture, culture,
tourism and diaspora affairs, among others. The spoils for Mr.
Netanyahu's cohort include health, finance, interior, internal security,
transportation and housing. The foreign ministry will shift hands from
Mr. Gantz's bloc to Mr. Netanyahu's after 18 months.

The primary goals of Mr. Gantz's campaigns were to unseat Mr. Netanyahu
and to uphold the rule of law after years of vitriolic attacks by Mr.
Netanyahu and his supporters on the police and the judiciary.

Despite Mr. Gantz's vows to protect the judiciary, his former partner in
Blue and White, Yair Lapid, noted scornfully that Mr. Netanyahu had come
away with control over a key committee that oversees the appointment of
Supreme Court judges, who must retire at 70.

``So the compromise in the judge-appointing committee is that Bibi chose
all of the committee's representatives,'' Mr. Lapid
\href{https://twitter.com/yairlapid/status/1252261985556877312?s=20}{wrote
on Twitter}. Mr. Gantz, he added, had ``agreed to allow the criminal
defendant to appoint all of the judges who will discuss his case. There
is no limit to the disgrace.''

After the last election, on March 2, a diverse, Gantz-led array of
anti-Netanyahu forces, ranging from Arab and Islamic parties to Jewish
ultranationalists, gained a slim majority of 61 parliamentary seats.
Cooperating to form even a minority government proved impossible, but
Mr. Gantz and his allies did at first agree to try to deny Mr. Netanyahu
yet another term, either by enacting term limits or by passing a law to
bar an indicted lawmaker from forming a government.

Those efforts are now dead, and Mr. Netanyahu still towers above every
rival as he has for as long as many Israelis can remember.

``Even giving Gantz the benefit of the doubt that it's better to be a
part of the government, Bibi has broken up Blue and White, the only
party that's come close to challenging him in the past 10 years,'' said
Tal Shalev, political writer for the Walla News website. ``Gantz doesn't
have any achievements that come close to equaling the huge score that
Netanyahu has just gotten.''

Adam Rasgon contributed reporting.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
