Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/us}{U.S.}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/us}{U.S.}\textbar{}Protests Swell Across America as
George Floyd Is Mourned Near His Birthplace

\url{https://nyti.ms/3h1G7W5}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{race-and-america}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/george-floyd-protests-minneapolis-new-york-los-angeles?name=styln-george-floyd\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=480ab990-f2bb-11ea-b6d0-db771f60a042\&variant=undefined}{Race
and America}}{Race and America}}\label{race-and-america}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/04/nyregion/rochester-police-daniel-prude.html?name=styln-george-floyd\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=480b07b0-f2bb-11ea-b6d0-db771f60a042\&variant=undefined}{What
  Happened in Rochester, N.Y.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/01/us/politics/trump-fact-check-protests.html?name=styln-george-floyd\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=480b07b1-f2bb-11ea-b6d0-db771f60a042\&variant=undefined}{Trump
  Fact Check}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/30/us/portland-shooting-explained.html?name=styln-george-floyd\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=480b07b2-f2bb-11ea-b6d0-db771f60a042\&variant=undefined}{Portland
  Shooting}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/30/us/breonna-taylor-police-killing.html?name=styln-george-floyd\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=480b55d0-f2bb-11ea-b6d0-db771f60a042\&variant=undefined}{Breonna
  Taylor's Life and Death}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{protests-swell-across-america-as-george-floyd-is-mourned-near-his-birthplace}{%
\section{Protests Swell Across America as George Floyd Is Mourned Near
His
Birthplace}\label{protests-swell-across-america-as-george-floyd-is-mourned-near-his-birthplace}}

People lined up for hours before a viewing and a memorial service in a
small North Carolina town, while demonstrations across the country grew
larger and more organized.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/06/06/us/06unrest-saturday-10/06unrest-saturday-10-videoSixteenByNine3000.jpg}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/dionne-searcey}{Dionne
Searcey} and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/david-zucchino}{David
Zucchino}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Published June 6, 2020Updated July 28, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

MINNEAPOLIS
---~\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/28/us/umbrella-man-identified-minneapolis.html}{Protesters}
in Philadelphia stood on the steps of an art museum and demanded cuts to
the city's police budget. A crowd gathered outside the Minnesota
governor's mansion stood silently to hear stories from victims of police
abuse. At a huge rally in Washington, demonstrators filled the streets,
and speakers cried out to ensure that a death like that of
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/28/us/umbrella-man-identified-minneapolis.html}{George
Floyd} under the knee of a Minneapolis police officer never happen
again.

Demonstrations across America that began as spontaneous eruptions of
outrage over police violence appeared to have cohered by Saturday into a
national mass protest movement against systemic racism, marked more by
organization and determination than by street fury.

Protesters vowed to keep up the momentum toward overhauling what they
said was a broken law enforcement system plagued by racial injustice.
Some took credit for changes that have already occurred in some cities.

In Minneapolis, which has been convulsed with protests for the past 12
days, city officials announced measures on Friday that are meant to rein
in aggressive police tactics, including a ban on chokeholds and
strangleholds. And in Denver, a federal judge issued a temporary
restraining order on Friday to
\href{https://www.denverpost.com/2020/06/05/federal-judge-orders-denver-police-stop-projectiles-protesters/}{restrict
the use} by the police of rubber bullets and tear gas on protesters.

``I think we're all just trying to keep the pressure on and make sure
this issue stays at the forefront of the national discourse,'' said Mary
Levy, 50, a law professor at Temple University who was part of a throng
of protesters outside the Philadelphia Museum of Art on Saturday
afternoon.

Many of the day's gatherings appeared larger than previous rallies,
especially the one in Washington. At one point, it felt as if the entire
city had emptied into downtown as lines of protesters snaked their way
through side streets while others converged in nearby parks, eclipsing
the turnout at prior protests.

{[}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/george-floyd-who-is.html}{Read
more on the life of George Floyd}.{]}

Outside Lafayette Square, where federal law enforcement officers had
forcibly evicted peaceful protesters last week, the atmosphere on
Saturday was more like that of a street fair or a music festival.
Cookies and Cool Ranch Doritos were arrayed on folding tables, and masks
emblazoned with ``I can't breathe'' were on sale along with Black Lives
Matter T-shirts. Even portable toilets were on hand.

Marchers on 16th Street did a coordinated dance, ``the wobble,'' as the
rapper V.I.C. blared through speakers. North of the White House, a Shake
Shack handed out water.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/06/06/us/06unrest-saturday-20/merlin_173278596_c6830510-5676-443f-a818-0398d157b647-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

For all that, the black chain-link fences forming a perimeter around the
White House grounds had been reinforced with concrete Jersey barriers,
and security personnel from an alphabet of agencies, including the
National Guard, stood by in a kaleidoscope of uniforms, braced for any
trouble.

Joelle Mitchell, 17, was unfazed as she made her way toward the White
House. She had been working at a dog day care facility outside
Annapolis, Md., all week, and this was her first day to join the
protests.

She expressed surprise at how peaceful it all was, given the bleak news
coverage she had seen about protests across the city and the country.

``It really is our responsibility that this doesn't happen anymore,''
Ms. Mitchell said.

As the protests were getting underway Saturday, mourners at a memorial
service in the tiny railroad town of Raeford, N.C., passed by the plush
blue coffin of Mr. Floyd, whose body was dressed in a tan suit and a
brown tie. He was born in Fayetteville, about 25 miles away, and dozens
of his relatives, including a sister, live in the area.

Image

Mourners at the public viewing for George Floyd in Raeford, N.C., on
Saturday.Credit...Phyllis B. Dooney for The New York Times

Image

The viewing and memorial for Mr. Floyd was held in an area near
Fayetteville, his birthplace, where many of his relatives
live.Credit...Phyllis B. Dooney for The New York Times

Mr. Floyd's coffin arrived at the viewing, held at a Free Will Baptist
church called Cape Fear Conference B, in a black hearse as a large group
of people outside chanted ``Black power,'' ``George Floyd!'' and ``No
justice, no peace.'' Some wore T-shirts printed with ``I Can't
Breathe,'' and a few carried small posters.

At the service, the local sheriff received a standing ovation when he
said of the nation's police officers, ``We are part of the problem.''

The sheriff, Hubert A. Peterkin of Hoke County, N.C., told mourners that
law enforcement officers must recognize and eliminate racism within
their ranks. Looking directly at Mr. Floyd's relatives in the front rows
of the church, Sheriff Peterkin, who is black, said ingrained racism had
led to Mr. Floyd's death.

``If there were four brothers that threw a police officer on the ground
and one of them put his knee on that officer's neck and killed him on a
video,'' he said, there would have been ``a national manhunt ---~and
they would have been charged with murder immediately.''

Mr. Floyd's body was transported from Minneapolis, where
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/04/us/floyd-memorial-funeral.html}{another
memorial service} was held last week. After the memorial on Saturday, it
will be transported to Houston for a third memorial service and burial
next week.

Mr. Floyd, a 46-year-old African-American man, died May 25 after being
handcuffed and pinned to the ground by a white police officer. Video
widely shared on social media showed Mr. Floyd crying out for his mother
and pleading that he couldn't breathe. Many demonstrations now include 8
minutes 46 seconds of silence, marking the length of time the police
officer's knee was pressed into Mr. Floyd's neck.

Image

Protesters in Manhattan on Saturday waved a flag upside down, a
traditional signal of dire distress.Credit...Todd Heisler/The New York
Times

Image

Protestors in Manhattan on Saturday.Credit...Todd Heisler/The New York
Times

Demonstrations were continuing in Minneapolis on Saturday, still large
but considerably calmer and more organized than last week, though no
less passionate. Police officers hung back or did not appear at all at
the rallies --- a marked difference from the clashes between officers
and protesters last weekend.

Outside Mayor Jacob Frey's house, protesters shouted at him when he
would not commit on the spot to abolishing the police department, local
news outlets reported. They yelled ``Go home, Jacob, go home!'' and
``Shame! Shame!'' as he walked away from the crowd.

Hundreds of demonstrators stood in silence outside the governor's
mansion in neighboring St. Paul to hear relatives of a dozen men who had
died in police custody share their experiences.

Amity Dimock spoke about her son Kobe E. Dimock-Heisler, a mentally ill
21-year-old who was fatally shot by police at home last year after
reports that he was wielding a hammer and a knife while fighting with
his grandparents, according
\href{https://www.startribune.com/hundreds-take-floyd-protests-to-ag-s-office-u-s-bank-stadium/571057032/?refresh=true}{to
a local newspaper}.

Ms. Dimock said the authorities had recently allowed the family to view
video footage of Mr. Dimock-Heisler's death, only after the new interest
in transparency that had come about because of Mr. Floyd's case. As she
spoke, she broke down crying, and someone pulled up a chair for her.

Leigh Finke, 39, stood not far away, waving a Black Lives Matter flag in
rainbow colors. She's been protesting for nine days.

``Every day it feels better,'' she said. ``Finally things are starting
to change a little bit.'' Pointing to the ban on chokeholds and the City
Council's talking about reducing police budgets, she said, ``That's real
change.''

As she spoke, a white woman drove by, yelling about Black Lives Matter,
``It's a racist movement ---~white lives matter!'' A black protester
wearing a veil responded: ``That's just your opinion.''

Rallies took place Saturday in small towns and suburbs, drawing hundreds
of people to communities that in many cases had not yet held protests,
as well as in major cities where marches with masked demonstrators
toting Black Lives Matters signs have quickly become part of the daily
fabric of pandemic life. The protests have also spread overseas
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/06/world/george-floyd-global-protests.html}{to
Europe, Asia, Africa and Australia}.

So many protests sprang up across South Florida on Saturday that
demonstrations filled the entire day. In the evening, hundreds of people
embarked on a march along Biscayne Boulevard, the main thoroughfare in
downtown Miami. The crowd was nearly equal parts black, white and
Hispanic and ranged widely in age, with numerous families taking part.
Police officers stayed in the background. At one march, students handed
out Krispy Kreme doughnuts.

Groups of protesters in Los Angeles clustered in Plummer Park in the
West Hollywood section, the scene of daily gatherings, and processions
were held downtown, at the Cochran Avenue Baptist Church in the Miracle
Mile neighborhood and all over the city.

Darlene Chan, a book publicist who lives near Fairfax Avenue, which saw
huge crowds and unrest a week ago, calls this the new normal: ``Random,
unexpected protests popping up all the time.''

Image

Protesters listened to a speaker after participating in the Black Lives
Matter Peace Walk in Kirkwood, Mo., on Saturday.Credit...Whitney Curtis
for The New York Times

Thousands of people marched peacefully across the Golden Gate Bridge,
briefly bringing traffic to a halt.

``This is the awakening of America,'' said one of the marchers, Nate
Payne, who was wearing a gold San Francisco 49ers jacket and holding a
cardboard cutout of a kneeling Colin Kaepernick, the former 49ers
quarterback
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/05/sports/football/george-floyd-kaepernick-kneeling-nfl-protests.html}{known
for kneeling during the national anthem} before games as a quiet protest
against social injustice.

Image

Health care workers demonstrating at City Hall in Seattle on
Saturday.Credit...Chloe Collyer for The New York Times

In Seattle, a demonstration organized by health care workers drew
thousands who walked from Harborview Medical Center to City Hall, with
many wearing scrubs and lab coats and carrying signs with slogans like
``Black Health Matters'' and ``Racism Is a Public Health Emergency.''
Seattle officials encouraged people who had attended recent protests to
take advantage of free coronavirus testing sites that the city was
opening.

Thousands of Philadelphians rallied peacefully at the steps of the art
museum --- famous from the film ``Rocky'' --- calling for cuts of at
least 10 percent of the budget for the city's police department, one of
the few city agencies that is set to get more funding in a new budget
proposed by Mayor Jim Kenney in response to the coronavirus pandemic.

Some participants said the mood was less charged than on earlier days in
Philadelphia, when shops were looted and the police fired tear gas to
control protesters.

``My sense is that the initial wave of anger has calmed down a little,''
said Pat Oelschlager, 23, of Fort Washington, Pa. But the voices ``still
seem to be pretty loud, and it's good to hear people making concrete
demands.''

In New York City, thousands of people gathered near the northwest corner
of Central Park for a demonstration called the March for Stolen Dreams
and Looted Lives, and other events and marches in the city also drew
sizable crowds.

Constance Malcolm, whose son Ramarley Graham was killed by a New York
City police officer in his home in 2012, had to fight back tears before
speaking into the megaphone.

``I'm tired of crying,'' Ms. Malcolm said. ``We need our voices to be
heard. That's happening now and we need to take advantage of it.''

She then had a simple directive: ``Vote.''

Dionne Searcey reported from Minneapolis, and David Zucchino from
Raeford, N.C. Contributing reporting were Zolan Kanno-Youngs, Katie
Benner, Sabrina Tavernise and Thomas M. Gibbons-Neff from Washington,
Kimiko de Freytas-Kamura from Minneapolis, Eric Killelea from St. Paul,
Minn., Jon Hurdle from Philadelphia, Mike Baker from Seattle, Patricia
Mazzei and Neil Reisner from Miami, Adam Popescu from Los Angeles and
Terence McGinley from New York.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
