Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/world/europe}{Europe}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/world/europe}{Europe}\textbar{}Italy, Mired in Politics
Over Virus, Asks How Much Testing Is Too Much

\url{https://nyti.ms/2HZwNBJ}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{the-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=c40f9610-e3ab-11ea-aee9-2d912d37c825}{The
Coronavirus
Outbreak}}{The Coronavirus Outbreak}}\label{the-coronavirus-outbreak}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  live\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/21/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=c40f9611-e3ab-11ea-aee9-2d912d37c825}{Latest
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=c40f9612-e3ab-11ea-aee9-2d912d37c825}{Maps
  and Cases}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=c40f9613-e3ab-11ea-aee9-2d912d37c825}{Vaccine
  Tracker}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/19/us/colleges-closing-covid.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=c40fbd20-e3ab-11ea-aee9-2d912d37c825}{Colleges
  Closing}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/21/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=c40fbd21-e3ab-11ea-aee9-2d912d37c825}{Economy}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{italy-mired-in-politics-over-virus-asks-how-much-testing-is-too-much}{%
\section{Italy, Mired in Politics Over Virus, Asks How Much Testing Is
Too
Much}\label{italy-mired-in-politics-over-virus-asks-how-much-testing-is-too-much}}

National and regional leaders are trading blame, with the dispute
centered around whether Lombardy had inflated the threat by testing too
much.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/03/25/world/25virus-italy1sub/25virus-italy1sub-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/jason-horowitz}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/10/10/multimedia/author-jason-horowitz/author-jason-horowitz-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/jason-horowitz}{Jason
Horowitz}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Published Feb. 27, 2020Updated March 5, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

MILAN --- On the sixth floor of a skyscraper, two dozen epidemiologists
and public health experts form the nerve center of the effort to contain
\href{http://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/05/world/coronavirus-news.html}{a
coronavirus outbreak} in Italy that has alarmed Europe and put the
wealthy Lombardy region at the center of global concern.

They work the phones, pore over digital maps and study computer screens.
They update databases with confirmed cases. They track those whom
infected people might have had contact with. They coordinate with
hospitals and laboratories to verify test results, sometimes for people
with no symptoms.

But their efforts have also fueled a political and scientific quarrel
that may prove important to how Italy and other countries confront the
virus: How much is too much when it comes to containment efforts?

It's not every day that Italy is accused of being overly efficient, but
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/02/24/world/europe/24coronavirus-milan-italy.html}{Lombardy's
response} has, unusually, been criticized for its vigor at a time when
most governments are worried about being accused of doing too little.

Much of that criticism has come from rival Italian officials at the
national level, no doubt concerned about Italy's blighted image --- and
their own --- as the number of cases in the country has spiked to 650,
with 17 deaths.

Cases possibly linked to Lombardy have appeared in Austria, Switzerland,
and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/02/25/world/europe/spain-coronavirus-hotel-canary.html}{the
Canary Islands} of Spain, adding to the impression that the region is
the European source in a new stage of global contagion.

\emph{{[}Read:}
\href{http://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/02/world/asia/coronavirus-italy-racism.html}{\emph{`The
face of the coronavirus': A Hong Kong student shunned in
Italy}}\emph{.{]}}

``Italy is a safe place,''
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/08/29/world/europe/italy-conte-government-salvini.html}{Prime
Minister Giuseppe Conte}, a rival of Lombardy politicians who has
himself faced intense criticism for the government's handling of the
virus, asserted defensively this week, ``maybe safer than others.''

There is no doubt that Italy is confronting a significant outbreak. But
beneath the political squabbling is a deeper dispute over whether
Lombardy's response has made the problem appear worse than it is.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/02/26/world/26virus-italy2/merlin_169521918_539b6b88-a3d2-41e0-93e4-dd26b1793bcb-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

With coronavirus spreading more widely, political leaders across the
world are coming under greater pressure, with many trying to tamp down
anxiety that is damaging stock markets, tourism and businesses.

Some leaders are lashing out. On Wednesday, President Trump
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/02/26/us/politics/trump-coronavirus-cdc.html}{accused
journalists} of making the situation ``look as bad as possible.''

As a result, the dispute in Lombardy has taken on dimensions in
politics, epidemiology and crisis communications that are likely to have
consequences in any broader outbreak.

At its heart, the debate centers on testing.

The central government argues that other regions within Italy and other
countries have respected global guidelines by focusing tests on people
showing symptoms of the virus.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-the-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/21/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: The Coronavirus
Outbreak}}{Latest Updates: The Coronavirus Outbreak}}\label{latest-updates-the-coronavirus-outbreak}}

Updated 2020-08-21T12:38:27.712Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/21/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-6a60a19d}{`Be
  adults': Universities in the U.S. are warning students about
  gatherings as they return to campus.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/21/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-324af071}{As
  he accepts the Democratic nomination, Biden knocks Trump's pandemic
  response.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/21/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-191d44be}{South
  Korea threatens to detain people who obstruct virus-control efforts.}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/21/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

More live coverage:
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/21/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Markets}

But according to the Health Ministry, Lombardy has also carried out swab
tests on people who are more likely to have come into contact with
infected people, even if they have no symptoms themselves.

Experts at the World Health Organization and Italy's Health Ministry
said in interviews that it was possible that Lombardy had created an
inflated perception of the threat by including in case totals people who
tested positive for the virus but who had not gotten sick. But many
scientists say that attempting to track even mild cases of the virus is
essential to containing its spread.

On Thursday, after insisting that their comprehensive approach to
testing was the right one, Lombardy said it would now conform with
national and international guidelines and test only people showing
symptoms.

But the numbers tallied in Lombardy's approach have already made Italy a
focus of international concern.

Not everyone who contracts the virus gets sick, a fact that is proving a
quandary for scientists and officials trying to formulate a measured
response.

Walter Ricciardi, an Italian member of the executive council of the
World Health Organization who was recently named councilor of the
Italian Health Ministry, said that only a small percentage of people who
contracted the virus were infected by people showing no symptoms who did
not know they were carriers, he said.

Richard Pebody, another expert at the World Health Organization, said
the organization did not consider
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/02/26/health/coronavirus-asymptomatic.html?algo=top_conversion\&fellback=false\&imp_id=190061349\&imp_id=162979776\&action=click\&module=Most\%20Popular\&pgtype=Homepage}{asymptomatic
transmission} a significant factor in the outbreak.

But as the epidemic spreads uncertainty is growing. Other experts have
raised concerns that carriers without symptoms could be spreading the
virus, and the W.H.O. was under pressure to revise its guidelines, which
it was expected to do on Thursday.

The Italian Health Ministry said that counting asymptomatic cases only
served to cause alarm.

Image

The Brera neighborhood of Milan is usually bustling.Credit...Andrea
Mantovani for The New York Times

Of the 650 cases diagnosed in Italy, 403 were in Lombardy, according to
regional officials. Of those cases, Lombardy officials said on Thursday,
216 had been treated in a hospital, with 41 requiring intensive care.

That means that 187 of those who tested positive for the virus exhibited
only mild symptoms or none at all. In addition, at least 37 of those who
did are now healthy and have been discharged.

But other top Italian medical officials warned that while it was
possible that asymptomatic people might be less contagious, because, for
instance, they cough less, very little is known about the new virus and
how it behaves.

``Evidence is lacking,'' said Giovanni Rezza, the head of epidemiology
at the leading scientific organization of Italy's National Health
Service.

Lombardy officials said they preferred to know who had the virus.

``Either you hide problems under a carpet, or you lift the carpet and
you clean the floor,'' Attilio Fontana, the region's president, said in
an interview in his office, with views over a foggy and eerily quiet
Milan, 29 floors above the virus hunters.

Mr. Fontana is a leading member of the League party, led by the
nationalist
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/01/26/world/europe/italy-election-Salvini.html}{Matteo
Salvini}, who has not been shy about leveraging the crisis to pursue his
aim of bringing down Mr. Conte's government. Mr. Salvini has argued in
recent days that Mr. Conte had fumbled the response to the crisis and
needed to be replaced.

Mr. Fontana said he disagreed with Mr. Conte's ``way of dealing with the
crisis.'' The region's tests were necessary, he argued, suggesting that
if other places tested as rigorously, they would find more cases, too.

``I don't exclude that even in your country if they did a serious and
attentive epidemiologic analysis they would find more than what the
actual infected are,'' he said, referring to the United States. Numbers
were high in Italy, he added, ``because we do a lot of checks.''

Image

Attilio Fontana, the president of Lombardy, has defended the region's
response. ``Either you hide problems under a carpet, or you lift the
carpet and you clean the floor,'' he said.Credit...Andrea Mantovani for
The New York Times

In the United States, the Centers for Disease Control is currently
limiting testing to those who have symptoms and who have recently
traveled to China or had contact with someone who tested positive for
the virus.

The uncertainty surrounding the virus has opened fertile ground for
political sniping, as politicians engaged in power struggles to shift
blame.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{}

\hypertarget{the-coronavirus-outbreak-}{%
\subsubsection{The Coronavirus Outbreak
›}\label{the-coronavirus-outbreak-}}

\hypertarget{frequently-asked-questions}{%
\paragraph{Frequently Asked
Questions}\label{frequently-asked-questions}}

Updated August 17, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{why-does-standing-six-feet-away-from-others-help}{%
  \paragraph{Why does standing six feet away from others
  help?}\label{why-does-standing-six-feet-away-from-others-help}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    The coronavirus spreads primarily through droplets from your mouth
    and nose, especially when you cough or sneeze. The C.D.C., one of
    the organizations using that measure,
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/14/health/coronavirus-six-feet.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{bases
    its recommendation of six feet} on the idea that most large droplets
    that people expel when they cough or sneeze will fall to the ground
    within six feet. But six feet has never been a magic number that
    guarantees complete protection. Sneezes, for instance, can launch
    droplets a lot farther than six feet,
    \href{https://jamanetwork.com/journals/jama/fullarticle/2763852}{according
    to a recent study}. It's a rule of thumb: You should be safest
    standing six feet apart outside, especially when it's windy. But
    keep a mask on at all times, even when you think you're far enough
    apart.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{i-have-antibodies-am-i-now-immune}{%
  \paragraph{I have antibodies. Am I now
  immune?}\label{i-have-antibodies-am-i-now-immune}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    As of right
    now,\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/22/health/covid-antibodies-herd-immunity.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{that
    seems likely, for at least several months.} There have been
    frightening accounts of people suffering what seems to be a second
    bout of Covid-19. But experts say these patients may have a
    drawn-out course of infection, with the virus taking a slow toll
    weeks to months after initial exposure. People infected with the
    coronavirus typically
    \href{https://www.nature.com/articles/s41586-020-2456-9}{produce}
    immune molecules called antibodies, which are
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/07/health/coronavirus-antibody-prevalence.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{protective
    proteins made in response to an
    infection}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/07/health/coronavirus-antibody-prevalence.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{.
    These antibodies may} last in the body
    \href{https://www.nature.com/articles/s41591-020-0965-6}{only two to
    three months}, which may seem worrisome, but that's perfectly normal
    after an acute infection subsides, said Dr. Michael Mina, an
    immunologist at Harvard University. It may be possible to get the
    coronavirus again, but it's highly unlikely that it would be
    possible in a short window of time from initial infection or make
    people sicker the second time.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{im-a-small-business-owner-can-i-get-relief}{%
  \paragraph{I'm a small-business owner. Can I get
  relief?}\label{im-a-small-business-owner-can-i-get-relief}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    The
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/small-business-loans-stimulus-grants-freelancers-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{stimulus
    bills enacted in March} offer help for the millions of American
    small businesses. Those eligible for aid are businesses and
    nonprofit organizations with fewer than 500 workers, including sole
    proprietorships, independent contractors and freelancers. Some
    larger companies in some industries are also eligible. The help
    being offered, which is being managed by the Small Business
    Administration, includes the Paycheck Protection Program and the
    Economic Injury Disaster Loan program. But lots of folks have
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/05/07/business/small-business-loans-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{not
    yet seen payouts.} Even those who have received help are confused:
    The rules are draconian, and some are stuck sitting on
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/02/business/economy/loans-coronavirus-small-business.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{money
    they don't know how to use.} Many small-business owners are getting
    less than they expected or
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/10/business/Small-business-loans-ppp.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{not
    hearing anything at all.}
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{what-are-my-rights-if-i-am-worried-about-going-back-to-work}{%
  \paragraph{What are my rights if I am worried about going back to
  work?}\label{what-are-my-rights-if-i-am-worried-about-going-back-to-work}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Employers have to provide
    \href{https://www.osha.gov/SLTC/covid-19/standards.html}{a safe
    workplace} with policies that protect everyone equally.
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/coronavirus-money-unemployment.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{And
    if one of your co-workers tests positive for the coronavirus, the
    C.D.C.} has said that
    \href{https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/community/guidance-business-response.html}{employers
    should tell their employees} -\/- without giving you the sick
    employee's name -\/- that they may have been exposed to the virus.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{what-is-school-going-to-look-like-in-september}{%
  \paragraph{What is school going to look like in
  September?}\label{what-is-school-going-to-look-like-in-september}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    It is unlikely that many schools will return to a normal schedule
    this fall, requiring the grind of
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/05/us/coronavirus-education-lost-learning.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{online
    learning},
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/29/us/coronavirus-child-care-centers.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{makeshift
    child care} and
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/03/business/economy/coronavirus-working-women.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{stunted
    workdays} to continue. California's two largest public school
    districts --- Los Angeles and San Diego --- said on July 13, that
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/13/us/lausd-san-diego-school-reopening.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{instruction
    will be remote-only in the fall}, citing concerns that surging
    coronavirus infections in their areas pose too dire a risk for
    students and teachers. Together, the two districts enroll some
    825,000 students. They are the largest in the country so far to
    abandon plans for even a partial physical return to classrooms when
    they reopen in August. For other districts, the solution won't be an
    all-or-nothing approach.
    \href{https://bioethics.jhu.edu/research-and-outreach/projects/eschool-initiative/school-policy-tracker/}{Many
    systems}, including the nation's largest, New York City, are
    devising
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/26/us/coronavirus-schools-reopen-fall.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{hybrid
    plans} that involve spending some days in classrooms and other days
    online. There's no national policy on this yet, so check with your
    municipal school system regularly to see what is happening in your
    community.
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Mr. Conte, the prime minister, had questioned Lombardy's approach in an
effort to project a sense of control.

He infuriated regional officials by blaming a Lombardy hospital for the
virus's spread and saying on Tuesday that ``exaggerated'' swab tests
``would end up dramatizing the emergency.''

Lombardy officials had defended their methods.

``We don't understand what he is talking about,'' Mr. Fontana said.

In turn, he criticized Mr. Conte, saying that the prime minister should
have listened to a proposal, made in early February, that schoolchildren
returning from China stay at home for 14 days.

``They told us it was a racist behavior and they did not want to put in
place this little precaution,'' Mr. Fontana said.

Experts have speculated that the coronavirus outbreak in Lombardy could
be attributed to the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/02/24/world/europe/24coronavirus-milan-italy.html}{region's
close business ties with China} or its densely packed population.

In search of Italy's ``patient zero,'' Mr. Fontana said officials were
pursuing ``an Italian citizen with Chinese origins'' who visited China
around January.

He said that person then came into contact with someone who then ``went
to Codogno'' --- one of the Lombardy towns on lockdown. That second
person is thought to have had contact with a 38-year-old Italian man,
who remains in intensive care.

Image

An empty store in Milan on Tuesday.~Credit...Andrea Mantovani for The
New York Times

That man is believed to have spread the virus widely, prompting the
lockdown of several towns near Milan.

In Milan's central train station this week, people were eager to leave
the city.

Donatella Monti and her children waited for a train back to Rome, all of
them wearing masks bought in a hardware store.

Ms. Monti said that many in Lombardy seemed unfazed by the outbreak, but
that her pediatrician back south advised her to keep her young daughter
away from school for 10 days. ``I'll go to school with my mask on!'' her
daughter protested.

In Mr. Fontana's office, his aides quipped that the masks ``didn't do a
thing'' to stop the virus and that the Milanese only wore masks during
carnival.

But late Wednesday, Mr. Fontana
\href{https://www.facebookcorewwwi.onion/fontanaufficiale/videos/191575302125882/}{posted
a video on Facebook} in which he explained that one of his aides had
tested positive for the virus.

The governor said that he himself had tested negative, but that he would
nonetheless ``live in a sort of auto isolation'' for the next two weeks,
avoiding public events and news conferences and wearing a mask in the
office.

``So when you see me in the coming days, I will be like this,'' he said,
pulling a green mask over his face. ``Don't be scared. It's always me.''

Image

A closed soccer stadium in Milan. The outbreak forced a Europa League
match to be played without spectators on Monday.Credit...Andrea
Mantovani for The New York TimesTimes

Emma Bubola contributed reporting from Milan, and Elisabetta Povoledo
from Rome.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
