Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/style}{Style}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/style}{Style}\textbar{}Can FaZe Clan Build a
Billion-Dollar Business?

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{can-faze-clan-build-a-billion-dollar-business}{%
\section{Can FaZe Clan Build a Billion-Dollar
Business?}\label{can-faze-clan-build-a-billion-dollar-business}}

They already make every moment into consumable content. What can it
become?

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2019/11/17/fashion/00Fazei/merlin_162718671_7d4f21cf-8cef-43d5-b8ed-85ba18b4781b-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/taylor-lorenz}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/03/18/reader-center/author-taylor-lorenz/author-taylor-lorenz-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/taylor-lorenz}{Taylor
Lorenz}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Published Nov. 15, 2019Updated Nov. 21, 2019
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

LOS ANGELES --- FaZe Clan could be called a media company, or an esports
team, or an influencer marketing agency, or all of the above.

``Something like who we are has never existed before,'' said Lee Trink,
the organization's chief executive. He comes from the entertainment
world (he helped discover Kid Rock) and his best attempt is to describe
FaZe Clan is the Dallas Cowboys meets Supreme meets MTV.

But it's more than that: a direct-to-consumer e-commerce business,
releasing merchandise and apparel; an in-house content production
studio; a talent-management business; a sales team acting as a mini
advertising agency negotiating brand deals; and a technology arm that
develops software to meet the demands of talent.

Teenagers find this corporate conglomerate incredibly cool. FaZe Clan
fans get
\href{https://steamcommunity.com/sharedfiles/filedetails/?id=923302605}{FaZe
tattoos}, doodle FaZe logos on their notebooks at school and show up
outside the group's Hollywood Hills house begging for pictures. When a
group of members visited SoHo in New York City this summer, multiple
city blocks were closed
\href{https://twitter.com/Banks/status/1154799297696804869}{after
thousands of fans flooded the streets}. This weekend,
\href{https://twitter.com/banks/status/1195117347964506113?s=21}{they'll
open their first storefront}, on Melrose Ave. in Los Angeles, and it
threatens to be a ``legendary moment,'' as a FaZe member put it.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2019/11/17/fashion/00Fazeb/merlin_162718884_0ca28cc3-f622-4883-af26-b2dc09eab30a-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

FaZe Clan consists of 34 content creators and 15 professional esports
players, and 11 hybrid creators who are both pro players and
entertainers. All of them excel at creating social media clips; together
they have brought 214 million viewers into the fold.

Members are easy to recognize online. They refer to themselves using
their gamer tags, which always start with ``FaZe.'' There's FaZe Banks,
27; FaZe Temperrr, 24; FaZe Rain, 23; and FaZe Apex, 23, four early
members considered the backbone of the organization. FaZe Kay, a
23-year-old British Twitch star and gamer with 3.2 million subscribers
on YouTube,
\href{https://twitter.com/fazekay/status/618055823953149952?lang=en}{joined}
in 2014. His younger brother, FaZe Jarvis, is the resident baby brother
of the FaZe house and often the butt of pranks. (He once won a
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/05/02/style/fortnite.html}{Fortnite}
game \href{https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0jyxMXJSCDs}{with a boa
constrictor coiled around his neck}.)

Jarvis also might be the first great casualty of the organization. He
recently received a
\href{https://www.dexerto.com/fortnite/faze-clan-pro-jarvis-permanently-banned-on-fortnite-1211480}{lifetime
ban from Fortnite}. That game has been his ticket to top tier employment
and his source of fame. He is now
\href{https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VeRCfqD28_U\&feature=emb_title}{deciding
what's next}. ``I've just been taking a lot of time to reflect on
everything,'' he told his subscribers a few days ago. He is 17.

\hypertarget{at-the-faze-house}{%
\subsection{At the FaZe House}\label{at-the-faze-house}}

Image

From left: FaZe Jarvis, FaZe Kay, FaZe Nikan, FaZe Temperrr, FaZe
Tenser, FaZe Adapt, FaZe Cizzorz,~FaZe Teeqo, FaZe Orba and FaZe
GwidT.Credit...Adam Amengual for The New York Times

FaZe Clan moved to Los Angeles in 2016, first to Newport, then to
Calabasas and, in 2018, into dual 12,500-square-foot mansions in the
Hollywood Hills. One house is full of strictly FaZe members. The other
contains a roving cast of
FaZe-\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/07/16/style/are-you-adjacent.html}{adjacent}
influencers, like RiceGum (a model and rapper) and Sommer Ray (a fitness
model).

The houses act as live-in dorms for influencers. During the day, they
work.

One day in October, Vera Salamone, FaZe Clan's director of talent,
conducted a 10 a.m. stand-up meeting. She asked the boys **** what they
planned to accomplish during the day. ``I have meetings, then I'm making
a video with Jarvis. Getting ready for the weekend. I just want a day
off,'' said FaZe Kay. Everyone laughed.

After the meeting, the gamers slumped off into their rooms to begin the
daily grind. Most FaZe Clan members spend the majority of their time in
their bedrooms, posted up in front of their gaming stations.

``I spent 90 percent of my time here in my room,'' said FaZe Kay.

``There's not much you can really do,'' he continued. ``All I do is play
Fortnite anyway. I sit in my set up and play, so I'm not really too
bothered. I don't even really go outside too much.''

Image

FaZe GwidT and FaZe Teeqo, cooking.Credit...Adam Amengual for The New
York Times

Image

Theater and dance floor.Credit...Adam Amengual for The New York Times

Many members played varsity sports in high school. They are obsessed
with fitness and nutrition. The third-floor common area of the current
FaZe house is dedicated to a gym. ``We aren't shy, antisocial quote
unquote weird kids that are out of shape, don't play sports, don't mess
with girls and don't eat well,'' said Banks. ``We do all that stuff.''

FaZe Clan members make things for their channels, the collective FaZe
channels, or for brands. This year FaZe has done advertising deals with
Fortune 500 brands including Nissan and Burger King. (For Burger King,
some of them \href{https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=px4VL4QUfcU}{ate
burgers blindfolded} for a video and appeared surprised to find out that
they were not made of meat. ``That's lit,'' said FaZe Cizzorz.)

The FaZe Clan house proper is sprawling, with white marble floors and
metallic silver railings. It is also empty, devoid of personal
belongings. A neon FaZe logo hangs by the TV above the fireplace.
There's a pool table that remains untouched. TV screens around the house
display live counts and rankings of members' YouTube, Twitch and
Instagram followings. Gamers flop around on oversized bean bag chairs
that litter the top floor, the default common area.

The unofficial uniform is FaZe Clan merch paired with designer
sportswear and brand-name slides. ``These are Louis Vuitton sliders,''
FaZe Jarvis said when asked about his footwear. ``I have three pairs of
sliders: Off-White, Louis and Givenchy ones.'' His older brother was
decked out in **** Gucci. They aren't particularly into fashion, the
brothers said. They just buy nice things because they can.

Image

FaZe Teeqo.Credit...Adam Amengual for The New York Times

FaZe Clan members block out the neighborhood's breathtaking views with
thick blinds to prevent glare. The rooms feel like packed caves. Beds
are generally unmade and in various states of disarray. FaZe Temperrr
has the largest room in the house. Larger than a small New York City
apartment, it's crammed with piles of personal items: a box of Travis
Scott limited-edition Reese's Puffs, a Gucci wallet, a plush Mario doll.
His mantle is covered with anime figurines and childhood photos.
\href{https://www.instagram.com/fazebarry}{FaZe Barry}, Temperrr's
Bengal cat, roams his huge marble bathroom.

FaZe Kay keeps a Boring company fire extinguisher on his bedside table,
propped up against his gold YouTube play button plaque, awarded when he
reached 1 million followers. Empty Arrowhead water bottles are clustered
around the plaque like prayer candles. FaZe Jarvis's room is the one
notable exception. It's spotless and completely empty aside from a Dyson
fan, his own YouTube play button plaque, also on his bedside table.

Outside FaZe Jarvis's room is the entrance to the house's private movie
theater, compete with a bar and a stripper pole on an elevated platform.
Several members said one big misconception of life in the house is how
monotonous some days can be. ``People think it's a lot crazier than it
is because people see nothing but highlights,'' said FaZe Teeqo.

FaZe Clan members have a specific type of fame, an experience similar to
teen stars and YouTubers. To anyone under the age of 20, they're almost
immediately recognizable. To adults they look like average kids. Most
can get around L.A. without much hassle. ``If you go to a mall on a
Saturday, it's not going to be too good,'' said FaZe Teeqo. ``But if I
got to Trader Joe's 10 a.m. on a Tuesday, it's fine.''

Image

Members record a cup-stacking contest for YouTube.Credit...Adam Amengual
for The New York Times

Image

Gaming collectives like FaZe Clan, pictured above, have developed a
male-centric ``frat house'' culture, according to Greg Selkoe, the
club's president, who is leaving to start a new organization focused on
diversity.Credit...Adam Amengual for The New York Times

\hypertarget{the-call-of-duty}{%
\subsection{The Call of Duty}\label{the-call-of-duty}}

FaZe Clan made a name for itself by embracing influencer culture and
taking a social media content-first approach to gaming. Back in 2010,
Call of Duty (COD), a first-person shooter game, was wildly popular.
While many top COD players focused on winning tournaments and accolades,
FaZe Banks, FaZe Temperrr and other early FaZe members became famous for
trickshotting. That's when a player invents creative stunts in a game,
sometimes to the detriment of their performance. It's jumping off a
building while spinning around 360 degrees and shooting someone on your
way down. Sure, you died, but it looked cool.

FaZe players would put these outrageous highlights on YouTube and
promptly go viral. FaZe Banks, a former lacrosse player who began
playing COD in 2009, mastered YouTube early. His first video, a tutorial
on how to hack your Xbox score, generated \$800 in ad revenue. ``It was
my moment where I was like, wait a second, there's a lot of money to be
made on the internet,'' Banks said, ``and my internet hustle was video
games.''

Just a handful of YouTubers had reached a million followers by then.
``We were the first gamers really showing our faces on the internet,''
said FaZe Temperrr. They inserted small reaction shots and narration
over gameplay. Members also began vlogging, showcasing their daily
nongaming lives.

``People loved it,'' Banks said. ``People had something to follow
outside the gameplay. They play COD every day, but now they get to see
the lifestyle we live and that we're cool kids.'' In 2012, they began a
traditional esports team, pairing panache and trickshotting and social
media prowess with top gameplay talent. They quickly began racking up
trophies.

Image

FaZe Adapt in his car, which has an Off-White wrap.Credit...Adam
Amengual for The New York Times

Image

FaZe Cizzorz, in the living room.Credit...Adam Amengual for The New York
Times

Image

FaZe Temperrr holding up FaZe Barry.Credit...Adam Amengual for The New
York Times

\hypertarget{building-an-actual-business}{%
\subsection{Building an Actual
Business}\label{building-an-actual-business}}

For most of FaZe Clan's existence it had no corporate structure. ``As
soon as I met these guys, I was like, this is an incredible business,
but there's no infrastructure,'' said Greg Selkoe, the organization's
president. The members of FaZe had fostered a fandom of millions online,
but they weren't effectively converting their audience numbers into
cash.

Last year, Mr. Selkoe and Mr. Trink signed on full time. **** Now, about
70 people work for FaZe Clan on the business side. It took on a round of
outside investment a year ago, and has welcomed celebrity members like
\href{https://www.tubefilter.com/2018/12/19/faze-clan-lil-yachty-faze-boat-youtube/}{Lil
Yachty} and
\href{https://www.theverge.com/2019/8/28/20835760/offset-migos-faze-clan-esports-gaming-interview}{Offset},
who also invested. In September, the company announced a partnership
with
\href{https://www.theverge.com/2019/9/26/20885136/faze-clan-manchester-city-esports-partnership}{Manchester
City}, an elite soccer team. Their job is to create content around the
sports franchise and to partner on merchandise.

Just as Supreme was birthed from skateboarding culture, FaZe Clan hopes
to establish a gaming-adjacent apparel business. It recently
collaborated with Champion, New Era and 24karats, a high-fashion
Japanese clothing line.

Expansion efforts haven't been without speed bumps. ``If there's
multiple ways to do something, FaZe will do the craziest way,'' said Mr.
Trink. Last year, a now-defunct social media company and former
officemate
\href{https://www.tubefilter.com/2019/06/05/faze-clan-lawsuit-hubrick-tfue/}{sued
the company} for an undisclosed amount in excess of \$1 million for
``intentional interference with prospective economic advantage and
misappropriation of trade secrets.''

Image

FaZe Kay holds a FaZe-branded controller.Credit...Adam Amengual for The
New York Times

Image

FaZe Jarvis, left, and FaZe Kay.Credit...Adam Amengual for The New York
Times

In May, Turner Tenney, one of the top Fortnite players in the world,
\href{https://www.theatlantic.com/technology/archive/2019/05/why-tfues-lawsuit-against-faze-clan-matters/589900/}{sued
FaZe Clan in a contract dispute}. Mr. Tenney, known online as Tfue, said
that FaZe had signed him into a predatory agreement in which the company
could take up to 80 percent of his earnings in certain cases, and was
violating California law by illegally operating as a talent agency. FaZe
\href{https://www.theverge.com/2019/8/1/20750678/faze-clan-tfue-lawsuit-20-million-streaming-earnings-rival-esports-team}{counter
sued}. Their
\href{https://www.polygon.com/2019/11/7/20953294/tfue-faze-clan-lawsuit-jury-trial-2020}{litigation
continues}.

``We've spent most of the past year getting our stuff together,'' Mr.
Trink said.

``FaZe Clan was built by kids, the youngest being 14 at the time,'' he
added. ``They didn't think about potential lawsuits.'' Among the
cleanup: retroactively filing trademarks and revamping the way contracts
are structured.

They are also focused on recruiting its next generation of talent. This
year, FaZe Clan welcomed
\href{http://nymag.com/intelligencer/2019/08/h1ghsky1-fortnite-world-cup.html}{FaZe
H1ghSky1}, a 12-year-old gamer from Seattle, and FaZe
\href{https://www.polygon.com/2019/7/28/8933873/faze-clan-ewok-joins-soleil-wheeler-first-female-fortnite-esports}{Ew0k},
a 13-year-old deaf Fortnite competitor and the first female member.

FaZe Clan's membership has remained predominantly male. Banks says he is
desperate to change the perception that gaming is primarily for teen
boys. ``Everyone is a gamer. You play games on your phone? You're a
gamer,'' he said. ``My mom who plays Farmville is gamer. Sports is a
gaming mentality. If you've ever played a sport, you're a gamer.'' The
company, also, has an opportunity to offer more women's apparel.

Image

FaZe GwidT, playing Call of Duty in his room.Credit...Adam Amengual for
The New York Times

\hypertarget{the-bigger-they-are}{%
\subsection{The Bigger They Are}\label{the-bigger-they-are}}

Traditional esports teams, like
\href{https://www.youtube.com/user/OpTicNation}{OpTic}, have taken a
page out of FaZe's playbook. They too are attempting to make more
content and more personalities, not just win games.
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/04/25/style/video-game-esports-apparel-clothes.html}{100
Thieves}, another company seeking to merge gaming and lifestyle, raised
\$35 million this summer.

FaZe Clan's relative scale, however, is staggering. FaZe Clan has more
than 7.5 million followers on Instagram alone; 100 Thieves has 571,000.
``As an organization they've got this incredible network effect,'' said
Sundance DiGiovanni, a co-founder of Major League Gaming. ``When they
bring someone in, that person sees an explosion on their social
channels.''

Like any average college-aged kid, FaZe Clan members like to have a good
time. Some hit the clubs on the weekends or attend parties hosted by
young Hollywood talent and fellow YouTube stars. Events at the FaZe Clan
house itself have become infamous. Last year, the crew hosted a
900-person party with 700 young women. ``Marshmello'' --- he's a big
D.J. --- ``said it was the best party he's ever been to,'' Temperrr
said. In October, Banks and some friends caused
\href{https://www.tmz.com/2019/10/31/faze-banks-las-vegas-hotel-room-destruction-video/}{an
estimated \$30,000 worth of damage} to a hotel room at the Encore at
Wynn Las Vegas after a wild night.

The less fun side is that burnout is a
\href{https://www.polygon.com/2018/6/1/17413542/burnout-mental-health-awareness-youtube-elle-mills-el-rubius-bobby-burns-pewdiepie}{major
concern for online creators}. Nearly all top FaZe Clan members have
experienced it. ``It's really hard to stay consistent with this level of
work,'' said FaZe Adapt. ``There was a couple moments when it got hard.
If I wasn't posting every day, I was filming all day, editing all
night.''

In late October, FaZe Rain, one of the founding owner-members,
\href{https://twitter.com/joshpescatore/status/1188143277993795584?s=21}{posted
a series of alarming messages on Twitter}, and slammed fellow members of
FaZe Clan for not being there for him. FaZe Rain had
\href{https://www.dexerto.com/entertainment/faze-rain-speaks-out-about-his-intense-struggle-with-depression-and-why-he-took-a-break-from-youtube-125419}{previously
discussed} struggling with depression, and revealed that he had suffered
a ``mental breakdown'' that landed him in a psychiatric ward. ``I've
been doing this since I was 11 years old, man,''
\href{https://www.dexerto.com/entertainment/faze-rain-speaks-out-about-his-intense-struggle-with-depression-and-why-he-took-a-break-from-youtube-125419}{he
said} at the time, meaning making content for YouTube. Currently his
social media output veers between ``I feel like I lost myself'' and,
this week, ``All you need is confidence then you can do anything.''

Image

FaZe Temperrr's knuckle tattoos.Credit...Adam Amengual for The New York
Times

FaZe Adapt and others have taken months offline to recuperate, but many
members still regularly push themselves to the limit. ``We work
nonstop,'' said FaZe Temperrr. ``We're well aware of what can happen if
you don't work hard. We're at such a great point that if we we're going
to start slowing down, people would catch up and we wouldn't have this
opportunity again.''

``If you don't have your eyes on this, internet culture in general,
esports, video games, if you still don't take it seriously, you should.
You need to wake up. Every day we live more and more on the internet. If
you can't see where this is going you should pay more attention,'' said
Banks. ``Eventually we will all live in the internet, and I want to
exist in that world. That's where I see us.''

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
