Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/opinion/sunday}{Sunday
Review}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/opinion/sunday}{Sunday Review}\textbar{}The Doctor Versus
the Denier

\url{https://nyti.ms/30sDbKH}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

\href{/section/opinion}{Opinion}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{the-doctor-versus-the-denier}{%
\section{The Doctor Versus the
Denier}\label{the-doctor-versus-the-denier}}

Anthony Fauci's at the pool, but Donald Trump's in deep.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/maureen-dowd}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/04/02/opinion/maureen-dowd/maureen-dowd-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/maureen-dowd}{Maureen
Dowd}

Opinion Columnist

\begin{itemize}
\item
  July 18, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/07/19/opinion/19Dowd/merlin_174082506_adbfb907-7c17-4002-93c8-e705007d2dab-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

WASHINGTON --- Never mind Johnny Depp and Amber Heard.

You want to see a real can't-look-away train wreck of a relationship?
Look to the nation's capital, where a messy falling out is chronicled
everywhere from the tabloids to a glossy fashion magazine, replete with
a photo shoot by a swimming pool.

The saga has enough betrayal, backstabbing, recrimination, indignation
and ostracization to impress Edith Wharton.

The press breathlessly covers how much time has passed since the pair
last spoke, whether they're headed for splitsville, and if they can ever
agree on what's best for the children.

It was always bound to be tempestuous because they are the ultimate odd
couple, the doctor and the president.

One is a champion of truth and facts. The other is a master of deceit
and denial. One is highly disciplined, working 18-hour days. The other
can't be bothered to do his homework and golfs instead. One is driven by
science and the public good. The other is a public menace, driven by
greed and ego. One is a Washington institution. The other was sent here
to destroy Washington institutions. One is incorruptible. The other
corrupts. One is apolitical. The other politicizes everything he touches
--- toilets, windows, beans and, most fatally, masks.

After a fractious week, when the former reality-show star in the White
House retweeted a former game-show host saying that we shouldn't trust
doctors about Covid-19, Donald Trump and Anthony Fauci are gritting
their teeth.

What's so scary is that the bumpy course of their relationship has
life-or-death consequences for Americans.

Who could even dream up a scenario where a president and a White House
drop
\href{https://www.axios.com/mcenany-white-house-opposition-research-fauci-3e84b7ea-a368-48a2-9061-216a14a38612.html}{oppo
research} on the esteemed scientist charged with keeping us safe in a
worsening pandemic?

The administration acted like Peter Navarro, Trump's wacko-bird trade
adviser, had gone rogue when
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/16/business/media/usa-today-peter-navarro-fauci.html}{he
assailed Dr. Fauci} for being Dr. Wrong, in a
\href{https://www.usatoday.com/story/opinion/todaysdebate/2020/07/14/anthony-fauci-wrong-with-me-peter-navarro-editorials-debates/5439374002/}{USA
Today op-ed}. But does anyone believe that? And if he did, would he
still have his job?

No doubt it was a case of Trump murmuring: Will no one rid me of this
meddlesome infectious disease specialist?

Republicans on Capitol Hill privately confessed they were baffled by the
whole thing, saying they couldn't understand why Trump would undermine
Fauci, especially now with the virus resurgent. They think it's not only
hurting Trump's re-election chances, but theirs, too.

As though it couldn't get more absurd, Kellyanne Conway told Fox News on
Friday that she thinks it would help Trump's poll numbers for him to
start giving public briefings on the virus again --- even though that
exercise went off the rails when the president began suggesting people
inject themselves with bleach.

``How did we get to a situation in our country where the public health
official most known for honesty and hard work is most vilified for it?''
marvels Michael Specter, a science writer for The New Yorker who began
covering Fauci during the AIDs crisis. ``And as Team Trump trashes him,
the numbers keep horrifyingly proving him right.''

When Dr. Fauci began treating AIDs patients, nearly every one of them
died. ``It was the darkest time of my life,'' he told Specter. In an
open letter, Larry Kramer called Fauci a ``murderer.''

Then,
\href{https://www.newyorker.com/magazine/2020/04/20/how-anthony-fauci-became-americas-doctor}{as
Specter writes}, he started listening to activists and made a rare
admission: His approach wasn't working. He threw his caution to the
winds and became a public-health activist. Through rigorous research and
commitment to clinical studies, the death rate from AIDs has plummeted
over the years.

Now Fauci struggles to drive the data bus as the White House throws
nails under his tires. It seems emblematic of a deeper, existential
problem: America has lost its can-do spirit. We were always Bugs Bunny,
faster, smarter, more wily than everybody else. Now we're Slugs Bunny.

Can our country be any more pathetic than this: The
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/aponline/2020/07/16/us/ap-us-virus-outbreak-georgia.html}{Georgia
governor suing} the Atlanta mayor and City Council to block their
mandate for city residents to wear masks?

Trump promised the A team, but he has surrounded himself with losers and
kiss-ups and second-raters. Just your basic Ayn Rand nightmare.

Certainly, Dr. Fauci has had to adjust some of his early positions as he
learned about this confounding virus. (``When the facts change, I change
my mind. What do you do, sir?'' John Maynard Keynes wisely observed.)

``Medicine is not an exact art,'' Jerome Groopman, the best-selling
author and professor at Harvard Medical School, put it. ``There's lots
of uncertainty, always evolving information, much room for doubt. The
most dangerous people are the ones who speak with total authority and no
room for error.''

Sound like someone you know?

``Medical schools,'' Dr. Groopman continued, ``have curricula now to
teach students the imperative of admitting when something went wrong,
taking responsibility, and committing to righting it.''

Some are saying the 79-year-old Dr. Fauci should say to hell with it and
quit. But we need his voice of reason in this nuthouse of a White House.

Despite Dr. Fauci's best efforts to stay apolitical, he has been sucked
into the demented political kaleidoscope through which we view
everything now. Consider the shoot by his pool, photographed by Frankie
Alduino, for a
\href{https://www.instyle.com/news/dr-fauci-says-with-all-due-modesty-i-think-im-pretty-effective}{digital
cover story}by Norah O'Donnell for InStyle magazine.

From the left, the picture represented an unflappable hero, exhausted
and desperately in need of some R \& R, chilling poolside, not letting
the White House's slime campaign get him down or silence him. And on the
right, some saw a liberal media darling, high on his own supply in the
midst of a deadly pandemic. ``While America burns, Fauci does fashion
mag photo shoots,''
\href{https://twitter.com/seanmdav/status/1283602972426067971}{tweeted
Sean Davis}, co-founder of the right-wing website The Federalist.

It's no coincidence that the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/14/us/politics/qanon-politicians-candidates.html}{QAnon-adjacent
cultists} on the right began circulating a new conspiracy theory in the
fever swamps of Facebook that Dr. Fauci's wife of three and a half
decades, a bioethicist, is Ghislaine Maxwell's sister. (Do I need to
tell you she isn't?)

Worryingly, new polls show that the smear from Trumpworld may be
starting to stick; fewer Republicans trust the doctor now than in the
spring.

Forget Mueller, Sessions, Comey, Canada, his niece, Mika Brzezinski. Of
the many quarrels, scrapes and scraps Trump has instigated in his time
in office, surely this will be remembered not only as the most needless
and perverse, but as the most dangerous.

As Dr. Fauci
\href{https://www.theatlantic.com/politics/archive/2020/07/trump-fauci-coronavirus-pandemic-oppo/614224/}{told
The Atlantic}, it's ``a bit bizarre.''

More than a bit, actually.

\emph{The Times is committed to publishing}
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/01/31/opinion/letters/letters-to-editor-new-york-times-women.html}{\emph{a
diversity of letters}} \emph{to the editor. We'd like to hear what you
think about this or any of our articles. Here are some}
\href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014925288-How-to-submit-a-letter-to-the-editor}{\emph{tips}}\emph{.
And here's our email:}
\href{mailto:letters@NYTimes.com}{\emph{letters@NYTimes.com}}\emph{.}

\emph{Follow The New York Times Opinion section on}
\href{https://www.facebookcorewwwi.onion/nytopinion}{\emph{Facebook}}\emph{,}
\href{http://twitter.com/NYTOpinion}{\emph{Twitter (@NYTopinion)}}
\emph{and}
\href{https://www.instagram.com/nytopinion/}{\emph{Instagram}}\emph{.}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
