Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/arts/design}{Art \& Design}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/arts/design}{Art \& Design}\textbar{}At the Louvre,
Beyoncé and Jay-Z Are Both Outsiders and Heirs

\url{https://nyti.ms/2ldkPJj}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

Critic's Notebook

\hypertarget{at-the-louvre-beyoncuxe9-and-jay-z-are-both-outsiders-and-heirs}{%
\section{At the Louvre, Beyoncé and Jay-Z Are Both Outsiders and
Heirs}\label{at-the-louvre-beyoncuxe9-and-jay-z-are-both-outsiders-and-heirs}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/06/18/arts/18louvre1/18louvre1-articleLarge-v2.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/jason-farago}{Jason Farago}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  June 17, 2018
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

PARIS --- More than art, more than music, what the cultural eminences of
this city really love is gossip. So full credit to Beyoncé and Jay-Z ---
known, in tandem, as the Carters --- for extending their cone of silence
all the way to the City of Light. Not only did the first couple of
American pop music impose their standard omertà on the songwriters,
musicians, producers and technicians who helped them complete their new
album
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/06/16/arts/music/beyonce-jay-z-surprise-album-everything-is-love.html}{``Everything
Is Love''}; they also got the mandarins of Paris's largest museum to
keep mum about their first single, whose video was shot in the galleries
and the exterior plaza of the Musée du Louvre.

The video for the single ``Apes**t'' sees Beyoncé, Jay-Z and their
dancers vamp on Pierre Paulin's circular gray banquettes, drop verses in
front of I.M. Pei's entrance pyramid and squirm in formation in front of
Jacques-Louis David's gigantic ``Coronation of Napoleon.'' It's a
firecracker of a song --- and, from an art critic's perspective, more
sophisticated and more genuine than their earlier forays into museums
and galleries, such as Jay-Z's dreary Marina Abramovic parody
\href{https://www.google.com/search?rlz=1C1GCEA_enUS797US797\&ei=0XomW_7mKNDb5gKwnKb4Dw\&q=picasso+baby+youtube\&oq=\%E2\%80\%9CPicasso+Baby\%E2\%80\%9D+you+tube\&gs_l=psy-ab.1.0.0i13k1j0i8i13i30k1.6288.7591.0.9302.9.9.0.0.0.0.122.640.2j4.6.0....0...1.1.64.psy-ab..3.6.638...0j0i22i30k1j0i22i10i30k1.0.oigzrMvEW6A}{``Picasso
Baby.''}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/06/18/us/18louvre2/merlin_139737402_615eb027-5a98-4009-9052-7c5a1563f771-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

First things first: While some fans have exulted that only Queen Bey has
the cash and the clout to privatize Europe's grandest museum, there is
nothing very rare about filming here.
\href{https://twitter.com/MuseeLouvre/status/920265761448480768}{About
500 shoots} take place at the Louvre every year. The Carters' clip
follows in the tradition of
``\href{https://geeks.media/wonder-woman-as-an-art-historian}{Wonder
Woman},'' ``Fifty Shades Freed'' and such noble cultural achievements as
``The Smurfs 2.'' Film and television shoots serve as an essential
marketing for the Louvre ---
\href{http://presse.louvre.fr/8-1-million-visitors-to-the-louvre-in-2017/}{attendance
is up again}, after terrorism-induced declines in 2016 --- and as of
2015, the
\href{https://www.louvre.fr/sites/default/files/medias/medias_fichiers/fichiers/pdf/louvre-tarifs-sur-le-domaine-du-louvre-et-des-tuileries-2015.pdf}{top
fee was just 15,000 euros}, or about \$17,500, for a full day's shoot in
the galleries. There are hotel rooms here that cost more than that.

{[}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/06/17/arts/music/beyonce-jay-z-the-carters-everything-is-love-review.html}{\emph{Read
our review of Beyoncé and Jay-Z's ``Everything Is Love.''}}{]}

In the video, directed by
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/slideshow/2016/10/09/fashion/new-york-film-festival-american-red-cross/s/09SCENE-CITY-slide-PWJN.html}{Ricky
Saiz}, Bey and Jay follow the well-trod tourist route past the Louvre's
three most famous works --- the Venus de Milo on the ground floor, the
Winged Victory of Samothrace atop the broad Daru staircase and the Mona
Lisa in the Denon wing. The couple and their dancers also perform in
front of the large-scale paintings of revolutionary and early imperial
France in the long Grande Galerie: David's ``Oath of the Horatii'' and
portrait of Madame Récamier; Théodore Géricault's ``Charging Chasseur''
and ``Raft of the Medusa.'' (Longtime Louvre watchers will know that
Jay-Z is not the first black artist to rap there: In 2006,
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2006/11/21/books/21morr.html}{Toni
Morrison invited slam poets} from Paris's banlieues to freestyle in
front of Géricault's shipwreck.)

A hand-held camera pans across the ornate walls of the Apollo Gallery,
built for Louis XIV, and zooms in on its gold-framed ceiling murals. And
there are dance sequences inside and outside the building, staged by the
avant-garde Belgian choreographer
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2009/10/11/arts/dance/11sulc.html}{Sidi
Larbi Cherkaoui}, in which performers kneel like protesting football
players and do synchronized abdominal exercises on the Daru stairs.

Why did Beyoncé and Jay-Z decide to stage their reconciliation track at
the world's most visited museum? Swagger, for one thing: That first
tracking shot of the couple in front of the Mona Lisa, wearing silk
suits of complementary sea-foam green (him) and orchid pink (her), is a
first-order power move that echoes
\href{https://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/celebritynews/11159162/Beyonce-most-irritating-selfies-of-all-time.html}{their
selfie from 2014} in the same gallery. It also relies on Paris's romance
and glamour, which Jay-Z drew on earlier for the 2011
\href{https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gG_dA32oH44}{duet with Kanye West}
(with an unprintable title referencing the city). This video would make
no sense at Madrid's imposing Museo del Prado or Vienna's lush
Kunsthistorisches Museum.

Image

Dancers posed in front of the "Portrait of Madame Récamier" by
Jacques-Louis David.Credit...

Image

The ceiling of the Apollo Gallery, built for Louis XIV in the mid-17th
century. The painting at center is "Evening," by Charles Le Brun.

As so often, the couple here present themselves as both outsiders in an
elite institution and as heirs to it; as people excluded from its
narratives but now possessors of it by virtue of their talent, their
taste and, well, their money. Scenes that proudly emphasize racial
difference --- a woman combing a man's hair with an afro pick in front
of the Gioconda --- alternate with shots in which Beyoncé appears wholly
at home, especially the one in which she is seated before the Winged
Victory, with her long cream dress bundled around her legs. ``Can't
believe we made it,'' she sings, and her arrival in Paris's most
hallowed hall gets underscored with close-ups that isolate black figures
in the Louvre's French and Italian painting collection, notably
Veronese's ``Wedding at Cana.'' There's also a flash to
\href{https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Marie-Guillemine_Benoist}{Marie-Guillemine
Benoist's ``Portrait of a Negress,''} painted between French
revolutionaries' abolition of slavery in 1794 and Napoleon's restoration
of it in 1802. (Her bare breast is censored.)

Image

The Carters present themselves as both outsiders in an elite institution
and as heirs to it.Credit...

Black Frenchmen (and, far less, women) were a common subject for
painters at the time of the Louvre's founding, yet the Carters are no
Jacobins. As in their previous videos, here too cultural empowerment
goes hand in hand with personal acquisitiveness. Some shots of the
Louvre, particularly those filmed in the gilded Apollo Gallery, feel
more closely allied to the song's shout-outs to Patek Philippe watches
and Gulfstream airplanes than to the history of painting. But the
couple's political view of black wealth has far more resonance in the
Louvre's Egyptian galleries, where Beyoncé boasts that she ``bought him
a jet'' in front of the Great Sphinx of Tanis. By the end, in one of the
video's best shots, she and the dancers are going wild in the Louvre
basement, and topless men are jumping for joy in front of the sphinx.
They have not won admission to the museum; they have taken it over.

Image

A casually dressed man on horseback echoes the photography of the French
artist Mohamed Bourouissa.Credit...

I have previously been distrustful of this couple's quotations of visual
art, whose appeal has too often seemed to be its prestige and expense
rather than its meaning or beauty. Beyoncé has restaged well-known
works:
\href{https://www.independent.co.uk/arts-entertainment/music/news/beyonce-accused-of-stealing-pipilotti-rists-visuals-for-hold-up-music-video-a7010966.html}{``Hold
Up''} paid tribute (or just cribbed) the light-footed feminism of the
Swiss video artist Pipilotti Rist, while
\href{https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2XY3AvVgDns}{``Countdown''}channeled
the precise dance moves of another Belgian choreographer,
\href{http://www.rosas.be/en/8-anne-teresa-de-keersmaeker}{Anne Teresa
De Keersmaeker}. (There is some flagrant borrowing in this new video
too. Scenes of domestic intimacy seem to rephrase photographs by
\href{https://www.newyorker.com/magazine/2018/05/07/deana-lawsons-kingdom-of-restored-glory}{Deana
Lawson}, while the white French officer of Géricault's ``Charging
Chasseur'' is counterposed with a casually dressed man on horseback ---
whose style, lighting and framing echo
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/28/arts/design/mohamed-bourouissa-urban-cowboys.html}{the
photography of the French artist Mohamed Bourouissa}.) As for Jay, he
has been flashing artworks since
``\href{https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0O3USgkwiJA}{Blue Magic},''
(2007), in which a Damien Hirst spin painting and a light work by Tim
Noble and Sue Webster received the same screen time as Goyard luggage
and a fistful of euros.

Image

Beyoncé performing in front of David's ``The Consecration of the Emperor
Napoleon and the Coronation of Empress Joséphine.''Credit...

But here the pair admirably let the art speak for itself. What is
sexiest in this video are the camera pans, done in low lighting and with
lusty ease, over the visual splendor of the museum's Denon wing: the
tumbling white-haired man in Veronese's ``Jupiter Expelling the Vices,''
or the shouting
\href{https://books.google.fr/books?id=PfS0boVIzX0C\&pg=PA234\&lpg=PA234\&dq=ewa+lajer-burcharth+necklines+red+dress\&source=bl\&ots=HmL2lgCild\&sig=CkG-0DI8DVDQWnxEwHI_lVarct4\&hl=en\&sa=X\&redir_esc=y\#v=onepage\&q=ewa\%20lajer-burcharth\%20necklines\%20red\%20dress\&f=false}{woman
in the red dress} that unlocks David's ``Intervention of the Sabine
Women.'' I know these paintings like I know my own face, but I never
expected to see them in this context --- shown not as pricey baubles but
as masterpieces to be loved for their own sake. In the last shot, Bey
and Jay turn away from the camera, look into each other's eyes, and then
do something that they did not do in that 2014 selfie: they look at the
Leonardo.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
