<div id="suggestions" class="suggestions messenger nocontent robots-nocontent" style="display:none;">

<div class="message-bed">

<div class="message-container last-message-container">

<div class="message">

<span class="message-content"> **<span class="message-title">NYTimes.com
no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your
browser.</span> [LEARN MORE
»](http://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/content/help/site/ie9-support.html)
</span>

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div id="shell" class="shell">

<div class="container">

<div class="quick-navigation button-group">

**<span class="button-text">Sections</span>

**<span class="button-text">Home</span>

**<span class="button-text">Search</span>

</div>

<div class="branding">

## [<span class="visually-hidden">The New York Times</span>](http://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/)

### <span class="label-text"> [Magazine](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/magazine) </span>

</div>

<div class="story-meta">

###### <span class="kicker-label"> [Magazine](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/magazine) </span> <span class="pipe">|</span>Nicolas Cage on Acting, Philosophy and Searching for the Holy Grail

</div>

<div class="user-tools">

<div id="sharetools-masthead" class="sharetools theme-classic sharetools-masthead" data-aria-label="tools" data-role="group" data-shares="facebook,twitter,email,show-all,save" data-url="https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/08/07/magazine/nicolas-cage-interview.html" data-title="Nicolas Cage on Acting, Philosophy and Searching for the Holy Grail" data-author="By David Marchese" data-media="https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/icons/t_logo_291_black.png" data-description="“I wanted to have the mystery of the old stars, always preserved in an enigmatic aura.”" data-publish-date="August 7, 2019">

<div class="ad sharetools-inline-article-ad hidden nocontent robots-nocontent">

</div>

</div>

<div class="user-tools-button-group button-group">

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="search-flyout-panel flyout-panel">

**<span class="visually-hidden">Close search</span>

## Site Search Navigation

<div class="control">

<div class="label-container visually-hidden">

Search NYTimes.com

</div>

<div class="field-container">

**<span id="clear-search-input" class="visually-hidden">Clear this text
input</span>

<div class="auto-suggest" style="display: none;">

</div>

Go

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div id="notification-modals" class="notification-modals">

</div>

<span class="story-short-url"><https://nyti.ms/2TaLE0S></span>

## Site Navigation

## Site Mobile Navigation

<div id="page" class="page">

<div id="main" class="main" data-role="main">

<div class="story-meta">

# Nicolas Cage on Acting, Philosophy and Searching for the Holy Grail

<div class="story-meta-footer interactive-meta-footer">

<div class="interactive-byline">

<span class="byline" itemprop="author creator" itemscope="" itemtype="http://schema.org/Person">
By
<span class="byline-author" data-byline-name="DAVID MARCHESE" itemprop="name">DAVID
MARCHESE</span> </span> AUG. 7, 2019

</div>

<span class="summary-text">“I wanted to have the mystery of the old
stars, always preserved in an enigmatic aura.”</span>

</div>

</div>

<div id="nicholas-cage-interview" class="interactive-graphic">

<div class="rad-tooltip">

<div class="rad-tooltip-content">

</div>

![Close
X](https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/06/07/talk-template/36062325fcedca2f7ba51c94d7cc8b08b37b34e2/close.svg)

</div>

<div class="rad-article" data-slug="11mag-cage">

<div class="rad-cover stacked-cover" style="background-color:#FFFFFF">

![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)

<div class="rad-header-wrapper">

<div class="rad-dateline">

<span class="rad-kicker">**Talk** Aug. 7, 2019</span>

</div>

Nicolas Cage on his legacy, his philosophy of acting and his
metaphorical — and literal — search for the Holy Grail.

<div class="rad-byline-pubdate">

<span>By David Marchese</span> <span class="rad-info-box">Photograph by
Mamadi Doumbouya</span>

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="rad-story-body">

There are questions I’ve wanted to ask Nicolas Cage for years. A lot of
questions. I wanted to know why this divisive, mercurial actor has waged
a career-long, one-man war against naturalism, refusing to let staid
ideas about how people might behave in “real life” dictate his
performances. I wanted to know why Cage, Hollywood’s greatest
surrealist, whose personal and creative unpredictability has led him to
attain near-mythological status in certain corners of the internet, acts
in so many movies — 20 in the last two years — and why so few of them
make mainstream ripples. (His most recent release: the straightforwardly
titled thriller “A Score to Settle.”) But mostly I wanted to know the
method behind the seeming madness that informs so many of his
performances.

Unlike most movie stars — who are walking answers, machines who reliably
fill expectations rather than confound them — Nicolas Cage rarely does
the obvious thing, whether in his choice of roles or how he plays them.
Which is what’s so enthralling about the alien intensity and oddball
flourishes that Cage has brought to art-house fantasia (“Wild at
Heart”), whimsical romantic comedy (“Honeymoon in Vegas”), bleak drama
(“Leaving Las Vegas”), cerebral comedy (“Adaptation”), sensational
Hollywood blockbuster (“Con Air”), balletic, high-concept action
(“Face/Off”), quiet character studies (“Joe”) and psychedelic horror
(“Mandy”). He also, as if living according to lines from a surreal
folk song, has owned pet cobras and castles, was forced to return a
stolen dinosaur skull, has made and lost a fortune and is keeping a
pyramid waiting for him — as a tomb — down in New Orleans.

But why has he done all of these things? I sat wondering in a private
room at a small Italian restaurant not far from the Las Vegas Strip.
Cage is a walking why, a performer who sees possibilities in art — and
maybe life — that no one else does. And then the door to the room swung
open and in flew Cage, hopefully to provide some answers.

In person, he’s tall, with a jangly energy complemented, on this day, by
oversize sunglasses, a dragon ring the size of a walnut and a black
velveteen jacket over a Bruce Lee T-shirt. He explained that he’d been
busy preparing for a trip to TIFF. Not the Toronto International Film
Festival, he clarified — the one in Transylvania. “I can’t pretend to
know what people think or want to think about me,” he said. “I’m not
Stravinsky, I’m not Van Gogh, I’m not Monk, but these people were not
understood, and my favorite artists were misunderstood.” Then he scanned
the menu and asked, in a bemused tone that suggested he was
simultaneously questioning the waitress, me and the universe: “Could I
get into the branzino?” Yes, and everything else too.

**With any movie star, there’s the actor, and then there’s the persona.
Earlier in your career, you had an obvious interest in cultivating the
latter. Do you still?** I once had brunch with Warren Beatty, and I
said, “Do you have any idea how lucky you are that you were Warren
Beatty in the ’70s, before everyone had a cellphone with a video
camera?” He just smiled. It’s so true. You go to a karaoke bar with a
male friend in the neighborhood, the bar says “no videotaping” and
suddenly, there’s two different videos of you doing karaoke. Who did
that? Who exposed the videotape? Who sold
it?

![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)

**You’re talking about the clips that went around of you singing “Purple
Rain.”** Yeah. It was around the anniversary of Prince’s passing.
Everyone knows how much I admire him as an artist. But honestly, I
wasn’t even doing that to sing. It was more like primal-scream
therapy. It was a holiday weekend, and I didn’t want to go anywhere, but
my friend who was with me said: “You can’t sit here in your apartment.
You’ve got to go out.” So I went to the one place in my neighborhood
that I knew had no video recording, just to have some fun, and that
became everybody’s business.

**What were you primal-screaming about?** I have to be careful about
what I can divulge. There was a recent
[breakup.<sup>1</sup>](http://nytimes3xbfgragh.onion#tooltip-1) I don’t
really want to talk about it. I was pretty upset about that and the way
things happened. To answer your question, earlier in my career I was
very specific in my concept of who I wanted to be. I saw myself as a
surrealist. This is going to sound pretentious, but I was, quote, trying
to invent my own mythology, unquote, around myself.

**Has that mythology shaped the perception of your work? I mean, you
went on “Letterman” and talked about your pet cobras wanting to kill you
and about getting high on mushrooms with your cat. You were clearly
trying to project a certain image.** I know what you’re asking, and it’s
a good question. But let me say one thing: I am completely antidrug. I
don’t do drugs. I don’t drink when I work. Sometimes in between movies
I’ll have some drinks, but not always. I make so many characters, and
I go so internal with them, that sometimes, when I’m not filming, wine
or Champagne is like an eraser to a chalkboard. You can erase the
character and make a clean slate so you can start making a new
character. I hope that makes sense.

**Yeah, it does.** O.K. So those stories that you mentioned, those are
true stories. I did have two king cobras, and they were not happy. They
would try to hypnotize me by showing me their backs, and then they’d
lunge at me. After I told that story on “Letterman,” the neighborhood
wasn’t too pleased that I had cobras, so I had them re-homed in a zoo.
The cat — a friend of mine gave me this bag of mushrooms, and my cat
would go in my refrigerator and grab it, almost like he knew what it
was. He loved it. Then I started going, “I guess I’ll do it.” It was a
peaceful and beautiful experience. But I subsequently threw them out.

**Have animals ever influenced your acting?** The cobras, definitely.
They would try to hypnotize you by going side to side, and when I did
“Ghost Rider: Spirit of Vengeance,” that’s something my character does
before he attacks. Animals are fun places to get inspiration. Actually,
I thought Heath Ledger was doing some reptilian stuff as the Joker, with
the tongue darting out all the time.

**I can’t think of another actor whose performances so frequently pay
homage to other actors and movies. In “Mandy,” there’s a scene in which
you snort angel dust or whatever it is and then give the camera a look
that’s similar to one Bruce Lee used [to
give.<sup>2</sup>](http://nytimes3xbfgragh.onion#tooltip-2) In
“Moonstruck,” there’s a moment where you put on a glove that’s
intended as a nod to “Metropolis.” There were Max Schreck-in-“Nosferatu”
nods in [“Vampire’s
Kiss.”](http://nytimes3xbfgragh.onion#tooltip-3)[<sup>3</sup>](http://nytimes3xbfgragh.onion#tooltip-3)
The list goes on.** It speaks to my truth as a film enthusiast. It’s
also that these are moments that I know work. Right before I snorted
that stuff in “Mandy,” I asked the director to look at that Bruce Lee
shot. I said, “Is it going to work?” And he said, “It already has
worked.” That’s what I mean. I knew it would be satisfying. And when I
saw that movie with an audience, they erupted at that
moment.

![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)

**What happens when your director isn’t interested in your
experiments?** As a film actor, my job is to facilitate the director’s
vision. If there’s something I’m doing that they don’t agree with, I
drop it.

**Always?** In the beginning, there were examples of locking horns.
“Raising Arizona”: Perhaps there was confusion about where I was
going, but the Coen brothers went along. They didn’t mind that I was
channeling [Woody
Woodpecker.<sup>4</sup>](http://nytimes3xbfgragh.onion#tooltip-4) They,
on some level, got it. With Francis, he didn’t. I didn’t want to make
that movie.

**You’re talking about [Francis Ford
Coppola<sup>5</sup>](http://nytimes3xbfgragh.onion#tooltip-5) and “Peggy
Sue Got Married.”** Yeah, I didn’t want to make that movie. I must have
said no five or six times. I said, “Uncle, why do you want to make this
movie at all?” He said, “It’s like ‘Our Town’\!” By the way, I couldn’t
stand “Our Town.” I had bad memories about “Our Town.” In high school I
was cast as Constable Warren, and Jon Turteltaub, who later directed me
in “National Treasure,” got the lead. He never let me forget it. And I
just don’t like the play. It’s a Norman Rockwell borefest. So I said,
“Uncle, I don’t want to be in ‘Our Town.’ ” He said, “Just come to
rehearsal.” I said, “Look, I’ll do it if you let me go really far out
with the character.” “How far out?” “I want to talk like Pokey from ‘The
Gumby Show.’ ” So I went to rehearsal, and everybody was rolling their
eyes because I was talking like that, and my co-star Kathleen Turner was
very upset, because she wanted me to be Al, my character from “Birdy,”
and instead she got Jerry Lewis on psychedelia. It did not go over well.
In fact, Ray Stark from Tri-Star flew up to fire me, and thankfully
Uncle went to bat and said, “Young Nicky’s doing this.’ ” But needless
to say, I never worked for them again after that.

**There are times, I think, when it can feel as if your performances are
vibrating at a different frequency than the movies in which they
appear.** Can you give me an example?

**A couple of recent ones come to mind. You did a movie called “Rage.”
Or was it called “Tokarev”?** It was originally “Tokarev,” and they
switched it to “Rage.”

**There’s a confrontation in that movie between your character and an
informant when you scream, “You talked\!” And you hold a scream on the
word “talked” for maybe 5 percent longer than feels normal within the
context of an otherwise down-the-middle movie.** I was sustaining a
vocal sound there, because I was trying to play with
[Stockhausen](http://nytimes3xbfgragh.onion#tooltip-6)[<sup>6</sup>](http://nytimes3xbfgragh.onion#tooltip-6)
and mess up the EQ of my
vocal.

![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)

**You’re really saying that in that moment you wanted to achieve a
Stockhausen effect? This is not a rationalization you’ve come up with
after?** Yeah, Stockhausen.

**O.K., here’s another: In “Army of One,” you use this nasal voice that
doesn’t at all sound like the real-life person your character was based
on. It’s choices like that that almost make it seem as if you’re
offering a meta-comment on acting somehow.** Well, there are times when
I’m intentionally being mischievous with a character. [“The Wicker
Man”](http://nytimes3xbfgragh.onion#tooltip-7)[<sup>7</sup>](http://nytimes3xbfgragh.onion#tooltip-7)
is me playing with the situation because it’s so absurd. I could have
had a little more help with that film. Initially I wanted them to leave
me in the bear suit to burn me. That would have made the whole farce of
the film more disturbing. Because of what I was trying to do there. Do
you remember an old movie by Roger Corman called “The Masque of the Red
Death”?

**Yeah, with Vincent Price.** Vincent Price and Patrick Magee. Patrick
Magee gets tricked into wearing an ape suit, and a dwarf throws brandy
on it and lights him on fire. What began as absurd and comical became
horrifying because insult was added to injury. In “The Wicker Man,” I
was trying to get this whole trajectory to go along with the absurdity
by having them light me on fire in the bear suit. That really would have
been horrific. But “Army of One,” I have umbrage with that. My friend
Charlie and his dad, Martin, they watched that, and they think it’s the
most hilarious thing.

**Are you talking about the Sheens?** Yeah. I’m very upset about that
movie, because I know what it could have been. I know what we shot, and
they took it all out. [Bob
Weinstein<sup>8</sup>](http://nytimes3xbfgragh.onion#tooltip-8) got hold
of it and cut the whole thing. Larry Charles, the director, was
disappointed, and I was disappointed. There were moments in that movie
that were shocking and irreverent. I wish I could see them.

**Let me ask you something unrelated: Is it true that in the early ’80s
you met Johnny Depp playing Monopoly?** The true story is that we were
already friends. I was living in an old building in Hollywood called the
Fontenoy, and I think I ultimately rented the apartment to Johnny, and
he started living there. He was at the point in his career where he was
selling pens or something to get by. He would take my money and buy
cocktails but wouldn’t tell me about it. He admitted it later. But
anyway, we were good friends, and we would play Monopoly, and he was
winning a game, and I was watching him and I said, “Why don’t you just
try acting?” He wanted to be a musician at the time, and he told me,
“No, I can’t act.” I said, “I think you can act.” So I sent him to
meet with my agent. She sent him out on his first audition, which was “A
Nightmare on Elm Street.” He got the part that day. Overnight sensations
don’t happen. But it happened with him.

**In the past you’ve talked about your acting in terms of specific
styles you’d developed: nouveau shamanic and Western Kabuki. Do you
think about your acting in that way now?** Yeah, I do. Laurence Olivier
said, “What is acting but lying, and what is good lying but convincing
lying?” I don’t want to look at acting that way. Why not experiment?
Western Kabuki to me was, let’s go all the way out. Nouveau shamanic is
nothing other than trying to augment your imagination to get to the
performance without feeling like you’re faking it. This author Brian
Bates wrote a book called “The Way of Wyrd,” and he put forth the notion
that actors hailed from the old shamans. So I was kind of making a
statement about that, and I added “nouveau” to be
fancy.

![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)

**Could you teach nouveau shamanic acting?** I put this line in “Mandy”:
“The psychotic drowns where the [mystic
swims.”](http://nytimes3xbfgragh.onion#tooltip-9)[<sup>9</sup>](http://nytimes3xbfgragh.onion#tooltip-9)
You either have the proclivity to open up your imagination or you don’t.
If you have that propensity and are on camera about to do a scene, what
would make you believe in what you’re about to do? Say you’re playing a
demon biker with an ancient spirit. What power objects could you find
that might trick your imagination? Would you find an antique from an
ancient pyramid? Maybe a little sarcophagus that’s a greenish color and
looks like King Tut? Would you sew that into your jacket and know that
it’s right next to you when the director says “action”? Could you open
yourself to that power?

**Those aren’t rhetorical questions, are they?** Right. I did that.

**I would hope there are ways of teaching nouveau shamanic acting that
don’t involve acquiring ancient artifacts.** True. There are other ways.
What is a poem that you like? You could take that poem and write it out
by hand on paper, then fold it up and put it in your pocket. The trigger
doesn’t have to be something that’s extraordinarily expensive.

**You grew up middle-class among a lot of rich people, right?**
[Dad](http://nytimes3xbfgragh.onion#tooltip-10)[<sup>10</sup>](http://nytimes3xbfgragh.onion#tooltip-10)
was a professor. He was teaching at California State Long Beach, then he
was writing books. We lived modestly. We were on the outskirts of
Beverly Hills, right next to the Porsche dealer. I would take the bus to
school, and some of the older boys were going to school in Maseratis and
Ferraris. I felt that because of my name being Coppola, there was a
misunderstanding as to what I did and didn’t have. So it was frustrating
for me because, like any other young man, I was interested in dating and
wanting to be impressive, and I didn’t know how to do that taking a
young lady out on the bus while the other guys were taking her out in
Ferraris. But my uncle was very generous. I would visit him for summers,
and those summers — I wanted to be him. I wanted to have the mansions.
That was driving me.

**Did being a young man who was insecure about money color your attitude
about buying things and what success looks like?** You have good
investments and bad investments. The good investments came from personal
interest and my honest enjoyment of the history. For example, Action
Comics No. 1: I bought that for
[$150,000.](http://nytimes3xbfgragh.onion#tooltip-11)[<sup>11</sup>](http://nytimes3xbfgragh.onion#tooltip-11)
Then it was stolen. I got it back and sold it for $2 million. But that
was a good thing to have, because I had an interest that was sincere.
The funny thing is, my real estate [buying
spree<sup>12</sup>](http://nytimes3xbfgragh.onion#tooltip-12) was what
the [real
problem<sup>13</sup>](http://nytimes3xbfgragh.onion#tooltip-13) was. It
wasn’t these other things like shrunken heads that the media liked to
talk about.

**Or that [dinosaur
skull?](http://nytimes3xbfgragh.onion#tooltip-14)[<sup>14</sup>](http://nytimes3xbfgragh.onion#tooltip-14)**
Or an octopus. What is an octopus, $80? You’re not going to go into dire
straits buying an octopus. The dinosaur skull was an unfortunate thing,
because I did spend $276,000 on that. I bought it at a legitimate
auction and found out it was abducted from Mongolia illegally, and then
I had to give it back. Of course it should be awarded to its country of
origin. But who knew? Plus, I never got my money back. So that stank.
But I went years where all I was doing was meditating three times a day
and reading books on philosophy, not drinking whatsoever. That was the
time when I almost went on — you might call it a grail quest. I started
following mythology, and I was finding properties that aligned with
that. It was almost like [“National
Treasure.”](http://nytimes3xbfgragh.onion#tooltip-15)[<sup>15</sup>](http://nytimes3xbfgragh.onion#tooltip-15)
Of course, that didn’t sustain. On top of which, I said, “I’m going to
get off philosophy,” because I became like a kite with a string but no
anchor. No one could understand what I was talking about. And I thought
people would rather see me as an orangutan than as an eagle meditating
on the mountaintop anyway.

**Wait, what did you mean when you said you were on a grail quest and
finding properties that aligned with that?** One thing would lead to
another. It’s like when you build a library. You read a book, and in it
there’s a reference to another book, and then you buy that book, and
then you attach the references. For me it was all about where was the
grail? Was it here? Was it there? Is it at
[Glastonbury?](http://nytimes3xbfgragh.onion#tooltip-16)[<sup>16</sup>](http://nytimes3xbfgragh.onion#tooltip-16)
Does it
exist?

![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)

**Oh, O.K. I thought you were being metaphorical about going on a grail
quest.** Yeah, if you go to Glastonbury and go to the Chalice Well,
there’s a spring that does taste [like
blood.](http://nytimes3xbfgragh.onion#tooltip-17)[<sup>17</sup>](http://nytimes3xbfgragh.onion#tooltip-17)
I guess it’s really because there’s a lot of iron in the water. But
legend had it that in that place was a grail chalice, or two cruets
rather, one of blood and one of sweat. But that led to there being talk
that people had come to Rhode Island, and they were looking for
something [as
well.<sup>18</sup>](http://nytimes3xbfgragh.onion#tooltip-18)

***That’s*** **why you bought property in Rhode Island?** I don’t know
if I’m going to say that’s why I bought the Rhode Island property. But I
will say that is why I went to Rhode Island, and I happened to find the
place beautiful. But yes, this had put me on a search around different
areas, mostly in England, but also some places in the States. What I
ultimately found is: What is the Grail but Earth itself?

**I find that grail quests tend to be more fulfilling when they’re
metaphorical.** Well, I knew that, and the metaphor for me is the earth.
The divine object is Earth.

**What’s your grail quest now?** There’s this old sci-fi movie called
“Quatermass and the Pit.” In the movie, someone says to Professor
Quatermass, “Do you ever find your early career catching up with you?”
And he says, “I never had a career, only work.” I feel like that’s where
I’m at now. I never had a career, only work. I’m just going to keep
working.

**Why do you work [so
much?](http://nytimes3xbfgragh.onion#tooltip-19)[<sup>19</sup>](http://nytimes3xbfgragh.onion#tooltip-19)
You’ve said you wanted to make 150 films.** That’s me speaking to my
golden-age heroes. Those guys all did like 150. I also want to argue
with the concept of supply and demand. I grew up in the ’70s watching
Rock Hudson on “McMillan & Wife,” Dennis Weaver in “McCloud,” Charles
Bronson in the movie of the week, Peter Falk in “Columbo.” I began to
develop a relationship with these characters and these actors. The more
I saw them, the more I wanted to see them. And by design, with video on
demand, I felt that if I made more movies, not only was it good for me
financially, people would be able to tune in at home and go, “What’s the
next movie that Nick made?” They’d have a large selection. So I’m not
worried about too much supply and not enough demand. I’m just trying to
get back to a feeling that I enjoyed as a child on my little Zenith
television in the ’70s.

**I don’t want to dance around this: How much has money driven your work
choices?** I can’t go into specifics or percentages or ratios, but yeah,
money is a factor. I’m going to be completely direct about that. There’s
no reason not to be. There are times when it’s more of a factor than
not. I still have to feel that, whether or not the movie around me
entirely works, I’ll be able to deliver something and be fun to watch.
But yes, it’s no secret that mistakes have been made in my past that
I’ve had to try to correct. Financial mistakes happened with the real
estate implosion that occurred, in which the lion’s share of everything
I had earned was pretty much eradicated. But one thing I wasn’t going to
do was file for bankruptcy. I had this pride thing where I wanted to
work my way through anything, which was both good and bad. Not all the
movies have been blue chip, but I’ve kept getting closer to my
instrument. And maybe there’s been more supply than demand, but on the
other hand, I’m a better man when I’m working. I have structure. I have
a place to go. I don’t want to sit around and drink mai tais and Dom
Pérignon and have mistakes in my personal life. I want to be on set. I
want to be performing. In any other business, hard work is something to
behold. Why not in film
performance?

![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)

**Are there things about you and your work that people don’t get?** For
an actor to say, “I want to try something else,” is a challenging road
to take. I can’t worry that people aren’t going to get it. I think the
movies have matured well, “Lord of War” or “Peggy Sue Got Married.”
“Raising Arizona,” I knew that my cartoonish behaviorisms would play
well. “Vampire’s Kiss” is still on the fence, but I’m happy with those
results. I’ve taken risks. But there has been a collision between the
acting experiments and the memeification extrapolated from them. That
has not been intentional. I have no social media presence. I’m not on
Instagram. I am not on Facebook. I have no Twitter account. I genuinely
am a private person who does not want his personal life exposed. I
wanted to have the mystery of the old stars, always preserved in an
enigmatic aura. It’s hard to do that now.

**Your aura is plenty enigmatic to me.** At this point in my life,
David, I heavily prefer to not go out. I’d rather just stay at home. I
don’t think I can decompress ever again, even at a karaoke bar. It’s too
vulnerable. I’m not trying to complain. It’s a fact of life that I have
to accept. I’d much rather let my work and not my personal life speak
for me. Rob Zombie once said to me, “Be as normal in your own life as
you can be, so you can be as messed up as you want in your art.”

**I think Rob Zombie took that from
[Flaubert.<sup>20</sup>](http://nytimes3xbfgragh.onion#tooltip-20)**
That’s what I want. I want to be on the [Axl
Rose](http://nytimes3xbfgragh.onion#tooltip-21)[<sup>21</sup>](http://nytimes3xbfgragh.onion#tooltip-21)
program. I don’t want to go anywhere. I just want to look at my
aquarium, look at my sea horse, read my Murakami, watch Bergman. I’ve
been on a great Bergman run. I just saw “The Virgin Spring,” “Hour of
the Wolf,” “Persona.” I also love Tarkovsky. I love “The Sacrifice.” I
looked at “Stalker” again. I have all the time in the world in between
movies to lose myself in these maestros’ films.

**Your acting has gone through very distinct phases. Near the beginning
of your career you were trying radical things; then you had your
[“sunshine
trilogy”](http://nytimes3xbfgragh.onion#tooltip-22)[<sup>22</sup>](http://nytimes3xbfgragh.onion#tooltip-22)
of whimsical comedies; and after that you tried to bring weirdness to
big-budget Hollywood [action
films.<sup>23</sup>](http://nytimes3xbfgragh.onion#tooltip-23) What
phase are you in now?** Well, what you described is a true reflection on
everything I was experimenting with. My roots, though, were in
independently spirited cinema. Movies like “Raising Arizona,” “Vampire’s
Kiss,” “Birdy.” That’s my base, and my journey has been about getting
back to that with movies like “Joe” or “Mandy.”

**How do you define good acting and bad acting?** It can be a very
blurry line. I’ve seen some horrible acting that I think is wonderful.

**Like what?** Well, it cracks me up, and I don’t want to mention names,
but in film acting you can do things that seem erratic or out of touch
or not in sync, but it’s a valid stylization as long as you anchor it
within the context of the character and situation. When you listen to
Stockhausen’s “Punkte,” or “Stimmung” or “Mantra” — it’s all these
voices and quick, snappy chords that seem discordant to a point and as
if they don’t make any sense. Yet it is of a piece and does belong
together. Similarly, you can read a script and go: “Why would a
character do that? That doesn’t make any sense.” But people are like
weather vanes. We don’t always blow in the same direction. Sometimes you
do things that there’s no explanation for other than that we’re human,
and that can apply within a performance. So can I get back to your
question?

![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)

**Yeah.** What is good acting? What is bad acting? Olivier had his
argument, but look at James Cagney in “White Heat.” “Made it, Ma\! Top
of the world\!” That’s not “real.” But is it fun to watch? Is it
exciting? Is it truthful? Yeah, and to me, that is great acting. It’s a
matter of which paintbrush you want to work with. I can look at TV
commercials and see cringeworthy acting, and it makes me laugh, and I’m
probably going to wind up putting it in one of my performances. I mean,
I’ve done it.

**When?** No offense to John Stamos, because he’s a beautiful man and a
lot of fun to watch on camera, but a million years ago he did a
commercial for L’eggs pantyhose. In it he said, “I [*love* L’eggs
pantyhose\!”](http://nytimes3xbfgragh.onion#tooltip-24)[<sup>24</sup>](http://nytimes3xbfgragh.onion#tooltip-24)
And the way he went “love” — he expressed it with almost a rock ’n’ roll
screech. I saw that commercial, and I had to put it in “Peggy Sue Got
Married.” I was playing Charlie Bodell, and I’m with Kathleen Turner,
and I said: “I’m in *love* with you.” I’ve told John about this. He took
the compliment.

**Do you know when you’re good or bad?** I have a pretty good barometer
of when I’m on point. Which is why I can tell you right now without fear
of seeming like I’m boasting that I’m at the top of my game by virtue of
the fact that I’ve been practicing so much.

**What’s the interplay of sincerity and irony in your work? Sometimes it
feels as if the almost operatic sincerity you’re going for — in your
death scene in “Kick-Ass” for example — comes back around to irony.**
It’s a great observation, and this is something that I have put a lot
of thought in to. I have gone out of my way not to be ironic and — with
the risk of looking ridiculous — to be genuinely emotionally naked. And
that gets uncomfortable. There were times where people saw “Mandy,” and
I was having to break down in a scene, and people were laughing. They
don’t know how to handle it. But that’s not ironic, that’s naked, which
is embarrassing for people.

**Are the things that make you a great actor, like an inclination toward
risk or emotional abandon, ever a problem in your personal
relationships?** I think there has to be some unusualness to be able to
be in a [relationship with
me.](http://nytimes3xbfgragh.onion#tooltip-25)[<sup>25</sup>](http://nytimes3xbfgragh.onion#tooltip-25)
I feel things very deeply. I have had melancholia my whole life. I am
sensitive to my environment. I have to be in order to do what I do. And
I can’t just go to a pharmacy and say, “Hey, let me have some Prozac.” I
can’t do it, because that would put my instrument at risk. If I can’t
inform the dialogue with genuine emotional content I will be a phony on
camera, and I don’t want to be that.

**Have you ever done therapy?** I haven’t been in any kind of analysis
for at least 20 years. The times that I’ve done it, there were some
benefits. It’s kind of like writing in a diary. You get things out.
However, inevitably, there was a point where I’d look at the person and
I’d start to go: “Why am I talking to you? I’m more interesting than
you.” Then I’d get up and walk out. So I stopped
going.

![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)

**You’ve obviously stayed introspective, though.** It’s more from when I
studied philosophy. It was pretty esoteric stuff I was reading: William
Blake, Jakob Böhme, Dion Fortune, Paracelsus, Emerson’s “Self-Reliance.”
There was a time when I was at a crossroads, and I think I would’ve been
perfectly happy just meditating and reading and thinking and
contemplating what we’re all doing here, but you can’t do that as a film
star. It was a challenge. I didn't want to do “The Taking of Pelham 123”
with Denzel Washington simply because Sony Pictures had a script where I
had to shoot Denzel's character in the back. I didn't want to do that,
because it didn't jibe with where I was at in terms of my life of
contemplation. I became out of the Hollywood element and started living
a life of introspection, and that doesn't work if you want to be a film
actor.

**I know that when you were growing up, you felt a sense of being
different from other kids. Do you still feel alienated at 55?** Not as
much, but yes. As a child I was always shocked when my father would take
me to a doctor and they didn’t tell me that my blood was green and I had
20 ribs, that I wasn’t some anomaly from outer space. But I’ve become
extremely bored with myself. I spend my time watching movies or reading
books and being with [my
son.](http://nytimes3xbfgragh.onion#tooltip-26)[<sup>26</sup>](http://nytimes3xbfgragh.onion#tooltip-26)
That’s about it, with the occasional hiccup.

**Do you think your talent ebbs and flows depending on the material?**
Elia Kazan said talent never dies. It can be discouraged, but it never
dies. I also like to use the words *genius loci.* My ability coalesces
with the genius of a place. I’ve made very good movies in Las Vegas;
there’s a *genius loci* that is a good match for me. New Orleans has a
*genius loci.*

**That city must have special meaning for you. It’s where [your tomb
is.](http://nytimes3xbfgragh.onion#tooltip-27)[<sup>27</sup>](http://nytimes3xbfgragh.onion#tooltip-27)**
I became a man in New Orleans, if you know what I mean. The city has a
soft spot in my heart, though there are things that can go horribly
wrong there.

**At this point in your career, do you still have something like a dream
role?** Captain Nemo. My first love, even before my parents, was the
ocean. When I read Jules Verne’s “Twenty Thousand Leagues Under the
Sea,” the depiction of Nemo was that he was also in love with the
ocean. He had freedom, and he lived in a palace that was also a
submarine, playing the organ. To me, that was a beautiful life.

**How do you think your life’s work will be remembered?** I think time
is a friend. Many of my movies that were mocked are enjoying a
renaissance. So I’m hopeful that time will be on my side.

</div>

<div class="rad-article-credits">

David Marchese is the magazine’s Talk columnist.

*This interview has been edited and condensed from two conversations.  
  
  
*Annotations: Lee: Corbis, via Getty Images. Cage: Hemdale/Everett
Collection. Woody Woodpecker: Walter Lantz Productions/Photofest. Action
Comics: Timothy A. Clary/Agence France-Presse — Getty Images.
Tyrannosaurus Bataar: Byambasuren Byamba-Ochir/Agence France-Presse —
Getty Images. Glastonbury: David Lefranc, via Getty Images. Rose: Kevin
Mazur/WireImage, via Getty Images. Cage and Travolta: Paramount
Pictures/Everett Collection. Stamos: Screen grab from YouTube. Tomb:
Beth J. Harpaz/Associated
Press.

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div id="related-coverage" class="section related-coverage nocontent robots-nocontent">

<div class="nocontent robots-nocontent">

## More on NYTimes.com

</div>

</div>

<div id="BottomAd" class="ad bottom-ad nocontent robots-nocontent">

<div class="accessibility-ad-header">

Advertisement

</div>

</div>

</div>

## Site Information Navigation

  - [©
    <span itemprop="copyrightYear">2020</span><span itemprop="copyrightHolder provider sourceOrganization" itemscope="" itemtype="http://schema.org/Organization" itemid="http://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion"><span itemprop="name">
    The New York Times
    Company</span></span>](https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice)
  - [Home](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion)
  - [Search](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/search/)
  - Accessibility concerns? Email us at <accessibility@NYTimes.com>. We
    would love to hear from you.
  - [Contact
    Us](https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us)
  - [Work with us](https://www.nytco.com/careers/)
  - [Advertise](https://nytmediakit.com/)
  - [Your Ad
    Choices](https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014892108-Privacy-policy#pp)
  - [Privacy](https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014892108-Privacy-policy)
  - [Terms of
    Service](https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service)
  - [Terms of
    Sale](https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale)

## Site Information Navigation

  - [Site Map](https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion)
  - [Help](https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us)
  - [Site
    Feedback](https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us?redir=myacc)
  - [Subscriptions](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW)

</div>

</div>

<div id="Inv1" class="ad inv1-ad hidden">

</div>

<div id="Inv2" class="ad inv2-ad hidden">

</div>

<div id="Inv3" class="ad inv3-ad hidden">

</div>

<div id="ab1" class="ad ab1-ad hidden">

</div>

<div id="ab2" class="ad ab2-ad hidden">

</div>

<div id="ab3" class="ad ab3-ad hidden">

</div>

<div id="prop1" class="ad prop1-ad hidden">

</div>

<div id="prop2" class="ad prop2-ad hidden">

</div>

<div id="Anchor" class="ad anchor-ad hidden">

</div>

<div id="ADX_CLIENTSIDE" class="ad adx-clientside-ad hidden">

</div>
