Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}`We're Asking You to Dig
Deep': Biden Seeks to Steady Finances as Allies Fret

\url{https://nyti.ms/2PvFKYH}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Election
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/biden-vice-president-2020.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Biden's
  V.P. Search}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/07/24/us/politics/trump-biden-campaign-donors.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Map
  of Donations}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/elections/delegate-count-primary-results.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Delegate
  Count}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2019/us/politics/2020-presidential-candidates.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{The
  Candidates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Politics
  Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{were-asking-you-to-dig-deep-biden-seeks-to-steady-finances-as-allies-fret}{%
\section{`We're Asking You to Dig Deep': Biden Seeks to Steady Finances
as Allies
Fret}\label{were-asking-you-to-dig-deep-biden-seeks-to-steady-finances-as-allies-fret}}

Joe Biden's presidential campaign is spending more money than it is
taking in, unlike his top 2020 rivals, and showing an inability to
galvanize big financial backers or energize many online donors.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2019/10/26/us/politics/26biden-money/26biden-money-articleLarge-v2.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/shane-goldmacher}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/07/27/multimedia/author-shane-goldmacher/author-shane-goldmacher-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/shane-goldmacher}{Shane Goldmacher}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Published Oct. 26, 2019Updated Nov. 19, 2019
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Steve Ricchetti, one of Joseph R. Biden Jr.'s closest confidantes, is
reaching out to wary donors to shore up support. The Biden presidential
campaign is watching costs --- some staff members are sleeping at homes
of volunteers --- and facing criticism for spending on chartered jets.
Mr. Biden's team is also urging allies to redouble fund-raising efforts
before the calendar turns to 2020 and he has fewer days to devote to the
money trail.

And in a confidential memo to top bundlers this week, Mr. Biden's
campaign manager, Greg Schultz, sought to allay growing concerns that
Mr. Biden is facing a cash crunch and won't be able to stay competitive
with his rivals on the airwaves and on the ground.

``We will have the resources we need to execute our plan,'' Mr. Schultz
wrote in the memo, obtained by The New York Times. But he simultaneously
exhorted the money-raisers to do more: ``We're asking you to dig deep.''

The Biden campaign and its backers are racing to contain fallout from
revelations this month that his campaign is spending more money than it
is taking in, unlike his leading rivals. Mr. Biden's cash on hand ---
\$9 million --- is now only a fraction of what Senators Bernie Sanders
(\$33.7 million) and Elizabeth Warren (\$25.7 million) have banked. He
even has less on hand than two candidates, Mayor Pete Buttigieg and
Senator Kamala Harris, who are well behind him in the polls.

On Thursday, the Biden campaign delivered the clearest signal yet that
it will do whatever it takes to survive financially,
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/10/24/us/politics/joe-biden-super-pac.html}{abandoning
Mr. Biden's long-held opposition to a super PAC} independent of the
campaign and clearing the way for donors to give unlimited sums in
support of him. Biden advisers cited continuing attacks from President
Trump for the reversal.

Six months into his candidacy and 100 days until the Iowa caucuses, Mr.
Biden is no longer the undisputed Democratic front-runner he once was.
He entered the race in April making the case that, as Barack Obama's
vice president and a longtime leader with moderate and liberal views, he
stood the best chance of uniting the party, attracting voters across
racial, gender and ideological lines and winning over swing voters in
battleground states.

While Mr. Biden still leads in many polls, and many voters still express
deep appreciation for him, his financial situation --- the inability to
consolidate traditional big-money donors or inspire a sufficiently large
online base of small contributors --- has served as a flashing warning
sign about the potential limits of his appeal.

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/elections/democratic-polls.html}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/01/09/us/democratic-polls-promo-1560481207024/democratic-polls-promo-1560481207024-articleLarge-v30.png}

\hypertarget{which-democrats-are-leading-the-2020-presidential-race}{%
\subsection{Which Democrats Are Leading the 2020 Presidential
Race?}\label{which-democrats-are-leading-the-2020-presidential-race}}

There are two Democrats running for president. Here's the latest data to
track how the candidates are doing.

One rival, Senator Cory Booker of New Jersey, said pointedly this week
that he was
\href{https://www.cnn.com/2019/10/23/politics/cory-booker-national-press-club-speech/index.html}{``getting
calls from people who are Biden supporters who now want to hedge
their}\href{https://www.cnn.com/2019/10/23/politics/cory-booker-national-press-club-speech/index.html}{bet}\href{https://www.cnn.com/2019/10/23/politics/cory-booker-national-press-club-speech/index.html}{''}
on the former vice president.

Ed Rendell, the former Pennsylvania governor and a Biden fund-raiser,
acknowledged he had heard the anxieties. ``They're worried when they see
only \$9 million in the bank, because donors have a tendency to believe
the person with the most amount of money wins,'' said Mr. Rendell, who
added that he does not share that view.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-2020-election}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: 2020
Election}}{Latest Updates: 2020 Election}}\label{latest-updates-2020-election}}

Updated 2020-08-01T01:26:45.732Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-29fdff45}{Kamala
  Harris, a top vice-presidential contender, confronts double
  standards.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-13ec3d9c}{Karen
  Bass and Susan Rice are rising on Biden's vice-presidential
  shortlist.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-49e9a016}{Trump
  says Russian bounties to kill U.S. troops `never took place.'}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

Mr. Schultz, the Biden campaign manager, said in an interview on Friday
that Mr. Biden was facing a financial situation unlike any other
Democrat: He is taking incoming fire from both the White House and
primary opponents on a daily basis, and needs to play both offense and
defense within the limits of \$2,800 maximum donations.

``We can't both do a general election and primary. And no one can,'' Mr.
Schultz said. Of his rivals who have denounced the super PAC reversal,
he added, ``If they were being attacked with \$10 million-plus of
outside money in a general election sense, I would love to see what they
would do.''

Mr. Biden's allies are not only concerned about his fund-raising:
There's also the spending. Mr. Biden raised \$15.7 million in the third
quarter, but he spent \$2 million more than that. Among his biggest
expenses was more than \$920,000 on chartered jets.

Terry McAuliffe, the former governor of Virginia and a prolific
fund-raiser, said that donors were ``furious'' about the jet spending
and called the campaign's overall money situation ``very alarming.'' Mr.
McAuliffe's wife recently invited donors to attend a fund-raiser for Mr.
Biden at their home in early November.

Mr. Schultz, when asked about the chartered travel, said that ``whatever
maximizes Joe Biden and voter interaction, the greater chance we have to
win.'' The campaign said Mr. Biden had flown commercial but declined to
indicate when his last such flight was.

The pressure over money is bound to intensify as the leading Democratic
campaigns compete in the early voting states and the extraordinarily
expensive media markets of Super Tuesday states like California. Ms.
Warren, currently Mr. Biden's top rival, has already reserved \$2.3
million more in television ads in the early voting states than he has,
according to Advertising Analytics, a media-tracking firm. In the last
30 days, she spent twice as much as Mr. Biden on Facebook ads, while Mr.
Buttigieg spent more than three times as much as Mr. Biden, who has
begun buying more online ads after he
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/09/30/us/politics/joe-biden-ads.html}{sharply
scaled back his digital spending over the summer.}

Mr. Biden and his advisers wave off any cash concerns, arguing he is
already universally known, seen as Mr. Trump's strongest challenger and
beloved in a way money cannot buy. Mr. Biden, in an interview set to air
Sunday on ``60 Minutes,'' gave a blunt answer about how he would
overcome his rivals' cash edge: ``I just flat-out beat them.''

More than most candidates, Mr. Biden has cultivated major Democratic
bundlers who gather checks from friends and fellow supporters. To that
end, Mr. Biden has used the old-fashioned strategy of giving fancy
titles to his top bundlers: an ``advocate'' must raise \$25,000, a
``protector'' \$50,000 and a ``unifier'' \$100,000. Perks, which vary by
level, include monthly calls with campaign leadership, and invitations
to finance committee retreats and forums.

Yet Mr. Biden has struggled to line up the vaunted Obama money operation
behind him. Of the nearly 800 bundlers who raised at least \$50,000 for
Mr. Obama's 2012 campaign ---~different because it was a presidential
re-election, not a crowded primary ---~ less than a quarter have donated
to Mr. Biden so far this year, according to an analysis of Federal
Election Commission data. An even smaller share are actively tapping
their networks for him.

One bright spot is that Mr. Biden's online donations have picked up of
late. His best week for raising money since the second week in the race
came in late September as the impeachment scandal exploded. Then, in the
first half of October, he raised more online than he had raised in all
of September, the campaign said.

The campaign has employed some sky-is-falling tactics to spur giving,
including an email last week threatening ``budget cuts'' if more money
did not materialize. ``Low on resources'' was the subject line of a
Friday missive. (No cutbacks are planned, the campaign said.)

If Mr. Biden's fund-raising does not improve, he could be hard-pressed
to ramp up his operations for the primary season. Just to pay for his
existing campaign infrastructure through the Iowa caucuses would require
the \$9 million he has in the bank now plus the full fund-raising haul
that he had in the third quarter.

In his memo to bundlers, Mr. Schultz outlined ways they were already
trying to control costs, including having the headquarters staff stay at
the homes of supporters ``whenever it is available.''

``Clearly everybody would have liked if the Biden campaign raised more
in the last quarter,'' said Joe Falk, a Biden fund-raiser in Florida.
But Mr. Falk remained bullish on Mr. Biden's position in the race.
``Given the full frontal assault from the Republicans, the Russian bots
and the competitors, his polling numbers are holding up better than
expected,'' he said.

Despite the competition from two liberals, Ms. Warren and Mr. Sanders,
who have rejected the donor class and would be further left than any
Democratic nominee in many years, Mr. Biden's team has been unable to
fully consolidate support of the Democratic establishment.

He has been out-raised in the last two quarters by Mr. Buttigieg, who
has won over many former Obama-era ambassadors as a 37-year-old fresh
face for the party.

Last Monday, Bradley Tusk, who served as a re-election campaign manager
for Mayor Michael Bloomberg of New York City, hosted a fund-raiser for
Mr. Buttigieg. According to Mr. Tusk, the crowd was filled with ``a lot
of those people you would have thought would be Biden people. And they
weren't.'' (Attendees included Jon S. Corzine, the former New Jersey
governor and Goldman Sachs executive, who had previously attended a
Biden event in the Hamptons in the summer.)

``The feeling in the room,'' Mr. Tusk said, ``was that Biden has already
lost.''

Mr. Biden's dependence on donors who have given the \$2,800 maximum
amount was one reason for the reversal on a super PAC, which provides
those donors a new outlet to give even more. Records show that almost 35
percent of the \$37.7 million that Mr. Biden has raised so far has come
from donors who have given the maximum.

``It just means we have to find new people, and the people we have found
--- the people who gave \$2,800 --- they ought to be able to find a
buddy or two buddies,'' said Alan Kessler, a lawyer in Pennsylvania
raising money for Mr. Biden.

The super PAC reversal ignited swift denunciations from Mr. Sanders and
Ms. Warren, both of whom were running anti-super-PAC ads on Facebook
within 24 hours.

In addition to whatever the pro-Biden super PAC does, the International
Association of Fire Fighters is preparing a pro-Biden campaign of its
own, with a six-figure budget of mostly online spending, said Mark
Treglio, a spokesman for the union.

The need for options like a super PAC reflect the reality that it can be
especially hard for a candidate relying on big donors to raise money
deeper into a campaign.

When Mr. Biden took his campaign's first trip to Southern California in
May, he held three fund-raisers where a combined more than 600 people
attended. But when he returned in October, he again held three events
and drew about half as many people, a bit more than 300.

Next week, he is headed to Florida for at least two fund-raisers,
according to people familiar with his schedule..

Mr. Biden's advisers and allies repeatedly emphasize that while he may
not compete dollar for dollar with some rivals --- or even come close
--- he is intrinsically different because he is already universally
known and widely liked and seen as formidable against Mr. Trump. The
word they kept coming back to was ``resilience.''

As in, Mr. Biden has suffered through six months of criticism and
attacks --- from his rivals, from the news media, from the president ---
and remains at or near the top of the national polls.

``Any other candidate, it might concern you,'' Mike Collier, a Texas
bundler for Mr. Biden who has previously run for office himself, said of
the campaign's finances. ``But with someone like Joe, I'm not anywhere
near as concerned.''

Rachel Shorey, Jonathan Martin and Katie Glueck contributed reporting.

\hypertarget{our-2020-election-guide}{%
\section{Our 2020 Election Guide}\label{our-2020-election-guide}}

Updated July 31, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{the-latest}{%
  \subsection{The Latest}\label{the-latest}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    President Trump's assault on the Postal Service is intersecting with
    his attacks on mail-in voting.
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/politics/trump-usps-mail-delays.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Voting
    rights groups say it is a recipe for disaster.}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{bidens-vp-search}{%
  \subsection{Biden's V.P. Search}\label{bidens-vp-search}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/biden-vice-president-2020.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Here
    are 13 women} who have been under consideration to be Joe Biden's
    running mate, and why each might be chosen --- and might not be.
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{keep-up-with-our-coverage}{%
  \subsection{Keep Up With Our
  Coverage}\label{keep-up-with-our-coverage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Get an
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{email}
    recapping the day's news
  \end{itemize}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Download our mobile app on
    \href{https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nytimes/id284862083?ls=1\&mat_click_id=5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\&referrer=mat_click_id\%3D5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\%26link_click_id\%3D722930677036718082}{iOS}
    and
    \href{http://a.localytics.com/android?id=com.nytimes.android\&referrer=utm_source\%3Dother_nyt_mobile_web\%26utm_medium\%3DWeb\%2520page\%26utm_term\%3DGeneral\%2520Mobile\%2520Page\%26utm_campaign\%3DNYT\%2520Mobile\%2520General\%2520Page}{Android}
    and turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
