Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/health}{Health}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/health}{Health}\textbar{}Two P.R. Experts at F.D.A. Have
Been Ousted After Blood Plasma Fiasco

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{the-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=e864c3c0-f52e-11ea-9589-49e10d004492\&variant=undefined}{The
Coronavirus
Outbreak}}{The Coronavirus Outbreak}}\label{the-coronavirus-outbreak}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  live\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/12/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=e864c3c1-f52e-11ea-9589-49e10d004492\&variant=undefined}{Latest
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=e864c3c2-f52e-11ea-9589-49e10d004492\&variant=undefined}{Maps
  and Cases}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=e864ead0-f52e-11ea-9589-49e10d004492\&variant=undefined}{Vaccine
  Tracker}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/10/us/politics/fda-coronavirus-vaccine.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=e864ead1-f52e-11ea-9589-49e10d004492\&variant=undefined}{F.D.A.
  Regulators' Self-Defense}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/09/upshot/coronavirus-surprise-test-fees.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=e864ead2-f52e-11ea-9589-49e10d004492\&variant=undefined}{Surprise
  Test Fees}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{two-pr-experts-at-fda-have-been-ousted-after-blood-plasma-fiasco}{%
\section{Two P.R. Experts at F.D.A. Have Been Ousted After Blood Plasma
Fiasco}\label{two-pr-experts-at-fda-have-been-ousted-after-blood-plasma-fiasco}}

The agency's chief spokeswoman, Emily Miller, was removed from her
position just 11 days into the job. And the contract was terminated of a
consultant who had advised the F.D.A. chief to correct misleading claims
about plasma's benefits.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/28/science/28VIRUS-FDA1/merlin_176090151_073f11ec-f84f-4d4c-9a61-21f8383f0303-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/sheila-kaplan}{Sheila
Kaplan} and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/katie-thomas}{Katie Thomas}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Aug. 28, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

The head of the Food and Drug Administration ousted its top spokeswoman
from her position on Friday in an urgent bid to restore the tarnished
credibility of the agency after he
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/24/health/fda-blood-plasma.html}{made
erroneous claims that overstated} the benefits of plasma treatments for
Covid-19 at a news conference with President Trump.

The decision came just a day after the F.D.A.'s parent agency, the
Department of Health and Human Services, terminated the contract of a
public relations consultant who had advised the F.D.A. commissioner, Dr.
Stephen M. Hahn, to correct his misleading claims that 35 out of 100
Covid-19 patients ``would have been saved because of the administration
of plasma.''

The removals come at a moment when the agency, which will be making
critical decisions about whether to approve coronavirus vaccines and
treatments, is struggling to salvage its reputation as a neutral
scientific arbiter.

The ousted spokeswoman, Emily Miller, had little experience in health
care. She had spent years working in Washington for Republicans,
including the former Texas Congressman Tom DeLay and Senator Ted Cruz of
Texas, and as a journalist for One America News, the conservative cable
network. She was in her agency post for just 11 days.

Image

Emily MillerCredit...~

``This is a low moment for the F.D.A. in at least a generation,'' Daniel
Carpenter, **** a professor at Harvard University who studies the
agency, said of Dr. Hahn's failure to control the public message about
the plasma authorization. ``This was a major self-inflicted wound.''

The most recent controversy over plasma follows a series of missteps by
the F.D.A. that have fueled concerns that the agency is losing the
public's trust as the nation faces a presidential election in November
and a pandemic that has taken more than 180,000 American lives.

Also this week, the nation's premier public health agency, the Centers
for Disease Control and Prevention,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/27/us/politics/trump-coronavirus-testing.html}{was
accused of bowing to political pressure} after it revised its testing
guidelines to say people without symptoms of the virus didn't need to
get tested.

Dr. Hahn has already been
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/10/health/stephen-hahn-fda.html}{criticized
for a series of worrisome} actions, including authorizing the emergency
use of two malaria drugs Mr. Trump had favored --- a decision that was
\href{https://www.fda.gov/media/138946/download}{later revoked} --- and
for having allowed the sale of shoddy antibody tests early in the U.S.
outbreak.

``The agency needs to work very hard to regain the trust of the American
people --- there have been too many unforced errors,'' said Dr. David A.
Kessler, who was F.D.A. commissioner under Presidents George Bush and
Clinton, and is advising Joseph R. Biden Jr.'s presidential campaign.
``It needs to focus on what it does best, which is to put the data in
front of the medical and scientific community and the American public,
and stick with the data.''

\hypertarget{latest-updates-the-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/11/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: The Coronavirus
Outbreak}}{Latest Updates: The Coronavirus Outbreak}}\label{latest-updates-the-coronavirus-outbreak}}

Updated 2020-09-12T12:04:20.515Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/11/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-dfb8a16}{Fauci
  cautions the virus could disrupt life in the U.S. until `maybe even
  towards the end of 2021.'}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/11/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-7104d154}{From
  Asia to Africa, China promotes its vaccine candidates to win friends.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/11/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-393ad215}{The
  other way the virus will kill: hunger.}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/11/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

More live coverage:
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/11/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Markets}

Dr. Hahn notified senior leadership at the F.D.A. on Friday that Ms.
Miller would no longer be the official spokeswoman for the agency, and
that he would be appointing someone to replace her in an interim
capacity. Ms. Miller could not be reached for comment.

Image

Wayne L. PinesCredit...

The consultant who was removed by the health and human services
department, Wayne L. Pines, said he wasn't told why his contract was
severed.

``I did recommend that he correct the record,'' he said. ``If a federal
official doesn't say something right, and chooses to clarify and say
that the criticism is justified, that's refreshing.''

The Department of Health and Human Services denied that Mr. Pines's
contract was terminated because of his involvement in the plasma
messaging.

It was ``100 percent coincidence,'' said Brian Harrison, the
department's chief of staff. ``H.H.S. has been reviewing and canceling
similar contracts, so I had it sent to our lawyers, who recommended
termination. This was routine,'' he said.

Nevertheless, the decision by Dr. Hahn to clarify his remarks and to
grant a series of media interviews appears to have rankled H.H.S.
officials, who saw it as ill-timed, given that the Republican convention
was underway. Trump administration officials are often reluctant to
publicly admit error out of concern that doing so provides political
ammunition to their critics.

Mr. Pines is president of the large health care practice at APCO
Worldwide, a public relations and lobbying firm that
\href{https://apcoworldwide.com/sectors/health/}{represents health
companies} that do business before the F.D.A. He said he did this work
on his own, outside of his APCO practice. He would not say how much he
was paid, but noted that as a friend to Dr. Hahn, he is willing to
continue advising him for free.

Meredith McGehee, executive director of Issue One, which promotes
bipartisan political reform, was critical of the contract, noting the
potential for conflicts of interest in Mr. Pines's work for the F.D.A.,
and his company's health care client base.

``This notion that, `Oh, I'm doing it in my private capacity, on the one
hand, and I'm representing health care interests, on the other,' it
doesn't pass the smell test,'' said Ms. McGehee.

The F.D.A. did not respond to requests for comment on Friday about Mr.
Pines's contract or whether it was vetted for conflicts of interest.

Ms. Miller started at the agency on Aug. 17 after a career in both
politics and journalism. In 2004, while working for the Department of
State,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2004/05/17/international/powells-interview-is-cut-off.html?smid=nytcore-ios-share}{she
made headlines} after she apparently cut off an interview for a taped
segment between Tim Russert, the host of NBC's ``Meet the Press,'' and
her boss, the then Secretary of State Colin L. Powell, who could be
heard apologizing to Mr. Russert and saying ``Emily, get out of the
way.'' In 2015,
\href{https://www.washingtonpost.com/blogs/erik-wemple/wp/2015/03/03/additional-document-casts-doubt-on-home-invasion-of-local-fox-reporter/}{reporters
cast doubt} on whether Ms. Miller had been a victim of a home invasion,
a story that she had repeatedly included in public remarks and in a
book, ``Emily Gets Her Gun: But Obama Wants to Take Yours.''

The decision to hire Ms. Miller as the agency's top spokeswoman
\href{https://www.mediamatters.org/emily-miller/new-fda-spokesperson-emily-miller-pro-trump-sycophant-who-spreads-covid-19}{was
seen as puzzling} by outside observers, given that she had little
experience in health care. On May 30,
\href{https://twitter.com/emilymiller/status/1266938752288657410}{Ms.
Miller tweeted}, ``Remember coronavirus?''

The F.D.A. had been considering allowing the use of convalescent plasma
as a treatment for Covid-19 on an emergency basis, but last week
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/19/us/politics/blood-plasma-covid-19.html}{The
New York Times reported} that the decision had been delayed after top
health officials Dr. Francis S. Collins and Dr. Anthony S. Fauci
intervened and expressed concern that the available evidence on the
effectiveness of the treatment was too weak. F.D.A. officials argued
that although the data was preliminary and needed continued analysis as
more patients are treated, plasma still met the agency's standard for
emergency use authorization.

On Saturday morning, Mr. Trump
\href{https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/1297138862108663808}{tweeted}
that the ``deep state'' at the F.D.A. was slowing drug development. Late
that night, the White House press secretary
\href{https://twitter.com/PressSec/status/1297373454262571008}{tweeted}
that the president would have a news conference the next day
``concerning a major therapeutic breakthrough.''

The announcement should have been a rare win for the F.D.A., which for
months had fended off criticism of its track record on the pandemic, and
questions about the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/10/health/stephen-hahn-fda.html}{independence
of Dr. Hahn}, who was previously pressured by Mr. Trump to authorize
malaria drugs that turned out to be ineffective for Covid-19 and carried
risks of harmful side effects. But last weekend, finally, the agency
could reveal some legitimate good news: convalescent plasma, the
antibody-rich plasma donated by Covid-19 survivors, showed promise for a
subset of patients when given early.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/23/us/politics/fda-plasma-coronavirus.html}{The
announcement}, made at the White House on Sunday, has instead spurred a
week of recriminations, anger and mistrust between the F.D.A. and H.H.S.
The officials' statements Sunday
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/24/health/fda-blood-plasma.html}{cast
nuanced and preliminary data} as ``a very historic breakthrough,'' as
Mr. Trump
\href{https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefings-statements/remarks-president-trump-press-briefing-august-23-2020/}{put
it}. The exaggerated statements drew criticism from scientists and at
least three former agency commissioners.

Within the F.D.A. and H.H.S., officials have offered conflicting
accounts for how a single misleading statistic --- that plasma led to a
35 percent reduction in deaths --- appeared in the remarks of Mr. Trump,
Dr. Hahn and Alex. M. Azar II, the health and human services secretary.
It was also unclear why Dr. Hahn, a longtime cancer doctor, and Mr.
Azar, a former pharmaceutical executive, did not themselves catch the
overstated statistic. No randomized trials have found a survival benefit
for convalescent plasma. The 35 percent number referred to a tiny subset
of patients, and was a relative comparison between two groups, not an
absolute reduction in deaths.

At a speech at the convention on Thursday evening, the president again
overstated what's known about the benefits of plasma, promising it
``will save thousands and thousands of lives.''

Missteps by the F.D.A., a federal agency that has long prided itself on
its scientific independence, have heightened concerns that the American
public may not be willing to
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html}{take
a vaccine} approved by the agency, particularly if the decision is seen
as having been made under pressure from Mr. Trump.

``It's very important for the leadership of the agency, especially the
commissioner, to be accurate about the information he's providing and to
do it in a way that really sticks to the facts,'' said Dr. Mark
McClellan, who was F.D.A. commissioner under President George W. Bush.

``There's almost not enough adjectives to describe how appalling this
is,'' said Emily K. Brunson, a medical anthropologist at Texas State
University. Opinion polls have shown that many
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/18/health/coronavirus-anti-vaccine.html}{Americans
are already wary of taking a vaccine for the virus}.

If approval of a vaccine is viewed as politically motivated, she said,
``it has the potential to really make this a disastrous situation.''

\emph{Sharon LaFraniere and Maggie Haberman contributed reporting.}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
