Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/travel}{Travel}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/travel}{Travel}\textbar{}I'm a U.S. Citizen. Where in the
World Can I Go?

\url{https://nyti.ms/38z4mHg}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{The
Coronavirus Outbreak}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  live\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/04/world/coronavirus-cases.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Latest
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Maps
  and Cases}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Vaccine
  Tracker}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/02/us/covid-college-reopening.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{College
  Reopening}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/04/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Economy}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{im-a-us-citizen-where-in-the-world-can-i-go}{%
\section{I'm a U.S. Citizen. Where in the World Can I
Go?}\label{im-a-us-citizen-where-in-the-world-can-i-go}}

For Americans eager to resume international travel, here are the
countries that currently allow U.S. citizens to enter, though there may
be restrictions.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/07/07/travel/07where-can-americans-go11/merlin_103973719_edd1db17-0057-4559-ac9f-0441cce6cb1a-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By Karen Schwartz

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Published July 7, 2020Updated July 31, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Even as many countries remain off-limits to American visitors because of
the high rate of coronavirus within the United States, others have
started to welcome, and in some cases woo, U.S. citizens to come spend
their tourist dollars. Still, would-be
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/16/travel/virus-vacation.html}{vacationers}
generally face a host of conditions and a lot of traveler beware.

The U.S. State Department continues its
\href{https://travel.state.gov/content/travel/en/traveladvisories/COVID-19-Country-Specific-Information.html}{Global
Level 4 Health Advisory}, which cautions against international travel
because of the pandemic. However, it is also posting country-specific
information as restrictions loosen.

\emph{{[}Have an update for this list? Email us at}
\href{mailto:travelrestrictions@NYTimes.com}{\emph{travelrestrictions@NYTimes.com}}\emph{.{]}}

Getting there is only part of the equation. Countries have their own
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/16/travel/virus-vacation.html}{Covid-19}
mitigation measures that might include curfews or curtailed activities
and services; most standard travel insurance policies won't cover
medical or travel expenses related to the coronavirus; and borders can
close and flights be canceled with little warning, stranding people in
foreign countries. In addition, the Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention
\href{https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/travelers/after-travel-precautions.html}{advises}
Americans to avoid contact with others for 14 days after they return
from international travel.

Here is a list of countries, in alphabetical order, that as of early
July were open to U.S. citizens, or are expected to open soon.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/07/07/travel/07where-can-americans-go4/merlin_173609214_0a9ceaba-3409-45e0-a4e3-1dab8ee81009-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\hypertarget{albania}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://al.usembassy.gov/updates_covid19/}{ALBANIA}}{ALBANIA}}\label{albania}}

Albania reopened its borders in early June with enhanced screening and
quarantine measures in place. However, because the number of coronavirus
cases in the country has been increasing, the U.S. Embassy in Albania
has suspended all but emergency services.

Image

Visiting Antigua requires a negative test for Covid-19.Credit...Robert
Rausch for The New York Times

\hypertarget{antigua-and-barbuda}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://visitantiguabarbuda.com/travel-advisory/}{ANTIGUA
and BARBUDA}}{ANTIGUA and BARBUDA}}\label{antigua-and-barbuda}}

Travelers must provide a certificate of a negative Covid-19 test taken
within seven days of arrival. Without proof, the government can require
visitors to quarantine or to be tested and pick up the \$100 expense.
Temperatures will be checked at the airport and people are asked to
register with the Ministry of Health, Wellness and the Environment.
Visitors must have a mask and wear it in public or face a possible fine
of \$5,000 or up to 6 months in jail. ``Persons traveling to Antigua and
Barbuda from countries where there are outbreaks of Covid-19,'' may be
required to quarantine, according to the Antigua Barbuda Tourism
Authority.

Image

Aruba plans to begin admitting U.S. this month.~Credit...Scott Baker for
The New York Times

\hypertarget{aruba}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.aruba.com/us/traveler-health-requirements}{ARUBA}}{ARUBA}}\label{aruba}}

Aruba first opened to Canada, Europe and most other Caribbean countries
on July 1, with U.S. travelers admitted as of July 10, under certain
conditions.

Residents from nearly half the states are considered to be at higher
risk of Covid-19, and must upload proof of a negative test taken between
12 and 72 hours before flying or they won't be allowed to board their
flight. Residents of the other states have the option of uploading a
test or having one taken at the airport in Oranjestad. The airport tests
are done at the expense of travelers, who must quarantine at their
lodging for up to 24 hours while awaiting results.

Island guests must purchase mandatory Aruba Visitors Insurance to cover
up to \$75,000 in expenses should they test positive for Covid-19 during
their stay. According to an
\href{https://www.arubavisitorsinsurance.com/calculator}{online
calculator}, the premium for most visitors over age 15 who are staying
for a week would be just over \$100, and about \$10 for those under 15.

Masks are mandatory on the flight for anyone over age 15 and in the
airport, but not elsewhere.

\hypertarget{the-bahamas}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://opm.gov.bs/national-address/}{THE
BAHAMAS}}{THE BAHAMAS}}\label{the-bahamas}}

\href{https://www.bahamas.com/pressroom/bahamas-ministry-tourism-aviation-statement-executive-order-amid-rising-covid-19-cases}{The
Bahamas} has been wrestling with how to contain the coronavirus after
the nation's \href{https://www.bahamas.com/tourism-reopening}{reopening}
led to a spike in cases. As of late July, the country is again open to
commercial flights from the United States, but travelers must quarantine
for 14 days upon arrival and all inter-island travel is halted.

Despite the quarantine requirement, anyone over age 10 arriving in the
country must still upload proof of a negative test for the virus taken
within 10 day of their travel date. All visitors must also have an
approved Health Visa, which should be filled out at least 72 hours
before departure.

In addition, weekend lockdowns are in effect and a daily curfew will
confine tourists to their hotel property between 10 p.m. and 5 a.m. All
public and private beaches and parks are closed, including those at
hotels and resorts.

\emph{{[}}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/10/travel/state-travel-restrictions.html}{\emph{Thinking
of traveling within the U.S.? Here's where you can go}}\emph{.{]}}

Image

JetBlue is planning to resume flights to Barbados in late
July.~Credit...Gina Francesca for The New York Times

\hypertarget{barbados}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://gisbarbados.gov.bb/blog/commercial-air-traffic-resumes-july-12-with-protocols/}{BARBADOS}}{BARBADOS}}\label{barbados}}

Commercial flights to Barbados resumed on July 12, and JetBlue is
tentatively set to return on July 25 with four weekly flights out of New
York's Kennedy Airport, according to a spokeswoman with
\href{https://www.visitbarbados.org}{Barbados Tourism Marketing}.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-global-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/04/world/coronavirus-cases.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: Global Coronavirus
Outbreak}}{Latest Updates: Global Coronavirus Outbreak}}\label{latest-updates-global-coronavirus-outbreak}}

Updated 2020-08-04T20:50:09.557Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/04/world/coronavirus-cases.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-1228a480}{Novavax
  sees encouraging results from two studies of its experimental
  vaccine.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/04/world/coronavirus-cases.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-4825b93}{Public
  and private schools in Maryland and elsewhere are divided over
  in-person instruction.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/04/world/coronavirus-cases.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-50f7386d}{The
  United Nations calls on policymakers to `plan thoroughly for school
  reopenings.'}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/04/world/coronavirus-cases.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

More live coverage:
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/04/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Markets}

Travelers are expected to have the results of a negative Covid-19 test
performed no more than 72 hours before arrival. If not, one will be
taken upon landing or at a testing center at a designated hotel, and the
person will need to quarantine while awaiting results.

Visitors also undergo a temperature check; need to complete an
embarkation/disembarkation card that will ask personal health questions
related to Covid-19; and must wear a mask at the airport.

Travelers from high risk settings may be monitored daily for possible
symptoms with a follow-up coronavirus test on day seven. If the
follow-up test is negative, the monitoring is discontinued. If a second
test is not done, the monitoring will continue for 14 days. Travelers
from moderate risk countries will be monitored for seven days.

\hypertarget{belarus}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://by.usembassy.gov/u-s-citizen-services/covid-19-information/}{BELARUS}}{BELARUS}}\label{belarus}}

Travelers arriving in Belarus from the United States do not have to
self-quarantine. Temperature screening will be done at Minsk National
Airport. Different travel requirements may be in place for countries
that travelers transit en route from the United States.

The U.S. Embassy in Belarus
\href{https://by.usembassy.gov/u-s-citizen-services/covid-19-information/}{advises}:
``Due to border closures and flight cancellations, options for departing
Belarus are increasingly limited.\,Those wishing to depart Belarus
should immediately take advantage of remaining flights.''

Image

Ambergris-Caye in Belize. The country is planning on an Aug. 15
reopening.Credit...Benedict Kim for The New York Times

\hypertarget{belize}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://belizetourismboard.org/belize-covid-19-update-for-travellers/}{BELIZE}}{BELIZE}}\label{belize}}

Belize has scheduled an Aug. 15 reopening. Arriving guests who have
proof of a negative Covid-19 test within the previous three days can use
a ``fast track'' entry lane, while others will have to pay for and
undergo testing at the airport. Anyone testing positive won't be allowed
to leave the country, but instead must isolate for at least 14 days at
the passenger's expense.

Visitors must stay at a ``Tourism Gold Standard'' hotel, which can offer
full services, thereby lessening the interaction with locals. No rental
cars will be available at first, and parks and tourist sites will only
be accessible with an approved tour operator. Face masks are required in
public.

Image

Bermuda has an extensive Covid-19 plan in place.~Credit...Tony
Cenicola/The New York Times

\hypertarget{bermuda}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.gotobermuda.com/bta/press-release/bermuda-tourism-authority-update}{BERMUDA}}{BERMUDA}}\label{bermuda}}

Bermuda has an extensive screening process in place and requires a \$75
fee to cover the cost of mandatory in-country Covid-19 tests given at
the airport and again on day three, seven and 14 of a traveler's stay.
Visitors are also asked to bring a thermometer and a face mask.

In addition to being tested at the airport, anyone 10 and older is asked
to provide proof of a negative coronavirus test taken within three days
of their flight to Bermuda (although tests taken within five days will
be accepted). Those with proof of a negative test still must quarantine
at their hotel for about eight hours pending the results of their
airport test. Those arriving without proof of a negative test are
confined to their accommodation for three days.

All travelers must complete an online travel authorization form within
48 hours of their flight, then take and record their temperature twice a
day for the first 14 days of their visit. Face masks are also required.

\hypertarget{croatia}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://mup.gov.hr/uzg-covid/english/286212}{CROATIA}}{CROATIA}}\label{croatia}}

Members of European Union countries can enter Croatia for any reason,
but American tourists may visit only with proof of paid accommodation.

Travelers must present a negative result for a Covid-19 test taken
within the previous 48 hours. If they have an older test result, the
person can enter, but must self-quarantine until they can show another
negative test, which would be taken at their own expense. Those without
negative results must self-quarantine for 14 days.

\hypertarget{dominican-republic}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.godominicanrepublic.com/newsroom/coronavirus/}{DOMINICAN
REPUBLIC}}{DOMINICAN REPUBLIC}}\label{dominican-republic}}

The Dominican Republic reopened to tourists on July 1. Visitors must
complete a Health Affidavit that attests that they haven't experienced
any Covid-19 symptoms in the past 72 hours. A temperature check will be
taken at the airport. Anyone with a fever or other coronavirus symptoms
will be tested. Hotels are also required to check a guest's temperature
when they arrive, as are operators of water excursions. Curfews are in
effect in many places.

Image

The Ecuadorian capital, Quito.~Credit...Tony Cenicola/The New York Times

\hypertarget{ecuador}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://ec.usembassy.gov/covid-19-information-ecu-2/}{ECUADOR}}{ECUADOR}}\label{ecuador}}

The United States is continuing to help repatriate Americans who stayed
in Ecuador when the pandemic closed down travel.
\href{https://ec.usembassy.gov/covid-19-information-ecu-2/}{Those
wanting to visit the country} need to quarantine for 14 days in
government-designated temporary housing or hotels. In addition, all
arriving passengers must have proof of a negative Covid-19 test within
the previous seven days, or agree to undergo a test in the country. The
government has restricted movement throughout the country and there are
curfews imposed.

\hypertarget{egypt}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://eg.usembassy.gov/u-s-citizen-services/covid-19-information/}{EGYPT}}{EGYPT}}\label{egypt}}

Egypt has restarted international flights. It is unclear what
restrictions, if any, have been put in place.
\href{https://eg.usembassy.gov/u-s-citizen-services/covid-19-information/}{The
State Department website} says that Egypt has a 14-day quarantine
period, but
\href{https://www.thenational.ae/lifestyle/travel/travelling-to-egypt-during-the-coronavirus-pandemic-here-s-what-you-need-to-know-1.1042458}{media
reports} have contradicted that.

Image

In Tahiti, as in all of French Polynesia, travelers must show proof of a
negative Covid-19 test.Credit...Suliane Favennec/Agence France-Presse
--- Getty Images

\hypertarget{french-polynesia}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://tahititourisme.com/en-us/covid-19/}{FRENCH
POLYNESIA}}{FRENCH POLYNESIA}}\label{french-polynesia}}

Travelers to French Polynesia, including the islands of Tahiti and Bora
Bora, must show proof of a negative Covid-19 test taken within the
previous 72 hours in order to board their flights. Those arriving at the
airport will be given a test kit for the virus that contains an oral and
nasal swab, and on the fourth day in the islands, the visitor must
complete the self-test. Tourists must also complete an electronic entry
form attesting that they have travel insurance that would cover
coronavirus expenses, or agreeing to personally assume all costs.

\hypertarget{ireland}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.tourismireland.com/Press-Releases/2020/March/COVID-19-coronavirus}{IRELAND}}{IRELAND}}\label{ireland}}

Authorities are asking nonessential travelers not to visit the Republic
of Ireland, but those who do are asked to self-quarantine for 14 days.

Image

Jamaica is requiring visitors to stay within a defined tourism
zone.~Credit...Robert Rausch for The New York Times

\hypertarget{jamaica}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.visitjamaica.com/travelauthorization/}{JAMAICA}}{JAMAICA}}\label{jamaica}}

Tourists age 12 and older arriving from New York, Florida, Arizona and
Texas must upload a negative Covid-19 test that was taken within 10 days
of their arrival date. All passengers must complete a Travel
Authorization screening form within 72 hours of their trip and present
it at the airport or they will not be allowed to board their flight.

Arriving passengers will have their temperatures taken and be asked
screening questions. If they are considered at high risk, they may be
required to take a Covid-19 test. Anyone tested must quarantine at their
accommodation until the results are available, generally within 48
hours. Those who test positive must isolate at their hotel or at a
government facility.

All tourists staying at hotels, villas or guesthouses must remain within
a designated tourist corridor, where operators have been trained in
Covid-19 protocols. Masks must be worn in all common areas.

Visitors staying at a private residence are required to quarantine there
for 14 days, leaving only once per day to get necessities.

The rules are in effect until July 31, though they may be extended.

Image

Kosovo reportedly has no restrictions on international
visitors.~Credit...Danielle Villasana for The New York Times

\hypertarget{kosovo}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://xk.usembassy.gov/coronavirus/}{KOSOVO}}{KOSOVO}}\label{kosovo}}

Kosovo is reportedly open to visitors with no restrictions for Covid-19.
However, the U.S. Embassy in Kosovo says that some U.S. citizens are
being denied boarding in the United States because they cannot prove
they are residents or citizens of Kosovo. For the latest information,
the embassy recommends checking with it or with the airline before a
flight.

\hypertarget{lebanon}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://lb.usembassy.gov/covid-19-information/}{LEBANON}}{LEBANON}}\label{lebanon}}

Visitors must show negative results for a coronavirus test taken in the
previous four days, and, if they are staying for more than a week,
submit to another test given at the airport at the airline's expense. If
they arrive without a test result, they will be tested at the airport
and retested 72 hours later. The passenger must self-quarantine while
awaiting the results of the second test, which is at the traveler's
expense. Foreigners must also have proof of insurance that would cover
any costs associated with the coronavirus.

Image

In the Maldives, those who have symptoms will be tested for Covid-19,
and health authorities will also check some people at
random.Credit...Adam Dean for The New York Times

\hypertarget{maldives}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://visitmaldives.com/en/covid19-updates}{MALDIVES}}{MALDIVES}}\label{maldives}}

Those who have symptoms will be tested for Covid-19, and health
authorities will also check some people at random, at government
expense. Those without symptoms or positive tests are not required to
quarantine. A health declaration form must be filled out 24 hours before
the flight and again before departure.

Visitors must have a confirmed booking at a tourist facility and the
entire vacation needs to be at the same hotel, except when transiting.

Image

Land crossings from the United States to Mexico are closed, but visitors
can arrive by plane.~Credit...Adrian Wilson for The New York Times

\hypertarget{mexico}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://mx.usembassy.gov/health-alert-u-s-embassy-mexico-city-mexico/}{MEXICO}}{MEXICO}}\label{mexico}}

Land crossings between the United States and Mexico remain closed until
at least
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/aponline/2020/07/16/us/politics/ap-us-virus-outbreak-north-america-borders.html?searchResultPosition=6}{late
August,} but U.S. visitors can arrive by plane. Tourists may be subject
to temperature checks and other health screenings, and those showing
symptoms may be asked to quarantine voluntarily.

Many Mexican states are open only for essential services, while others
are allowed to operate at reduced capacity. However, some local
authorities have also imposed their own restrictions, so would-be
travelers should check with local sources for the latest updates. The
mayor of Tulum, for instance,
\href{https://www.reuters.com/article/us-health-coronavirus-mexico-restriction/mexico-tightens-coronavirus-curbs-in-tourist-spots-other-pockets-idUSKCN24H3E6}{has
reportedly threatened to arrest or fine people} for not wearing face
masks.

Image

North Macedonia has no requirements for testing or
self-isolation.~Credit...Georgi Licovski/EPA, via Shutterstock

\hypertarget{north-macedonia}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://mk.usembassy.gov/covid-19-information/}{NORTH
MACEDONIA}}{NORTH MACEDONIA}}\label{north-macedonia}}

There are no requirements for a Covid-19 test or self-isolation for
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/05/17/travel/republic-of-north-macedonia-balkans.html}{North
Macedonia,} which has been going by that name only since last year (it
was previously just Macedonia). Masks are required in closed public
spaces.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{}

\hypertarget{the-coronavirus-outbreak-}{%
\subsubsection{The Coronavirus Outbreak
›}\label{the-coronavirus-outbreak-}}

\hypertarget{frequently-asked-questions}{%
\paragraph{Frequently Asked
Questions}\label{frequently-asked-questions}}

Updated August 4, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{i-have-antibodies-am-i-now-immune}{%
  \paragraph{I have antibodies. Am I now
  immune?}\label{i-have-antibodies-am-i-now-immune}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    As of right
    now,\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/22/health/covid-antibodies-herd-immunity.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{that
    seems likely, for at least several months.} There have been
    frightening accounts of people suffering what seems to be a second
    bout of Covid-19. But experts say these patients may have a
    drawn-out course of infection, with the virus taking a slow toll
    weeks to months after initial exposure. People infected with the
    coronavirus typically
    \href{https://www.nature.com/articles/s41586-020-2456-9}{produce}
    immune molecules called antibodies, which are
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/07/health/coronavirus-antibody-prevalence.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{protective
    proteins made in response to an
    infection}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/07/health/coronavirus-antibody-prevalence.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{.
    These antibodies may} last in the body
    \href{https://www.nature.com/articles/s41591-020-0965-6}{only two to
    three months}, which may seem worrisome, but that's perfectly normal
    after an acute infection subsides, said Dr. Michael Mina, an
    immunologist at Harvard University. It may be possible to get the
    coronavirus again, but it's highly unlikely that it would be
    possible in a short window of time from initial infection or make
    people sicker the second time.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{im-a-small-business-owner-can-i-get-relief}{%
  \paragraph{I'm a small-business owner. Can I get
  relief?}\label{im-a-small-business-owner-can-i-get-relief}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    The
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/small-business-loans-stimulus-grants-freelancers-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{stimulus
    bills enacted in March} offer help for the millions of American
    small businesses. Those eligible for aid are businesses and
    nonprofit organizations with fewer than 500 workers, including sole
    proprietorships, independent contractors and freelancers. Some
    larger companies in some industries are also eligible. The help
    being offered, which is being managed by the Small Business
    Administration, includes the Paycheck Protection Program and the
    Economic Injury Disaster Loan program. But lots of folks have
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/05/07/business/small-business-loans-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{not
    yet seen payouts.} Even those who have received help are confused:
    The rules are draconian, and some are stuck sitting on
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/02/business/economy/loans-coronavirus-small-business.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{money
    they don't know how to use.} Many small-business owners are getting
    less than they expected or
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/10/business/Small-business-loans-ppp.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{not
    hearing anything at all.}
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{what-are-my-rights-if-i-am-worried-about-going-back-to-work}{%
  \paragraph{What are my rights if I am worried about going back to
  work?}\label{what-are-my-rights-if-i-am-worried-about-going-back-to-work}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Employers have to provide
    \href{https://www.osha.gov/SLTC/covid-19/standards.html}{a safe
    workplace} with policies that protect everyone equally.
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/coronavirus-money-unemployment.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{And
    if one of your co-workers tests positive for the coronavirus, the
    C.D.C.} has said that
    \href{https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/community/guidance-business-response.html}{employers
    should tell their employees} -\/- without giving you the sick
    employee's name -\/- that they may have been exposed to the virus.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{should-i-refinance-my-mortgage}{%
  \paragraph{Should I refinance my
  mortgage?}\label{should-i-refinance-my-mortgage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/coronavirus-money-unemployment.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{It
    could be a good idea,} because mortgage rates have
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/16/business/mortgage-rates-below-3-percent.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{never
    been lower.} Refinancing requests have pushed mortgage applications
    to some of the highest levels since 2008, so be prepared to get in
    line. But defaults are also up, so if you're thinking about buying a
    home, be aware that some lenders have tightened their standards.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{what-is-school-going-to-look-like-in-september}{%
  \paragraph{What is school going to look like in
  September?}\label{what-is-school-going-to-look-like-in-september}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    It is unlikely that many schools will return to a normal schedule
    this fall, requiring the grind of
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/05/us/coronavirus-education-lost-learning.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{online
    learning},
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/29/us/coronavirus-child-care-centers.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{makeshift
    child care} and
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/03/business/economy/coronavirus-working-women.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{stunted
    workdays} to continue. California's two largest public school
    districts --- Los Angeles and San Diego --- said on July 13, that
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/13/us/lausd-san-diego-school-reopening.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{instruction
    will be remote-only in the fall}, citing concerns that surging
    coronavirus infections in their areas pose too dire a risk for
    students and teachers. Together, the two districts enroll some
    825,000 students. They are the largest in the country so far to
    abandon plans for even a partial physical return to classrooms when
    they reopen in August. For other districts, the solution won't be an
    all-or-nothing approach.
    \href{https://bioethics.jhu.edu/research-and-outreach/projects/eschool-initiative/school-policy-tracker/}{Many
    systems}, including the nation's largest, New York City, are
    devising
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/26/us/coronavirus-schools-reopen-fall.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{hybrid
    plans} that involve spending some days in classrooms and other days
    online. There's no national policy on this yet, so check with your
    municipal school system regularly to see what is happening in your
    community.
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

When departing, travelers must arrive at the airport at least three
hours before flight time. Those with symptoms of Covid-19, such as a
fever of 99.1 or higher and coughing, may not be permitted to enter the
airport and board their flights.

\hypertarget{puerto-rico}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.discoverpuertorico.com/info/travel-advisory}{PUERTO
RICO}}{PUERTO RICO}}\label{puerto-rico}}

Puerto Rico has postponed its reopening to tourists from outside the
territory.

When planning a future trip, travelers must have evidence of a negative
test taken no more than 72 hours before arrival and complete an online
travel declaration form. If the test result is pending, they must
quarantine until it is available. If the result comes back positive, or
if it doesn't arrive, the person must quarantine for 14 days. Those
arriving without a test must have one done on the island at their own
expense, and must quarantine while awaiting the result. Anyone not
taking a test must quarantine for 14 days.

Image

St. Lucia is screening arrivals and taking temperatures.~Credit...Kirk
Elliott for The New York Times

\hypertarget{st-lucia}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.stlucia.org/en/covid-19/}{ST.
LUCIA}}{ST. LUCIA}}\label{st-lucia}}

Visitors must have proof of a negative Covid-19 test taken within the
past seven days, unless they are coming from a country within a
Caribbean ``bubble.'' Arriving passengers must have completed a travel
registration and they will be screened and their temperatures taken.
Anyone showing symptoms of the coronavirus will be tested, and if the
results are positive, the person will be transferred to a hospital for
treatment at their expense.

Visitors must have confirmed reservations at a Covid-19 certified
accommodation provider for the duration of their stay. For at least the
month of July, it will be more difficult to explore the island as there
are no rental cars and only a small number of tours will be available to
book through the hotels. Masks are required in public.

Image

Flights from the United States to St. Maarten won't be allowed until at
least Aug. 1.~Credit...Tony Cenicola/The New York Times

\hypertarget{st-maarten}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://stmaartenupdates.com}{ST.
MAARTEN}}{ST. MAARTEN}}\label{st-maarten}}

St. Maarten plans to start welcoming tourists from the United States on
Aug. 1, having already opened up to those from Canada and Europe.

Before arrival, visitors must complete an online health declaration and
receive a reply giving them permission to visit. Those over age 10 from
a country identified as high or moderate risk for transmission of the
coronavirus must show proof of a negative test taken within 72 hours of
boarding their flights. Only those from low-risk countries are exempt,
unless they visited a higher-risk country in the two weeks before their
trip to St. Maarten. In that case, they, too, must show proof of a
negative test.

Travelers from moderate and high-risk countries need to bring a
thermometer, and they must upload daily information about their body
temperature and any flu-like symptoms. Those from moderate-risk
countries must comply for eight days, while those from high-risk
countries must comply for 14 day.

Travel insurance that will cover any coronavirus-related expenses is
also mandatory.

Image

Travelers arriving in St. Vincent and the Grenadines in July must take a
Covid-19 test and isolate in their hotels.~Credit...Chris Jackson/Pool
via REUTERS

\hypertarget{st-vincent-and-the-grenadines}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.facebookcorewwwi.onion/svgairports/photos/pcb.934154330347186/934153757013910/}{ST.
VINCENT AND THE
GRENADINES}}{ST. VINCENT AND THE GRENADINES}}\label{st-vincent-and-the-grenadines}}

Under protocols in place for the month of July, visitors will be given a
Covid-19 test and must quarantine at their hotel for 24 hours while
awaiting the results, unless they have proof of a negative test for the
virus taken within the previous 48 hours, or a positive antibody test
taken within the previous five days. Anyone who tests positive must
isolate in an approved facility for 14 days at their own expense.

Those exempt from the airport test must monitor their temperature for
two weeks and report any changes to health authorities.

After Aug. 1, plans call for testing to be done based on the traveler's
country of origin.

Image

Serbia has lifted travel restrictions, but is facing serious outbreaks
of Covid-19.Credit...Marko Risovic for The New York Times

\hypertarget{serbia}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://rs.usembassy.gov/health-and-travel-alert-3/}{SERBIA}}{SERBIA}}\label{serbia}}

All coronavirus-related entry restrictions have been lifted for Serbia.
However, some hospitals have been overwhelmed with coronavirus patients
in recent days and troops this month set up an emergency
\href{https://www.republicworld.com/world-news/europe/serbia-military-sets-up-field-hospital-for-virus.html}{500-bed
field hospital near Belgrade}.

A state of emergency was declared in the capital last month as the
number of new cases spiked.

Image

Tanzania is requring visitors to undergo screening, including a possible
Covid-19 test.~Credit...Jerome Delay/Associated Press

\hypertarget{tanzania}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://tanzaniaembassy-us.org}{TANZANIA}}{TANZANIA}}\label{tanzania}}

Passengers arriving on an international flight to Tanzania must complete
a Health Surveillance Form and undergo screening, including a possible
Covid-19 test.

Image

Turkey will be conducting thermal screenings of arriving
visitors.~Credit...Tara Todras-Whitehill for The New York Times

\hypertarget{turkey}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://tr.usembassy.gov/covid-19-information-2/}{TURKEY}}{TURKEY}}\label{turkey}}

Visitors to Turkey will be screened using thermal cameras, and travelers
with elevated temperatures may be subject to testing. Foreign passengers
who test positive for Covid-19 will be referred to a private hospital.
Face masks are required in many areas. Violators may be fined about
\$130.

Image

International visitors will be allowed in Turks and Caicos starting on
July 22, the country has said.~Credit...Chris Ramirez for The New York
Times

\hypertarget{turks-and-caicos}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://turksandcaicostourism.com/}{TURKS
AND CAICOS}}{TURKS AND CAICOS}}\label{turks-and-caicos}}

The Turks and Caicos Islands reopened its borders on July 22. The
country is requiring a negative test result taken within five days of
travel. Visitors also must have insurance that covers any Covid-19
related medical costs, as well as an air ambulance or medevac. A Travel
Authorization Form must be completed by all passengers before boarding a
plane to the islands, and a health screening questionnaire also needs to
be filled out.

Image

U.S. citizens visiting Ukraine must prove they have health insurance to
cover possible treatment for the coronavirus.~Credit...Brendan Hoffman
for The New York Times

\hypertarget{ukraine}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://ua.usembassy.gov/covid-19-information/}{UKRAINE}}{UKRAINE}}\label{ukraine}}

U.S. citizens can enter Ukraine if they can show they have medical
insurance covering all expenses related to possible Covid-19 treatment.
Ukraine currently classifies the United States as a country with a high
incidence of coronavirus, which means that U.S. travelers should be
prepared to self-quarantine for two weeks at their own expense or take a
test upon arrival. Test results are emailed within 24 hours, and
passengers should follow the self-quarantine protocol until the results
are sent to health authorities.

The government is using a four-color scale (green, yellow, orange and
red) to identify the virus risk in each region, and quarantine orders
may differ by color.

\hypertarget{united-arab-emirates}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://ae.usembassy.gov/u-s-citizen-services/covid-19-information/}{UNITED
ARAB EMIRATES}}{UNITED ARAB EMIRATES}}\label{united-arab-emirates}}

Travelers must have proof of a negative Covid-19 test taken within 96
hours of their flight in order to board a commercial aircraft to the
country. Many passengers are also tested upon arrival, and some may need
to self quarantine or may be sent to a quarantine facility. The U.S.
embassy says all people arriving in the U.A.E. are urged to self
quarantine for 14 days. International health insurance is also required.

While Dubai is open, those wanting to enter Abu Dhabi must show proof of
a test conducted in the previous 48 hours, or schedule an appointment
for a blood test.

Fines for violators can range from \$250 to more than \$27,000.

Image

Anyone from the United States who arrives in the United Kingdom must
self-isolate for 14 days.~Credit...Andy Haslam for The New York Times

\hypertarget{united-kingdom}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.gov.uk/uk-border-control}{UNITED
KINGDOM}}{UNITED KINGDOM}}\label{united-kingdom}}

The list of ``travel corridor'' countries ---~countries whose residents
are allowed into England with few restrictions --- is growing, but the
United States is still not on it. As a result, anyone arriving from the
United States must be prepared to isolate for 14 days, or face a penalty
of up to \$1,250. Passengers transiting in an airport are exempt, as are
those going directly from one port to another; for instance, from
Heathrow to Eurostar.

Follow Karen Schwartz on Twitter:
\href{https://twitter.com/wanderwomanisme?lang=en}{@WanderWomanIsMe}

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

\emph{\textbf{Follow New York Times Travel}}
\emph{on}\href{https://www.instagram.com/nytimestravel/}{\emph{Instagram}}\emph{,}\href{https://twitter.com/nytimestravel}{\emph{Twitter}}
\emph{and}\href{https://www.facebookcorewwwi.onion/nytimestravel/}{\emph{Facebook}}\emph{.
And}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/traveldispatch}{\emph{sign
up for our weekly Travel Dispatch newsletter}} \emph{to receive expert
tips on traveling smarter and inspiration for your next vacation.
Dreaming up a future getaway or just armchair traveling? Check out
our}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/travel/places-to-visit.html}{\emph{52
Places list}}\emph{.}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
