Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}Betsy DeVos, Trump's
Education Pick, Has Steered Money From Public Schools

\url{https://nyti.ms/2ghJLek}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{betsy-devos-trumps-education-pick-has-steered-money-from-public-schools}{%
\section{Betsy DeVos, Trump's Education Pick, Has Steered Money From
Public
Schools}\label{betsy-devos-trumps-education-pick-has-steered-money-from-public-schools}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2016/11/24/us/24devos_web1/24devos_web1-articleLarge-v2.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By \href{http://www.nytimes.com/by/kate-zernike}{Kate Zernike}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Nov. 23, 2016
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

It is hard to find anyone more passionate about the idea of steering
public dollars away from traditional public schools than Betsy DeVos,
Donald J. Trump's pick as the cabinet secretary overseeing the nation's
education system.

For nearly 30 years, as a philanthropist, activist and Republican
fund-raiser, she has
\href{http://www.nytimes.com/2016/11/23/upshot/why-donald-trumps-education-pick-would-face-barriers-for-vouchers.html?rref=collection\%2Fsectioncollection\%2Fupshot\&action=click\&contentCollection=upshot\&region=rank\&module=package\&version=highlights\&contentPlacement=2\&pgtype=sectionfront\&_r=0}{pushed}
to give families taxpayer money in the form of vouchers to attend
private and parochial schools, pressed to expand publicly funded but
privately run charter schools, and tried to strip teacher unions of
their influence.

A daughter of privilege, she also married into it; her husband, Dick,
who
\href{http://www.nytimes.com/2006/10/09/us/politics/09michigan.html}{ran
unsuccessfully for governor of Michigan} a decade ago, is heir to the
Amway fortune. Like many education philanthropists, she argues that
children's ZIP codes should not confine them to failing schools.

But Ms. DeVos's efforts to expand educational opportunity in her home
state of Michigan and across the country have focused little on existing
public schools, and almost entirely on establishing newer, more
entrepreneurial models to compete with traditional schools for students
and money. Her donations and advocacy go almost entirely toward groups
seeking to move students and money away from what Mr. Trump calls
``failing government schools.''

Conservative school choice activists hailed her on Wednesday as a fellow
disrupter, and as someone who would block what they see as federal
intrusion on local schools.

Former Gov. Jeb Bush of Florida, where Ms. DeVos helped push legislation
establishing tax credits for scholarships to private schools, called her
an ``outstanding pick,'' a ``passionate change agent to press for a new
education vision.''

``Her allegiance is to families, particularly those struggling at the
bottom of the economic ladder, not to an outdated public education model
that has failed them from one generation to the next,'' he
\href{https://www.facebook.com/jebbush/posts/1031443833651326}{wrote on
Facebook}.

Frederick M. Hess, the director of education policy studies for the
conservative American Enterprise Institute in Washington, called Ms.
DeVos a ``smart, principled small-government conservative who's
experienced in politics and versed in the relevant policy.''

But to teachers' unions, she is anathema.

Randi Weingarten, the president of the American Federation of Teachers,
called Ms. DeVos ``the most ideological, anti-public education nominee''
since the secretary of education was elevated to the cabinet level four
decades ago.

Even some groups that share her support for charter schools worried that
picking someone so closely identified as a champion of vouchers signaled
that the Trump administration would try to starve public schools.

As a candidate, Mr. Trump proposed steering \$20 billion in existing
federal money toward vouchers that families could use to help pay for
private or parochial schools, perhaps tapping into \$15 billion in
so-called Title I money that goes to schools that serve the country's
poorest children. He called school choice ``the civil rights issues of
our time.''

Image

Betsy DeVos, the pick for secretary of education, has advocated charter
schools and vouchers.Credit...Drew Angerer/Getty Images

Amber Arellano, the executive director of the Education Trust-Midwest,
an advocacy group in Michigan that supports charters but
\href{https://midwest.edtrust.org/accountability-for-all/}{has been
critical} of a Michigan charter school law that Ms. DeVos has spent
millions to defend, said the pick had ``the potential to undermine the
nation's hard-won progress by diverting resources from the young people
who most need them, or by failing to uphold the federal government's
responsibility to protecting the needs and interests of all students ---
especially the most vulnerable.''

Michigan is one of the nation's biggest school choice laboratories,
especially with charter schools. The Detroit, Flint and Grand Rapids
school districts have among the nation's 10 largest shares of students
in charters, and the state sends \$1 billion in education funding to
charters annually. Of those schools, 80 percent are run by for-profit
organizations, a far higher share than anywhere else in the nation.

The DeVoses, the most prominent name in state Republican politics, have
been the
\href{http://www.metrotimes.com/Blogs/archives/2016/05/17/lawmakers-deciding-the-future-of-detroit-schools-accepted-thousands-from-pro-charter-devos-family}{biggest
financial and political backers} of the effort.

But if Michigan is a center of school choice, it is also among the worst
places to argue that choice has made schools better. As the state
embraced and then expanded charters over the past two decades, its rank
has fallen on national reading and math tests. Most charter schools
perform below the state average.

And a federal review in 2015 found ``an unreasonably high'' percentage
of charter schools on the list of the state's lowest-performing schools.
The number of charter schools on that list had doubled since 2010, after
the passage of a law a group financed by Ms. DeVos pushed to expand the
schools. The group blocked a provision in that law that would have
prevented failing schools from expanding or replicating.

Ms. DeVos, 58, got into education advocacy primarily as a backer of
vouchers, and has served on the board of several organizations that have
campaigned for them across the country.

A ballot initiative she led to establish vouchers in Michigan failed in
2000. The next year, she established the Great Lakes Education Project,
which became an ardent proponent of charter school expansion, and has
donated generously to candidates who have supported it.

The Michigan law pushed by Ms. DeVos to establish charter schools 20
years ago allows an unusually large number of organizations to start
such schools, yet established little mechanism for oversight. Even
Republican supporters of charter schools say the law has allowed failing
charter schools to expand or replicate.

Last spring, the DeVos-backed group was the chief force behind the
defeat of legislation that would have established standards for
identifying and closing failing schools, both charter and public, in
Detroit, where a flood of charter schools in the past decade has created
what even charter school supporters call
\href{http://www.nytimes.com/2016/06/29/us/for-detroits-children-more-school-choice-but-not-better-schools.html?smid=fb-shar}{chaos}.

Ms. DeVos was born in Western Michigan, the more conservative and
religious part of the state, where her father created a successful auto
parts company. Her brother is Erik Prince,
\href{http://www.nytimes.com/2015/04/15/world/middleeast/blackwaters-legacy-goes-beyond-public-view.html}{the
founder of Blackwater}, the troubled private security contractor that
was awarded billions in United States government contracts in the Middle
East.

Like many conservatives who supported Mr. Trump, she does not support
Common Core, the set of standards for what students should know at each
grade level that was developed by the National Governors Association and
other groups --- and that has been incorrectly branded as a federal
policy.

She also had not supported Mr. Trump; her family was behind Senator
Marco Rubio of Florida in the Republican presidential primary.

On Wednesday, she
\href{https://twitter.com/BetsyDeVos/status/801489110984691712}{wrote on
Twitter}: ``I am honored to work with the president-elect on his vision
to make American education great again. The status quo in ed is not
acceptable.''

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{Â©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
