Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}The Most Powerful People in
American Politics Are Over 65

\url{https://nyti.ms/3bojg3g}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/04/us/elections/primary-election-michigan-arizona-kansas.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Election
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/biden-vice-president-2020.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Biden's
  V.P. Search}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/07/24/us/politics/trump-biden-campaign-donors.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Map
  of Donations}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/elections/delegate-count-primary-results.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Delegate
  Count}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2019/us/politics/2020-presidential-candidates.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{The
  Candidates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Politics
  Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{the-most-powerful-people-in-american-politics-are-over-65}{%
\section{The Most Powerful People in American Politics Are Over
65}\label{the-most-powerful-people-in-american-politics-are-over-65}}

President Trump is 73. His leading rival is 77. And many of their
strongest supporters --- vulnerable to the coronavirus but enormously
influential politically --- are eligible for Social Security.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/03/25/us/politics/00gerontocracy/merlin_168947532_24bee1ea-d0e3-4470-b84d-76db18bd3c53-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/katie-glueck}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/01/29/reader-center/author-katie-glueck/author-katie-glueck-thumbLarge.png}}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/sabrina-tavernise}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/06/13/multimedia/author-sabrina-tavernise/author-sabrina-tavernise-thumbLarge.jpg}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/katie-glueck}{Katie Glueck} and
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/sabrina-tavernise}{Sabrina Tavernise}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  March 27, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

LAS VEGAS ---
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/elections/joe-biden.html}{Joseph
R. Biden Jr.} wasn't accustomed to overflow audiences.

It was a Tuesday evening in February and Mr. Biden had limped into Las
Vegas, bruised from his disappointing showings in the Iowa and New
Hampshire nominating contests. But at Harbor Palace Seafood Restaurant,
a dim sum spot here, a crowd of retirees had packed in to see the
77-year-old former vice president, forming a line that snaked out the
door.

``I don't like Warren and I don't like Bernie because they want
`Medicare for all,''' said Alan Davis, 80, dismissing the single-payer
health care system promoted by Senator
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/elections/bernie-sanders.html}{Bernie
Sanders}, 78. ``I'm totally against it. I have a good health plan.''

Mr. Biden is ``really human. He can feel how an ordinary person feels,''
said Minerva Honkala, a retired teacher who identified herself as
``65-plus.''

Mr. Biden's ability to connect with Ms. Honkala's age group --- through
his résumé and more centrist tendencies, his talk of shared values and
his perceived general election promise --- helped him regain his footing
in Nevada, surge to victory in South Carolina and catapult to his perch
as the likely Democratic nominee. It was a rapid reversal of fortunes
fueled by overwhelming support first from older black voters and,
ultimately, from older voters more broadly, a key part of his larger
coalition.

Now that age group is top of mind for many Americans as the nation
confronts the staggering costs of
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/news-event/coronavirus}{the coronavirus
crisis}. It's a vulnerable population in terms of the outbreak --- and
has become the focus of the public conversation. Health officials are
pleading for young people to stay home to protect their parents and
grandparents, while in Texas, Dan Patrick, the Republican lieutenant
governor,
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/24/us/coronavirus-texas-patrick-abbott.html}{suggested
that} older people might be willing to take risks in order to protect
the economy, sparking a national controversy.

But politically, the primary results this election season have
highlighted the extraordinary, sustained power of older Americans: Exit
polls, surveys and interviews with political strategists and
demographers show that the concerns and preferences of these voters have
played a critical role in defining the trajectory of the Democratic race
so far, and are poised to do so in the general election as well.

In Florida, a state with a significant retiree population, Mr. Biden
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/03/17/us/elections/results-florida-president-democrat-primary-election.html}{won
the Democratic primary last week by} nearly 40 percentage points, a
reflection of both his momentum in the race and his strength with
constituencies including more moderate Latino voters, African-Americans
and college-educated white suburbanites. Among voters aged 65 and over,
Mr. Biden's advantage was even starker: He was the choice of 70 percent
of those voters, while 5 percent said the same of Mr. Sanders, according
to a National Election Pool pre-election survey of Florida voters.

``Older voters, after African-American voters, have been the single most
important constituency for Joe Biden,'' said Celinda Lake, a veteran
Democratic pollster and political strategist who works with the Biden
team but spoke in her personal capacity.

Younger voters have had ``tremendous influence'' in shaping the contours
of the Democratic debate, pushing boldly progressive ideas on matters
like student loan debt reform to the fore, said John Della Volpe, the
director of polling at Harvard Kennedy School's Institute of Politics.

When it comes to electoral outcomes, however, young people are being
outflanked: ``Rather than increasing their influence in 2020, what's
happened is, their parents and grandparents have increased their
influence,'' he said.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-2020-election}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/04/us/elections/primary-election-michigan-arizona-kansas.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: 2020
Election}}{Latest Updates: 2020 Election}}\label{latest-updates-2020-election}}

Updated 2020-08-04T19:23:30.305Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/04/us/elections/primary-election-michigan-arizona-kansas.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-3924dd44}{Two
  G.O.P. Senate primaries offer --- what else? --- a test of loyalty to
  Trump.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/04/us/elections/primary-election-michigan-arizona-kansas.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-32b39e33}{President
  Trump is suddenly a big supporter of mail-in voting --- in Florida.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/04/us/elections/primary-election-michigan-arizona-kansas.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-6d019753}{Election
  experts warn Congress about widespread disenfranchisement of voters of
  color in November.}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/04/us/elections/primary-election-michigan-arizona-kansas.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

Those Democratic grandparents, especially, tend to be more moderate,
more swayed by traditional government experience and more keenly focused
on the tactics they believe are needed to defeat President Trump,
strategists and pollsters said.

Mr. Biden, who once faced significant competition for older Americans,
emerged in recent weeks as the dominant front-runner among those highly
committed Democratic voters who have now helped bring him to the cusp of
his party's presidential nomination.

Older voters have punched above their political weight for years, with
turnout among those 65 and older often double, or more, that of the
youngest voters. As Americans age and become more rooted in their
communities, political participation tends to rise with their stake in
society.

Even in the midterm elections in 2018, hailed as a high-water mark for
youth voting because the share of 18- to 24-year-olds nearly doubled
from the previous midterm election, the gap with older voters remained
about the same. About 66 percent of eligible older people turned out,
compared with about 36 percent of 18- to 24-year-olds, said William
Frey, a demographer at the Brookings Institution.

``There's no magic age for becoming a regular voter,'' said Carroll
Doherty, the director of political research at the Pew Research Center.
``But when people move into their 40s, that's when you see voter turnout
grow.''

Certainly, Mr. Sanders, the overwhelming favorite with younger voters,
is continuing to campaign. And while the Vermont senator
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/04/us/politics/bernie-sanders-young-voter-turnout.html}{has
acknowledged} that younger voters did not appear to turn out at the rate
he had hoped for, polls and exit surveys show that Mr. Biden faces major
challenges with that constituency, a liberal slice of the electorate
that, his advisers acknowledge, he will need to energize if he is the
nominee.

His standing with older voters is also poised to look different in a
general election, where that demographic is again influential --- but
traditionally has tilted much more conservative.

``The irony is that the pattern is about to reverse in the general,''
Ms. Lake said, pointing to Mr. Trump's overall strength with older
voters, even as she added that ``Donald Trump is despised by younger
voters.''

The virus has thrown politics completely, and unpredictably, up in the
air. What will happen in Florida's retirement communities --- some of
the most vulnerable in the nation to the virus --- if Mr. Trump's
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/23/business/trump-coronavirus-economy.html}{push
to reopen the country fast} comes to pass? It's a question with
potentially partisan implications.

Older people have long leaned Republican. A majority have chosen
Republicans in four of the last seven presidential elections, according
to Mr. Frey. In recent years they have also become more demographically
distinct from the rest of the country: About 78 percent of eligible
senior voters are white, compared with just 67 percent of eligible
voters in the country as a whole.

Older voters favored Mr. Trump in 2016. In Pennsylvania, they preferred
him by a 10-point margin, Mr. Frey said. In all, 52 percent of older
people --- and 58 percent of white seniors --- voted for Mr. Trump in
2016, Mr. Frey said.

Seniors also show up, particularly in swing states. In the Midwestern
states of Michigan and Wisconsin in 2016, turnout among older voters was
higher than the national average for that age group, according to Mr.
Frey. In Michigan, for example, 74 percent of older eligible voters
turned out, compared with just 38 percent of 18- to 24-year-old eligible
voters.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/03/25/us/politics/00gerontocracy/merlin_170134227_7f6c3bc4-bec2-4ecb-af85-f884d64c2690-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

This presents a challenge for Mr. Biden, should he win the nomination:
how to get younger voters --- who did not prefer him to begin with ---
to turn out for him, while persuading their older counterparts, who tend
to choose Republicans, to vote for him over Mr. Trump.

In recent weeks, Mr. Biden has increased his efforts to appeal to
younger and more progressive voters,
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/17/us/politics/joe-biden-democrats-liberals.html}{ramping
up outreach} and embracing portions of
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/15/us/politics/biden-backs-free-college.html}{proposals
from} Mr. Sanders and Senator Elizabeth Warren that
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/14/us/politics/biden-warren-bankruptcy.html}{take
aim} at the student debt burden.

But throughout the primary contest, Mr. Biden's most consistent
overtures were to older voters, both substantively and through explicit
and more subtle messaging.

His inaugural bus trip across Iowa was called the ``No Malarkey'' tour,
a phrase that struck some younger voters as dated, following Mr. Biden's
proactive mention, in an autumn debate, of a
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/09/12/us/politics/biden-record-player.html}{record
player}. It didn't seem out of step with the older crowds at his events,
where Mr. Biden would often aim to connect over what he cast as similar
upbringings.

``The way we were raised, all of you were raised, the way I was raised,
everything's about integrity and decency,'' he said in Emmetsburg, Iowa,
in December.

On the policy front, his experience in foreign affairs and his support
for building on the Affordable Care Act while allowing Americans the
option of maintaining their private insurance resonated with older
voters.

There were ``almost pragmatic, urgent worries about health care that
people want addressed in the short term,'' Stanley B. Greenberg, a
longtime Democratic pollster, said when asked about the age gap at play
in the primary. Several Sanders priorities, he continued, including
``Medicare for all, climate change and student debt --- almost all of
them are kind of long term.''

Younger voters who were focused on the future, he added, ``have more
space to deal with it.''

Mr. Biden struggled in Iowa and New Hampshire, when he faced a crowded
primary field and significant competition for many demographics. Over
the summer and into the fall, older people often
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/07/29/us/politics/joe-biden-age.html}{voiced
concerns} about Mr. Biden's sharpness and stamina. Voters who were close
to Mr. Biden's age were often keenly aware of their own limitations ---
and some worried about whether he faced the same challenges they did.

``Early on, they weren't sold on Joe Biden,'' said Patrick Murray,
director of the Monmouth University Polling Institute. ``Many of them
felt he was too old.''

Image

Voters on primary day in Columbia, S.C., last month. Mr. Biden's victory
in South Carolina, powered partly by older black voters, jump-started
his struggling campaign.~Credit...Travis Dove for The New York Times

Those voters, he said, were also drawn to candidates like Senator Amy
Klobuchar of Minnesota or former Mayor Pete Buttigieg of South Bend,
Ind. But as those candidates dropped out and endorsed Mr. Biden on the
eve of Super Tuesday, he shored up his strength with older white voters,
while his appeal to older black voters continued apace: He went on to
win the support of a stunning 94 percent of black voters over the age of
60 in Mississippi, according to exit polls.

Older Americans will soon be even more important. Mr. Frey noted that
the large ``Baby Boom'' generation has only just begun entering the
older American voting bloc. He
\href{https://academic.oup.com/ppar/article/28/1/9/4958149}{has
calculated} that the number of senior eligible voters will rise to 68
million in 2028 from 47 million in 2016.

``The second half of the boomer generation has yet to turn 65,'' he
said. ``When more of them do, they are going to make this older voting
bloc even more prized, especially in the northern swing states like
Iowa, Wisconsin, Michigan and Pennsylvania.''

Mr. Biden, who was born in Scranton, Pa., and emphasizes his
working-class roots, is not ceding those voters, and his allies argue
that his strong performance with older voters in the primary signals an
ability to cut into what has historically been a Republican advantage in
the general election.

Andrew Bates, a spokesman for the Biden campaign, said that Mr. Biden
would offer a clear contrast with Mr. Trump's record on health care and
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/01/22/us/politics/medicare-trump.html}{social
safety net matters}, promising that ``older Americans will remember
whose values align with theirs this fall.'' Sarah Matthews, a
spokeswoman for the Trump campaign, defended that record, calling Mr.
Trump a ``proven champion for seniors'' --- a sign of possible clashes
to come.

But first, there is still a primary contest, and the age gap between Mr.
Biden and Mr. Sanders has been on vivid display all year. The senator
favored large rallies that attracted devoted young people, while Mr.
Biden's events, even in his strongest states, tended to be smaller, with
crowds that tilted older.

Now, because the coronavirus outbreak forced an end to traditional
campaigning, Mr. Biden's efforts to reach voters --- old and young ---
are typically online anyway.

He and his team are working on a podcast and he has hosted a virtual
happy hour with younger supporters --- but his efforts have
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/13/us/politics/joe-biden-digital-campaign.html}{faced
technological difficulties}, and Mr. Biden has admitted it is
challenging to adjust.

``As you can tell,'' he wrote in a newsletter on Wednesday, ``I'm still
getting used to this virtual world we're campaigning in.''

\hypertarget{our-2020-election-guide}{%
\section{Our 2020 Election Guide}\label{our-2020-election-guide}}

Updated Aug. 4, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{the-latest}{%
  \subsection{The Latest}\label{the-latest}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Five states are holding primary elections Tuesday, with voters in
    Arizona, Kansas, Michigan, Missouri and Washington State choosing
    nominees for Congress and local offices.
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/04/us/elections/primary-election-michigan-arizona-kansas.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Follow
    live election updates here.}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{bidens-vp-search}{%
  \subsection{Biden's V.P. Search}\label{bidens-vp-search}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/biden-vice-president-2020.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Here
    are 13 women} who have been under consideration to be Joe Biden's
    running mate, and why each might be chosen --- and might not be.
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{keep-up-with-our-coverage}{%
  \subsection{Keep Up With Our
  Coverage}\label{keep-up-with-our-coverage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Get an
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{email}
    recapping the day's news
  \end{itemize}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Download our mobile app on
    \href{https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nytimes/id284862083?ls=1\&mat_click_id=5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\&referrer=mat_click_id\%3D5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\%26link_click_id\%3D722930677036718082}{iOS}
    and
    \href{http://a.localytics.com/android?id=com.nytimes.android\&referrer=utm_source\%3Dother_nyt_mobile_web\%26utm_medium\%3DWeb\%2520page\%26utm_term\%3DGeneral\%2520Mobile\%2520Page\%26utm_campaign\%3DNYT\%2520Mobile\%2520General\%2520Page}{Android}
    and turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
