Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/world/middleeast}{Middle East}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/world/middleeast}{Middle East}\textbar{}Urging Iran to
`Make the Big Deal,' Trump Ties Nuclear Negotiations to Election

\url{https://nyti.ms/2BDxfWt}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Election
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/biden-vice-president-2020.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Biden's
  V.P. Search}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/07/24/us/politics/trump-biden-campaign-donors.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Map
  of Donations}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/elections/delegate-count-primary-results.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Delegate
  Count}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2019/us/politics/2020-presidential-candidates.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{The
  Candidates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Politics
  Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{urging-iran-to-make-the-big-deal-trump-ties-nuclear-negotiations-to-election}{%
\section{Urging Iran to `Make the Big Deal,' Trump Ties Nuclear
Negotiations to
Election}\label{urging-iran-to-make-the-big-deal-trump-ties-nuclear-negotiations-to-election}}

The president's invitation came as international inspectors were said to
have found that Iran had boosted its stockpile of low-enriched uranium
in the past three months.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/06/06/us/politics/06dc-iran/merlin_173242845_9a6545c3-e09b-416f-8206-2108b6af7105-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/david-e-sanger}{David E. Sanger},
Farnaz Fassihi and \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/rick-gladstone}{Rick
Gladstone}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  June 5, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

WASHINGTON --- President Trump on Friday celebrated the return of an
American imprisoned in Iran by urging Tehran to ``make the Big deal'' on
its nuclear program, and dangled the possibility that they would get
better terms if they negotiated before the presidential election,
seeming to invite Tehran to help return him to office.

Mr. Trump's offer was immediately rejected by the Iranian leadership,
which now seems to harbor doubts that he will remain president, and is
hunkering down to survive American-led sanctions until they see the
results of the November election.

At the same time, hints from inside the International Atomic Energy
Agency suggested that a forthcoming report on Iran's nuclear progress
could say that Tehran has boosted its stockpile of low-enriched uranium
by about 50 percent in the past three months, and now possesses about
eight times as much nuclear fuel as was permitted under the nuclear
accord that Mr. Trump abandoned two years ago.

Ever since Mr. Trump chose to leave what he called a ``terrible'' and
``failed'' deal, Secretary of State Mike Pompeo and others have said
that the combination of escalating sanctions, diplomatic isolation and
the threat of possible military force would prompt the Iranian
government to come to the negotiating table. So far that has failed, and
Mr. Trump's offer on Friday was a remarkably transparent invitation to
an adversary to give him a diplomatic win before what could be a close
American election.

``Thank you to Iran,'' the president wrote in a tweet about the release
of a Navy veteran detained in Tehran, Michael R. White. ``Don't wait
until after U.S. Election to make the Big deal. I'm going to win. You'll
make a better deal now!''

\hypertarget{latest-updates-2020-election}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: 2020
Election}}{Latest Updates: 2020 Election}}\label{latest-updates-2020-election}}

Updated 2020-08-01T01:26:45.732Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-29fdff45}{Kamala
  Harris, a top vice-presidential contender, confronts double
  standards.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-13ec3d9c}{Karen
  Bass and Susan Rice are rising on Biden's vice-presidential
  shortlist.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-49e9a016}{Trump
  says Russian bounties to kill U.S. troops `never took place.'}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

Aides to Mr. Pompeo and Mr. Trump declined to explain why, if the United
States was negotiating in its own national interest, Iran might get
preferential treatment for negotiating with Mr. Trump before the
election.

``That is probably something best directed to the White House,'' said
Brian H. Hook, the State Department's special envoy for Iran, who would
have to negotiate any agreement should the leadership in Tehran decide
to come to the table.

``We had a deal when you entered office,'' Iran's foreign minister,
Mohammad Javad Zarif, responded to Mr. Trump in a tweet on Friday. Iran
and the other participants in the 2015 agreement --- Britain, France,
Germany, the European Union, Russia and China --- ``never left the
table,'' he said. ``Your advisers --- most fired by now --- made a dumb
bet. Up to you to decide *when* you want to fix it.''

Hesameddin Ashena, the top policy adviser to President Hassan Rouhani of
Iran also responded. ``You are going down on November 3rd and we know
that,''
\href{https://twitter.com/hesamodin1/status/1268867213819346944}{he
tweeted}. ``So you'll need to offer much more than Obama did!''

That aggressive tone marked a change. In recent months, Iran has seemed
interested in
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/05/19/world/middleeast/iran-us-relations.html?searchResultPosition=4}{turning
down the temperature with Washington,} negotiating on the release of
prisoners and reducing attacks from its proxy militias on American
forces in Iraq. But the calculus may have changed now that polls show
Mr. Trump struggling; the presumptive Democratic candidate, Joseph R.
Biden Jr., was involved in the negotiation of the 2015 deal and the
Iranians may have concluded it can be reconstructed if he takes office.

``I think something has certainly changed on the Iranian side,'' said
Henry Rome, an Iran analyst at the Eurasia Group, a political risk
consulting firm. ``Certainly last summer, they assumed Trump was going
to be re-elected.''

Mr. Rome said he would draw two conclusions. ``You don't want to do
anything that would help Trump be re-elected. That would give him a
boost they simply don't want to chance,'' he said. ``It also means if
they wait long enough, and they are correct that Joe Biden becomes
president, then you have a much different dynamic, and a much more
sustainable one.''

He rejected the idea that the Iranians, sensing that Mr. Trump is
desperate, might see an advantage in negotiating an agreement with him
now. ``The Iranian view is that this would not be a sustainable deal,
with someone as volatile as Trump,'' he said.

Mr. Hook argued that the release of Mr. White, who was detained for
nearly two years, was evidence that the United States can negotiate from
a position of strength, noting that he was returned with ``no sanctions
relief, no change of policy and no pallets of cash,'' the last a
reference to how the Obama administration returned to Iran funds it had
in the United States that had been frozen for nearly 30 years.

But he also argued that the Iranian people were losing out on an
opportunity to avoid have ``their national wealth squandered, in the
Middle East and Venezuela,'' places where Iran is actively providing
support. In the two years since Mr. Trump left the Iran deal, Mr. Hook
noted, ``he has met with Kim Jong-un three times.'' He did not note that
those meetings have, so far, been fruitless, and Mr. Kim, the North
Korean leader, has continued with his nuclear weapons program.

The report from the International Atomic Energy Agency was only
circulated to a small number of nations, but leaks of its contents,
ahead of a meeting of the agency in a few weeks, suggest that Iran is
continuing its slow but steady accumulation of nuclear material. While
it is hard to calculate with any precision exactly how many months it
wold take Iran to produce enough fuel to make a single bomb, Iran's
production of material --- which it says is a reaction to the United
States violating its commitments to suspend sanctions --- has clearly
slipped below the one-year buffer that was central to the 2015
agreement.

Even if Iran massed that amount of fuel, it would take months or years
to produce a weapon. Iran had far larger stockpiles before the agreement
was reached; as part of the accord, it shipped 97 percent of its fuel to
Russia.

The Iranians consider their slow nuclear buildup a form of reverse
pressure on Mr. Trump, in response to the sanctions.

``Our foreign policy has been very pragmatic in the past twenty years,''
said Gheis Ghoreishi, an Iranian foreign policy expert who has advised
Iran's foreign ministry on the country's relationship with Iraq. ``Right
now Iran has taken the approach of strategic patience to see what
happens in November with U.S. elections and if Trump will get
re-elected.''

David E. Sanger reported from Washington, Farnaz Fassihi from New York
and Rick Gladstone from Eastham, Mass.

\hypertarget{our-2020-election-guide}{%
\section{Our 2020 Election Guide}\label{our-2020-election-guide}}

Updated July 31, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{the-latest}{%
  \subsection{The Latest}\label{the-latest}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    President Trump's assault on the Postal Service is intersecting with
    his attacks on mail-in voting.
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/politics/trump-usps-mail-delays.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Voting
    rights groups say it is a recipe for disaster.}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{bidens-vp-search}{%
  \subsection{Biden's V.P. Search}\label{bidens-vp-search}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/biden-vice-president-2020.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Here
    are 13 women} who have been under consideration to be Joe Biden's
    running mate, and why each might be chosen --- and might not be.
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{keep-up-with-our-coverage}{%
  \subsection{Keep Up With Our
  Coverage}\label{keep-up-with-our-coverage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Get an
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{email}
    recapping the day's news
  \end{itemize}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Download our mobile app on
    \href{https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nytimes/id284862083?ls=1\&mat_click_id=5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\&referrer=mat_click_id\%3D5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\%26link_click_id\%3D722930677036718082}{iOS}
    and
    \href{http://a.localytics.com/android?id=com.nytimes.android\&referrer=utm_source\%3Dother_nyt_mobile_web\%26utm_medium\%3DWeb\%2520page\%26utm_term\%3DGeneral\%2520Mobile\%2520Page\%26utm_campaign\%3DNYT\%2520Mobile\%2520General\%2520Page}{Android}
    and turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
