Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/nyregion}{New York}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/nyregion}{New York}\textbar{}How a Dance Video Director
Spends His Sundays

\url{https://nyti.ms/2QM3HL6}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{the-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=3e65c860-f52e-11ea-aab9-5d05d5926c06\&variant=undefined}{The
Coronavirus
Outbreak}}{The Coronavirus Outbreak}}\label{the-coronavirus-outbreak}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  live\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/12/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=3e65c861-f52e-11ea-aab9-5d05d5926c06\&variant=undefined}{Latest
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=3e65c862-f52e-11ea-aab9-5d05d5926c06\&variant=undefined}{Maps
  and Cases}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=3e65c863-f52e-11ea-aab9-5d05d5926c06\&variant=undefined}{Vaccine
  Tracker}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/10/us/politics/fda-coronavirus-vaccine.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=3e65c864-f52e-11ea-aab9-5d05d5926c06\&variant=undefined}{F.D.A.
  Regulators' Self-Defense}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/09/upshot/coronavirus-surprise-test-fees.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=3e65c865-f52e-11ea-aab9-5d05d5926c06\&variant=undefined}{Surprise
  Test Fees}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{how-a-dance-video-director-spends-his-sundays}{%
\section{How a Dance Video Director Spends His
Sundays}\label{how-a-dance-video-director-spends-his-sundays}}

Life in New York has shifted since Redha Medjellekh was photographed in
February. But his message in the video below remains the same: Keep
dancing.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/03/27/nyregion/27routine-videocover1/27routine-videocover1-superJumbo.jpg}

By Tammy La Gorce

March 27, 2020

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

Redha Medjellekh has created videos for
\href{https://www.alvinailey.org/}{the Alvin Ailey American Dance
Theater} and for corporate clients like Target. His company,
\href{http://www.redisdancing.com/}{Red Is Dancing}, also produces
social commentary, like his response to the 2015 Paris terrorist
attacks, ``\href{https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Ebjg-m9eLk}{Paris Is
Kissing},'' and a
\href{https://www.instagram.com/p/B1tuy2THJjd/}{tribute} to the Rev. Dr.
Martin Luther King Jr.

A French-Algerian immigrant from the outskirts of Paris, Mr. Medjellekh,
34, is a widower; his wife, Sandrine, died shortly after their daughter,
Amani, was born. He and Amani, now 5, live in Clinton Hill, Brooklyn, in
the childhood apartment of the rapper
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/1997/03/10/us/rapper-is-shot-to-death-in-echo-of-killing-6-months-ago.html}{Biggie
Smalls}.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/03/29/nyregion/29ROUTINE1/29ROUTINE1-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\textbf{SAME PASSION, DIFFERENT DAY} I have the single-parent lifestyle.
I wake up at 5:30 or 6, which gives me a little bit of alone time before
the tornado --- my daughter, Amani --- wakes up. I'm obsessed with my
work. I'm blessed that it's also my passion, so I don't feel a Sunday is
a Sunday. It's just a continuation of the week for me.

\textbf{ALONE TIME} I love to watch YouTube videos before Amani wakes
up. It can be about self-improvement, like Tony Robbins. I have lemon
juice, or I will do coffee. If my parents-in-law or my grandma or my
parents are here from France, it's a whole different schedule because I
am able to go and do boxing. I love boxing. I will go train with the
bag. To me it's like a dance. I miss it right now. I don't have a bag
but I have, how do you say, a jump rope. I'm using that.

\textbf{VOILÀ} Very, very early on Sunday morning I will call my family
in France, because in France there's a six-hour difference. Voilà.
Sometimes I'm alone, and sometimes I have family.

My grandma lives with me sometimes, although clearly she cannot be here
now. I call her Mamy Zaza. She's 75. She's the one who introduced me to
dance. She's in Algeria right now, and I'm happy about that. I'm
FaceTiming with her every day, and with my parents, and with my parents
in-law. My parents caught the virus in Paris, but they're feeling good.

Me, I'm Algerian, and so our culture is we're always together. It was a
huge step for me to move to New York two years ago, but after my wife
died I had to move, I had to take action. Brooklyn feels like home.

Image

Some of the ``single parent crew'' in February, before social
distancing.Credit...Gioncarlo Valentine for The New York Times

Image

Since Risbo, his favorite brunch restaurant, stopped sit-down service,
he's continued to patronize it by ordering takeout.Credit...Gioncarlo
Valentine for The New York Times

\textbf{BRUNCH SPOT} Before all the restaurants closed down, I liked to
go to \href{https://www.risbobk.com/}{Risbo} for brunch. It's an amazing
place in Flatbush. My friend Boris is the chef and owner. The food is a
delicious mix with all the cultures in it. There's always music and
there's always creative people. I love the Risbo plate. It has a little
bit of everything: it has hummus, it has rice, it has vegetables. Amani
is all-American. She has mac and cheese.

Since Risbo closed, Boris started crowdfunding for his employees. It's a
tough moment for him because he wants to support them. If he's hurt, six
people are hurt. It's the ripple effect. I'm trying to support him by
getting takeout.

\textbf{SINGLE PARENT CREW} Then I'm usually with my S.P.C. --- my
single parent crew. In better days, they would meet us at Risbo, and we
would go to \href{https://www.brooklynkids.org/}{the Brooklyn Children's
Museum} or a playground.

There's Nasrin, there's Niki and Farhia. They're all amazing, creative
black women. They're stylists, singers, creators. They all live in
Bed-Stuy or Clinton Hill. They all have a child Amani's age. I'm the
only single father. They take care of me. They make fun of me.

Now I am also constantly checking in with them by text and WhatsApp to
see how we can help each other. Having their support is huge right now
since Mamy Zaza can't travel to the U.S.A. from Paris.

Image

No more barbershop treatment for a while. Now he's letting his beard
``go wild.''~ ~Credit...Gioncarlo Valentine for The New York Times

\textbf{MAINTENANCE} Once again, before the businesses shut down, I
would go to the barber every week. I'm bald with a beard. Instead of a
haircut, it's more like how not to have the crown on your head. For me,
the barber was my integration to American culture. We don't have barbers
like that in France. My barber is Peter, at
\href{https://www.levelsbarbershop.com/}{Levels Barbershop}.

Now I have to do it myself. I'm letting the beard go wild.

\textbf{SHAKE IT} When the city is not in lockdown mode, I like to go to
this party called \href{https://www.everydayppl.nyc/}{Everyday People}.
It changes locations but most of the time it's in Brooklyn. The culture
is amazing there. I will dance, shake my ass, sweat out all the stress
of being an entrepreneur, the stress of being a single parent. There's
everything from dancehall to Afrobeat to hip-hop. To me it's one of the
best parties in New York.

Hopefully, I can do it at home soon: I think they are trying to do it on
Instagram Live. They're going to do a D.J. session online and I'm going
to tune into that.

Image

Making couscous.~Credit...Gioncarlo Valentine for The New York Times

\textbf{COOKING} My grandma is known for her couscous. She will never
tell you what's in it. I tried many times to take a video of how she
does it. She will never let you. When she visits, she does some sort of
prep before I wake up. I don't even try to make it.

Food is a challenge now. Suddenly I have to make lunch for my child, so
she's looking at me like I'm the cook. I'm making sandwiches and pasta.
It's pretty intense for parents right now. That's why I check in with
the single parent crew every day.

Image

``It's pretty intense for parents right now.''Credit...Gioncarlo
Valentine for The New York Times

\textbf{CURRENT PROJECT} In light of the coronavirus outbreak, I've
thought a lot about how it affects our interactions and how I can find
ways to inspire people to keep dancing. I've thought of a way to make
videos without shooting outside. I'm sending green screens to dancers I
know around the world. They're going to perform the routine at home, and
then I'm going to integrate all the performances digitally. I plan to
post it on
\href{https://www.instagram.com/redisdancing/?hl=en}{Instagram} in about
a month.

We've got to keep on dancing, no matter what.

Sunday Routine readers can follow Redha Medjellekh on Instagram
@redisdancing.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
