Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}John Kelly, New Chief of
Staff, Is Seen as Beacon of Discipline

\url{https://nyti.ms/2u6S8jm}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{john-kelly-new-chief-of-staff-is-seen-as-beacon-of-discipline}{%
\section{John Kelly, New Chief of Staff, Is Seen as Beacon of
Discipline}\label{john-kelly-new-chief-of-staff-is-seen-as-beacon-of-discipline}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2017/07/29/us/politics/29dc-kelly/merlin-to-scoop-125349080-386594-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By \href{http://www.nytimes.com/by/ron-nixon}{Ron Nixon} and
\href{http://www.nytimes.com/by/michael-d-shear}{Michael D. Shear}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  July 28, 2017
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

WASHINGTON --- President Trump frequently referred to John F. Kelly as
one of ``my generals,'' the three senior military leaders he recruited
for his team. On Friday, Mr. Trump decided to see whether Mr. Kelly, a
retired four-star Marine Corps general, could impose a new sense of
discipline on an unruly and chaotic West Wing.

Mr. Kelly, who became a star in Mr. Trump's eyes for overseeing
immigration policy as secretary of homeland security, will become the
president's second chief of staff. He replaces Reince Priebus, the
establishment Republican who never completely meshed with Mr. Trump. Mr.
Priebus was ousted after a
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2017/07/27/us/politics/scaramucci\%2Dpriebus\%2Dleaks.html?_r=0}{nasty
public feud with Anthony Scaramucci}, the new White House communications
director.

The square-jawed Mr. Kelly, the first general to hold the chief of staff
position since Alexander M. Haig during the Nixon administration, will
be an imposing and strait-laced figure in a West Wing filled with
constantly warring aides and advisers, most of whom came to Washington
with virtually no experience in federal government before Mr. Trump's
victory last year.

``John has also done a spectacular job at Homeland Security,''
\href{https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/891039237319143424}{Mr.
Trump wrote on Twitter}, calling Mr. Kelly a ``great American'' and
saying he had been a ``true star of my Administration.''

Mr. Kelly's arrival in his new post on Monday could signal a new
stability at the White House, but only if Mr. Trump gives him the
authority to crack down on the behavior of his other aides. As a real
estate developer, Mr. Trump has operated with a staff that has often
seemed out of control.

The selection of Mr. Kelly was quickly praised by both Republicans and
Democrats, who expressed hope that he would bring a swift end to the
distracting feuds among the president's staff.

``The kind of discipline that he is going to bring is important,''
Senator Richard Blumenthal, Democrat of Connecticut, said on CNN shortly
after the president's announcement. ``I hope that we're at a turning
point now.''

Mr. Kelly had no previous connection to Mr. Trump until he was nominated
to join his administration, though he has long nurtured bipartisan
support from members of Congress. And he was not always in lock step
with Mr. Trump's policies, publicly questioning the need for a full
border wall with Mexico and calling Russia a threat to the United States
as the president signaled a friendlier approach to Moscow.

But over the six months of his tenure leading the Department of Homeland
Security, Mr. Kelly, whom friends describe as unafraid to challenge his
superiors, emerged as an important and highly visible surrogate for the
president.

He took a hard line against illegal immigration and waded into the
Russia election interference controversy by defending Jared Kushner, Mr.
Trump's son-in-law and senior adviser,
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2017/05/26/us/politics/kushner-talked-to-russian-envoy-about-creating-secret-channel-with-kremlin.html}{who
tried} to open back channel communications with the Kremlin. Mr. Kelly
said it was ``no big deal.''

For Mr. Trump, the decision to put Mr. Kelly in charge at the White
House reflected a deep desire for someone who can project the kind of
strength and decisiveness that the president never saw during the six
months that Mr. Priebus occupied the corner office down the hall from
the Oval Office.

Mr. Priebus rarely exhibited the kind of top-down control over the
president's staff that is typical in a White House, where the chief of
staff often exerts strict control over the president's time, the
administration's agenda and the public message coming from the
communications office.

Mr. Kelly, who ran the military's operations in Central America, South
America and the Caribbean, has the kind of experience that Mr. Trump
respects: a chest full of medals attesting to his valor and
accomplishments.

But Mr. Kelly is also a veteran of the political wars in Washington,
where he has built longstanding relationships with members of Congress
in both parties. Yet, as homeland security secretary, Mr. Kelly has
lashed out at critics.

In May, Mr. Kelly was criticized after being caught on an open
microphone at a Coast Guard Academy graduation suggesting that Mr. Trump
use a sword ``on the press.''

During a speech at George Washington University in April, Mr. Kelly
denounced congressional critics of the Department of Homeland Security,
saying they should ``shut up'' and assume the agency is acting
appropriately and following the law.

``If lawmakers do not like the laws they've passed and we are charged to
enforce, then they should have the courage and skill to change the
laws,'' Mr. Kelly said. ``Otherwise they should shut up and support the
men and women on the front lines.''

Such tough talk has played well within the Trump administration, but
Juliette Kayyem, a former homeland security official in President Barack
Obama's administration who initially supported Mr. Kelly,
\href{https://twitter.com/juliettekayyem/status/891040377402273792}{wrote
on Twitter} that he had been a ``disappointment'' for those who
supported him ``as a calming force'' in the administration.

But more than anything, Mr. Kelly's willingness to carry out Mr. Trump's
immigration policies endeared him to the White House.

He forcefully backed Mr. Trump on the need for a travel ban on visitors
from seven Muslim countries. The ban, which was allowed to go into
limited effect by the Supreme Court, was later reduced to six countries.

Mr. Kelly, whose deputy, Elaine C. Duke, will become acting secretary,
has unleashed the full force of his department on illegal immigration.
Under Immigration and Customs Enforcement, part of the Department of
Homeland Security, there has been a substantial increase in the number
of undocumented immigrants rounded up for deportation, many of whom were
excluded because of Obama administration policies. Apprehensions at the
border of people illegally crossing it are also down.

Those results have given the Trump administration, which has largely
been unable to gain traction on health care and other issues, one of the
few areas in which it can claim success.

Mr. Trump was particularly pleased with the results at the Mexican
border. In a speech on Long Island on Friday before announcing the staff
shift, the president praised Mr. Kelly's work, calling him ``one of our
great stars.''

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{Â©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
