Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}A Black Progressive and a
Trump Acolyte Win Florida Governor Primaries

\url{https://nyti.ms/2MVR4Mx}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{a-black-progressive-and-a-trump-acolyte-win-florida-governor-primaries}{%
\section{A Black Progressive and a Trump Acolyte Win Florida Governor
Primaries}\label{a-black-progressive-and-a-trump-acolyte-win-florida-governor-primaries}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/08/29/us/politics/29primaries-gillum1/29primaries-gillum1-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/patricia-mazzei}{Patricia
Mazzei} and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/jonathan-martin}{Jonathan
Martin}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Aug. 28, 2018
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

ORLANDO, Fla. --- Florida Democrats nominated
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/08/28/us/politics/andrew-gillum-florida.html}{Andrew
Gillum}, the Tallahassee mayor, and Republicans tapped Representative
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/08/29/us/politics/ron-desantis-bio-facts.html}{Ron
DeSantis} for governor Tuesday, setting the stage for a ferocious
general election in the country's largest swing state between one of
President Trump's most unabashed allies and an outspoken progressive who
would be Florida's first black governor.

Mr. Gillum's narrow defeat of the former congresswoman Gwen Graham, the
front-runner, represented one of the most significant upsets of the
primary season and a major victory for the liberal wing of the
Democratic Party. It sets up twin governors' races in neighboring
Southern states between left-leaning African-Americans banking on the
region's new, diversifying electorate, and ardent, Trump-style
nationalists.

Georgia's Democratic candidate, Stacey Abrams, will now be joined by Mr.
Gillum, while its Republican candidate, the secretary of state Brian
Kemp, has a mirror to the south in Mr. DeSantis.

And here, with redistricting looming after the next census, Medicaid
expansion on the line and control of the most crucial presidential
battleground at stake, the Florida governor's race is shaping up to be a
titanic showdown. The specter of two young, hard-charging politicians
who represent the beating heart of their parties facing off will
supercharge the fall campaign.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/08/29/us/politics/29gillum1/29gillum1-videoSixteenByNine3000.jpg}

``We're going to make clear to the rest of the world that the dark days
that we've been under, coming out of Washington, that the derision and
the division that has been coming out of our White House, that right
here in the state of Florida we are going to remind this nation of what
is truly the American way,'' Mr. Gillum told jubilant supporters in
Tallahassee.

In Arizona, Republican primary voters chose the establishment favorite,
Representative Martha McSally, to replace Mr. Trump's most outspoken
G.O.P. critic in the Senate, Jeff Flake, in a contest that evolved into
a test of which candidate could embrace Mr. Trump most snugly. In the
Arizona governor's primary, Democrats again chose an outspoken
progressive over a pragmatist.

{[}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/08/29/us/politics/arizona-florida-election.html}{\emph{Read
ke}}\emph{y}
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/08/29/us/politics/arizona-florida-election.html}{\emph{takeaways
from Tuesday night's results.}}{]}

Lifted by a June endorsement from Mr. Trump, Mr. DeSantis overwhelmed
Adam Putnam, the state agriculture commissioner and one-time favorite
for the nomination, taking 57 percent of the vote to Mr. Putnam's 37
percent with all precincts reporting, according to The Associated Press.

But the surprise of the night was Mr. Gillum's victory over Ms. Graham,
the daughter of governor-turned-senator Bob Graham. Propelled by an
endorsement from Senator Bernie Sanders and financing from Tom Steyer,
George Soros and Collective PAC, a group dedicated to electing
African-Americans, the 39-year-old mayor surged at the end of the
campaign to upset Ms. Graham, the establishment pick.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2018/08/28/us/elections/florida-primary-elections.html}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/08/28/us/elections/florida-primary-elections-1535471953824/florida-primary-elections-1535471953824-articleLarge.png}

\hypertarget{florida-primary-election-results}{%
\subsection{Florida Primary Election
Results}\label{florida-primary-election-results}}

See full results and maps from the Florida primaries.

With 100 percent of precincts reporting, Mr. Gillum won 34 percent of
the vote while Ms. Graham had 31 percent, The A.P. reported.

Beyond Ms. Graham, Mr. Gillum defeated five other rivals. Three
opponents --- Ms. Graham, Philip Levine and Jeff Greene --- far outspent
the Tallahassee mayor.

Campaigning in Miami's Little Havana neighborhood on Saturday, Mr.
Gillum relished his underdog status.

``My opponents have spent, together, over \$90 million in this race. We
have spent four'' million, he said. ``Money doesn't vote. People do.''

{[}\emph{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/08/28/us/politics/andrew-gillum-florida.html}{Read
more about Mr. Gillum's victory here.}}{]}

Mr. Gillum edged out Ms. Graham, a former North Florida congresswoman
who finished second, and Mr. Levine, the former Miami Beach mayor who
finished third after dropping nearly \$30 million of his personal
fortune into the campaign. Ms. Graham, a moderate, had been considered
the favorite in a midterm year in which many Democratic women have fared
well.

But her centrism and the implicit case for electability proved to be of
little asset in a year when emotions have gripped both parties.

In the final weeks of the election, Mr. Gillum aired an ad trumpeting
his support for universal health care, legalizing marijuana and
abolishing the Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency. He is also a
vocal advocate of impeaching Mr. Trump.

Addressing supporters at her election night party at a bar in downtown
Orlando just before 10 p.m., Ms. Graham called Mr. Gillum a friend
before, during and after the campaign.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/08/29/us/29primaries-McSally/29primaries-McSally-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

``I said, `Now, Andrew, go out and win this damn thing,''' she said.
``Because this is too important.''

Mr. Gillum's unexpected nomination represents a sharp break with recent
Florida midterm elections, in which Democratic voters nominated somewhat
bland moderates to try to win in a purple state. Instead, they lost over
and over again: Democrats have not held the Florida governor's mansion
in two decades, and they lost the past two governor's elections by a
single percentage point.

Mr. Gillum argued Democrats needed to back a progressive who could
expand the electorate by attracting more black, Latino and millennial
voters who might otherwise sit out the midterm.

``We're showing that we can bring together the Bernie Sanders wing of
the party and the Hillary Clinton wing of the party,'' he said in a
recent interview. Democrats cannot win, he added, by ``trying to be
Republican-lite.''

Florida Democrats have long considered Mr. Gillum a rising star in a
state party with few of them. He was elected to the city commission
while still a student at Florida A\&M University, and he spoke at the
2016 Democratic National Convention in Philadelphia.

But only in the last few weeks of the governor's race did Mr. Gillum
start looking like a serious contender. Early on, he struggled to raise
serious money, as donors worried about an F.B.I. investigation into City
Hall corruption --- an inquiry that Mr. DeSantis wasted no time in
raising Tuesday night. ``He's embroiled in corruption scandals,'' he
said. ``This guy can't even run the city of Tallahassee.''

The mayor, who has said he is not the investigation's target,
consistently placed fourth out of five in public polls, despite
outperforming his opponents in debates with his charisma on stage and
grass-roots support in the audience.

His poor showing in surveys, however, kept his rivals from attacking
him, allowing Mr. Gillum to move up unscathed by the pointed television
attacks that engulfed Ms. Graham, Mr. Levine and Mr. Greene, a
billionaire Palm Beach real estate investor who spent nearly \$40
million but finished fourth.

Mr. DeSantis's victory represented another emphatic demonstration of the
president's
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/08/27/us/politics/trump-endorsements.html}{iron
grip on the Republican Party}. Mr. DeSantis steadily gained notoriety on
the right, and attention in the Oval Office, last year by frequently
appearing on Fox News to defend Mr. Trump.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/08/29/us/politics/29primaries-desantis1-print-sub/29primaries-desantis1-videoSixteenByNine3000.jpg}

The president took notice of Mr. DeSantis, a Navy veteran, and praised
his candidacy last December. Mr. Trump's near-endorsement prompted a
flurry of lobbying by Republicans urging him to refrain from offering
his formal blessing. And among
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/05/14/us/politics/pence-trump-midterms.html}{the
party officials counseling restraint} was Vice President Mike Pence, who
served with Mr. Putnam in the House.

But Mr. Trump was grateful for Mr. DeSantis's televised advocacy,
believed the former JAG officer looked the part of a governor and had
little relationship with Mr. Putnam. In June, Mr. Trump offered, as he
put it on Twitter, his ``full Endorsement.''

Recounting his intervention in the Florida race last week at a rally
last week in West Virginia, Mr. Trump said of Mr. DeSantis: ``He was at
three, and I gave him a nice shot, and a nice little tweet --- bing bing
--- and he went from three to like 20 something.''

Mr. DeSantis was almost certainly winning more than 3 percent of the
vote when Mr. Trump weighed in, but there is little doubt that the
president's support dramatically reshaped the race.

Mr. DeSantis trumpeted the endorsement in his advertising and basked in
the president's praise when they stood together on stage in Tampa in
late July.

Mr. Putnam fought back, emphasizing his deep knowledge of Florida and
chiding Mr. DeSantis for his television ubiquity. The son of a citrus
farming family who was elected to the State Legislature when he was 22,
he went on to serve in the House leadership in Washington.

``Florida's not picking an apprentice; we're picking a governor,'' Mr.
Putnam said.

In the House,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/08/27/us/politics/donna-shalala-congress.html}{Donna
Shalala, the secretary of Health and Human Services under President Bill
Clinton}, defeated state Representative David Richardson in a Miami
district Democratic primary.

Her Republican opponent will be Maria Elvira Salazar, a former
Spanish-language television journalist who on Tuesday bested a crowded
field, including a rival who said as a child she went up on a spaceship
with aliens. Democrats are expected to pick up the liberal-leaning seat,
which is currently held by Representative Ileana Ros-Lehtinen, a veteran
Republican who is retiring.

Image

Representative Kyrsten Sinema won the Democratic primary for Senate in
Arizona.Credit...Conor E. Ralph for The New York Times

In Orlando, Representative Darren Soto, the first Puerto Rican elected
to Congress from Florida, fended off a Democratic primary challenge from
former Representative Alan Grayson, a liberal firebrand who has
struggled in his attempt to return to Washington.

\emph{{[}}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/08/28/us/parkland-school-board-election.html}{\emph{A
Parkland parent won election to the school board.{]}}}

In Arizona, just three days after the death of Senator John McCain,
Republicans demonstrated how much the party had drifted from Mr.
McCain's pragmatic style of politics to Mr. Trump's hard-line
nationalism.

After asking the president to stay out of the race, Ms. McSally, who
would not say how she voted in 2016, sought Mr. Trump's endorsement
earlier this month.

Ms. McSally, one of the first women to fly in combat for the Air Force,
handily beat two far-right conservatives who divided that part of the
electorate: the former Maricopa County sheriff, Joe Arpaio, whom Mr.
Trump pardoned last year, and Kelli Ward, a former state senator who
garnered nearly 40 percent in a 2016 primary against Mr. McCain and
sought to capitalize on his death Monday by saying ``political
correctness is like a cancer.''

Ms. McSally will now take on the Democratic primary victor,
Representative Kyrsten Sinema, in a contest that could help decide
control of the Senate.

Speaking to supporters, Ms. McSally called for a moment of silence for
Mr. McCain, but then quickly targeted Ms. Sinema. ``It's a choice
between a doer and a talker, between a patriot and a protester,'' Ms.
McSally said.

Ms. Sinema also bowed to Mr. McCain and placed herself in his tradition
of ``always putting country over party,'' saying that Arizonans need
``an independent voice'' in the Senate.

In the governor's race there, David Garcia, a liberal Democrat, defeated
his centrist opponent, Steve Farley, to take on Gov. Doug Ducey, a
Republican who may be vulnerable in November.

Mr. Garcia, a former executive at the State Education Department, has
sought to rally progressives, urging them to ``imagine no wall in
southern Arizona.'' Mr. Farley argued that Democrats can win in a
red-tinted state only by presenting themselves as pragmatists.

In Oklahoma, Republicans nominated the Tulsa business executive Kevin
Stitt in the runoff for governor, spurning former Mayor Mick Cornett of
Oklahoma City, who was attacked as being insufficiently supportive of
Mr. Trump. With Gov. Mary Fallin, the Republican lame duck, leaving
office with dismal approval ratings, Democrats believe they could be
competitive in what is generally a deeply conservative state.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
