Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}The Women Who Helped Donald
Trump to Victory

\url{https://nyti.ms/2ennsHH}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{the-women-who-helped-donald-trump-to-victory}{%
\section{The Women Who Helped Donald Trump to
Victory}\label{the-women-who-helped-donald-trump-to-victory}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2016/11/11/us/11womenfortrump1/11womenfortrump1-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By
\href{http://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/sheryl-gay-stolberg}{Sheryl
Gay Stolberg}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Nov. 10, 2016
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

NAZARETH, Pa. --- Debbie Biro became a Republican to vote for Donald J.
Trump.

A lifelong Democrat, Ms. Biro, 57, is a churchgoing single mother who
practices yoga and does not eat meat. She works in the office at the
Crayola Crayons factory near here, and she can pinpoint her ``turning
point'' --- the moment she became convinced that Mr. Trump was ``a
strong leader, and he'll get things done.''

It came in January, when he skipped a debate in Iowa to host a
fund-raiser for
\href{http://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2016/11/03/us/politics/donald-trump-veterans.html}{veterans}
--- an event that later garnered questions of how much money he had
given. Ms. Biro's father served in the Korean War, and she said she
admired Mr. Trump's business skills, ``and I thought it was nice that he
was taking care of the vets.''

In well-to-do Naples, Fla., Sue Gauta, 47, a small-business owner
married to a doctor, also embraced Mr. Trump. So did Wanda Lincoln, 67,
a retired college administrator still working to make ends meet in a
threadbare mill city in Maine. And Kyleigh Ostendorf, 26, who lives in
Los Angeles and produces graphics for ESPN.

As America dissects the results of Tuesday's election, one trend stands
out: Tens of thousands of women ---
\href{http://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2016/12/01/us/politics/white-women-helped-elect-donald-trump.html}{53
percent of all white female voters}, according to exit polls --- chose
Mr. Trump, playing a crucial role in his victory.

\emph{{[}}\href{http://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2016/11/11/us/politics/female-clinton-supporters-are-left-feeling-gutted.html}{\emph{Female
Clinton Supporters Are Left Feeling Gutted}}\emph{{]}}

In interviews here in the Lehigh Valley --- a bellwether region in a
swing state that helped elect Mr. Trump --- and around the country,
female supporters said theirs was a vote for Mr. Trump and not against
Hillary Clinton. America was on the wrong track, the women said, and Mr.
Trump alone could fix it.

They are women who want their daughters to grow up and run businesses
--- and who run businesses themselves. Many said they were eager for a
woman as president. Were they offended by Mr. Trump's vile comments
about women, captured on tape? Absolutely. Did they believe the women
who came forward and said Mr. Trump had groped them? Not necessarily.
Did any of it stop them from voting for him? No.

Where female opponents took to Twitter with \#NotOkay, branding Mr.
Trump a misogynist and worse, his female supporters saw ``a good man and
a good father,'' said Mary Barket, the head of the Pennsylvania
Federation of Republican Women, who knows Ms. Biro from church and
helped her get involved in the Trump campaign.

Ms. Biro, who said she was ``a quiet, reserved person,'' had never
knocked on doors or worked in politics before. But she spent one day
each weekend since August canvassing for Mr. Trump.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2016/11/11/us/11womenfortrump3/11womenfortrump3-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Where those who voted against Mr. Trump saw someone who bankrupted
businesses and ducked paying taxes, these women said they saw a man who
built a real estate empire and simply followed the law. They saw a man
who had raised and promoted a beautiful and successful daughter, Ivanka,
and who let a smart and accomplished Washington strategist, Kellyanne
Conway, manage his presidential campaign.

In short, they embraced Mr. Trump's sales pitch for himself.

``I think that women see the big picture --- women are smart,'' Mrs.
Gauta said. ``The fact that he said something crude,'' she said ``is not
going to change my mind about the good he can do for our country.

``Did I like that, no,'' she went on. ``But do I think he can do a
better job than Hillary? Absolutely. I think he has got the best
interests of this country at heart. He's got a beautiful family; he
wants to leave a nice country --- the great country he was raised in ---
for his kids. And I think he said the only way I'm going to get that
done is by being president myself.''

She took her sons, 14 and 16, to a Trump rally, and said she ``was even
more impressed by him in person than on TV.'' But as to his sometimes
foul mouth, ``If my boys ever said anything like that, I'd put them over
my knee and spank them.''

In Chicago, Nicole Been, 22, a Roman Catholic who attends DePaul
University, is deeply opposed to abortion and the ``hookup culture.''
She complained that other students branded her a racist and a bigot for
supporting Mr. Trump.

In Philadelphia, Daphne Goggins, 53, an African-American community
activist and ardent Republican, always knew she would vote for Mr.
Trump. She said she believed decades of Democratic efforts had done
little for black people. When Mr. Trump invited her to a minority
outreach meeting, she told him tearfully that ``for the first time in my
life, I feel like my vote is going to count.'' (Only 4 percent of black
women, exit polls show, supported Mr. Trump, while 26 percent of Latinas
did.)

For the women interviewed, as for male Trump backers, the economy was of
utmost concern. Mrs. Gauta and her husband are tired of paying \$1,800 a
month in health care premiums, with a \$12,000 annual deductible. Ms.
Lincoln, the retired college administrator, now works at her husband's
auto body shop in Old Town, Me., to help pay the bills.

Ms. Ostendorf, the graphics producer in Los Angeles, watched her
father's million-dollar business implode in the economic crash of 2008.
He picked up work doing maintenance for the Y.M.C.A.

``I've seen America fall down,'' she said, ``and a big part of Trump
that appealed to me was his business plan.''

Image

Trump's supporters in Reno, Nev., cheered as it became clear the real
estate mogul was going to become the president-elect.Credit...Max
Whittaker for The New York Times

And they said they are troubled, as well, by an America that seems to
have embraced multiculturalism and political correctness without
question. They said they did not understand the Black Lives Matter
movement, wondered why Democrats seemed so fixated on transgender access
to bathrooms and tended to be enraged at the way veterans are treated
and violence directed at the police.

They are concerned about immigration and the threat of terrorism.

Bobbye Horton, 67, of Grand Junction, Colo., who is Hispanic, approved
of Mr. Trump's plan to build a wall with Mexico. On Wednesday she wore a
``Viva Trump'' T-shirt. Immigrants, she said, needed to use legal
channels or stay out. ``He got at the heart of America.''

Research suggests Americans in both parties long ago became open to a
female president. By 1999, the Gallup poll found that 92 percent of
Americans said they would vote for a woman. When Gallup first asked that
question, in 1937, the figure was 33 percent.

``People no longer hear, `Do you want a woman to be president?''' Ms.
Conway said in
\href{http://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2016/02/17/us/hillary-clintons-candidacy-reveals-generational-schism-among-women.html}{an
interview} in February, before she became Mr. Trump's campaign manager.
``They hear, `Do you want that woman?'''

This held true in many conversations with Mr. Trump's female supporters.
Many said they simply avoided talking about voting for him with
Democratic female friends, for fear it would damage their sisterly
bonds. (Ms. Biro never speaks of politics at yoga or at work.)

``When I told them that I was supporting Trump, they were, like,
shocked, oh my gosh, `there is no way I could support him,''' Ms. Biro
said of her friends. ``But I was like, `Everybody has their thing.'''

Celinda Lake, a Democratic pollster, said the party had expected ``a
surge of women'' to support Mrs. Clinton, but that did not happen. While
Mrs. Clinton did better with women in almost every demographic group,
Ms. Lake said, ``Trump won very solidly the white women's vote, and we
know that was fed by white, blue-collar women.''

Ms. Biro comes close to fitting that mold; although she considers
herself middle class, she did not go to college. And Nazareth, a
middle-class community in Northampton County, is the kind of community
where Mr. Trump did well.

Yet sitting in the kitchen of her tidy Cape Cod-style home here, with
the Trump-Pence signs still stuck in the front yard and a poster that
speaks of peace as a path to enlightenment on the living room wall, Ms.
Biro expressed the same hopes and fears for the country that many of
\href{http://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2016/11/11/us/politics/female-clinton-supporters-are-left-feeling-gutted.html}{Mrs.
Clinton's supporters} now have.

``Hopefully he's going to try to unite people,'' she said of the
president-elect. ``We have to try to help people heal, so people can
learn to trust, and have faith that things are going to be O.K.''

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
